REGISTERED COMPANY NUMBER: 05458934 (England and Wales)
REGISTERED CHARITY NUMBER: 1111804

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES AND
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
FOR

ACTIVE LUTON

eee ee ee ee

mau

WEDNESDAY

06/11/2024 #197
COMPANIES HOUSE

ACTIVE LUTON

CONTENTS OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

Page
Reference and Administrative Details Lto2
Report of the Trustees 3 to 18
Report of the Independent Auditors 19 to 21
Consolidated Statement of Financial Activities 22
Consolidated Balance Sheet 23
Charitable Company Balance Sheet 24
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 25
Notes to the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 26
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 27 to 38

Page 0

ACTIVE LUTON

REFERENCE AND ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

The trustees serving during the year and since the 31 March 2024 are as follows:

Local Authority Trustees

Aziz Ambia (appointed - 10 April 2024)
Mahmood Hussain

Steve Moore (appointed - 13 June 2023)

Ordinary Trustees

Mark Cattle (Resigned - 25 October 2023)

Paul Seath

Kevin Poulton

Femy Lester

Ali Haider (Resigned - 25 October 2023)

Magdalena Golieblewska

Emma Knowler

Priya Chauhan

Morag Stewart

Glynis Yates

Philippe Hucklesby

Wayne Cullum

Nicola Monk (appointed - 19 July 2023)

Noneyelum Alomaja (Resigned - 03 July 2024)

Helen Parkinson (appointed - 25 October 2023)

Gagandeep Kashyap (appointed - 26 April 2023)

Daniet Coyle (appointed - 25 October 2023 and Resigned - 27 August 2024)
Stuart Miller (appointed - 17 July 2023 and Resigned - 10 April 2024)

Chief Executive Officer
Helen Barnett (Resigned - 03 May 2024)
Lawrence Kay (appointed - 18 March 2024)

* Company Secretary
Sue Jones

REGISTERED OFFICE
2nd Floor

Apex House

30-34 Upper George Street
Luton

Bedfordshire

LUI 2RD

REGISTERED COMPANY NUMBER
05458934 (England and Wates)

REGISTERED CHARITY NUMBER
1111804

AUDITORS
Crowe U.K. LLP
R+ Building

2 Blagrave Street
Reading
Berkshire

RGI 1AZ

Pagel

Bankers

Metro Bank

10-20 Castle Street
Luton,

Beds

LUI 3AJ

Bank of Scotland

2nd Floor

249 Silbury Boulevard
Milton Keynes

Bucks.

MK9 INA

NatWest Bank
31 George Street
Luton

LUI 2YN

ACTIVE LUTON

REFERENCE AND ADMINISTRATIVE DETAILS
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

Page 2

ACTIVE LUTON

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

The trustees (who are also directors of the charity for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006) present their report with the consolidated financial
statements of the charity and its subsidiary for the year ended 31 March 2024 which are also prepared to meet the requirements for a directors’
report and accounts for Companies Act purposes.

The financial statements comply with the Charities Act 2011, the Companies Act 2006, the Memorandum and Articles of Association, and the
Charities Statement of Recommended Practice (“Charities SORP”) (applicable to charities preparing their-accounts in accordance with the
Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of [reland; FRS 102) issued in October 2019.

OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES
Objectives and aims
The charitable company has been established to:

- Provide or assist in the provision of facilitics and services for recreational, sporting or other leisure time occupation in the interests of
social welfare, such facilities being provided to the public at large save that special facilities may be provided for persons who by
reason of their youth, age, infirmity or disability, poverty or social or economic circumstances may have need of special facilities and
services,

- Promote community participation in healthy recreation.

- Advance the education of the public of the benefit of active lifestyle and in particular the value of physical activity for young people as
part of the school curriculum.

- Such other charitable purposes beneficial to the community consistent with the objects above as the Trustees shall in their absolute
discretion determine.

We believe that sport and physical activity is of benefit to the community for their physical, mental, and emotional health and wellbeing and we
aim to make a difference to the lives of the people of Luton, working in partnership with like-minded organisations.

Our Mission
Active Luton is an innovative community focused charity committed to making a positive impact on the health and wellbeing of our community;
inspiring, motivating and offering opportunities for people of all ages and backgrounds to learn and take action to improve their life changes.

We provide a wide range of high-quality programmes, activities and facilities enabling residents to participate in physical activity; improve their
health and wellbcing; enhance their education and skills through training; and create career opportunities. We are committed to being inclusive,
accessible, and affordable, working closely with partners locally, across the region and nationally, continuously looking to bring the best to our
diverse and vibrant community.

The charity also hosts Be Active (formerly Team Beds & Luton) which is one of 43 Active Partnerships across England which work
collaboratively with local partners to create the conditions for an active nation, using the power of sport and physical activity to transform lives.
Active Partnerships are locally based, strategic organisations that recognise that activity levels are affected by a complex system of influences and
no single organisation or programme create sustainable change at scale. By adopting a collaborative, whole-system approach, Active Partnerships
seek to make active lifestyles the social norm for everyone to address inactivity in society.

Page 3

ACTIVE LUTON

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
Achievement and performance
Charitable activities

Over the past year we have further worked under our 5-year strategy and with the year coming to a close and a change in leadership with anew
CEO, the board and management team are excited for the future for Active Luton.

Many achievements have been made during the year and in particular, we were delighted with our successful tender outcome to run the libraries
and are working hard to continue to improve the service. This will support and strengthen our reach and impact across the community.

Our community team have delivered some incredible projects over the last year, working with children in care, asylum seekers, older adults in faith
centres and many more groups. One particularly innovative project is delivering virtual sports in Pupil Referral Units, giving children access to
sports they may not normally have.

In our leisure centres and the athletics centre, we have continued to invest in equipment, redecoration and refurbishment projects. Environmental
sustainability is a key driver for us and this ycar we installed solar panels at Hightown Community Sports & Arts Centre.

We remain dedicated to promoting Health & Wellbeing in the community through various programmes, including Social Prescription, which
connects vulnerable individuals to essential support and services. After achieving our best-ever KPIs over the past year, we have been awarded an
extension to our health and wellbeing work. :

As a key anchor institution in Luton, we are proud to be involved in the town-wide effort to make sure that the health and wellbeing of our

community is everyone’s business. Our values of teamwork, innovation, inclusivity and excellence underpin everything we do to play our part.
Active Luton's team was particularly proud that following a team survey, we were officially certified as a ‘Great Place to Work@”

Leisure and Community Centres
Health and wellbeing in 3 leisure centres, 2 community centres and | athletics centre, plus golf course.
Over 1.45 million visits to our centres. 10% more than last year.

4,601 Go4Less Advantage cardholders to allow people on low incomes to experience the benefits of physical activity. 25% more than last year.
Nearly 7,000 gym, swim, and group fitness members across our leisure centres. 7

Inspire: Luton Sports Village
Significant investment in high-tech gym equipment.

Lewsey Sports Park and Lea Manor Recreation Centre

Investment in 22 new tops of the range Schwinn cycle bikes.
Redecoration and refurbishments throughout Lea Manor.

Upgrades to Lewsey Sports Park changing rooms.

‘New spin stereos and repainted rooms at both sites.

3G pitch at Lea Manor gained a further 3 years of Bed's FA certification.

Formalised the relationship with Lea Manor High School for dual use of the sports facilities.

Page 4

ACTIVE LUTON

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

Golf, Athletics and Community Centres

Stockwood Park Athletics Centre
Stockwood Park Athletics Centre is a 400-metre track and infield facility with an onsite performance gym.

We welcomed weekly bookings from Luton Athletic Club, Roots2Rings Running Club, Saints Athletics Club, Harpenden Arrows and Stopsley
Striders.

We also delivered more leisurely sessions including buggy fimess and social walking as part of our community activity timetable, as well as track
skills for 4~8-year-olds as a pathway into the main clubs.

Investment in new cardio equipment for the performance gym, including access to over 400 online instructor-led classes.

New flooring was installed in the outdoor functional training area.

Hart Hill Community Centre

The centre continues to provide a wide range of activities for the local community including a prayer group, healthy ageing physical activity
programmes, yoga, boxing, football and Box Fitness.

Hart Hill is also home to ‘Grow Your Potential’ mentoring programme, a community interest group working with young people across the
Borough offering workshops, arts and craft projects, holiday programmes and mental health support. We now also offer a growing weekly youth
club as an extension to the programme.

Monthly community coffee mornings are attracting increasing numbers of the local community.

Stockwood Park Golf Centre
We continue to receive fantastic reviews about the course from visitors, regular players, Club members and Pros alike.

We introduced contactless payment into the Practice Facility, making life easier for customers. We also invested in new mats and trays.
We were delighted to welcome young golfers participating in the Luton School Games events.

Free children’s golf assessments were delivered by our resident Golf Professional.

The number of Junior players is increasing with approximately 30 children booked onto each course.

We host HCRG (Healthcare Resourcing Group) who provide adult community healthcare services on behalf of the NHS.

Through our Total Wellbeing programme, we offer weight management sessions, Social Prescription and Stop Smoking courses.

Maintenance Mates, a team of 9 people with learning disabilities or additional needs, work at the golf course doing both paid and voluntary hours.
They all reside in Luton.

We host a local reading group who use our clubhouse as a community facility.

We encourage regular visits from local schools, thereby raising aspirations of young people.

Page S

ACTIVE LUTON

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

Swimming and Diving
4 swimming pools across Luton.

3,900 children learned to swim — almost 9% more than last year.
230 children learned to dive at Inspire: Luton Sports Village.
3,200 school children attended our school swimming lessons.
We host 16 different swimming clubs and 6 diving clubs.

We also host Luton Tigers Canoe Club, an underwater hockey club, Luton BSAC (Sub Aqua) Club and Pool2Lake open water coaching.

Luton Libraries

As part of our ongoing commitment and investment in the library service, we have invested £250,000 in an exciting major refurbishment of the
Central Library.

We were delighted to win the Luton Libraries tender. Key elements of our successful bid included our footprint and reach across the town, plus our
ability to develop new and innovative partnerships with organisations leading on public health, education and employability.

Key Statistics
°9319,735 physical items were loaned in 2023/24.
+289,251 digital copies were issued —a 17% increase vs the previous year.

*OThe peak month for loans was August, although, for digital only, it was January!
*QThis year 8,210 people joined one of our libraries. Up 14% vs last year.

We are very grateful to be working with over one hundred partners. Here is just a very small selection.
Expansion of children’s braille books from the Clearvision Project.

Natural England project encouraging familics to explore and learn about their local environments.

We worked with the Dental Wellness Trust to support a pop-up clinic for children.

We held a ‘Fun Palace’ day with Bedfordshire Wildlife Trust.

Our pop-up library visited Keech Hospice Care to promote Dying Matters Awareness Week.

In conjunction with Book Trust, we gifted over 800 Bookstart Baby Packs.

Pop Along Library

This new outreach service visited six community centres on a three-weekly basis, enabling people to join the library, borrow books and understand
how the eLibrary works.

Home Library Service

Supporting the wider distribution of 2,000 wellbeing bags, 24 packs were distributed to vulnerable and isolated adults that use the Home Library
during the winter period. The service visited up to 204 customers in their homes each month.

Health & Wellbeing

Stopsley Library Reading Garden
The garden was rejuvenated thanks to a project with Nature Connects. It is now a tranquil space to enjoy reading in the summer months.

Health Checks & Physical Activity Sessions
Health Checks are now offered at the libraries, along with physical activity sessions like Mindful Yoga and Mindful Stretching

Arts & Crafts
Using creativity to support adult wellbeing is a key focus for our libraries, with sessions such as Knit and Natter, and Creative Crafts.

Page 6

ACTIVE LUTON

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024
Dementia Awareness
The updated ‘Reading Well for Dementia’ collection from the Reading Agency launched across UK Public Libraries in Dementia Action Week (13-
19 May). The titles are aimed at those living with dementia, their families and carers, including young children, and are available to borrow from
the Health Information Points in all Luton libraries. They provide reliable information, advice and support, and aim to provide a better
understanding of dementia. A selection of the titles are also available as eBooks/audiobooks from the Libby App, free to Luton library members.

Rhyme Time

Rhyme Time sessions run in all libraries and babies, toddlers and adults have the opportunity to enjoy rhymes, songs and stories together.
“Lhave recently started going to Rhyme Time at Marsh Farm library and absolutely enjoy it. My little one is slightly shy and a little young to
participate actively but he does enjoy it. The format of the group will definitely help him grow and encourage him to participate. The organisers
are lovely. I would strongly recommend it.”

Real Play
These sessions encourage families with children aged 5-7yrs to play and learn together through creative and physical activity play. Children can
also borrow Real Play boxes to continue the fun at home.

School Visits

We are delighted to have welcomed 14 schools to our libraries over the year. Our team have also visited 34 schools and delivered 45 assemblies
across Luton. We delivered a session to 40 teachers working with the Virtual School, to help build awareness of the role that libraries and physical
activity can play for looked-after children.

Homework Help
55 Homework Help sessions were held at Lewsey Library and Central Library.

The Summer Reading Challenge
Over 2,600 children joined in the challenge to read six books over the summer, an increase of 31% vs the previous year. Additionally, every child
who participated was offered the chance to swim at any Active Luton pool for just £1.

45 school assemblies were delivered to 13,613 pupils to promote the challenge.
Additionally, 30 craft sessions were hosted over the holiday period with 379 children and 298 adults attending.

Apprenticeships
We were delighted to welcome three Library Support Apprentices at Leagrave Library, Lewsey Library, and the Central Library.

Supporting our Community

Energise Luton
Energise Luton is Luton’s Holiday Activity and Food programme, funded by the Department for Education, for school-age children up to 16 who
are on income-related free school meals.

We continue to work with over 40 local organisations to offer a wide variety of exciting activitics including: boxing, athletics, arts and crafts,
swimming, music, dance and drama and much more.

6,536 holiday camp places across the year.

6,139 places filled by children on free school meals.

80% of children were at primary school.

15% of the children were SEND.

We worked with 40 different providers including schools, sports, faith and community groups.
80 young people enjoyed free access to Active Luton gyms.

Children In Need
We work in partnership with the Virtual Schools to support children in the social care system, helping them to become more active, to improve
their wellbeing and overall attainment.

Weekly physical activity sessions are delivered to smal! groups of children across a number of schools. The instructors work with the children to
build confidence and resilience, focusing on relationships, self-worth, resilience, hope and optimism and self-care.

Page 7

ACTIVE LUTON

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

Inspiring Young Lives

Working with children on free school meals, Asylum Seekers and excluded children with physical activity interventions (including swimming) to
improve their behaviour and life chances. An average of 28 Asylum Seekers attended weekly football sessions at Hightown Community Sports and
Arts Centre using reconditioned trainers and football boots from partner charity One Impossible Thing.

Excluded Children

Working with teachers and young people in Pupil Referral Units within Secondary Schools, we have devised the ‘Virtually Active, Truly Engaged’
programme. This innovative programme combines Virtual Reality sports with life skills sessions to encourage disengaged young people to become
more physically active, more resilient and to steer them away from crime.

Additional Swimming For Children On Free School Meals
42 children aged 5-1 lyrs participated in a free 6 month ‘learn to swim’ programme.

Navigating Local Systems

This 24-month project seeks to cmbed physical activity into the Luton Care System. Phase | has been successfully completed within the Children’s
Service, where there is now easy access to physical activity and health and wellbeing sessions/information. Phase 2 is now underway working with
the Adult Care System.

Youth Zone

The ‘Youth Zone” community programme launched in January 2023, offering a range of after-school physical activity sessions including smash up
badminton, boxing, yoga, multi-sports and football. The programme provides affordable opportunities and positive pathways to children whose
families are disadvantaged.

Older Adults In Faith Settings

Following the Covid 19 pandemic, older people from diverse communities were highlighted as having been disproportionatety impacted. This
project is being delivered in a Mosque, the Gurdwara and a Hindu Temple and is designed to boost confidence and provide supported sessions of
appropriate physical activity e.g. chair-based exercises.

Active Education
Our Active Education team of qualified teachers works with Luton's schools to develop PE and to incorporate more physical activity into the
whole school day, supporting children in their overall development.

School Games

94% of Luton schools have engaged in School Games events.

48,372 participants across all the sports.

78% were from diverse ethnicities.

10% had special educational needs & disabilities (SEND).

100+ leagues, tournaments and festivals offered.

35 different sports offered.

5 sports offered specifically for SEND pupils, including wheelchair rugby.

68 voluntcers from clubs, community groups and NGBs helped support events.
348 young leaders supported events.

Professional Developement For School Staff
Over 300 learners from schools have benefitted from our professional development programme.

CPD courses delivered including Gymnastics, Dance and other specialist areas of activity.
Bespoke CPD sessions delivered in schools, along with team teaching to develop teachers’ knowledge and confidence when teaching PE.

We are working with the Chiltern Training Group to deliver sessions on how to teach high quality PE lessons to the next generation of trainee
teachers,

Page 8

ACTIVE LUTON

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

Delivery

Delivering PE PPA (Planning, Preparation & Assessment)

Waulud Primary School

A broad and balanced curriculum planned

High quality lessons delivered across the whole school

Equipment organised and maintained to a high level

Variety of equipment purchased to deliver inclusive lessons

CPD delivered on a regular basis to all staff and tailored to the needs of the school

Children trained to deliver active playtimes

Rotas organised and renewed termly for leadership roles and areas of the playground to be used for football and basketball
A large number of sporting events attended in the Luton community by all age groups — this involves preparing the children for the event,
communication to parents, risk assessments, driving of mini bus and ensuring kit is available

All children are offered a variety of extra curriculum activities every term at lunchtime or after school

Staff meetings attended, reports delivered to Governors, school website updated, PE displays created within the school

Girls Football

There are 25 primary, and 7 secondary schools signed up to the ‘Barclays Girls Football Sports Parmerships’ scheme in Luton, aimed at making
girls’ football mainstream in schools. To support this, we held a Girls’ Football Festival as part of the ‘Biggest Ever Football Session’ with 20
primary schools.

Challney High School for Girls pupils participated in an ‘Introduction to Refereeing’ session, facilitated by Active Luton and led by Beds FA.

Environment and Sustainability
We are committed to supporting Luton Borough Council’s 2040 long-term vision, with the key aim being to make Luton a carbon-neutral town.

Solar
One of our key strategic priorities over the next 5 years is conducting our business in an environmentally sustainable manner. As such, Active
Luton invested in solar panels at Hightown Community Sports & Arts Centre.

The project comprised the installation of 118 panels which is estimated that we will generate 46 MWh (that’s 46 Megawatts) of power a year.

We believe this will save over 10 tonnes of CO2 from going into the atmosphere, therefore significantly improving Hightown’s environmental
footprint and achieving an estimated energy-saving cost of approximately £11,000 per year.

One Impossible Thing Partnership - The Sports Shoe Network
The Good Childhood Report 2022 found that 27% of parents and carers cannot afford PE kit for their children. We support the charity One
Impossible Thing as a collection point for used sports shoes that can then be re-homed, rather than heading straight for tandfilt.

Green Champions

Our Green Champions play a vital role in sharing the Active Luton commitment to the environment and sustainability. They help to raise
awareness and along with management teams, they seek opportunities for carbon reduction, waste management, recycling and green travel.
Monthly environmental audits take place across all of the leisure facilities monitoring usage to ensure energy targets are met.

National E-Cycle Scheme
This national programme was delivered at Inspire: Luton Sports Village with the aim being to change attitudes to and increase participation in e-

cycling.

* 276 e-cycle loans were made.
+ Skills sessions were delivered to 231 people.

Page 9

ACTIVE LUTON

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

Active Training and Development .

Highlights
1,500+ courses delivered.

34% were under 1 8yrs old.

68% were female.

52% were from diverse ethnic backgrounds.

Early Years Alliance Partnership

We delivered a series of short first aid workshops aimed at parents and carers of children under Syrs. The workshops teach the learners what to do
if a baby or young child stops breathing or is choking, as well as giving advice and guidance in relation to a number of other injuries and illnesses
that may occur in the home and what to do until further medical assistance arrives.

Aprenticeships

We have 16 Apprentices across the organisation, 4 of whom have passed with Distinction. Apprenticeships include:
+ Level 2 Leisure Team Member

+ Level 2 Community Activator

+ Level 2 Customer Service

+ Level 3 Learning & Skills

Highlights

435 candidates attended an Introduction to First Aid Course.

400 people achieved Level 3 qualifications including Emergency First Aid and Work, Emergency Paediatric First Aid and First Aid at work.
120 prospective Lifeguards or swim teachers / coaches achieved National Poo! Lifeguard Qualifications and/or National Rescue Award.

26 gym instructors qualified in the Active IQ Level 2 Certificate in Gym, and all were offered an interview for roles within Active Luton.

Partnership With Luton Adult Leaming And The Community Learning Fund

Aimed at improving the health and wellbeing of specific individuals by providing a gentle, structured introduction to activity, including:
+ Multi-skilled activities.

+ Healthy eating.

Taster Sessions

Delivered from Luton Central Library in conjunction with the Total Wellbeing team
+ Basic First Aid / CPR.

* How to use a defibrillator.

+ CV writing and how to research employment opportunities.

Health and Wellbeing

In addition to our physical sports centres, our health and wellbeing programmes are delivered by our Total Wellbeing Team. They reach a huge
cross-section of our community with the overall aim being to improve life chances.

Our Total Wellbeing Programmes

*Weight Management (adults, children and families)
*Dong Term Conditions and Exercise Referral
*ISHS Health Checks

+Making Every Contact Count (MECC)

*ISHS Stop Smoking

*Bidult Social Prescription

+Young People’s Social Prescription

Bigh Intensity Use Programme

Long Term Conditions / Exercise On Referral

We help people manage their health conditions and improve their quality of life through our specialist programmes. Examples include t:] support
for people diagnosed with specific health conditions such as Cancer, Respiratory and Neurological conditions, community exercise sessions, water-
based sessions, Balance & Stability (falls prevention), POM (Power Our Minds) gym group sessions, chair-based exercise in faith centres and
exercise groups in the Mental Health ward at Luton & Dunstable hospital.

Over 80% of people increased their physical activity and improved their emotional health.

Stop Smoking
The Stop Smoking team together with partners and service providers have achieved a staggering 1,046 quits this year.

Page 10

ACTIVE LUTON

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024
Social Prescription
We work with the NHS and multiple partners to run a 12-week programme connecting vulnerable individuals to the support and services that they
need to improve their health and wellbeing. We referred 3,449 people in the last year.

We currently run programmes for Adults, Young People and those who are pregnant.

Celebrating National Social Prescription Day in March 2024, we hosted over 28 organisations who all came together to share the work and impact
they make.

Impact
92% decrease in GP visits and 40% decrease in loneliness.

High Intensity Use (HIU)
Working with PCNs (Primary Care Networks) and link workers, we seek to reduce the strain on healthcare services by ensuring users have access

to appropriate services and support.
Impact 51% decrease in visits to A&E / 111 visits / Calls to the HIU cohort.

Weight Management

In the past year, more than 200 adults and 200 children completed our weight management programme - learning how to be sugar savvy, read food
and drink labels and get back in control of their diets. These interactive sessions at multiple locations across Luton offer both mixed and gender-
specific groups.

The fun ‘Cook & Eat’ sessions have been exceptionally well received in schools, with children not only cooking (and eating!) healthy food, but
also learning about the importance of nutrition.

Impact Adults - 70% reduced BMI, 93% increased physical activity, 77% increased intake of fruit and vegetables, 76% improved eating habits.
Children - 68% increased intake of fruit and vegetables, 51% increased Physical Activity.

Health Checks

Free Health Checks are an assessment of overall health and can help to identify and prevent cardiovascular and other health issues. Accessible
clinics are held all over Luton, including at the Central Library, Hightown Community Centre, Central Mosque, Saints Mosque, Luton &
Dunstable Hospital and many other locations. 510 health checks delivered between April 2023 and March 2024.

Volunteers

We were delighted to be part of Community Leisure UK and Sport England’s Active Kindness project. This was a pilot project supporting four
health & wellbeing trusts across England to enhance our volunteering offer. We are very grateful to all our volunteers, and we look forward to
developing our programme even further.

Be Active Beds - Our Active partnership

2023-2024 has been a huge year for Be Active that has seen us make significant strides in supporting our ambitions outlined in our strategy
‘Moving Forwards Together’.

Being able to show case the work of our partners and the physical activity sector in our ‘2023 Celebration Event’ was truly inspiring and really
demonstrated how so many volunteers and leaders across Bedfordshire, as well as the Be Active Team, have worked tirelessly to help tackle
inequalities and strive to ensure movement is part of everyone's day-today life.

Sport England's 10 year vision, Uniting the Movement, sets out how we need to change as a sector so that we can give people the opportunities
they need now and in the future. The following headlines provide a snapshot of the work we have been doing collectively to achieve these
ambitions, as we address the inequalities around access to physical activity across Bedford, Central Bedfordshire and Luton:

We secured over £2 million of external funding to invest into our local communities, to protect, enhance and grow the facility stock for sport and
physical activity across the county,

We invested over £180,000 during the final funding period of the Together Fund into organisations that support our priority audiences to become

more physically active. Examples of sessions that have been funded and delivered include wellbeing walks for people with dementia and their
carers; adapted cycling for older adults with long term health conditions; chair yoga and seated exercise.

Page 11

ACTIVE LUTON

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

73 Digital Inclusion session were delivered in and across Central Bedfordshire Local Authority areas to support older people to access information
in relation to physical activity.

We supported 16 schools to open their facilities to the local community enabling them to access physical activity opportunities through the
Opening Schools Facilities Fund.

We delivered safeguarding training to 106 people; Active Medicine training to 41 people; 13 OTAGO instructors have been trained; 50 staff were
supported with customer service training; We trained 20 instructors and coaches through the Inclusive Activity Programme.

We continue to work across our systems to change the way people perceive ageing and ensure there are opportunities for older members of our
community to be active. Our Live Longer Better Alliance network has continued to grow with 149 attendees at our events across this year.

256 schools took part in School Games County Finals across a range of sports including Glow sports, Climbing, Table Tennis, Colour run,
Futsal, cricket, dance, basketball, badminton.

Our Children and Young People Conference was attended by 87 schools and 25 community groups, the biggest conference to date !

The Inspiring Young Lives Programme has been created to support community groups to help promote physical activity projects for inactive
children and young people in Bedfordshire. We worked with a range of community groups and non-traditional sporting organisations, including 3
housing associations, to develop and deliver 14 Inspiring Young Lives projects. We are delighted to have built positive relationships with all of the
organisations and look forward to maintaining these important connections in the future.

We have commenced development and implementation of an environmental sustainability action plan that focuses on our internal behaviours but
also provides solutions for external partners and stakeholders and the wider sport and physical activity community.

We supported the implementation and delivery of unitary authority leisure strategies and supplementary work such as Playing Pitch Strategies and
Indoor Built Facility Strategies. .
Supporting the development and delivery of strategically important facility projects across the county.

We have sought to educate, influence and support planners, urban designers and developers on Sport England’s Active Design guidance and how it
can be used to maximise social value in development schemes.

Be Active Financial Headlines 1st April 2023 — 31st March 2024

Income 000’s
Sport England Grant Funding 664.6
Local Authority Donations & Services 5.0
Project Development & Delivery 34.1
Training & Other Services $5.2
Interest 5.0
Sub Total 763.9
Expenditure 000's
Staffing & Subcontractors 4t1.0
Staff Training 45
Marketing 14,7
Operating Costs 61.0
Workforce Training & Development 11.9
Children & Young People Projects 56.4
Tackling Inequalities Projects 50.6
Street Tag Project 13.1
Sub Total 623.2
Surplus 440.7,

Page 12

ACTIVE LUTON

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

Financial review

Fundraising activities

In the past year, we have made a surplus from our activities amounting to £588,507. In the previous financial period, we had an operating surplus
of £759,971. This year’s continued financial surplus is a significant achievement in light of an increasing cost base and results from our
diversification of services and tight control of our cost base. People costs have been much lower than anticipated which has caused pressures on
operations, this is a result of shortages in relevant quality and experience of those in the job market.

Incoming resources for the whole organisation have increased to £15,212,505 (£14,661,835 in 2023). Increasing our overall income level to more
than £15m is a result of earned income and activities increasing back to pre-covid levels, consolidation of new income streams and increased
delivery under health and other programmes. The donation received from the Airport increased for the libraries contract to help support the Local
Government pay settlement. All other areas of the donation remained the same as the prior year. Active Luton effectively has been managing
increased costs out of other activities.

The main trading income continued to increase during the year as growth in numbers was achieved. Membership numbers by March 2024 though
had still not reached pre-covid levels but was back at 97% of that number. Learn to Swim programme numbers and income continue to grow with
improved space and timetable planning. Active Luton prides itself on offering high-quality swim teaching at affordable prices and this has
continued to result in increasing demand for this programme.

s

Total resources for 2023/24 increased to £14,427,962 (£13,979,923 in 2023). This includes the increase in staff costs as annual pay rises were
awarded. Supporting the Real Living Wage at entry-level resulted in a significant increase in employee costs overall. However, shortage of skilled
staff such as Swim Teachers has caused operational issues and limited some income growth. The Energise Programme continued to expand with
further delivery by partners with funding delivery costs managed by Active Luton.

Due to the financially secure position, Active Luton was pleased to be in the position to make a winter “Thank-you” payment to all contracted team
members, aiming to help show appreciation of the contribution that all teams had made to the overall success achieved in the ycar.

The balance on the BeActive restricted fund at the year ended 31 March 2024 is £298,483 (2022/23: £157,746). The total unrestricted fund now
shows a surplus of £6,096, 136 (2022/23: £5,507,627).

Principal funding sources

The parent charitable company obtained a donation from Luton Rising, which this year totalled £2.5m. This specifically includes £1.2m of
donation to support the library services.

Luton Borough Council now provides limited support services to the charity. This has significantly reduced in the last few years. Human
Resources advice and services continue to be provided as does IT services for the library services only.

The Public Health contract subcontracted from Turning Point continued, with income of £1.2m for the core contract. We successfully secured a
further extension on this core contract to March 2026 as well as securing 5 years ongoing of further Stop Smoking funding due to our success in
delivery of targets.

Grant income levels remained fairly constant. Delivery started under the recently secured Sport England Navigating Local systems grant which
helped support the delivery of physical activity to older people, those with SEND/disabilities and long-term health.

£1m was again received to run the Energise Holiday and Food camps. This money supported pupil premium children across the town in 6 main
camps within Active Luton but with an increased delivery through our partners working with us on our programmes. 6,536 children attended these
camps which again have been highly successful in feeding children during the school holidays.

Our highest income is from running our leisure facilities and income significantly increased for memberships and our Learn to Swim programmes.
Membership numbers remained fairly constant over the year, but increased and reviewed pricing helped support a higher yicld. Efficicnt timetable
planning allowed Learn to Swim numbers to grow.

Price increases were sensible but necessary to work towards helping Active Luton cover an increasing cost base including the rising of utility

contracts as fixed term agreements came to an end. Concessionary prices though remain unchanged to continue to support engagement in the
relevant groups in our community. We also now offer our Go4Less advantage card free to further support those groups in most need.

The charity operates from buildings and uses equipment leased at peppercom rents from Luton Borough Council. No adjustment has been made to
bring in the market value of those rents and equipment lease charges at a cost along with the corresponding adjustments to grants received.

Page 13

ACTIVE LUTON

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024
STRATEGIC REPORT
Reserves policy

The Board reviews the reserve policy on an annual basis to ensure that the reserves are maintained at a level that is consistent with the group
having sufficient funds to operate at its planned activity levels, taking into account the various financial risk factors that have been identified. The
target is to operate with reserves at a level that equates to between one and three months of future anticipated operating costs plus the net book
value of fixed assets funded out of reserves. The aim is to hold a minimum reserve value of £1.1m. It is considered sensible to create a designated
reserve for future capital commitments currently being planned.

Free reserves of £2,702,662 are held at the year-end (excluding fixed assets) are in line with the target of 3 months of expenditure and will be held
to support the organisation through the next few years. This level of reserves would allow us to meet our employee and other committed costs for
three months. This would allow us to be able to make key strategic decisions in the event of unplanned scenarios that would significantly affect the
trading position.

The significant increase in utilities and continual pressure on pay rises continue to affect the finances in the immediate future and the reserves held
will help support the organisation throughout this period. What is key is to still to be able to invest in our teams and our facilities to be able to
ensure we can deliver our new strategy and continue to generate increased income and support our existing customer base.

The Board also plans to use the reserves where necessary for future investments and to support the organisation to maintain and grow its customer
base and services. This year a designated reserve of £1.0m has been held. This is specifically to support capital works and equipment needed at 3
of our main sites, including Lewsey Sports Park, Hightown and Lea Manor. We also are considering and planning for key energy-saving capital
projects that not only help to support Luton’s net zero targets and our own environmental strategies but look to save increasing energy revenue
costs.

Future plans
Our new $-year strategy was finalised and launched in April 2023. This 5-year plan has 6 key priorities:

Supporting children in our communities to get the best start in life.
Supporting the wellbeing of our community.

Developing silks and lifelong learning.

Developing further as a great place to work.

Strengthening financial viability and sustainability.

6 Conducting our business in an environmentally sustainable manner.

Ubwne

‘The strategy has been converted into more detailed annual plans each year with different executive directors being accountable for the different
areas of delivery. This is then regularly fed back to the main trustee board.

‘We successfully tendered for the library service and were awarded the contract to March 2030 in January 2024. The Turning Point subcontract
from Public Health, originally due to expire in March 2023, then extended to March 2025 has been further successfully extended to March 2026.
Along with this, funding for different health work continues to grow, particularly in areas of Stop Smoking, Sociat Prescription and Link Work
support. Also, further work contributing to the Family Hub programme is now a key part of delivery. The Energise programme delivery continues
with confirmed funding from Government to March 2025. All these activities involved further management to increase volumes and service to
exceptionally high standards and increasing engagement under all these programmes and delivering against agreed targets will be the priority.

A key area for managing ongoing costs was continuing to renew our utility contacts at affordable rates. By careful management and purchasing we
have secured contracts at a manageable level although far in excess of historical costs. These contracts now give some certainty to allow budgeting
and managing of these costs over a 2-year period.

Continued investment in sites is key with investments in gym equipment at several sites planned for the next year. A significant investment in the
Central Library at the end of March 2024 shows our commitment to delivery under the new contract. We need also to be able to continue to offer
high-quality Icisure activities to our customers to be able to support our price point and remain competitive for our main income area of gym
memberships. Investment is to continue in energy-saving initiatives with various solutions at some of our sites now being investigated. Funding
secured from Sport England for solar installation our [nspire site via Luton borough Council with installation planned for March 2025.

Risk management continues to be a priority.

Clear succession planning for the trustee board has also been discussed and is on-going. Changes in executive management have also been
significant in the last year.

Page 14

ACTIVE LUTON

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
Governing document

Active Luton is a company limited by guarantee incorporated on 20th May 2005, governed by its Memorandum and Artictes of Association that
were revised 16 January 2018. [t is a registered charity with the Charity Commission. In the event of the parent charitable company being wound
up members are required to contribute an amount not exceeding £1. This liability remains for one year after ceasing to be a member in respect of
debts incurred whilst a member.

Recruitment and appointment of new trustees

As set out in the Memorandum and Articles, there shall be at least sixteen and a maximum of eighteen Trustees comprised of:

- up to three Local Authority Trustees; and
- up to fifteen Ordinary Trustees
- provided that at least 25% of the Trustees at any one time shall be Independent Trustees.

Candidates for the office of an Ordinary Trustee shall be appointed by the Board following an open, formal, publicly advertised, and transparent
selection process by a representation by board members, taking account of the individual's ability, experience, and expertise.

Organisation .

The board of trustees, which can have up to 18 members, administers the charity. The board normally meets quarterly and there are sub-
committees covering Be Active: Finance, Audit & Risk, Marketing; Health & Safety and HR. The trustees appoint the Chief Executive to manage
the day-to-day operations of the charity. To facilitate effective operations, the Board delegate the day-to-day operation of the charity to the
Director Leadership Team consisting of the following officers:

- Chief Executive

- Director of Finance & Resources

- Director of Operations

- Director of Leaming & Skills

- Director of Marketing & Business Development
- Director of Community Health & Wellbeing

- Director of Be Active

{induction and training of new trustees

Training is provided as soon as practicable after appointment including visits to facilities and meetings with key management personnel. Trustees
are encouraged to attend training events which facilitate the undertaking of their role. Briefings are also provided as relevant.

Related parties .
Trustees are eligible for staff membership benefits during their board tenure. No other remuneration or benefits are received from their work with

the charity.

The following organisations represent the group's related parties:

- Luton Rising provides a donation which represents approximately 17% of total income.
- Luton Borough Council provides some support services and nominates three trustees.

Risk management

The trustees have a duty to identify and review the risks to which the charity is exposed and to ensure appropriate controls are in place to provide
reasonable assurance against fraud and error. Active Luton holds a current risk register which is fully rewritten annually by the senior executive
team and then has been reviewed and approved at the Board Level. This risk register scores the level of risk which are then ranked. The top 10
tisks are allocated to the management team as owners who ensure the risks are mitigated with scoring updated regularly, from monthly to annually
depending on the level of risk.

During the year, the length of future contracts is being discussed and assessed as something that could impact Active Luton’s ability to continue to
contribute to the health and wellbeing of Luton's community. A successful extension of the current Healthy Lifestyles contract was agreed during
the year as was securing a longer-term Library contract. Further contracts are up for renewal in the next 12 months and are identified as the highest
tisk.

Another key risk during the year has becn able to ensure adequate staffing numbers and skills. Key teams have been affected by the inability to
recruit, particularly swim teachers which affects income earning potential. Other teams are also affected which can affect resources overall to
support the organisation.

The current method of review of the risk by the executive team has been established with highly scored risks now monitored and addressed every
month.

Page 15

ACTIVE LUTON

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
Public Benefit
The trustees of the group have considered the Charity Commission's guidance on public benefit.

There are two main principles of Public Benefit:

1) There must be an identifiable benefit or benefits,
2) The benefit must be to the public or section of the public.

Within each there are sub principles:

a) It must be ciear what the benefits are,

b) The benefits must be related to the aims;

c) Benefits must be balanced against any detriment or harm,

d) The beneficiaries must be appropriate to the aims;

e) And, where the benefit is to a section of the public the opportunity to the benefit must not be unreasonably restricted.
Each of the objectives of the group are for the public benefit and the charity continues to achieve its objectives as demonstrated through the
increased utilisation of the services provided by each facility as well as increased outreach programmes.

Activities provided include support for the community through:

- Programmes supporting physical, mental, and emotional wellbeing are provided under the Total Wellbeing brand.

+ Employment programmes with partner organisations such as Luton Adult Community Learning

- Programmes for disabled people, including No Limits

- Library services extend a community offering for various groups and a public service.

- Extensive work with schools to help achieve the objectives associated with the PE Premium funding as well as supporting the provision
of high quality PE and school sport within and beyond the National Curriculum.

The charity also demonstrated increased activity in support of specific targeted groups such as women, ethnic minorities and the disabled.

The charity gives consideration to the affordability and accessibility of the services it provides through offering concessionary prices for those on
low incomes.

Employment of disabled persons

Active Luton employed an average of 230 (FTE) employees in FY24 (FY24 213). Through its equality policy, the Company seeks to ensure that
every employee, without exception, is treated equally and fairly and that all employees are aware of their responsibilities.

Active Luton is committed to employment policies which follow best practices, based on equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective of age,
disability, gender reassignment, pregnancy and matemity, race, religion or belief, sex, and sexual orientation.

Active Luton operates a fair recruitment policy and gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from people with disabilities,
having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities. We do not condone or tolerate any form of discrimination in our recruitment or
employment practices. Active Luton has been awarded the Disability Confident Employer accreditation.

Our policies and procedures fully support our disabled colleagues.
Active Luton is responsive to the needs of its employees. As such, should any employee become disabled during their time with us, we will actively
retrain that employee and make reasonable adjustments to their working environment where possible. To ensure equity and fair access to career

and personal/professional development opportunities, training opportunities are provided that reasonably accommodate a disabled employee's
needs.

Page 16

ACTIVE LUTON

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
for the Year Eaded 31 MARCH 2024

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
Engagement with employees

Regular communications are ongoing and provided to our employees and volunteers. A regular quarterly newsletter is issued to all staff and other
announcements are delivered to all employees as and when. Regular communications give updates on the Charity’s progress and managers
regularly touch base with their own teams. A staff intranet is now up and running and while not accessible by all the teams, this further helps with
communication within the organisation.

In addition, our staff are encouraged to speak out and express views and employees are welcome to join the Feedback Forum. This forum is held at
a minimum every quarter, where representatives from all areas of the organisation come together and discuss issues and ideas with the Chief
Executive.

Weekly Huddle communications are also cascaded from the Director team on a weekly basis.
A key part of our overall strategy and support our overall aim of making Active Luton an employer of choice and being a great place to work. This

has been identified as a key objective in our 5-year strategy. Active Luton undertook a workplace survey with over 240 employees earlier this year
and as a result of the responses received, we were delighted to have met the threshold for becoming a ‘Great Place to Work’.

Our training team work hard to ensure all training requirements are met and we excel at continuing to develop and give our teams ongoing
opportunities.

Our Going the Extra Mile scheme recognises outstanding achievements with nominations received across the company.

STATEMENT OF TRUSTEES' RESPONSIBILITIES

The trustees (who are also the directors of Active Luton for the purposes of company law) are responsible for preparing the Report of the Trustees
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice).

Company law requires the trustees to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of
the charitable company and of the incoming resources and application of resources, including the income and expenditure, of the charitable
company for that period. In preparing those financial statements, the trustees are required to:

- select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently,

- observe the methods and principles in the Charity SORP;

- make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent,

- prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the charitable company will
continue in business,

The Trustees are responsible for kecping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s transactions and to
enable them to ensure that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable law, United Kingdom Accounting Standards and the
Charities Statement of Recommended Practice (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). The Trustces are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the Trust and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Each of the persons who are Trustees at the time when this Trustees’ report is approved has confirmed that:

+ there is no relevant audit information of which the charitable company's auditors are unaware; and
- the trustees have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to
establish that the auditors are aware of that information.

AUDITORS

A resolution to re-appoint Crowe UK LLP as auditors for the ensuing year will be proposed at the annual general meeting in accordance with
Section 485 of the Companies Act 2006.

Page 17

ACTIVE LUTON

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

Report of the trustees, incorporating a strategic report, approved by order of the board of trustees, as the company directors, on
16 October 2024 and signed on the board's behalf by:

a:

Nicola Monk - Trustee

Page 18

Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Active Luton

Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Active Luton (‘the charitable company’) and its subsidiary (‘the group’) for the year ended 31 March 2024 which
comprise consolidated statement of financial activities, the group and parent charitable company balance sheets, the consolidated statement of cash flows and notes
to the financial statements, including significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law
and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, inctuding Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financia! Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of
Ireland (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion the financial statements:

° give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and the charitable company’s affairs as at 31 March 2024 and of the group’s incoming resources
and application of resources, including its income and expenditure for the year then ended;

. have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

‘We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards
are further described in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the group in accordance
with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
basis for our opinion.

Conctusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the trustee's use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements

is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast
significant doubt on the charitable company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are
authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the trustees with respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections of this report.

Other information
‘The trustees are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report. The other information comprises the information included in the annual

report, other than the financial statements and our auditor's report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except
to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or
our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated, LF we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to rcport that fact.

‘We have nothing to report in this regard.

Page 19

Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Active Luton

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion based on the work undertaken in the course of our audit

. the information given in the trustees’ report, which includes the directors’ report and the strategic report prepared for the purposes of
company law, for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements, and

. the strategic report and the directors’ report included within the trustees’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the charitable company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not
identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report included within the trustees’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our
opinion:

. the parent company has not kept adequate accounting records, or

. the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
. certain disclosures of trustees’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

. we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit

Responsibilities of trustees

As explained more fully in the trustees’ responsibilities statement set out on page 17 the trustees (who are also the directors of the charitable company for the
purposes of company law) are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such
internal control as the trustees determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether duc to
fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the trustees are responsible for assessing the charitable company’s ability to continue as a going concer, disclosing, as
appticable, matters related to going concen and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the trustees either intend to liquidate the charitable company or
to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
We have been appointed as auditor under section 44(1)(c) of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and under the Companies Act 2006 and
report in accordance with the Acts and relevant regulations made or having effect thereunder.

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if,

i jually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements,

Inregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to
detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud
is detailed below:

We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks within which the group and parent charity operates, focusing on those laws and regulations
that have a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The laws and regulations we considered in this context
were taxation legislation, together with the Charities SORP (FRS 102). We assessed the required comptiance with these laws and regulations as part of our audit
procedures on the related financial statement items.

Page 20

Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Active Luton

{n addition, we considered provisions of other laws and regulations that do not have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which might be
fundamental to the group’s ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty. We also considered the opportunities and incentives that may exist within the group and
parent charity for fraud. The laws and regulations we considered in this context for the UK operations were Health and Safety, General Data Protection Regulations,
Safeguarding and Food Standards. Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of
the Governors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.

We identified the greatest risk of material impact on the financial statements from irregularities, including fraud, to be within the timing of recognition of certain
income streams and the override of controls by management. Our audit procedures to respond to the risk of management override included enquiries of
management about their own identification and assessment of the risks of irregularities, sample testing on the posting of journals, reviewing accounting estimates
for biases, reviewing regulatory correspondence with the Charity Commission, and reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance.

Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements,
even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards. For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws
and regulations (irregularities) is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by
auditing standards would identify it. In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion,
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls. We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be
expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at:
www. fre.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the charitable company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006, and to the
charitable company’s trustees. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the charitable company’s members those matters we are required to
state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than
the charitable company and the charitable company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Janette Joyce (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of

Crowe U.K. LLP

Statutory Auditor

R+ Building

2 Blagrave Street

Reading

Berkshire

RG11AZ

Date: 21 October 2024

Page 21

ACTIVE LUTON

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES
(INCORPORATING AN INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT)
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

2024 2023
Restricted Restricted
Unrestricted funds - funds - Total Total
funds Be Active other funds funds
Notes £ £ £ £ £
INCOME AND ENDOWMENTS
FROM
Donations and legacies 2. 2,851,911 679,169 134,754 3,665,834 3,830,966
Charitable activities
Charitable activities - 5 11,002,439 79,842 12,318 11,094,599 10,432,449
Other trading activities 3 256,125 - - 256,125 376,003
Investment income 4 191,006 4,941 = 195,947 22,418
Total 14,301,481 763,952 147,072 15,212,505 14,661,835
EXPENDITURE ON
Commercial operations 6 148,578 - - 148,578 425,153
Charitable activities 7
Charitable activities 13,564,396 623,215 91,774 14,279,384 13,554,770
Total 13,712,974 623,215 91,774 14,427,962 13,979,923
NET INCOME 588,507 140,737 55,298 784,543 681,912
Transfers between funds - - - - -
Net movement in funds 588,507 - 140,737 55,298 784,543 681,912
RECONCILIATION OF FUNDS
Total funds brought forward 5,507,629 157,746 722 5,666,097 4,984,186
TOTAL FUNDS CARRIED
450,640 666,0
FORWARD 6,096,136 298,483 56,020 6,450,6 5,666,098

eee

‘The notes on pages 27 to 38 form part of these financial statements

Page 22

ACTIVE LUTON (REGISTERED NUMBER: 05458934)

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

2024 2023
Restricted Restricted
Unrestricted funds - funds - Total Total
funds Be Active other funds funds
Notes £ £ £ £ £
FIXED ASSETS
Tangible assets 15 1,393,858 : : 1,393,858 1,012,967
1,393,858 - - 1,393,858 1,012,967
CURRENT ASSETS
Stocks 17 23,035 - - 23,035 35,774
Debtors 18 907,295 6,120 - 913,415 821,749
Cash at bank and in hand 6,468,503 317,519 109,336 6,895,358 6,508,592
7,398,833 323,639 109,336 7,831,808 7,366,115
CREDITORS
Amounts falling due within one year 19 (2,446,171) (25,156) (53,316) (2,524,643) (2,472,602)
NET CURRENT ASSETS 4,952,662 298,483 56,020 5,307,165 4,893,513
TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT
LIABILITIES 6,346,520 298,483 56,020 6,701,023 5,906,480
PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES = 20 (250,382) - : (250,382) (240,382)
NET ASSETS 6,096,138 298,483 56,020 6,450,641 5,666,098
Notes
FUNDS 21
Unrestricted funds:
General fund 5,346,520 4,498,012
Designated fund - Future capital expenditure 1,000,000 $00,000
Designated fund - Energy saving capital initiative - 750,000
Designated fund - Sinking fund (250,382) (240,382)
6,096,138 5,507,630
Restricted funds: .
Restricted fund 56,020 722
Be Active (formerly team Beds Luton) 298,483 157,746
354,503 158,468
TOTAL FUNDS 6,450,641 5,666,098

The financial statements were approved by the Board of Trustees and authorised for issue on 16. October. 2024. and were.signed on its

The notes on pages 27 to 38 form part of these financial statements

Page 23

ACTIVE LUTON (REGISTERED NUMBER: 05458934)

CHARITABLE COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
31 MARCH 2024

2024 2023
Restricted Restricted
Unrestricted funds - funds - Total Total
funds Be Active other funds funds
Notes £ £ £ £ £
FIXED ASSETS
Tangible assets 1S 1,382,623 - : 1,382,623 994,224
Investments 16 1 - = 1 1
1,382,624 - - 1,382,624 994,225
CURRENT ASSETS
Debtors 18 1,165,643 6,120 - 1,171,763 1,126,502
Cash at bank and in hand 6,423,727 317,519 109,336 6,850,582 6,475,556
7,589,370 323,639 109,336 8,022,345 7,602,058
CREDITORS
Amounts falling due within one year 19 (2,439,175) (25,156) (53,316) (2,517,647) (2,458,606)
NET CURRENT ASSETS 5,150,195 298,483 56,020 5,504,698 5,143,452
TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT
LIABILITIES 6,532,819 298,483 56,020 6,887,322 6,137,676
PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES 20 (250,382) - - (250,382) (240,382)
NET ASSETS((LIABILITIES) 6,282,437 298,483 56,020 6,636,940 5,897,295
FUNDS
Unrestricted funds:
General fund 4,282,819 4,729,213
Designated fund - Future capital expenditure 1,000,000 500,000
Designated fund - Energy saving capital initiative . ot 750,000
Designated fund - Sinking fund (250,382) (240,382)
Designated fund - Future capital investment : =
6,282,437 5,738,831
Restricted funds:
Restricted fund 56,020 722
Be Active (formerly team Beds and Luton) 298,483 157,742
354,503 158,464
TOTAL FUNDS 6,636,940 5,897,295
eS

The financial statements were approved by the Board of Trustees and authorised for issue on 16. October. 2024. and were signed on its
bg

Kevin Poultorr
Nicola Monk - Tease

The notes on pages 27 to 38 form part of these financial statements

Page 24

ACTIVE LUTON

CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations
Interest paid

Tax paid

Net cash provided by operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of tangible fixed assets

Sale of tangible fixed assets

Interest received

Net cash used in investing activities

Change in cash and cash equivalents in the
reporting period

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the
reporting period

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the
reporting period

Notes

2024
£

865,461

865,461

(696,442)
21,800
195,947

(478,695)

386,766
6,508,592

6,895,358

The notes on pages 27 to 38 form part of these financial statements

Page 25

2023

1,056,090

1,056,090

(534,376)
1,000
22,418

(510,958)

545,132

5,963,460

6,508,592

ACTIVE LUTON

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT

for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME TO NET CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES

2024
£
Net income for the reporting period (as per the Statement of Financial Activities) 784,543
Adjustments for:
Depreciation charges 315,552
Profit on disposal of fixed assets ~ (21,800)
Interest received (195,947)
Interest paid -
Sinking fund 10,000
Deerease/(increase) in stocks 12,739
({Increase)/ decrease in debtors (91,666)
Increase/(dectease) in creditors 52,040
Net cash provided by operations 865,461
ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET FUNDS
At 1.4.23 Cash flow
£ £

Net cash
Cash at bank and in hand

Total

6,508,592 386,766
6,508,592 386,766

6,508,592 386,766

—S

The notes on pages 27 to 38 form part of these financial statements

Page 26

2023
£

681,912

328,146
(1,000)
(22,418)
50,382
(9,536)
556,780
(528,176)

1,056,090

At31.3.24
£

6,895,358
6,895,358

6,895,358

1.

ACTIVE LUTON

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Basis of consolidation

The financial statements of the charitable company, which is a public benefit entity under FRS 102, have been prepared in accordance with
the Charities SORP (FRS 102) ‘Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing,
their accounts in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Lreland (FRS 102) (effective 1
January 2019), Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ircland’ and the
Companies Act 2006. The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention.

These financial statements consolidate the results of the charity and its wholly owned subsidiary Active Luton Enterprises Limited on a linc
by line basis. A separate statement of financial activities and income and expenditure account are not presented for the charity itself
fotlowing the exemptions afforded by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and paragraph 397 of the SORP.

‘The trustees consider that there are no material uncertainties about the charitable company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

The presentation currency of the financial statements is the Pound Sterling (£).
The principal accounting policies adopted, judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty in the preparation of the financial statements
are as follows:

Income
All income is recognised in the Statement of Financial Activities once the charity has entitlement to the funds, it is probable that the income
will be received and the amount can be measured reliably.

The following policies are applied to particular categories of income:
a) Grants (including government grants) and donations
- Income received by way of grants and donations is included in full in the Statement of Financial Activities when receivable.

- Incoming resources from grants, where related to performance and specific deliverables, are accounted for as the charity earns the right
to consideration by its performance.

- Grants, where entitlement is not conditional on the delivery of a specific performance by the charity, are recognised when the charity
becomes unconditionally entitled to the grant.

b) Trading activities
Incoming resources from commercial trading activity are accounted for when eamed.

c) Investment income
Investment income is included when receivable.

d) Charitable activities
Incoming resources from charitable activities are accounted for when eared.

All income is stated after trade discounts, other sales taxes and net of VAT.

Expenditure

Liabilities are recognised as expenditure as soon as there is a legal or constructive obligation committing the charity to that expenditure, it is
probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required in settlement and the amount of the obligation can be measured reliably.
Expenditure is accounted for on an accruals basis and has been classified under headings that aggregate all cost related to the category. Where
costs cannot be directly attributed to particular headings they have been allocated to activities on a basis consistent with the use of resources.

Page 27

ACTIVE LUTON
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - continued
for the Year Eaded 31 MARCH 2024
ACCOUNTING POLICIES - continued

Expenditure

Grants offered subject to conditions which have not been met at the year-end date are noted as a commitment but not accrued as expenditure.
Raising funds

The costs of generating funds consist of fundraising and trading expenses.

Charitable activities

Charitable expenditure comprises of those costs incurred by the group in the delivery of its activities and services for the beneficiaries. It
includes both costs that can be allocated directly to such activities and those of an indirect nature to support them.

Governance costs

Governance costs comprise all costs involving the public accountability of the charity and its compliance with regulation and good practice.
These costs include costs related to statutory audit and legal fees together with an apportionment of overhead and support costs.

Allocation and apportionment of costs

Overhead and Support Costs have been allocated between Charitable Activities and Governance Costs. Costs which are not wholly
attributable to an expenditure category have been apportioned based on the activity to which they relate.

Tangible fixed assets .

Depreciation is provided at the following annual rates in order to write off cach asset over its estimated useful life.

The lower of 10% or over the remaining life of the lease, unless

Leasehold property improvement - underwritten by Local Authority
Sports equipment - 20% on cost
Plant and machinery - 20% oncost
Fixtures and fittings - 20% on cost
Computer equipment - 20% on costs (laptops treated as revenue expenditure)
To be reviewed on project basis due to different UEL expected. Plan to
Energy Saving Initiatives - be between 10% and 5%

Items of equipment are capitalised where the purchase price exceeds £5,000. Irrecoverable VAT costs are included in the capitalised costs
once w project exceeds £100k.

Assets are reviewed for impairment if circumstances indicate their carrying value may exceed their net realisable value and value in use.
Expenditure account each year as the ownership of those assets is not retained. This policy will be reviewed on a 3 year basis.

Assets obtained under hire purchase contracts and finance leases are capitalised as tangible fixed assets and depreciated over the shorter of the
lease term and their useful lives. Obligation under such agreements are included in creditors net of the finance charged allocated to future
periods. The finance element of the rental payment is charged to the profit and loss account to produce a constant periodic rate of charge on
the net obligation outstanding in each period.

Stocks .
Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, after making due allowance for obsolete and slow moving items.

Taxation
The charity is exempt from corporation tax on its charitable activities.

Fund accounting
Unrestricted funds can be used in accordance with the charitable objectives at the discretion of the trustees.

Restricted funds can only be used for particular restricted purposes within the objects of the charity. Restrictions arise when specified by the
donor or when funds are raised for particular restricted purposes.

Designated funds have been set aside out of general funds as shown in the notes to the financial statements.

Further explanation of the principle funding sources is included in the trustees report.

Page 28

ACTIVE LUTON

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - continued
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

ACCOUNTING POLICIES - continued

Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits

The charitable company operates a defined benefit pension scheme. The regular pension cost is charged to the statement of financial activities
and is based on the expected pension costs over the service life of employees.

The charitable company operates a defined contribution scheme. The pension cost is charged to the statement of financial activities.

DONATIONS AND LEGACIES
2024 2023
£ £
Grants/Donations 3,665,834 3,830,966
OTHER TRADING ACTIVITIES

The wholly owned trading subsidiary Active Luton Enterprises Limited (company number 05509883), which is incorporated in the United
Kingdom (registered office 2nd Floor, Apex House, 30-34 Upper George Street, Luton, Bedfordshire, LU1 2RD), donates all of its profits to
the charity by gift aid. Active Luton Enterprises Limited operates the bars and catering facilities at Active Luton's centres. The charity owns
the entire issued share capital of ordinary shares of £1 each. A summary of the trading results is shown below.

Any profits are gifted to Active Luton.

2024 2023
£ £

Income 256,125 376,003
Cost of sales & administration costs (211,230) (425,152)
44,895 (49,149)

The assets and liabilities of the subsidiary were:
Fixed Assets ~ 11,235 18,744
Current Assets 74,138 77,067
Current liabilities (271,673) (327,006)
(186,300) (231,195)
Aggregate share capital & reserves (186,300) (231,195)

Page 29

INVESTMENT INCOME

Deposit account interest

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - continued
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

INCOME FROM CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES

Activity

Use of sports facilities
Coaching and education
Delivery of library services
Miscelianeous

Delivery of health services
Delivery of energise camps

Support services

COMMERCIAL OPERATIONS

Other trading activities

Commercial trading operations

Charitable activities
Charitable activities
Charitable activities
Charitable activities
Charitable activities
Charitable activities
Charitable activities

ACTIVE LUTON

Page 30

2024 2023
£ £
195,947 22,418
2024 2023
£ £
6,762,087 5,861,981
398,337 345,899
757,857 704,026
233,527 368,344
1,685,531 1,708,957
1,115,450 1,337,750
141,810 105,491
11,094,599 10,43 2,449
2024 2023
£ £

148,578 425,153

ACTIVE LUTON

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - continued
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES COSTS

Grant
funding of
Direct activities Support
Costs (see (see note costs (see
note 8) 9) note 10) Totals
£ £ £ £
Charitable activities 13,225,929 730,599 322,857 14,279,385
DIRECT COSTS OF CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES
2024 2023
£ £
Staff costs 8,053,357 7,832,275
Rent, rates, heat & light 1,202,544 872,673
Insurance 133,884 145,261
Telephone 90,228 75,521
Postage and stationery 43,506 23,827
Advertising and marketing 189,818 184,504
Sundries 30,706 45,032
Other staff costs 176,828 88,739
Motor & travelling 150,155 150,963
Repairs & maintenance 881,399 814,821
Security costs 5,883 3,226
Computer costs 219,983 174,682
Hire of equipment 60,401 26,448
Licenses & subscriptions (75,872 158,902
Project delivery 96,535 636,983
Subcontractor costs 226,165 270,348
Purchase of equipment : 195,522 170,942
Sinking fund 10,000 50,382
Direct selling costs 103,382 44,448
Delivery of libraries 258,532 266,827
Depreciation 308,043 320,638
Loss on sale of assets (21,800) (1,000)
Interest payable and similar charges 601,174 494,596
Donations - 128
Facility hire 33,812 :
13,225,929 12,851,165
—— =e
GRANTS PAYABLE 2024 2023
£ £
Charitable activities 730,599 362,214
Grants to Institutions 2024 2023
£ £
Grants payable 730,599 362,214
0S

Page 31

ACTIVE LUTON

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - continued
, for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

10 SUPPORT COSTS

Charitable activities

11 NET INCOMEAEXPENDITURE)
Net income/(expenditure) is stated after charging/(crediting):

Auditors' remuneration - group
Auditors’ remuneration for non audit work

Depreciation - owned assets
(Surplus)/Deficit on disposal of fixed assets

12. TRUSTEES' REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS

Governance
costs
£
322,857
2024 2023
£ £
29,950 13,250
5,000 5,086
315,552 328,146
(21,800) (1,000)

There were no trustees’ remuneration or other benefits for the Year Ended 31 March 2024 nor for the year ended 31 March 2023.

Trustees’ expenses

There were no reimbursed expenses for the Year Ended 31 March 2024 (2023: £31, one trustee).

13 STAFF COSTS

Wages and salaries
Social security costs
Other pension costs

2024 2023
£ £
6,788,428 6,454,197
540,113 520,819
724,816 857,259
8,053,357 7,832,275

The average monthly number of employees during the year was 654 (2023: 685). The average number of full time equivalents for the year

split via the relevant departments is:

Leisure, Health & Communities
Education & Training
Management & Support
Catering

Libraries

The number of employees whose employee benefits (excluding employer pension costs) exceeded £60,000 was:

£60,001 - £70,000
£70,001 - £80,000
£80,001 - £90,000
£100,001 - £110,000
£110,001 - £120,000
£140,001 - £150,000

2024 2023
£ £
164 156
9 10
20 21
- 3
32 34
225 224
2024 2023
2 1
2 -
: 1
- 1
1 -
1 -
6 3

These employees are a member of the defined benefit scheme. The key management personnel of the charitable company comprise the Chief
Executive Officer, Director of Finance & Resource, Director of Be Active, Director of Learning & Skills, Director of Marketing & Business
Developement and the Director of Community Health & Wellbeing. The total employee benefits of the key management personnel of the were

£650,435(2023: £141,313 Which only includes the Chief Executive Officer ).

Page 32

ACTIVE LUTON

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - continued
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

14. COMPARATIVES FOR THE STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES

2023
Unrestricted Restricted Total
funds funds funds
£ £ £
INCOME AND ENDOWMENTS FROM
Donations and legacies 3,039,362 791,604 3,830,966
Charitable activities
Charitable activities 10,347,633 84,816 10,432,449
Other trading activities 376,003 - 376,003
Investment income 22,237 181 22,418
Total 13,785,235 876,601 14,661,835
EXPENDITURE ON
Commercial operations 425,153 - 425,153
Charitable activities
Charitable activities 12,600,111 954,660 13,554,771
Total . 13,025,264 954,660 13,979,923
NET INCOME/(EXPENDITURE) 759,971 (78,058) 681,912

Transfer between funds - . -

Other recognised gains/(losses)

Settlement of pension scheme obligation - 5 -
Net movement in funds 759,971 (78,058) 681,912
RECONCILIATION OF

FUNDS

Total funds brought forward 4,747,660 236,527 4,984,186
TOTAL FUNDS CARRIED FORWARD 5,507,631 158,469 5,666,098

Page 33

15

ACTIVE LUTON

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - contioued

GROUP TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS

cost

At 1 April 2023
Additions
Disposals

At 31 March 2024
DEPRECIATION
At 1 April 2023
Charge for year
Eliminated on disposal
At 31 March 2024
NET BOOK VALUE

At 3f March 2024

At 31 March 2023

for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

Leasehold Fixtures
property Plant and and Computer
improvement machinery fittings equipment Totals
£ £ £ £ £
2,343,136 1,187,454 85,603 141,932 3,758,125
386,934 274,550 34,958 - 696,442
: (248,247) (1,901) (27,036) (277,184)

2,730,070 1,213,757 118,660 114,896 4,177,383

1,581,136 970,040 52,050 141,932 2,745,158
197,882 101,982 15,688 - 315,552
(248,247) (1,901) (27,036) (277,184)

1,779,018 823,775 65,837 114,896 2,783,526
951,052 1,393,858

762,000 217,414 33,554 1,012,968

a ee ee ee

CHARITABLE COMPANY TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS

COST

At | April 2023
Additions
Disposals

At 31 March 2024
DEPRECIATION
At | April 2023

Charge for year
Eliminated on disposal

At 31 March 2024

NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

Leasehold Fixtures
property Plant and and Computer
improvement machinery fittings equipment Totals
£ £ £ £ £
2,275,918 1,180,978 30,902 141,932 3,629,730
386,934 274,550 34,958 : 696,442

: (248,247) (1,901) (27,036) (277,184)

2,662,852 1,207,281 63,959 114,896 4,048,988

1,513,918 963,564 16,092 141,932 2,635,506
197,882 101,982 8,179 : 308,043
: (248,247) (1,901) (27,036) (277,184)

——L.2iL.200 ___817.299 ____ 22.370 14.896 2.666.365.

951,052 389,982 41,589 : 1,382,623

762,000 217,414 14.810 : 994,224

Page 34

ACTIVE LUTON

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - continued

for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

16 CHARITABLE COMPANY FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS Shares in
group
undertakings
£
MARKET VALUE
At | April 2023 and 31 March 2024 i
NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 March 2024 l
At 31 March 2023 l
There were no investment assets outside the UK.
17 STOCKS
Group Charity Group Charity
2024 2024 2023 2023
£ £ £ £
Stock 23,035, : 35,774 -
23,035 - 35,774 -
18 DEBTORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
Group Charity Group Charity
2024 2024 2023 2023
£ £ £ £
Trade debtors 518,821 516,013 401,637 399,639
Other debtors 33,580 33,580 31,535 31,535
Prepayments & accrued income 361,013 357,492 348,871 342,663
VAT - - 39,706 39,655
Amounts due from group undertakings - 264,678 - 313,009
913,415 1,171,763 821,749 1,126,502
19 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR
Group Charity Group Charity
2024 2024 2023 2023
£ £ £ £
Trade creditors 786,942 781,113 469,400 455,405
Social security and other taxes 152,886 152,886 114,855 114,855
VAT 51,428 51,428 - -
Other creditors 56,593 56,593 16,471 16,471
Pension control account 73,036 73,036 92,873 92,873
Accruals and deferred income 1,403,758 1,402,592 1,779,003 1,779,003
Corporation tax - - : -
Bank loans and overdrafts : - - -
2,524,643 2,517,647 2,472,602 2,458,606
DEFERRED INCOME 2024 2023

Grant Income Activity Income Grant Income Activity Income

£ £ £ £
Deferred Income brought forward at 1 April 2023 123,091 488,826 101,495 701,323
Incoming resources deferred in the current year 25,156 191,690 123,091 488,826
Amounts released from previous years (123,091) (488,826) ( 101,495) 701,323)

Deferred Income carried forward at 31 March 2024

25,156 191,690 123,091 488,826

Grant income is deferred as the charity is not entitled to the income until certain conditions are met.

Activity income is deferred as the charity is not entitled to the income until the activity is provided.

Page 35

20

21

ACTIVE LUTON

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - continued

for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES

Sinking fund provision

Following investment by the English Football Association in 2015 of the provision of a new 3G pitch at our Lea Manor site, Active Luton

MOVEMENT IN FUNDS

Unrestricted funds

General fund

Designated fund - Future capital expenditure
Designated fund - Energy saving capital expenditure
Designated fund - Sinking fund

Restricted funds
Restricted fund
Be Active (formerly team Beds and Luton)

TOTAL FUNDS

Net movement in funds, included in the above are as follows:

Unrestricted funds

General fund

Designated fund - Future capital expenditure
Designated fund - Sinking fund

Restricted funds
Restricted fund
Be Active (formerly team Beds and Luton)

TOTAL FUNDS

2024 2023
£ £
250,382 240,382
Net Transfers
movement between
At 1.4.23 in funds funds At 31.3.24
£ £ £ £
4,498,013 598,507 250,000 5,346,520
500,000 - 500,000 1,000,000
750,000 : (730,000) -
(240,382) (10,000) - (250,382)
5,507,631 588,507 - 6,096,138
722 55,298 : 56,020
157,746 140,737 = 298,483
5,666,098 784,543 - 6,450,641
Incoming Resources Movement
resources expended in funds
£ £ £
14,301,481 (13,702,974) 598,507
: (10,000) (10,000)
14,301,481 (13,712,974) 588,507
163,332 (108,034) 55,298
763,952 (623,215) 140,737
15,228,765 14,444,222) 784,543

Page 36

21

ACTIVE LUTON

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - continued
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

MOVEMENT IN FUNDS - continued
Comparatives for movement in funds

Unrestricted funds

General fund

Designated fund - Future capital expenditure
Designated fund - Energy saving capital expenditure
Designated fund - Sinking fund

Restricted funds
Restricted fund
Be Active (formerly team Beds and Luton)

TOTAL FUNDS

Comparative net movement in funds, included in the above are as follows:

Unrestricted funds

General fund

Designated fund - Future capital expenditure
Designated fund - Energy saving capital expenditure
Designated fund - Sinking fund

Restricted funds
Restricted fund
Be Active (formerly team Beds and Luton)

TOTAL FUNDS

Purpose for the Designated Funds:

Net Transfers
movement between
At 1.4.22 in funds funds
£ £ £
4,437,660 810,352 (750,000)
500,000 - -
- - 750,000
(190,000) (50,382) :
4,747,660 759,970 :
- 722 -
236,527 (78,781) -
4,984,187 681,911 -
Incoming Resources
resources expended.
£ £
13,785,235 (12,974,882)
- (50,382)
13,785,235 (13,025,264)
167,514 (166,793)
709,086 _(787,867)
14,661,835 (13,979,923)

At 313.23
£

4,498,012
500,000
750,000

(240,382)

5,507,630

722
157,746

5,666,098

Movement
in funds
£

810,353

(50,382)
159,971

722
(78,781)

681,911

In the current year, the Board of Trustees has decided to designate £1m for future initiatives and investments in our main leisure sites.
Various gym improvements are now necessary and further consideration of developing the Hightown site is being considered. In the previous
year, £750,000 had been held for energy initiatives but following successful funding applications, the priority project of solar installation at
Inspire is now to be funded from a Sport England grant. The £500,000 held for the Inspire extension is currently not required as the

development planned by LBC is on hold.

Purpose for the restricted funds

Two restricted funds are held, firstly the BeActive Fund of £298,483 which is the net position carried forward of the Active Partnership for
Bedfordshire that Active Luton hosts. All activity is funded through Sport England, The other restricted fund of £56k is further funding
received from Sport England under its Transition Funding for the delivery of physical activity to specific targeted groups. Funding was
received but delivery is planned for the following financial year.

Page 37

ACTIVE LUTON

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - continued
for the Year Ended 31 MARCH 2024

22 ANALYSIS OF FUNDS

23

"24

25

Allocation of assets between funds at 31 March 2024 Net current
Fixed assets assets Provisions Total
£ £ £ £
Unrestricted funds 1,393,858 4,952,662 (250,382) 6,096,138
Restricted funds : 354,503 : 354,503 *
1,393,858 5,307,165 250,382 6,450,641

Commitments under operating leases

As at the year end the group had future minimum lease payments due under non- canceltable operating leases for each of the following
periods:

At 31.3.24 At 31.3.23
£ £
Within one year 2,528 9,853
Between two to five years 169 2,697
2,697 12,550

Ee
ULTIMATE CONTROLLING PARTY
There is no ultimate controlling party. The charitable company is controlled by the board of trustees.

RELATED PARTIES
At the year end, Active Luton was owed £264,678 (2023: £313,009) from its trading subsidiary Active Luton Enterprises
Limited. The balance is repayable on demand and non-interest bearing.

During the year the charitable company was invoiced £840 (2023: £1,200) for legal costs from Bates Wells LLP an LLP where
Paul Smith (Trustee) is a partner. There were no amounts outastanding at the year end.

During the year, Mahmood Hussain, a trustee of the charitable company paid membership fees of £60. There were no amounts
Outstanding at the ycar end,

Page 38

