AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the year ended 30 September 2024
Company Registration No: 03091664

vO

ADZDRME3*
A18 29/03/2025 #152
COMPANIES HOUSE

\

SATURDAY

”

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Contents

Company information

Strategic report

Directors’ report

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited
Income statement

Statement of financial position

Statement of changes in equity

Notes to the financial statements

Page

16
19
20

25

26

28

30

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Company information

Directors

Company secretary

Company number

Registered office

Principal banker

Auditor

M T Summersgill
P M Birch

R J Stott

M Tagari

E A Carrington
W F Mackay
K Sinclair

C Musson

K Goodman
RD Hughes

K Sinclair

03091664

4 Exchange Quay
Salford Quays
Manchester

M5 3EE

Bank of Scotland pic
The Mound
Edinburgh

EH1 1YZ

BDO LLP

55 Baker Street
London

W1U 7EU

Page 1

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Strategic report
for the year ended 30 September 2024

The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Strategic report for the year ended 30 September
2024.

Business review
In the year ended 30 September 2024 revenue increased to £2,797,000 (2023: £2,714,000).

Profit before tax increased to £941,000 (2023: £735,000) principally due to increased revenue
generated from SSAS accounts.

Key business and financial information

The Company's key financial and other performance indicators for the year ended 30 September
2024, including both continuing and discontinued operations, were as follows:

Unit 2024 2023

Revenue . £000 2,797 2,714
Profit before taxation £000 941 735

Section 172 statement

Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 (s172) requires the Directors to act in the way they consider,
in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its
members as a whole and, in doing so have regard (amongst other matters) to:

a. the likely consequences of any decisions in the long term;

the interests of the Company's employees;

the need to foster the Company's business relationships with suppliers, customers and others;
the impact of the Company's operations on the community and environment;

the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business
conduct; and

f. the need to act fairly between shareholders and the Company.

oagos

The Directors, all of whom are members of the groups Executive Committee (Exco), exercise their
responsibilities within the confines of the risk and control framework set by the AJ Bell plc Board for
the Group. In the day-to-day management of the Company, the Directors sub-delegate certain
authorities to the:

* Executive Risk Committee (ERC), which has oversight responsibility for all the assurance

functions, including regulatory compliance and risk management, but excluding external and
internal audit;

+ Finance & Treasury Committee, which has oversight responsibility for financial management,
forecasting, market disclosures, capital and corporate liquidity management, financial controls
and the management of cash funds held on behalf of customers;

* Operational Committee, which has oversight responsibility for operations and people, including
service quality, resilience, efficiency, staff-engagement, talent management, employer brand
and culture.

Certain key powers are retained by the Directors, as follows:

Page 2

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Strategic report (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

* The review of financial performance, including the consideration of the full-year results.
* The renewal of the delegation of its powers of day to day management of its business.

In the performance of their duty to promote the success of the Company, the Directors, both in their
capacity as Directors and as members of the ExCo, have regard to a number of matters including the
likely consequences of any decisions in the long term when looking at how they have considered the
interests of key stakeholders in those decisions.

The Company is a subsidiary of AJ Bell plc, a premium listed entity which is subject to the 2018 UK
Corporate Governance Code (UK Code). As a subsidiary, the Company is not directly subject to the
UK Code, but does have its own corporate governance framework in place, as well as being subject
to the oversight of the comprehensive corporate governance framework which operates across the
Group. The members of the ExCo are committed to maintaining high standards of business conduct
and our culture encourages our people to act with integrity at all times. This is supported by Group
wide policies and procedures which apply to the Company and includes whistleblowing arrangements
which enable staff to raise concerns in confidence.

The members of the ExCo seek to understand and carefully consider each of our key stakeholder’s
interests, priorities and views. The ExCo recognises that each decision will have a different impact
and relevance to each key stakeholder and so having a good understanding of their priorities is
important. Where stakeholder priorities conflict, the members of the ExCo exercise independent
judgement when balancing those competing interests in order to determine what they each consider
to be most likely to promote the long-term sustainable success of the Company.

Although the ExCo engages directly with some stakeholders, engagement also takes place at
different levels within the business. The output from engagement below ExCo level is reported back to
the ExCo and/or ExCo Committees and helps to inform both ExCo and other business-level decisions.

The table below sets out who our key stakeholders are, the key reasons we engage with them, the
areas they have a material interest in and a brief summary of how the Company engaged with them in
FY24, many of which were Group wide activities. Key decisions made by the Group can be found on
pages 26 and 27 of the AJ Bell plc annual report.

Our customers and their advisers Our people

Our customers include retail investors,
financial advisers and wealth management

Our people are at the heart of our success.
Our success is built on delivering a

Key Stakeholders

Material interests

companies. Our success is dependent on
our ability to understand our customers’
needs and develop appropriate products to
meet those needs.

A product for our customers and advisers
that:

+ is secure, reliable, and easy-to-use;

» provides a high-quality customer service at
low cost; and

+ helps them meet their long-term financial
objectives.

Page 3

high-quality service through the skills and
passion of our people who bring our values
to life across the business.

A working environment for our people that:

+ facilitates their engagement at all levels;

+ provides them with development
opportunities;

* promotes their physical and mental
wellbeing;

* promotes diversity and inclusion;

+ rewards them appropriately; and

* encourages flexible working practices.


AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Strategic report (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

How we engaged

Outcomes

Customer services and websites

We have ongoing customer and adviser
engagement through calls, meetings,

organised events, newsletters, our website |

and other written communications.

We continually invest in our propositions with
a focus on ease of use, informed by
customer and adviser feedback. Our
proposition websites provide our customers
and their advisers with a range of tools to
assist them to manage their investments.

Surveys

Customer and adviser surveys are
conducted on an annual basis with the
results reviewed at Board level. Specific user
groups perform beta-testing to provide
further insight and feedback. This
engagement and feedback informs the way
in which we can best serve our customers
and their advisers.

+ High customer retention.

Page 4

Surveys, staff communications and
feedback

We engage regularly with our staff through
the appraisal process, our intranet site,
Company presentations, leadership lunches
and our wellbeing programme. Our CEO
hosted staff question and answer sessions in
our offices and provides regular email
updates on the business performance.

We changed our annual employee
engagement survey to Great Place to Work
this year, to challenge ourselves to gain a
different perspective on our workplace

_ culture.

Fiona Clutterbuck is our Non-Executive
Director responsible for employee
engagement. The Employee Voice Forum
meets to discuss a variety of themes raised
by staff, with recent topics including staff
retention and hybrid working.

+ Achieved accreditation as a ‘Great Place to
Work’.

+ Improvements to our staff pay and benefits
package.

+ An intake of 26 new apprentices into the AJ
Bell Academy in the year.

+ Our staff achieved over 200 internal
promotions and completed over 100 courses
and qualifications in the year.


AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Strategic report (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

Key Stakeholders

Material interests

How we engaged

Outcomes

Other stakeholders

Other stakeholders represent the local communities in‘ which we operate, as well as the wider
environment, our suppliers and our regulators. As a socially responsible business, we believe we
have a responsibility to our local communities, wider society and our suppliers. We operate in a
highly regulated environment and engage with our regulators constructively.

Our other stakeholders want us to:
+ Act as a responsible corporate citizen in all respects; and
+ conduct our business with integrity.

Engaging with our suppliers

We maintain and develop our business relationships. In addition to our due diligence processes,
we ensure management have regular feedback sessions with representatives from key suppliers.
We ensure our payment terms are fair and in compliance with payment practices.

Engaging with our communities and wider society

Led by our Compliance Team, we regularly engage with the FCA and DWP on consultation
papers and industry issues. We actively seek to lobby via public consultation and with
policymakers where we perceive unfairness or unnecessary complexity.

Engaging with our suppliers

We continue to support the AJ Bell Futures Foundation, which develops long-term partnerships
in our local communities. We have committed to donate 0.5% of our profits to the Foundation
each year. Alongside our financial donations, we have also seen our staff participating in
volunteering activities with our principal partner charities: Smart Works, IntoUniversity,
Stop.Breathe. Think and the British Heart Foundation. .

+ 30-day payment terms.

+ £438,500 of charitable donations.

+ 328 hours of staff volunteering.

* Donation of 263 laptops and desktops to local primary schools and community organisations.

+ Completed our first annual Consumer duty assessment which confirmed our products provide
fair value to customers.

Page 5

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Strategic report (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

Principal risks and uncertainties

The Company acts as a central supplier of the administration services to the other. operating
companies. The risks are considered on a Group basis but are relevant for the Company. The
principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are detailed below along with potential impacts and
mitigating actions. :

The Directors are committed to a continual process of improvement and embedment of the risk
management framework within the Group. This ensures that the business identifies both existing and
emerging risks and continues to develop appropriate mitigation strategies.

The Directors believe that there are a number of potential risks to the Group that could hinder the
successful implementation of their strategy. These risks may arise from internal and external events,
acts and omissions. The Directors are proactive in identifying, assessing and managing all risks facing
the business including the likelihood of each risk materiatising in the short or longer term.

Potential impact Mitigations

Strategic risk

The risk that the Group fails to
remain competitive in its peer
group, dué to lack of innovative
products and services, increased
competitor activity, regulatory
expectations, and lack of marketing
focus and spend to keep pace with
competitors.

- Loss of competitive advantage,
such that AUA and customer
number targets are adversely
impacted. This would have a
negative impact on profitability.

- Reputational damage as a result
of underperformance and / or
regulatory scrutiny.

Page 6

The Group regularly reviews its
products against competitors, in
relation to pricing, functionality and
service, and actively seeks to
make enhancements where
necessary to maintain or improve
its competitive position in line with
the Group's strategic objectives.
The Group remains closely aligned
with trade and industry bodies, and
other policy makers across our
market. The use of ongoing
competitor analysis _— provides
insight and an opportunity to adapt
strategic direction in response to
market conditions.


AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Strategic report (continued)

for the year ended 30 September 2024

Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

ESG risk

The risk that environmental, social
and governance factors could
negatively impact the Group, its
customers, investors and the wider

community.

perational risk

Legal & regulatory risk

The risk that the Group fails to
comply with regulatory and legal

standards.

- Environmental, " physical and :

transition risks resulting from
climate change, which may impact
the Group and our customer's
assets.

- Social risks, include employee
wellbeing and diversity & inclusion.

- Governance. risks, including the
risks related to the Group’s
governance structures being
ineffective, which could manifest in
governance related reputational
and conduct risks.

- Regulatory censure and / or fines,
including fines from the FCA and
Information Commissioner's Office
(ICO).

- Related negative publicity could
reduce customer confidence and
affect ability to generate positive
net inflows.

- Poor conduct could have an

adverse impact on customer
outcomes.

Page 7

We behave in a_ responsible
manner with a focus on our four
Tesponsible business __ pillars:
responsible propositions,
responsible employer, supporting
our local communities and
environmental awareness. Further
details of our material ESG risks
and our mitigations are disclosed in
our Responsible Business report.
ESG-related strategic objectives
are incorporated in the Group's
Business Planning Process (BPP),
and a cross functional ESG
Working Group is responsible for
the co-ordination of day-to-day
ESG-related matters and the
delivery of these objectives. The
Group operates a robust ESG
governance framework, further
details of which are included in our
Responsible Business report.

The Group maintains a_ strong
compliance culture geared towards
positive customer outcomes and
regulatory compliance.

The Group performs regular
horizon scanning to ensure all
legislative and regulatory change is
detected and highlighted to the
Group for consideration.

The Group maintains an open
dialogue with the FCA and actively
engages with them on relevant
proposed regulatory change.

The Compliance function is
responsible for ensuring all
standards of the regulatory system
are being met by the Group. This is
achieved by implementing policies
and procedures across the
business, raising awareness and
maintaining an effective control
environment. Compliance perform
a rolling programme of
tisk-prioritised reviews to ensure
compliance standards have been
embedded into the business.


AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Strategic report (continued)

for the year ended 30 September 2024

Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

Information security risk

The risk of a vulnerability in the
infrastructure being
exploited or user misuse that
causes harm to service, data and /
or an asset causing material

Group's

business impact.

Data risk

Data risk is defined as the potential
threats and vulnerabilities that can
compromise the confidentiality,

integrity,

alteration, or exposure of data.

availability, and
compliance of sensitive or valuable
data within the Group and its
third-party suppliers. This risk
encompasses the possibility of
unauthorised access, loss, theft,

- Information security breaches
could adversely impact individuals’
data rights and freedoms and could
result in fines / censure from
regulators, such as the ICO and
FCA.

- Failure to maintain or quickly
recover operations could lead to
intolerable harm to customers and
the Group.

- The Group could suffer damage
to its reputation eroding trust
making it difficult to attract and
Tfetain customers, employees,
partners, and investors.

- A data breach could adversely
impact individuals’ data rights and
freedoms and could result in fines /
censure from regulators, such as
the ICO and FCA.

- A data breach could result in
financial loss due to the cost of
investigating the breach, notifying
impacted individuals, and
implementing remediation
measures.

- The Group could suffer damage
to its reputation, eroding trust and
making it difficult to attract and
tetain customers, employees,
partners, and investors.

Page 8

The Group continually reviews and
evolves its cyber security position
to ensure that it protects the
confidentiality, integrity and
availability of its network and the
data that it holds.

A defence in depth approach is in
place with firewalls, web gateway,
email gateway and anti-virus
amongst the technologies
deployed. Staff awareness is seen
as being a key component of the
layered defences, with regular
updates, training and mock
phishing exercises.

Our security readiness is subject to

‘independent assessment by a

penetration testing partner that
considers both production systems
and development activities. This is
supplemented by running a
programme of weekly vulnerability
scans to identify configuration
issues and assess the
effectiveness of the software
patching schedule.

The Group regularly assesses its
maturity against an acknowledged
security framework, which includes
an ongoing programme of staff
training and assessment through
mock security exercises.

The Group monitors the adequacy
of its data governance framework
via the Data Forum.

The Group has data protection
policies and procedures, security
controls to protect data such as
encryption, access controls and
monitoring.

The Group educates employees
about data privacy, security and
importance of protecting sensitive
data.

The Group conduct regular data
audits to identify and address
potential security risks.

The Group's Data Protection
Officer / CRO provides an
assessment of the adequacy of the
Group’s data protection framework
as part of the annual DPO report.


AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Strategic report (continued)

for the year ended 30 September 2024

Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

Financial crime risk

The risk of failure to protect the
Group and its customers from all
aspects of fraud and _ financial
crime, including anti-money
laundering, terror financing,
proliferation financing, sanctions
restrictions, market abuse, fraud,
cyber-crime and the facilitation of
tax evasion.

Third-party management risk

The risk that a third-party provider
materially fails to deliver the
contracted services.

- The Group may be adversely
affected, including regulatory
censure or enforcement, if we fail
to mitigate the risk of being used to
facilitate any form of financial
crime.

- Potential customer detriment as
customers are at risk of losing
funds or personal data, which can
subject them to further loss via
other organisations.

- Fraudulent activity leading to
identity fraud and / or loss of
customer holdings to fraudulent
activity.

- The Group could suffer damage
to its reputation eroding trust
making it difficult to attract and
retain customers, employees,
partners, and investors.

- Loss of service from a third-party
provider could have a negative
impact on customer outcomes due
to website unavailability, delays in
receiving and / or processing
customer transactions or
interruptions to settlement and
reconciliation processes.

- Financial impact — through
increased operational losses.

- Regulatory fine and / or censure.

Page 9

Extensive controls are in place to
minimise the risk of financial crime.
Policies and procedures include:
mandatory financial crime training
in anti-money iaundering and
counter terrorist financing, fraud,
market abuse and the criminal
finances act to aid the detection,
prevention and reporting of
financial crime. The Group has an
extensive recruitment process in
place to screen potential
employees.

The Group actively maintains
defences against a broad range of
likely attacks by global actors,
bringing together’ tools from
well-known providers, external
consultancy and internal expertise
to create multiple layers of
defence. The latter includes
intelligence shared —_ through
participation in regulatory, industry
and national cyber — security
networks.

To mitigate the risk posed by
third-party suppliers, the Group
conducts onboarding due diligence
and monitors performance against
documented service standards to
ensure their continued commitment
to service, financial stability and
viability. Performance metrics are
discussed monthly with
documented actions for any
identified improvements.

This is supplemented by
attendance at formal user groups
with other clients of the key
suppliers, sharing experience and
leveraging the strength of the user
base. Where relevant and
appropriate, annual financial due
diligence on critical suppliers and

on-site audits are also undertaken.


AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Strategic report (continued)

for the year ended 30 September 2024

Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

Technology risk

The risk that the design,
implementation and management
of applications, infrastructure and
services fail to meet current and

future business requirements.

Operational resilience risk

The risk that the Group does not
have an adequate operational
resilience framework to prevent,
adapt, respond to, recover and

learn from operational disruptions.

- The reliance on evolving
technology remains crucial to the
Group’s effort to develop its

- services and enhance products.

Prolonged underinvestment in
technology will affect our ability to
serve our customers and meet
their needs.

- Failing to deliver and manage a
fit-for-purpose technology platform
could have an adverse impact on
customer outcomes and affect our
ability to attract new customers.

- Technology failures may lead to
financial or regulatory penalties,
and reputational damage.

- Failure to maintain or quickly
recover operations could lead to
intolerable harm to customers and
the Group.

- Operational resilience disruptions
may lead to financial or regulatory
penalties, and reputational
damage.

Page 10

The Group continues to implement
@ programme of increasing annual
investment in the technology
Platform. This is informed by
recommendations that result from
regular architectural reviews of
applications and of the
underpinning _ infrastructure} and
services.

Daily monitoring routines provide
oversight of performance and
capacity which supports our
operational resilience risk
management activities.

Our rolling programme of both
business continuity planning and
testing, and single point of failure
management, maintains our focus
on the resilience of key systems in
the event of an interruption to
service.

The Group has developed a
comprehensive operational
resilience framework, under the
direction of the Operations
sub-committee of ExCo. The
R&CC and Board also provide
oversight.

An annual operational resilience
self-assessment document is
reviewed by the Board and R&CC.
The Group's Risk Team provide a
2nd line of defence review of the
operational resilience
self-assessment.

During FY24, a _— successful
group-wide disaster recovery
exercise was carried out, allowing
the business to operate for a week
on a cloud-based disaster recovery
platform.


AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Strategic report (continued)

for the year ended 30 September 2024

Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

Process risk

The risk that, due to unexpectedly
high volumes, the Group is unable
to process work within agreed
service levels and / or to an
acceptable quality for a sustained

period. '

Change risk

The risk of potential negative
consequences and uncertainties
introducing
alterations, or
established

associated with
modifications,
adjustments to

processes or systems.

Financial control! environment

risk

The risk that the financial control
environment is weak. This includes
the risk of loss to the business, or
its customers, because of either
the actions of an associated
third-party or the misconduct of an

employee.

- A decline in the quality of work
will have a financial impact through
increased operational losses.

- Unexpectedly high volumes
coupled with staff recruitment and
retention issues could lead to poor
customer outcomes and
reputational damage.

- Operational resilience disruptions
resulting from crystallisation of
change risk may lead to financial or
regulatory penalties, and
reputational damage.

- Change can increase costs if not
delivered within budget or
introduce complexity to end users
due to a lack of compatibility with
existing systems.

- Reduced quality because of a
change can led to customer
dissatisfaction, rework, and
additional costs.

- An inability to deliver change can
result in reputational damage to the
Group, making it difficult to attract
customers and talent.

-  Reputational damage with
regulators, leading to increased
capital requirement.

- Potential customer detriment
resulting from inadequate
protection of customer assets.

- Increased expenditure in order to

compensate customers for loss
incurred.

Page 11

There is an ongoing programme to
train staff on multiple operational
functions. Diversifying the
workforce enables the business to
deploy staff when high work
volumes are experienced. Causes
of increased volumes of work, for
example competitor behaviour, are
closely monitored in order to plan
resource effectively.

The Group focuses on increasing
the effectiveness of its operational
procedures and, through _ its
business improvement function,
aims to improve and automate
more of its processes. This
reduces the need for manual
intervention and the potential for
errors.

All operational and regulatory
change is prioritised, captured, and
monitored through the Operations
sub-committee of ExCo.

Technical Change is prioritised,
captured, and monitored within
Technology Services and through
associated Committees.

Product Change is managed within
the Product areas and overseen by
the corresponding Proposition
Committee.

The Group's financial control and
fraud prevention policies and
procedures are designed to ensure
that the risk of fraudulent access to
customer or corporate accounts is
minimised.

Anti-fraud training is provided to all
members of staff who act as first
line of defence to facilitate early
detection of potentially fraudulent
activity.

Strong technology controls are in
place to identify potential money
laundering activity or market
abuse.


AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Strategic report (continued)

for the year ended 30 September 2024

Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

Conduct (Consumer Outcomes)
risk

The risk that the fair treatment of
customers is not central to the
Group's corporate culture.

People risk

The risk that the Group fails to
attract, retain, develop and engage
employees who are aligned to the
Group's Guiding Principles.

- Poor conduct could have an
adverse impact ‘on customer
outcomes.

- Reputational damage resulting
from poor levels of customer
service.

- The Group may be adversely

affected, including _ regulatory
censure or enforcement.

- Difficulties in recruiting the right,

culturally aligned, people to work
for the Group.

- Existing employees who are not
motivated, do not perform well and
may impact the quality and
effectiveness of the services
provided to the Group's customers

- Talented employees who are not
appropriately developed and / or
have limited opportunities to
progress are likely to leave the
Group.

- Resource shortfalls may impact
quality and service and could lead
to poor service / consumer
outcomes and reputational
damage.

Page 12

Delivering good customer
outcomes is core to our purpose,
business model, strategy and
guiding principles. This drives the
culture and objectives of the
business and ensures customers
remain at the heart of everything
we do. }

The Group enhanced its conduct
controls to align with the
requirements of the Consumer
Duty. These include training and
education, product governance,
ongoing monitoring arrangements
and provide the ExCo and Board
assurance on the delivery of good
customer outcomes.

The Group has improved its
recruitment processes to attract the
best people possible to join the
Group.

The AJ Bell Way and Guiding
Principles are embedded into our
culture through People policies,
procedures, and training.

The Group undertakes a_ staff
engagement survey at least
annually and uses this feedback to
address any areas for
improvement to ensure _ staff
engagement remain high.

The Group conducts regular
reviews of its employee
remuneration packages to ensure it
is competitive.

The Group operates talent
development programmes for
management and leadership roles.


AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Strategic report (continued)

for the year ended 30 September 2024

Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

.. Financial risk

Market risk

The risk that a significant and
prolonged capital market or
economic downturn has an
adverse, effect on customer

confidence and asset values.

Capital risk

The risk that the Group does not
sufficient capital
resources to cover unexpecied

maintain

losses.

- Adverse effect on customer
transactional activity or ad valorem
fees generated from assets under
administration from which the
Group derives revenue.
Sensitivities for market movements
are shown in note 25 to the
consolidated financial statements.

- Inability to cover unexpected
losses.

~ Additional regulatory scrutiny and

potential increased regulatory
capital resource requirements.

Page 13

The Group's products are targeted
at UK residents. We do not do
business in any other countries
and have relatively few customers
outside the UK. Therefore, in the
event that the economy falls into a
prolonged recession, this may
impact contribution levels and
confidence generally in the savings
and investment markets. The
Directors believe that the Group's
overall income levels and in
particular the balance between the
different types of assets and
transactions from which that
income is derived, provide a robust
defensive position against a
sustained economic downturn.

The Group has a variety of
transactional and recurring
revenue streams, some of which
are monetary amounts while others
are ad valorem. This mix of
revenue types helps to limit the
Group's exposure to capital market
fluctuations.

The Group adopts a cautious and
controlled approach to managing
its capital risk.

The Group conducts an Internal
Capital and Risk Assessment
(ICARA) process aligned with its
risk management framework to
identify, monitor and mitigate
potential harms.

Where harms cannot be mitigated,
the Group holds capital to cover
potential unexpected losses (its
capital resource requirement). The
Group’s capital risk appetite is to
maintain its capital resources at
least >125% of the Group's capital
resource requirement.


AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Strategic report (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

Credit risk . 5 - Unintended market exposure.

The risk of potential failure of - Customer detriment.
clients, market counterparties or

banks used by the Group to fulfil

contractual obligations.

_ Liquidity risk - Reputational damage.

The risk that the Group suffers - Potential customer detriment.
significant settlement default or

otherwise suffers major liquidity - Financial loss.

problems or issues of liquidity

deficiency which severely impact - Inability to meet obligations as
on the Group's reputation in the they fall due.

markets.

The risk that the Group does not
have available readily realisable
financial resources to enable it to
meet its obligations as they fall due
or can only secure such resources
at excessive cost.

Page 14

The Group's credit risk extends
principally to its financial assets,
cash balances held with banks and
trade and other receivables. The
Group carries out initial and
ongoing due diligence on the
market counterparties and banks
that it uses, and regularly monitors
the level of exposure.

The Group continues to diversify
across a range of approved
banking counterparties, reducing
the concentration of credit risk as
exposure is spread over a larger
number of counterparties. The
banks currently used by the Group
are detailed in note 25 to the
consolidated financial statements.
With regard to trade receivables,
the Group has implemented
procedures that require appropriate
credit or alternative checks on
potential customers before
business is undertaken. This has
minimised credit risk in this area.
The Group will maintain its existing
strategy of diversification to ensure
acceptable exposure across a wide
range of well-capitalised banks
with appropriate credit ratings.

It will continue to regularly monitor
its level of exposure and to assess
the financial strength of its banking
counterparties.

The Group has robust systems and
controls and monitors all legal
entities to ensure they have
sufficient funds to meet their
liabilities as they fall due.

The Group continues to be a highly
cash-generative business and to
maintain sufficient cash and
standby banking facilities to fund
its foreseeable trading
requirements.


AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Strategic report (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

By order of the Board of directors on 13 December 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

K Sinclair (Company Secretary)

for and on behalf of AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited
4 Exchange Quay

Salford Quays

Manchester

M5 3EE

Page 15

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Directors’ report
for the year ended 30 September 2024

The Directors present their report on the affairs of the company together with the financial statements
of AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited (the "Company’) for the year ended 30 September 2024.

Principal activities

The principal activity of the company is the provision of investment administration services for Small
Self-Administered Schemes (“SSASs”), and to act as a central supplier of administration services to
jthe other operating companies (including the parent undertaking) in the AJ Bell Group (the “Group”).

Results and dividends

The profit attributable to the shareholders for the year ended 30 September 2024 was £622,000
(2023: £582,000). No dividend was paid during the year (2023: Enil).

Post balance sheet events

There ‘have been no events occurring between the reporting date and the date of approval of these
financial statements as disclosed in note 22.

Outlook

The focus for the forthcoming year will be to maintain its supply of administration services to the other
operating companies in the Group. The Platinum SSAS business is classified as held for sale as at 30
September 2024 and is disclosed as a discontinued operation, with the sale expected to complete in
2025. As at the signing date, the sale has not completed.

Directors of the company

The Directors, who held office during the year, were as follows:
MT Summersgill

P M Birch

R J Stott

M Tagari

E A Carrington

W F Mackay

K Doran (resigned 14 December 2023)

K Sinclair (appointed 1 October 2023)

C Musson (appointed 22 May 2024)

K Goodman

The following director was appointed after the year end:
R D Hughes (appointed 10 October 2024)

Page 16

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Directors’ report (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

Directors’ indemnities

The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors
which were made during the year and remain in force at the date of this report.

Disabled employees

We welcome applications from people with disabilities and we make reasonable adjustments to the
recruitment and selection process for those who are ihterested in working for the Company. In the
event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the
Company continues and that the appropriate facilities and training are arranged. It is the policy of the
Company that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons must, as far as
possible, be the same as that of other employees.

Employee consultation

’ The Company places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to

keep them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various other factors
affecting the performance of the Company. This is achieved through formal and informal meetings
and internal publications. Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of
matters affecting their current and future interests via AJ Bell's Employee Voice Forum.

Political donations

No political donations were made by the Company during the year (2023: nil).

Going concern

The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. After making enquiries and
considering the Company's financial position, its business model, strategy and financial forecasts
together with its principal risks and uncertainties, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the
Company will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due for at least 12
months from the date of signing the report. The going concern basis of preparation is discussed within
note 2.4 of the financial statements.

Disclosure of information to auditors

Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Directors’ report and financial
statements confirms that:

- so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditor
is unaware; and

- the Director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make

themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is
aware of that information.

Page 17

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Directors’ report (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

In March 2023, the Parent company, AJ Bell plc, commenced a competitive tender process for the
appointment of a new external auditor. That process was supervised by the Group's Audit Committee,
who made a recommendation to the Board on the appointment of the replacement auditor.

Following the conclusion of the competitive tender process, the Group announced on 7 December
2023 that the Board had approved the proposed appointment of PwC as the Group's auditor for the
financial year ending 30 September 2025. The appointment remains subject to approval by
shareholders at the AGM to be held on 29 January 2025, and should this be passed, the appointment
will take effect from the conclusion of that meeting.

BDO LLP will step down as auditors of the Company at the conclusion of the Group's 2025 AGM.

By order of the Board of Directors on 13 December 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

K Sinclair (Company Secretary)

for and on behalf of AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited
4 Exchange Quay

Salford Quays

Manchester

M5 3EE

Page 18

AJ Beil Business Solutions Limited

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities

The Directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic report, the Directors' report and the financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that
law they have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards) and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the
company for that period.

In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:
* select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
* * make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

* state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

* prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume
that the Company will continue in business.

* prepare a Directors report and a Strategic report which comply with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and
explain the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Financial statements are published on the Company's website in accordance with legislation in the
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary
from legistation in other jurisdictions. The maintenance and integrity of the Company's website is the
responsibility of the Directors. The Directors' responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the
financial statements contained therein.

Page 19

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited
Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Opinion on the financial statements
In our opinion the financial statements:

* give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at 30 September 2024 and of its
profit for the year then ended;

* have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and

* have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements of AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited ("the Company’) for
the year ended 30 September 2024 which comprise the Income statement, the Balance sheet, the
Statement of changes in equity and the notes to the financial statements, including material
accounting policy information. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial -
Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice).

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the audit
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence

We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the Directors' use of the going concern
- basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to
events or conditions ‘that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Company's
ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial
statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Directors with respect to going concern are
described in the relevant sections of this report.

Page 20

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited
(continued)

Other information

The Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the Annual Report and Financial Statements, other than the financial
statements and our auditor's’ report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover
the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read. the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other
information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements, or our knowledge obtained in the
course of the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material
inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives
rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are
required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Other Companies Act 2006 reporting

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

* the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which
the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

* the Strategic report and the Directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable
legal requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the
course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic report or the
Directors’ report. .

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act
2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

* adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or

* the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
* certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

* we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Page 21

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited
(continued)

Responsibilities of Directors

As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible
for the preparation. of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair
view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation
of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Company's
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the
Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's Responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee
that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement -
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users
taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Extent to which the audit was capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect
of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting
irregularities, including fraud is detailed below: : ,

Non-compliance with laws and regulations
Based on:

+ Our understanding of the Company and the industry in which it operates;

* Discussion with management and those charged with governance; and

* Obtaining and understanding of the Company's policies and procedures regarding compliance with
laws and regulations.

We considered the significant laws and regulations to be the applicable accounting framework,
Companies Act 2006 and UK tax legisiation.

The Company is also subject to laws and regulations where the consequence of non-compliance
could have a material effect on the amount or disclosures in the financial statements, for example
through the imposition of fines or litigations.

Our procedures in respect of the above included:

« Review of minutes of meeting of those charged with governance for any instances of
non-compliance with laws and regulations;

* Review of correspondence with tax authorities for any instances of non-compliance with laws and
regulations; and

« Review of financial statement disclosures and agreeing to supporting documentation.

Page 22

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited
(continued)

Fraud

We assessed the susceptibility of the financial statements to material misstatement, including fraud.
Our risk assessment procedures included: ,

« Enquiry with management and those charged with governance regarding any known or suspected
instances of fraud;

+ Review of minutes of meeting of those charged with governance for any known or suspected
instances of fraud; :

* Discussion amongst the engagement team as to how and where fraud might occur in the financial
statements;

* Performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may
indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud; and

* Considering remuneration incentive schemes and performance targets and the related financial
statement areas impacted by these.

Based on our risk assessment, we considered the areas most susceptible to fraud’ to be:
* Management override of controls.

Our procedures in respect of the above included:

+ In respect of management override of controls:

- We tested a sample of journals which met defined fraud risk criteria by agreeing those journals to
supporting documentation and evaluating whether there was evidence of bias by Directors that
represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud;

- We reviewed the key judgements and estimates, including provisions and the calculation’ of
share-based payments applied by Management in the financial statements to assess their
appropriateness and the existence of any systematic bias; and

- We tested the completeness and accuracy of data migrated between the old and new general tedger
systems in the year.

We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all
engagement team members who were all deemed to have appropriate competence and capabilities
and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout
the audit.

Our audit procedures were designed to respond to risks of material misstatement in the financial
statements, recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher
than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment
by, for example, forgery, misrepresentations or through collusion. There are inherent limitations in the
audit procedures performed and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is
from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we are to
become aware of it.

A further description of our responsibilities is available on the Financial Reporting Council’s website
at:
https://Awww. fre.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Page 23

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited
(continued)

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
Company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no
other. purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to
anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this
report, or for the opinions we have formed.

DécuSigned by:
[ti aa (Senior § Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of BDO LLP, Statutory Auditor
London, UK
Date:..13 December. 2024

BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales (with registered number
0C305127).

Page 24

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Income statement

for the year ended 30 September 2024

Revenue

Administrative expenses
Investment income
Finance costs

(Loss) / profit before tax

Taxation

(Loss) / profit after tax

Continuing

Discontinued

Continuing

Discontinued

Operations Operations - Total Operations Operations Total

2024 2024 2024 2023 2023 _ 2023

Note £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
: 2,797 2,797 : 2,714 2,714

(176) (1,849). (2,025) (49) 1,990 (2,039)

189 - 189 83 - 83

4 (20) - (20) (23) = (23)
2) 948 941 i 724 735

8 82 (237) (319 6 (159) (153)
(89) 711 622 17 565 582

There were no other components of recognised income or expense in either period and consequently no statement of other comprehensive income has been

presented.

Page 25

The notes on pages 30 to 52 form an integral part of these financial statements.

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Statement of financial position
as at 30 September 2024

Non-current assets
Intangible assets _

Property, plant and equipment
Right-of-use-assets

Current assets

Trade and other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Current tax asset

Assets held-for-sale
Total assets °

Current Liabilities
Trade and other payables
Loans and borrowings
Lease liabilities

Current tax liabilities
Provisions

Net current assets
Total assets less current liabilities

Non-current liabilities
Lease liabilities
Provisions

Deferred tax liabilities

Net assets

Equity

Share capital

Share premium account
Retained earnings

Total equity

Note

10
11

13
44

19

15
16
11

17

11

18

2024 2023
£000 £000
573 1,003

- 3,777 3,807
41,904 10,800
16,254 15,610
19,256 20,975
5,304 769

- 158
24,560 21,902
—_—__ 354
41,168 37,512
(14,623) (12,871)
(2,450) (2,450)
(1,441) (1,540)
(226) -
234 _
(18,974) (16,861)
5,586 5,041
22,194 20,651
(11,724) (10,866)
(2,372) (2,165)
(142) (317)
(14,238) (13,348)
7,956 7,303
2 2

4 1
7,953 7,300
7,956 7,303

The notes on pages 30 to 52 form an integral part of these financial statements.

Page 26

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited
Statement of financial position (continued)

as at 30 September 2024

These financial statements were approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 13 December
2024 and signed on its behalf by:

P M Birch (Director)

The notes on pages 30 to 52 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Page 27

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 30 September 2024

Balance at 1 October 2023

Total comprehensive income for the year:

Profit for the year

Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity:
Capital contribution for share-based payment transactions

Balance at 30 September 2024

Share capital
£000
2

Share
premium
£000

4

Retained
earnings
£000

7,300

622

34

7,953

Total equity
£000

7,303

622

31

7,956

The notes on pages 30 to 52 form an integral part of these financial statements.

Page 28

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Statement of changes in equity (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

Balance at 1 October 2022

Total comprehensive income for the year:
Profit for the year

Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity:

Capital contribution for share-based payments
Balance at 30 September 2023

Share capital
£000

2

Share
premium
£000

1

Retained
earnings
£000

6,683

582

35
7,300

Total equity
£000

6,686

582

35
7,303

The notes on pages 30 to 52 form an integral part of these financial statements.”

Page 29

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited _

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 30 September 2024

1. General information

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited ("the Company") provides investment administration services for
Small Self-Administered Schemes (“SSASs’) and acts as a central supplier of administration services
to the other operating companies (including the ultimate holding company) in the AJ Bell Group (the
“Group’”).

The Company is a private company limited by shares and is incorporated and domiciled in the United
Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 and is registered in England and Wales. The Company's
number is 03091664 and its registered office is 4 Exchange Quay, Salford Quays, Manchester, MS
3EE.

2 Material accounting policies

The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out
below. These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise
stated.

2.1 Basis of accounting

The financial statements are prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101,
‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ ("FRS 101"). The financial statements have been prepared under
the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. The financial
statements are presented in sterling, which is the currency of the primary economic environment in
which the Company operates, rounded to the nearest thousand.

In preparing these financial statements the Company applies the recognition, measurement and
disclosure requirements in accordance with UK adopted International Financial Reporting Standards
and the applicable lega! requirements of the Companies Act 2006. The Company has set out below
where advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions have been taken.

2.2 Disclosure exemptions

The Company is included in the consolidated financial statements of AJ Bell plc, a company
incorporated in the United Kingdom, whose consolidated financial statements are publicly available.
Consequently, the Company has, in compliance with FRS101, taken advantage of the following
disclosure exemptions:

* IAS 7 Presentation of a cash flow statement;

* IAS 8 Disclosures in respect of new standards and interpretations that have been issued but which
are not yet effective;

* IAS 24 Disclosure of key management personnel compensation and the disclosure of transactions
with group companies;

Page 30

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

2 Material accounting policies (continued)
2.2 Disclosure exemptions (continued)

* 1AS16 and IAS 38 Comparative information in respect of the reconciliation of net carrying value;

« IFRS 7 Disclosure in respect of financial instruments, provided that equivalent disclosures are
included in the consolidated financial statements of the group in which the entity is consolidated;

* IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement paragraphs 91.to 99, provided that equivalent disclosures are
included in the consolidated financial statements of the group in which the entity is consolidated;
and

+ IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment paragraphs 45 and 46 to 52 provided that equivalent disclosures
are included within the consolidated financial statements of the group for which the entity is
consolidated.

+ IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers paragraphs 110 and 114 to 115 provided that
equivalent disclosures are included in the consolidated financial statements of the group in which
the entity is consolidated.

The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under s400 of the Companies Act 2006 not to
prepare Group accounts as it is a wholly owned subsidiary of AJ Bell pic which is incorporated in the
United Kingdom and its registered office is 4 Exchange Quay, Salford Quays, Manchester, M5 3EE.

2.3 Developments in reporting standards and interpretations

The following accounting standards, amendments and interpretations became effective during the
year but have not had a material impact on the Company and so have not been discussed i in detail in
the notes to the financial statements:

Effective for

periods
commencing
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
IAS 8 Definition of Accounting Estimates (Amendments) 1 January 2023
IAS 1 Disclosure of Accounting Policies (Amendments) 1 January 2023
Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
IAS 1 (Amendments) 1 January 2023
IAS: 12 Deferred Tax relates to Assets and Liabilities arising from 4 January 2023

a Single Transaction (Amendments)

Page 31

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

2 Material accounting policies (continued)

2.4 Going concern

The Company's forecasts and objectives, considering the cash reserves and the potential sale of the
SASS business, show that the Company should be able to operate at adequate levels of both liquidity
and capital for at least 12 months from the date of signing this report. Therefore, the Directors believe
this will generate sufficient cash reserves for the Company to continue to remain liquid.

Consequently, after making reasonable enquiries, the Directors are satisfied that the Company has
sufficient resources to continue in business for at least 12 months from the date of signing the report
and therefore have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.

2.5 Revenue recognition

Revenue represents fees receivable from investment administration of client assets. Revenue is
measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer. The Company
recognises revenue when it transfers control over a good or service to a customer.

Recurring: .
Recurring revenue comprises recurring administration fees.

Administration fees include fees charged in relation to the administration services provided by the
Group and are recognised over time as the related service is provided.

Included within administration fees are annual pension administration fees. The Company recognises
revenue from such fees over time, using an input method to measure progress towards complete
Satisfaction of a single performance obligation. The Company determined that the input method is the
best method in measuring progress of the services relating to these fees because there is a direct
relationship between the Company's effort (i.e. labour hours incurred) and the transfer of service to
the customer.

The Company recognises revenue on the basis of the labour hours expended relative to the total
expected labour hours to complete the service.

Certain pension administration fees are received in arrears or in advance. Where revenue is received
in arrears for an ongoing service, the proportion of the income relating to services provided but not yet
received is accrued. This is recognised as accrued income until the revenue is received. Where
revenue is received in advance for an ongoing service, the proportion of the income relating to
services that have not yet been provided is deferred. This is recognised as deferred income until the
services have been provided.

Page 32

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

2 Material accounting policies (continued)
2.5 Revenue recognition (continued)

Transactional fees:

Transactional revenue comprises pension scheme activity fees.

Other non-recurring fees are recognised in the period to which the service is rendered.
Customer incentives:

Customer incentives paid to new retail customers are considered to be a reduction in revenue under
IFRS 15. In line with IFRS 15, customer incentives to acquire new customers are offset against
recurring revenue and spread over a period of 12 months, i.e. the period over which the incentive is
earned. Customer incentives are comprised of cash incentives and vouchers.

intercompany recharges:

As the Company acts as an agent on behalf of the Group, costs presented in the income statement
are shown net of the amounts recharged to other Group companies.

2.6 Share-based payments

The grant by the Parent Company of options over its equity instruments to the employees of
subsidiary undertakings in the Group is treated as a capital contribution. The fair value of employee
services received, measured by reference to the grant date fair value, is recognised over the vesting
period as an increase in capital contribution by the Parent Company.

The total employee expense is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on
management's estimate of shares that will eventually vest. At the end of each reporting period, the
Parent Company revises its estimates of the number of share options expected to vest based on the
non-market vesting conditions. It recognises any revision to original estimates in the income
statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity reserves. Where a grant of equity-settled
share-based payments is not subject to vesting conditions, the fair value determined at the grant date
is expensed immediately.

Fair value is measured using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The expected life applied in the
model has been adjusted based on management's best estimate for the effects of non-transferability,
exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.

2.7 Finance costs

Finance costs comprise interest incurred on lease liabilities in relation to the right-of-use assets
arising due to'the leases of the Company accounted for under IFRS 16. Finance costs are recognised
in the income statement using the effective interest rate method.

Page 33

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

-2 Material accounting policies (continued)

2.8 Taxation

The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in
the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which
case it is recognised in equity.

Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year and
any adjustment to tax payable or receivable in respect of previous years, using tax rates enacted or
substantively enacted at the reporting date.

Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. Deferred tax is
not recognised if the temporary difference arises from:

* investments in subsidiaries to the extent that the Company is “able to contro! the timing of the
reversal of the temporary differences and it is probable they will not reverse in the foreseeable future;
or

* the initial recognition of an asset and liability in a transaction other than a business combination that,
at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting nor taxable profit or loss.

Deferred tax assets are recognised for unused tax losses, unused tax credits and deductible
temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available in the future,
against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Recognised and unrecognised
deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date.

Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences
when they reverse, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current
tax assets against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same
taxation authority and the Company intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net
basis.

2.9 Investments
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are stated at cost less provision for impairment (see note
2.14).

Page 34

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

2. Material accounting policies (continued)

2.10 Internally-generated intangible assets

An internally-generated asset arising from work performed by the Company is recognised only when
the following criteria can be demonstrated: .

* the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale;

+ the intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it;

+ the ability to use or sell the intangible asset;

+ how the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits;

* the availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development
and to use or sell the intangible asset; and

* the ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its
development. -

The amount initially recognised for internally-generated intangible assets is the sum of expenditure
incurred from the date when the asset first meets the recognition criteria listed above. Development
expenditure that does not meet the criteria is recognised as an expense in the period which it is
incurred.

Subsequent to initial recognition, internally-generated intangible assets are reported at cost less
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses, on the same basis as intangible
assets that are acquired separately. Assets under construction are not amortised until the asset is
operational and available for use.

Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.

2.11 Intangible assets

Intangible assets comprise computer software and mobile applications and the Group’s Key Operating
Systems (KOS). These are stated at cost less amortisation and any recognised impairment loss.

Amortisation is charged on all intangible assets excluding goodwill and assets under construction at
rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset evenly
using a straight-line method over its estimated useful economic life as follows:

Computer software and mobile applications - 3 - 4 years
KOS - 15 years
KOS enhancements - Over the remaining life of the KOS

The assets’ estimated useful lives, amortisation rates and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted
_ if appropriate at the end of each reporting period. An asset's carrying value is written down ~
immediately to its recoverable amount if its carrying value is greater than the recoverable amount.

The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference

between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income
statement immediately.

Page 35

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

2 Material accounting policies (continued)

2.12 Property, plant and equipment

All property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, which includes directly attributable acquisition
costs, less accumulated depreciation and any recognised impairment losses. Depreciation is charged
on all property, plant and equipment, except assets under construction, at rates calculated to write off
the cost, less estimated residual value, of each asset evenly using a straight-line method over its
estimated useful economic life as follows:

Leasehold improvements - Over the life of the lease

Office equipment - 4 years

Computer equipment - 3 - 5 years

The assets’ estimated useful lives, depreciation rates and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted

if appropriate at the end of each reporting period. An asset's carrying value is written down
immediately to its recoverable amount if its carrying value is greater than the recoverable amount.

Assets under construction relate to capital expenditure on assets not yet in use by the Company and
are therefore not depreciated.

2.13 Leased assets and lease liabilities

Leases

(i) Right-of-use assets

The Company recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the leases. Right-of-use
assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted
for any re-measurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount of
lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the
commencement date less any lease incentives received.

Depreciation is to be applied in accordance with IAS16: Property, Plant and Equipment. The
tight-of-use asset will be depreciated over the lease term. .

Right-of-use assets are subject to impairment.

Page 36

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

2 Material accounting policies (continued)

2.13 Leased assets and lease liabilities (continued)
(ii) Lease liabilities

At the commencement date of the lease, the Group recognises lease liabilities measured at the.
present value of lease payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments include fixed
payments less any lease incentives receivable.

In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Group uses the incremental borrowing rate at
the lease commencement date if the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After
the commencement date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the addition of interest
and reduced for the lease payments made. In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is re-
measured if there is a modification, a change in the lease term, a change in the fixed lease payments
or a change in the assessment to purchase the underlying asset.

2.14 Impairment of intangible assets, property, plant & equipment and leased assets

At each reporting date the Company reviews the carrying amount of its intangible assets, property,
plant and equipment and leased assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets
have suffered impairment. If such an indication exists then the recoverable amount of that particular
asset is estimated. .

An impairment loss is reversed only if subsequent external events reverse the effect of the original
event which caused the recognition of the impairment. An impairment loss is reversed only to the
extent that the asset's carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been
determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised. An
impairment reversal is recognised in the income statement immediately.

2.15 Retirement benefit costs

The Company makes payments into the personal pension schemes of certain employees as part of
their overall remuneration package. Contributions are recognised in the income statement as they are
payable.

The Company also contributes to employees’ stakeholder pension schemes. The assets of the
scheme are held separately from those of the Company in independently administered funds. Any
amount charged to the income statement represents the contribution payable to the scheme in
respect of the period to which it relates.

Page 37

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

2 Material accounting policies (continued)

2.16 VAT

Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax except where the
sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable in whole or in part from the
taxation authority.

Where the sales tax is not recoverable in whole or in part from the taxation authority, it is expensed
through the income statement, except in the case of a capital asset where the irrecoverable proportion
is capitalised as part of the capital cost of that asset.

2.17 Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a
result of a past event and it is probable that the Company will be required to settle that obligation.

The amount recognised as a provision is the Directors’ best estimate of the consideration required to
settle that obligation at the reporting date and are discounted to present value where the effect is
material. .

2.18 Financial instruments

Financial assets and liabilities are recognised in the statement of financial position when a member of
the Company becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial assets

Financial assets are classified according to the business model within which the asset is held and the
contractual cash-flow characteristics of the asset. All financial assets are classified at amortised cost.

Financial assets at amortised cost

The Company's financial assets at amortised cost comprise trade receivables, other receivables,
intercompany receivables and cash at bank and in hand.

Financial assets at amortised cost are initially recognised at fair value including any directly
attributable costs. They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method, less any impairment. No interest income is recognised on financial assets measured at
amortised cost, with the exception of cash and cash equivalents, as all financial assets at amortised
cost are short-term receivables and the recognition of interest would be immaterial. Financial assets
are derecognised when the contractual right to the cash flows from the asset expire.

Trade and other receivables

Trade and other receivables are initially recorded at the fair value of the amount receivable and
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any provision for
impairment.

Page 38

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

2 Material accounting policies (continued)
2.18 Financial instruments (continued)

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, on demand deposits with banks and other
short-term highly-liquid investments with maturities of one month or less, or those over which the
Company has an immediate right of recall. Where appropriate, bank overdrafts are shown within
borrowings in current liabilities in the statement of financial position.

Impairment of financial assets

The Company applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses
a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables and contract assets. To measure the
expected credit losses, trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk
characteristics and number of days past due. The Company considers a trade receivable to be in
default when it is past due by more than 90 days.

The expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of sales over a period of 12 months before
30 September 2024 and the corresponding historical credit iosses experienced within this period.

The carrying amount of the financial assets is reduced by the use of a provision. When a trade
receivable is considered uncollectable, it is written off against the provision. Subsequent recoveries of
amounts previously written off are credited against the provision. Changes in the carrying amount of
the provision are recognised in the income statement.

Financial liabilities

Financial liabilities are ‘classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered
into.

Lease liabilities

Lease liabilities consist of amounts payable by the Company measured at the present value of lease
payments to be made over the lease term.

Other financial liabilities

The Company's other financial liabilities comprise borrowings, trade and other payables. Other
financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. They are subsequently
carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. A financial liability is derecognised
when, and only when, the Company's obligations are discharged, cancelled or they expire.

Page 39

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

2 Material accounting policies (continued)
2.18 Financial instruments (continued).

Trade and other payables

Trade payables consist of amounts payable to clients and other counterparties and obligations to pay
suppliers for goods and services in the ordinary course of business, including amounts recognised as
accruals. Trade and other payables are measured at amortised cost using ‘the effective interest
method. ,

2.19 Assets held for sale and discontinued operations

The Company classifies assets as held for sale if their carrying amounts will be recovered principally
through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. Assets classified as held for sale are
measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value.

The criteria for held for sale classification is regarded as met only when the sale is highly probable,
and the asset is available for immediate sale in its present condition. Actions required to complete the
sale should indicate that it is unlikely that significant changes to the sale will be made or that the
decision to sell will be withdrawn. Management must be committed to the plan to sell the asset and
the sale expected to be completed within one year from the date of classification.

Assets classified as held for sale are presented separately as current assets in the statement of
financial position.

Discontinued operations are excluded from the results of continuing operations and are presented as
a single amount as profit after tax from discontinued operations in the income statement.

Additional disclosures are provided in note 19.

3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the Company's accounting policies, which are described in note 2, the Directors
are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions to determine the carrying amounts of
certain assets and liabilities. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on the Company's
historical experience and other relevant factors. Actual results may differ from the estimates applied.

Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that
period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future
periods.

There are no assumptions made about the future, or any other major sources of estimation

uncertainty at the end of the reporting period, that have a significant risk of resulting in a material
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.

Page 40

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

4 Finance costs

2024 2023
£000 £000
Interest on lease liabilities 20 23
Interest incurred on lease liabilities is in relation to the right-of-use assets. ,
5 Profit before tax
Profit before taxation is stated after charging/(crediting):
2024 ~ 2023
: Note £000 £000
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 9 430 2,055
_ Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 10 1,168 1,077
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 11 1,728 1,649
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 340 16
Auditor's remuneration - fees for the audit of the
Company 72 71
1,363 1,332

Staff costs 6

Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets includes £421,000 which was recharged to other

group companies (2023: £2,027,000).

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets include £1,145,000 and
£1,791,000 respectively which were recharged to other group companies (2023: £1,062,000 and

£1,616,000).

Of the fees paid to the Company's auditor, BDO LLP, audit-related services for the year totalled

£72,000 (2023: £71,000).

Auditor's remuneration for the year includes Enil which relates to the prior year audit (2023: £5,000)

Page 41

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

6 Staff costs

2024

No.

Average number of staff 1,421
Company full-time equivalent 27

5 §
The aggregate payroll costs (including Directors' remuneration) were as follows:

2024

£000
Wages and salaries 1,097
Social security costs . 115
Retirement benefit costs 112
Termination benefits 5
Share-based payments : . 34
1,363

2023
No.

1,275
27

2023
£000

1,052
112
133

35
1,332

All employees within the AJ Bell Group are employed jointly by all Group companies. However, ail

staff costs are paid by the Company on behalf of its ultimate holding company.

For the purposes of clarity, the directors have disclosed the total number of employees to which the
Company owes a contractual obligation during the year ended 30 September 2024, along with the

number of employees whose services were utilised by the Company in the same period.

Payments made to employees on behalf of other companies within the Group are classified as
amounts due from group undertakings and are settled in the month following that to which the

payment relates.

Page 42

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
’ for the year ended 30 September 2024

7 Directors' remuneration
The Directors’ remuneration for the year was as follows:

2024

£000
Emoluments other than pension costs (excluding NI) 23
Retirement benefit costs 1
24

2023
£000

34
1

35

Common directorships are held by certain directors across the Group. The costs of these Directors
are recharged to other companies within the Group so as to fairly reflect the time spent by the Director

on that Company's affairs.

8 Taxation
Tax charged in the income statement

2024 2023
£000 £000
Current taxation
UK corporation tax 234 237
Adjustment to current tax in respect of prior periods 23 346
; , 257 109
Deferred taxation
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (148) (210)
Effect from changes in tax rates - (28)
Adjustments to deferred tax in respect of prior periods (27) 341
Total deferred taxation (175) 103
Total tax expense / (credit) for continuing operations 82 _(6)

The tax on profit before tax for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of

25% (2023: higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 22%).

Page 43

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

8 Taxation (continued)

The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:

2024 2023

£000 £000
Profit before tax from discontinued operations 948 724
(Loss)/profit before tax from continuing operations ; (7) 11
Total profit before tax 941 735
UK Corporation tax at 25% (2023: 22%) 235 162

Income not taxable in determining taxable profit - (16)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 88 . 40

Effect of rate changes for deferred tax - (28)

Adjustments to current tax in respect of prior periods (4) (5)
Total tax expense : 319 153
Tax expense attributable to discontinued operations 237 159

Tax expense / (credit) attributable to continuing operations 82 : (6)
319 153

The Company is part of a larger group and group tax loss relief is available. Where such losses are
utilised in other group companies, consideration is paid by the receiving company equivalent to the
tax benefit it receives.

{t is expected that the ongoing effective tax rate will remain at a rate approximating to the standard UK
corporation tax rate in the medium term, except for the impact of deferred tax arising from the timing
of exercising of share options which is not under our control.

Deferred tax liability/{asset)

2024 2023

£000 £000

Opening balance 317 214
Charge to income statement 175 103
Closing balance 142 317

Deferred tax has been recognised: at 25% (2023: 25%) depending on the rate expected to be in force
at the time at which the deferred tax assets are expected to reverse.

The Company has recognised a deferred tax liability of £142,000 (2023: deferred tax liability of
£317,000) in respect of accelerated capital allowances where it is probable that those assets will be
recovered.

The deferred tax liabilities at 30 September 2024 and 30 September 2023 relate to continuing
operations.

Page 44

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

9 Intangible assets

Computer
software and
Key operating mobile
system applications Total
£000 £000 £000
Cost or valuation ,
As at 1 October 2023 8,707 4,096 12,803
Additions - 1 1
Disposals - (238) 238
As at 30 September 2024 8,707 3,859 42,566
Amortisation .
As at 1 October 2023 7,863 3,937 11,800
Amortisation charge and impairment 338 92 , 430
Amortisation eliminated on disposals : (237) (237)
As at 30 September 2024 8,201 3,792 11,993
Carrying amount
As at 30 September 2024 506 67 573
As at 30 September 2023 : 844 159 1,003
Average remaining amortisation period 1 Year Nil Years

The amortisation charge above is included within administration expenses in the income statement.

Additions include an amount of £nil relating to internally generated assets for the year ended 30
September 2024 (2023: Enil).

At the year end, the Company had not entered into contractual commitments for the acquisition of
computer software (2023: £nil).

- Page 45

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

10 Property, plant and equipment

Cost or valuation
At 1 October 2023
Additions
Disposals
Transfers

At 30 September 2024

Depreciation

At 1 October 2023
Charge for the year
Eliminated on disposal
Transfers from
right-of-use assets

At 30 September 2024
Carrying amount

At 30 September 2024
At 30 September 2023

Assets
Leasehold Office under Computer

improvements equipment construction equipment Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000

2,387 1,052 68 7,189 10,696

645 7 107 717 1,476

(3) (518) - (1,168) (1,689)

: (33) (58) 91 -

3,029 508 117 6,829 10,483

994 977 - 4,918 6,889

204 23 - 941 1,168
(2) (494) - (855) (1,351)

: (22) : 22 -

1,196 484 = 5,026 6,706
1,833 24 117 1,803 3,777
1,393 75 68 2,271 3,807

The depreciation charge above is included within administrative expenses in the income statement.

At the year end, the Company had entered into any contractual commitments for the acquisition of
property, plant and equipment to the value of £177,000 (2023: £nil).

Page 46

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

11 Leases
(a) Right-of-use assets

Property Other Total

£000 £000 £000

Cost or valuation
At 1 October 2023 : 16,857 267 17, 124
Additions 2,735 - 2,735
Effect of modification to leases 62 36 ; 98
Disposals - (1) ()
At 30 September 2024 19,654 302 | 19,956
Depreciation
At 1 October 2023 , 6,098 226 6,324
Charge for the year 1,695 33 1,728
At 30 September 2024 7,793 259 8,052
Carrying amount
At 30 September 2024 : ; 11,861 43 11,904
At 30 September 2023 , 10,759 : 41 10,800

The depreciation charge above is included within administrative expenses in the income statement.

The Company has entered into various leases in respect of property and computer and office
equipment as a lessee. Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and contain a range of
different terms and conditions. Property leases typically run for a period of six to fifteen years and
computer and office equipment for a period of one to six years.

Additions include £441,000 relating to the increase in the Company's dilapidation provision (2023:
£161,000) (see note 17).

Other than property, computer and office equipment there are no further classes of assets leased by
the Company.

Page 47

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

11 Leases (continued)
(b) Lease liabilities

Current
Non-current

The undiscounted maturity analysis of lease liabilities is shown below: .

Within one year
In the second to fifth years inclusive
After five years

2024 2023
£000 £000
1,441 1,540

11,724 4 10,866
13,165 12,406

2024 2023
£000 £000
2,353 2,384

10,582 8,216
3,603 5,525
16,538 16,125

Total minimum lease payments

The total lease interest expense for the year ended 30 September 2024 was £853,000 (2023:
£951,000), of which £833,000 was recharged to other group companies (2023: £928,000).

Principal cash outflows for leases accounted for under IFRS 16 for the year ended 30 September

2024 was £1,583,000 (2023: £1,576,000).

-12 Investments

Cost or valuation
At 30 September 2023 and 30 September 2024

Provision for impairment
At 30 September 2023 and 30 September 2024

Carrying amount
At 30 September 2023 and 30 September 2024

Page 48

Shares in
subsidiary
undertakings
£

200

200

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

‘

12 Investments (continued)

Proportion of
ownership interest
and voting rights

Name of subsidiary Class of share held

2024 2023
AJ Bell Trustees Limited* Ordinary 100% 100%
Ashby London Trustees Limited Ordinary 100% 100%

* indicates direct investment of AJ Bell Business Solutions.

The subsidiary undertakings have been dormant companies throughout the current and prior year.
The registered office of all subsidiary undertakings is 4 Exchange Quay, Salford Quays, Manchester,
M5 3EE.

13 Trade and other receivables

2024 2023

Due within one year: £000 _ £000
Trade receivables ~ 124 501
Amounts owed by Group undertakings : 10,774 11,218
Prepayments 7,125 8,162
Accrued income 1,164 1,084
Other receivables 69 10
19,256 20,975

The Directors consider that the carrying value of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair
value.

Trade receivables are stated after provisions for impairment of £70,000 (2023: £18,000).
Included in accrued income is £1,123,000 (2023: £1,081 000) relating to contract assets, a movement

of £42,000 during the year due to increased revenues.

14 Cash and cash equivalents

2024 2023
£000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents . 5,304 769

All cash held at bank at 30 September 2024 and 30 September 2023 has a maturity date of less than
one month.

Page 49

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

15 Trade and other payables

2024 2023

£000 £000
Trade payables : 385 763
Amounts due to group undertakings 341 -
Social security and other taxes 1,729 2,867
Other payables / 699 555
Accruals and deferred income 11,469 8,686

‘ 14,623 12,871

Trade payables, accruals and deferred income principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade
purposes and ongoing costs. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade payables
approximates their fair value.

Deferred income in the current and prior year relate to contract liabilities. Of the prior year deferred
income balance, £5,000 wiil still be deferred as at 30 September 2024, the remainder has been
recognised as revenue and the current year balance all relates to cash received in the current period.

16 Loans and borrowings

2024 : 2023
. £000 . £000

Current loans and borrowings
Amounts owed to group undertakings 2,450 2,450

Amounts owed to group undertakings relates to loans received from AJ Bell plc in relation to costs
incurred by AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited in renewing IT infrastructure and administration
systems in order to enhance products and services for the AJ Bell Group. The loan is interest free and
repayable on demand.

17 Provisions

Office
dilapidations
~ £000

At 1 October 2023 2,165
Additional provisions : 441
At 30 September 2024 2,606

Current liabilities 234

Page 50

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

17 Provisions (continued)
Office dilapidations:

The Company is contractually obliged to reinstate its leased properties to their original state and
layout at the end of the lease terms. During the year, management reviewed the Company's
dilapidation provision and the assumptions on which the provision is based. The estimate is based
upon property location, size of property and an estimate of the charge per square foot. A further
charge of £441,000 has been recognised in relation to an increase in the estimated charge per square
foot. The office dilapidations provision represents management's best estimate of the costs which will
ultimately be incurred in settling these obligations.

18 Share capital

Allotted, called up and fully paid shares

2024 2023 :
No. £ No. £
Ordinary shares of £1 each 4,500 1,500 4,500 ” 1,500
Non-voting ordinary shares of £1
each 75. 75 75 75
1,575 1,575 1,575 1,575

The ordinary shares and the non-voting ordinary shares rank equally in all respects except that the
holder of non-voting ordinary shares cannot attend or vote at general meetings of the Company.

19 Discontinued operations

As at 30 September 2024, the Company is in the process of selling the Platinum SSAS business to a
third party. The sale is expected to be completed within one year of the reporting date.

As Platinum SSAS represents a separate major line of business for the Company, it is classified as a
disposal group held for sale and as a discontinued operation. The results of the business are shown
separately from the continuing business for all periods presented on the face of the income statement.

Page 51

AJ Bell Business Solutions Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the year ended 30 September 2024

19 Discontinued operations (continued)

No impairment losses were recognised upon remeasurement of the assets prior to classification as
held for sale.
’

Details of the assets held for sale are provided in the table below.
' i

As at 30

September 2024

£000
Trade receivables 354
Assets held-for-sale , 354

20 Related party transactions

Details of Directors remuneration are disclosed in note 7. During the year there were no other
transactions or balances between the Company and its Directors or members of their close families,
other than noted below.

EQ Property Services Limited

The Company is party to three leases with EQ Property Services Limited for rental of the Head Office
premises, 4 Exchange Quay, Salford Quays, Manchester, MS 3EE. Mr M T Summersgill and Mr R
Stott are directors and shareholders of both AJ Bell plc and EQ Property Services Limited, Mr A J Bell
is a shareholder of both AJ Bell pic and EQ Property Services Limited. The leases for the rental of the
building were entered into on 17 August 2016 for terms which expire on 30 September 2031, at an
aggregate market rent of £2,009,000 (2023: 2,009,000 per annum).

At the reporting date, there is no payable outstanding (2023: Enil) with EQ Property Services Limited.

21 Ultimate Parent Company and parent undertaking of larger group
The Company is a wholly owned subsidiary undertaking of AJ Bell plc which is the immediate and
ultimate Parent Company. .

The largest group in which the results of the Company are consolidated is that headed by AJ Bell plc,
incorporated in the United Kingdom. No other consolidated financial statements include the results of
the Company. The consolidated financial statements of AJ Bell plc are available to the public and may
be obtained from 4 Exchange Quay, Salford Quays, Manchester, M5 3EE or www.ajbell.co.uk.

22 Post balance sheet events

There have been no material events occurring between the reporting date and the date of approval of
these financial statements.

Page 52

