Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 00839354

Altrad Babcock Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

FRIDAY

i : 7 re ~
° *AE3037Y9*
A04 '

30/05/2025 #109
COMPANIES HOUSE

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 00839354

Altrad Babcock Limited
Table of Contents
For The Year Ended 31 August 2024
Page Page
OFFICERS AND PROFESSIONAL ADVISORS , 3
STRATEGIC REPORT 4
DIRECTORS’ REPORT 7
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR REPORT 9
INCOME STATEMENT Ww

STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME,

‘STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 13

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 14

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, 15

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 00839354
Altrad Babcock Limited .
Officers and Professional Advisors

For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

DIRECTORS

John Watsh
Padraig Somers
Jonathan Gilmore

REGISTERED OFFICE

6-7 Lyncastie Way
Barteycastle Lane
Appteton
Warrington
England

WA4 4ST

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Emst & Young LLP
2 St Peter's Square
Manchester

M2 3EY

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 00839354
Altrad Babcock Limited
Strategic Report

For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

The directors present their Strategic Report on Altrad Babcock Limited (the "Company’) for the year ended 31 August 2024.

The Company amended its accounting reference date from 31 December to 31 August in the prior period to align with Altrad group of which it is part.
Consequently the comparative resutts are for the 8 months ended 31 August 2023.

Paincipal activities

The Company is a construction and service Company in the energy sector. It specialises in nuclear generating industries with key sarvices of
construction, plant maintenance, service and end of life decommissioning. Jn its process sector the Company additionally provides services and
engineering Sofutions to the oll, gas and petrochemicals Industries.

Review of the business and future developments
The Company's trading performance has improved over the year to 31 August 2024, tumover increasing to £461,201,000 (8 months to 31 August 2023:

£286,483,000), gross profit increased to £37,020,000 (8 months to 31 August 2023: £28,903,000). Profit after tax has increased to £14,373,000 (8
months to 31 August 2023: toss of £5,440,000).

The directors anticipate moderate but stable revenue growth across maintenance contracts which are in relatively mature markets, with growth
opportunities arising from the nuclear new build sector and cross-selling initiatives across the Altrad Group. The Company has continued to successfully
implemented a series of cost saving measures In 2024 as part of the Integration of the Babcock business Into the Altrad Group. The Company will
continue its policy of expansion and diversification by looking to capitalise on opportunities in both domestic and intemational markets. This will help
achieve a balanced portfolio of products across various geographies, thereby minimising future risk as well as driving business expansion.

Key Performance Indicators
The Directers consider that the following key performance indicators are the most effective measures of the performance of the business.

2024 2023 Change

£000 £000 %

Revenue 461,201 286,483 61

Gross profit 37,020 = 28,903 28

CTumover otal Asses) 250 15 88
isks and uncertalntles

The Board of Altrad Investment Authority SAS (the ultimate parent company) manages risk at a Group level and is committed to enhancing the Group's
risk management capability. Risk is assessed formally at business segment level through risk workshops and via the maintenance of risk registers. The
updating of the risk registers is a continuous process involving the identification, evaluation and management of risks by Individual managers. This
enables the earty identification of key risks and the taking of action to mitigate the likelihood of loss.

The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are broadly grouped as: extemal, competitive, operational and commercial, and financial. The
risks and uncertainties facing the Company are considered to be consistent with the Group.

Extemal

The Company's business Is diverse and operations in certain locations may be affected by factors outside the Company's control. These include
changes to political, economic and environmental conditions in existing and new territories.

Gtobal Environment

We have continued to see considerabie instability in the global environment over the past year, however, the Company Is reporting a strong financial
performance and remains resilient in the light of these challenges. - Son mee _-
inflaton

The unstable geopolitical landscape and resulting economic volatility increase the possibility of future financial instability, including higher inflation,

However, the Company js largely protected from rising Inflation rates with strong Indexation arrangements In most contracts. The timing of such clauses

becoming effective may cause a lag between the impact of rising costs being experienced and any increase in revenue. However, the Directors believe
that these contractual provisions limit the impact of this risk.

The Company is conscious of the financial pressures its people are facing and implemented in the prior period a cost-of-living plan to assist employees
during these turbulent times. Furthermore, the increase to employers’ National Insurance payments announced in the Autumn Budget will add costs to
‘our business, starting from April 2025. These will targely be recovered through our customer contracts,

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 00839354
Altrad Babcock Limited

Strategic Report (Continued)
For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

Princl isks and uncertainties (Co:
c a

Altrad investment Authority SAS operates mainly in the energy and natural resources sectors and the Group's eamings depend on a stable long-term
demand for oil, gas and electricity. In addition, losing certain key clients with which the Group has several contracts could have an adverse effect on the
Company's revenues.

Health and safety

Many of Altrad Investment Authority SAS’s operating environments have associated health and safety risks and failure to maintain the highest safety
standards on site could rasutt in injury to our employees, damage to the environment and a loss of clients, as well as damage to the Company's
reputation. The Company is maintaining a provision in respect of lodged and future industrial disease claims for which the Board of Directors of Cape
pic believes the Group to be liable, arising on alleged exposure to previously manufactured asbestos products (see note 16).

Contract and project performance
The terms end conditions of the Company's contracts, as well as the actual project performance by Altrad Investment Authority SAS's subsidiaries,
could expose It to cost overruns resulting In adverse financial performance.

Financial

The Company has exposure to foreign exchange and Interest rate risks which are managed centrally by the tocal finance team with oversight at Altrad
Group level by the Group finance, tax and treasury team of Altrad Investment Authority SAS.

Credit risk, the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer fails to meet its contractual obligations, is managed centrally and arises principally
from the Company's receivables from customers. The Company's exposure to credit risk Is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each
customer. Any customer requiring credit above twice the limit recommended by Coface or equivalent extemal rating agency must be approved by Altrad
Investment Authority SAS.

Section 172{1) statement

The Company is a subsidiary of the Attrad Group and its board operates as part of the Altrad Group. As part of the wider Attrad Group, the directors
have acted in a way they consider, in good faith, promotes the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole, and in doing so have
given regard (amongst other matters) to:

Business relationships

We work with some af the world’s most respected companies and we pride ourselves on our commitment to understand their needs, working
collaboratively to deliver value-enhancing solutions. We build strong, sustainable relationships with our cliants and with our suppliers, which is essential
to the long-term success of our business. We manage our key relationships via a structured key account management (KAM) process which
encourages regular communication and promotes continuous improvement activities.

Gur peoy

We provide an inclusive environment where our people can bring their whole self to work, feel connected and have the space they need to grow — giving
everyone an opportunity to reach their full potential. We celebrate the importance of having a diverse workforce and our rich diversity helps build the
skills, ideas and behaviours which characterise our people. We provide our people with the opportunity to build progressive careers, within an
environment that vatues ingenuity, creativity and ambition.

Apprentices and graduates
Our Apprentice and Graduate programme, provides our people with opportunities to make a real impact within a company who truly cares. Our

apprentice and graduate intake provides our next generation of people who can take on complex challenges and make a difference in the world through
innovation, creativity and teamwork.

ifitary a feterans

The skills and experience gained in uniform are highly valued at the Company — they are key assets in facing our client's toughest challenges. Former
members of the military, provide skills that are highty valued by the Company. From a strong work ethic, to strong leadership skills and a focus on
teamwork, the Company has roles that fit these desirable qualities.

Exoffenders

The Company treats all of its people with respect, regardless of their past experiences - we want our people to learn from their past and create a better
future. Through a programme of leaming and development, which is structured to meet their needs, we offer the support and guidance ex-offenders
need to thrive,

Disabled ey eS

The Company encourages the employment of disabled pecple and provides a fair and encouraging approach to any such employment applications. In
the event any of our people become disabled whilst in the service of the Company — we strive to support their needs and every effort is made to
continue their employment. This may include adapting their work environments, transferring them to altamative duties, or if required, retraining them to
undertake new roles.

People er ment

The true value of the Company resides within our people — as such, we communicate regudarly and via various media. We maintain an intranet site that
provides employees with the latest company information and utilise the Altrad App to allow them to see updates and news instantaneously. We utilise a
structured schedule of intemal communication, which includes regular one-to-one meetings, townhall meetings, operational and management meetings
facilitating two-way conversations and the sharing of ideas throughout our teams.

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 00839354
Altrad Babcock Limited
Strategic Report (Continued)

For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

action statement (continue

Cutture and values

Our values define who we are, they drive us to succeed and underpin our approach to business. Thay are at the forefront of every decision we make,

‘and they define the behaviours of our people. Our values of Respect, Solidarity, Courage, Humility and Conviviality, drive us to be the best we can be.
In the collective, our people and our values form our corporate culture, which serve the best interests of our shareholders, our clients, our people, our
‘suppliers and other stakeholders — ensuring the tong-term success of our business.

Sustainability and Cor

We understand the importance of creating a sustainable future; it runs throughout our strategy, it's part of our culture and it’s central to our day to day
operations. We are committed to making positive impacts for our people, our clients and our wider business, As we continue to evolve our sustainability
strategy, we set challenges for our business, our people and our cfients to Improve, working together to create a better tomorrow for everyone. The
Company has committed to a range of corporate social responsibility (CSR) and environmental performance targets, which includes becoming carbon
neutral by 2030 or sooner. We contribute to the development of the communities we work in through a number of initiatives ranging from job creation
and volunteering opportunities through to sourcing materials from toca! suppliers where possible and we also take pride in supporting a number of
community and charitable based projects to make sure we make a positive contribution to our local communities.

Shareholders
The management team are committed to and openty engage with the Company's shareholders through regular meetings and effective dialogue. The

shareholders are actively engaged in understanding our strategy, culture, people and the performance of aur shared objectives for the short, mid and
longer terms.

On behalf of the Board

DocuSigned by:
Sonraton Glamor
Jonaten noe

Director

Date: 29 May 2025

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 00839354
Altrad Babcock Limited
Directors’ Report

For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 August 2024.

Principal activities

The principal activities of the Company are associated with providing high value added energy services, innovative technologyjed business solutions
and new build power plants to the power generation industry and associated markets.

Results for the year

Revenue for the period was £461,201,000 (8 months to 31 August 2023: £286,483,000). The profit for the year of £14,373,000 (8 months to 31 August
2023: loss of £5,440,000) has been transferred to reserves.

Dividends
No dividend was declared or paid during the period, {8 months to 31 August 2023: Enil).

Directors

The following persons served as Directors during the year and up to the date of signing the financial statements:
- P Somers
- JAM Watsh
- J Gitmore
-  AColquhon (resigned 31 October 2024)

‘The directors had no beneficial interests in the shares of the company.
Going conce:

The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will continue in operational existence for the going concem period assessed until 30
June 2026, having received a letter of support from Altrad Investment Authority SAS.

The directors therefore consider it appropriate to adopt the going concem basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.

all I LE sions

As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, all directors are covered by indemnities from the parent undertaking. The directors are indemnified in respect
of proceedings which may be brought by third parties and such indemnification was in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of these
Financial Statements. Neither these indemnifications nor insurance provides cover in the event that a director or officer is proved to have acted
fraudutently or dishonesty.

The Company has not made any qualifying indemnity provisions.

Streamil a Ro

Altrad UK Ltd is committed to a zero carbon future. After a year of transformation in 2023, with the integration of Altrad Babcock into Altrad Group, 2024
‘saw formal, independent assessment to 15014064, “Quantification and Reporting of Greenhouse gases” continue across the whole of Altrad UK.
Adopting the same process across the whole of Altrad UK in 2023 gave the company an independently verified baseline on which to compare future
carbon emissions reduction measures against. 2024 is the first year of verifiable comparison to this standard, An annual Carbon Reduction Plan setting
out emissions per enargy type, reduction measures taken and to be taken is published in April each year.

The carbon emissions quantification and reporting system used is verified by NQA to 1S014064 and the most recent assessment allows a comparison
with the new baseline established in 2023. Emissions for the period 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 are shown in the table below.

Aitrad measures all Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions. Scope 1 and 2 emissions include UK energy use from electricity, gas and transport fuels plus
associated greenhouse gas emissions as required by SECR, Transport fuel includes fuel used in company controlled vehicles with any fuel used in non-
company controfled vehicles included in Scope 3 emissions as per the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.

36 of Total (TCOZeq)

* From DEFRAIDECC "Conversion Factors 2024 Full Set For Advanced Users" (Tab "Fue! Properties")

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 00839354

Altrad Babcock Limited
Directors’ Report
For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

A comparison, below is energy use data from the previous year .

Energy Type litres/tonne*
[Electricity (kwh) | ; a
Natural Gas (kWh) Bi - :

247,358 1,201,
19,041, 1338

kWh/ke®. kWh |
=[ 5,384,906

: s| 4,433,282
206,008 12.87| _°2;445,318
12.09] 170,765

% of Total (TCOZeq) |%:of.Total (kWh)

42.2596)

* From DEFRA/DECC “Conversion Factors 2023 Full Set For Advanced Users" (Tab “Fuel Properties")

Attrad Babcock carbon emissions have changed, both in absolute terms and relative to tumover (used as the intensity metric) as follows:

The prior year comparative in the Income statement on page 14 is measuring revenue for the 8 months to 31 August 2023. The table above contains a full
year of data In order to be comparable.

Auditors

The auditors, Emst & Young LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution conceming their reappointment will be proposed
at the Annual General Meeting.

‘Se far as each director is aware:
- there Is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditor is unaware. Relevant information is defined as information needed by the
Company's auditors in connection with preparing their report.

- each director has taken aff the steps he/she ought to have taken as a director (taking account of their individual capacity) in order to make
himsefffnerself aware of any retevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditor is aware of that information.

Directors’ responsibilities

The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the
In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to:

= Select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them
Consistently;

= Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

= present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information;

= provide additional disclosures when comptiance with the specific requirements in FRS 101 is insufficient to enable users to understand —_the impact of
particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Company financial position and financial performance;

- In respect of the financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 have been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;
+ prepare the financial statements on the going concem basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company wil continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's transactions and disclose
with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Company financial statements comply
with the Companies Act 2005. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
Prevention and detection of fraud and other irregutarities.

Under applicable taw and regutations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a strategic report and directors’ report, that comply with that law
and those regulations. The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the
Company's website.

For and on behalf of the Board of Directors
oy:

Jnrathan Gilmore

TANGO HES...
Director

29 May 2025

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 00839354
Altrad Babcock Limited

Independent Auditor Report
For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Altrad Babcock Limited (the ‘company’) for the year ended 31 August 2024 which comprise the Income
statement, the Statement of comprehensive income, the Statement of financial position, the Statement of changes in equity, and the related notes 1 to
20, including material accounting policy information. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable jaw and
United Kingdom Accounting Standards including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:

. give a true and falr view of the Company's affairs as at 31 August 2024 and of its profit for the year then ended;
. have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit In accordance with Intemational Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those
standards are further described in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the
company In accordance with the ethical requirements that are retevant to our audit of the financial statements tn the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical
‘Standard as applied to other entities of public interest, and we have fuffilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

We beliave that the audit evidence we have obtained Is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Conclusions relating to going concem

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concem basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial
statements is appropriate. Our evatuation of the directors’ assessment of the company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concem basis of
accounting included:

« We obtained the signed letter of support from the parent to the company and as set out in note 1, which confirmed the parent's intention and ability
to provide financial support to the company until 30 June 2026.

« We assessed the Parent Company's ability to provide ongoing support to the Company by reviewing cash flow forecasts and confirmed that the
Emst & Young auditors of parent company have considered the liquidity headroom for the group, considering the cash in hand and the forecast of future
cash generation. We obtained a memorandum prepared by the parent company audit team setting out the basis on which they have concluded that the
parent Is a going concem and hence in a position to provide the financial support offered in the letter issued to the Company, should this be required.
We discussed the memorandum with the parent company audit team to understand the work performed. This included assessing the group budgets
which form the basis of the group's own going concern assessment, and the ability to withstand an unexpected reduction in revenues. The result of this
testing indicates that there is an acceptably low risk of the group either extinguishing its liquidity or breaching loan covenants within the company’s going
concem assessment period.

» We obtained recent financial information for the parent group and reviewed this, noting no indications that the group's financial performance is
below expectations set at the date of the group's last annual financial statements.

* We considered the knowledge we obtained during our audit and did not identify any other conditions that had not already been considered by
management in their going concem assessment.

* We considered the appropriateness of the disclosures with respect to the use of the going concem assertion in the company’s financial statements
and discussed these with management.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually or collectively,
may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concem for a period to 30 June 2026.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concem are described in the relevant sections of this report. However,
because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the company’s ability to continue as a going
concem. :

‘Other Information

The other information comprises the information included in the annua! report, other than the financial statements and our auditor's report thereon. The
directors are responsibte for the other information contained within the annual report, _ . .

Our opinion on the financiat statements dees not cover the other Information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated In this report, we do not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon,

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
Statements or our knowedge obtained in the course of the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material
inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial
statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are
required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

. the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is
consistent with the financial statements; and

. the strategic report and directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements,

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 00839354
Altrad Babcock Limited

Independent Auditor Report
For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the tight of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material
misstatements in the strategic report or directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

adequate accounting records have not been kept or retums adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
the financial statements are not In agreement with the accounting records and retums; or

certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by taw are not made; or

we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 8, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such intemal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,

{n preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Company's ability to continue as a going concem, disclosing, as
applicable, matters related to going concem and using the going concem basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to fquidate the Company
or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due
to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion, Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee
that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists, Misstatements can arise from fraud or
error and are considered material If, Individually or In the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users
taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting Irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined
above, to detect irregularities, including fraud. The risk of not detacting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one
resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion. The
extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below. However, the primary responsibility for the
prevention end detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.

Our approach was as follows:

+ We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to tha company and determined that the most significant
ere those that relate to the reporting framework (UK adopted Intemational accounting standards and the Companies Act 2006) and the refevant direct
and indirect tax legislation in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong. In addition, the company must comply with laws and regulations applying to Its
operations including those relating to heatth and safety, employees, data protection, anti-bribery and corruption.

+ We understood how Altrad Babcock Limited is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of management, including those responsible
for legal and compliance procedures. We corroborated our enquiries through the review of documentation including: minutes of board meetings; Altrad
group's code of conduct setting out the key principles and requirements for alt staff in relation to compliance with !aws and regulations and
correspondence with the United Kingdom and relevant overseas tax authorities;

+ We assessed the susceptibility of the Company's financial statements to materia! misstatement, including how fraud might occur by considering the
cantrols that the Company established to address risks identified by the entity or that otherwise seek to prevent, deter or detect fraud. We gained an
understanding of the entity tevel controls and policies that the Company applied being part of the Altrad group during thw financial year.

+ Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify noncompliance with such laws and regulations. We enquired about any
Instances of non-compfiance at the group or loca! tevel, and considered the impact of any such non-compliance upon our audit. We engaged intema)
legal specialists as required when designing and executing our audit procedures. Our procedures involved testing of journal entries, with a focus on first
establishing what the normal posting pattems are for the key accounts, including revenue, and then investigating journals which fell outside the
parameters established through our planning and risk assessment procedures. We incorporated the use of data analytics into our testing of manual
journals, including segregation of duties, and into our testing of révéerue. We tested specific Uarsaclions back to source documontation or independent
confirmation, to corroborate whether the postings have a valid business purpose and function. We designed and performed audit procedures to ensure
that revenue was recognised in line with contractual terms and in the correct accounting period, We made enquiries of legal counsel and management,
Including review of Board meeting minutes and reports of the volume and nature of complaints received by the whistleblowing hotline during the year
retevant to the Company. We remained alert for any inconsistency in our findings across the audit file and throughout the process. We remained alert for
new information and ensured that our risk assessments included an assessment of any additional or altered risk factors, including our planned
responses and findings.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the
Financial Reporting Council's website at https:/Mwww.fre.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work
has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by taw, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company's
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

(eat oy

Tehseen All (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Emst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Manchester

Pate: 99 May 2025

10

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company‘s Reg|stered Number 00839354
Altrad Babcock Limited
Income Statement

For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

12 months to 8 months to
31 August = 31 August

2024 2023
Notes £7000 £7000
Tumover 3 461,201 286,483
Cost of sales (424,181) (287,580)
Gross profit 37,020 28,903
Admininstrative expenses (27,839} (28,901)
Other operating income/expenses 4 5,576 6,382)
Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before
Investment Income, Interest and taxation 14,787 (6.380)
Interest receivable 6 2,903 2,109
Interest ible. 6 : 139) (3,586)
Profit/(loss) before tax 13,521 (7,857)
Tax 7 852 2417
Profiti(toss) for the year 14,373 (5,440)

The above results are derived from continuing operations,

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 00339354
Altrad Babcock Limited
Statement Of Comprehensive Income

For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

12 months to 8 months to
3 August = «31 August

2024 2023
£'000 £000
Profit / (Loss) for the period 14,373 (5,440)
Other comprehensive income /(expense) that may
be rectassified to profit or toss In subsequent
periods: /
Currency translation differences 6s (28)
Other comprehensive income/{expense) for the period 65 (28

Total comprehensive Income/(loss) for the period 14,438 (5,468)

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 00839354
Altrad Babcock Limited
Statement Of Financial Position

For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

Notes 2024 2023
£000 £000

Non-current assets
Intangible assets 9 194 1,364
Property, plant and equipment 8 3,767 1,805
Right of use assets 10 13,840 14,629
Investments 1 - -
Deferred tax assets 7 49,431 18,685
Derivative financial instruments - 5

Trade and other receivables 13

6,601

Total non-current assets 43,533 44,988
Current assets

Inventories 12 282 502
Trade and other receivables 13 36,048 39,580
Contract assets 56,375 52,942
Oerivative financial instruments 79 81
Current tax assets B15 2,945
Cash and cash equivalents 40,691 45,129
Total current assets 134,290 141,179

Tota! assets

177,823

186,167

Current liabilities

Trade and other payables 14 (103,360) (108,116)
Contract liabilities (14,746) (17,332)
Borrowings 15 : (11,399)
Derivative financial instruments : (211)
Provisions 16 (1,161) (2,112)
Lease liabilities 10 (2,783) (3,622)
Total current liabilities (122,050) (140,792)
Net current assets 12,240 387
Total assets iess current liabilities 55,773 45,375
Non-current liabilities

Deferred tax liabilities 17 (160) (34)
Provisions 16 (8,525) (11,722)
Lease liabilities 10 (13,675) 14,634)
Tota! non-current liabitities: 350) (26,380)
Net assets 33,423 18,985
Capital and reserves

Called up share capital 18 69,957 69,957
Other reserves 23 (36)
Profit and loss account (36,563) 50,936)
Total shareholders’ funds 33,423 18,985

The notes on pages 15 to 29 form part of these financial statements. The financial statements were approved by the board of directors and signed on

Docusign Envetope ID: 17A3A6D4-468D-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 00839354

Altrad Babcock Limited
Statement Of Changes In Equity

For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

Issued share Translation Revaluation Retained

capital reserve reserve eamings Total equity

£000 £000 £'000 £000 £000

‘At 1 January 2023 68,957 (52) 44 (45,496) 24,453
Loss for the period (5,440) (5,440)
Other comprehensive losses - (28) (28)
Total comprehensive loss for the year - (28) - (5,440) (5,468)
At 31 August 2023 69,957 (80) 44 (50,936) 18,985
Profit for the period 14,373 14,373
Other comprehensive income 65 65

Total comprehensive income for the year - 65 - 14,373 14,438

At 31 August 2024 69,957 (15) AA (36,563) 33,423

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 03337119
Altrad Babcock Limited
Notes To The Financial Statements

For The Year Ended 31 August 2024
1, Accounting policies
Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with FRS 101

The financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 August 2024 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 29 May 2025 and the
balance sheet was signed by the director on behalf of the board of Altrad Babcock Limited, a private Company limited by shares incorporated and domiciled
in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006. The principat place of business is Porterfield Road, Renfrew, PA4 8DJ, Scotland.

These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (FRS 101) and in
accordance with applicable accounting standards.

The Company's financial statements are presented in Sterling and afl values are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds (£000) except when otherwise
indicated.

The financial statements contain information about the Company as an individual company and do not contain consolidated financial information as the
parent of a group. The Company is exempt under section 401 of the Companies Act 2006 from the requirement to prepare consolidated financial
statements as it is included with its subsidiary undertakings in the consolidated financial statements of Altrad Investment Authority SAS. The financial
‘Statements of Altrad Investment Authority SAS can be obtained from the Company Secretary by writing to 16 Avenue de ta Gardle, 34510 Florensac,
France.

The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out below.

a) Basis of preparation

The financial statements are prepared on a going concem basis, under the histerical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of financial assets and
financial liabilities at falr value through profit or oss, and In accordance with the Compantes Act 2006 and applicable accounting standards In the United
Kingdom.

On 1st January 2023 the Company transitioned from UK-adopted [FRS to FRS 101 for ali periods presented. There were no material amendments on the
adoption of FRS101.

The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101.

. 1FRS 7 ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures;
The requirements of paragraph 38 of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’ regarding comparative information
bd requirements in respect of:

- Paragraph 79 (a) (iv) of IAS 1;
- Paragraph 73 (¢) of IAS 16 ‘Property, plant and equipment;

Paragraph 118 (e) of IAS 38 ‘Intangible assets’ (reconciliations between the carrying amount at the
- beginning and end of the period).

Paragraph 76 and 79(d) of lAS40 Investment Property.
. The following paragraphs of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of financial statements’;

- 10 (d) statement cf cash flows;
10 (f} a statement of financial position as at the beginning of the preceding period when an entity applies

- an accounting policy retrospectively or makes a retrospective restatement of items in its financial
statements, or when it rectassifies items in its financial statements);

- 16 (statement of compliance with all IFRS);

- 38A (requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements);

- 38B-D (additional comparative information);
- 40A-D (requirements for a third statement of financial position);
- 111 (cash flaw statement information); and

134-136 (capital management disclosures).

ay . ~ IAS 7.:Statement of cash flow;
The requirements of paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8 ‘Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and
. errors’ (requirement for the disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been
issued but is not yet effective)
. The requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 ‘Related party disclosures’ (key management compensation)
The requirements in IAS 24 ‘Related party disclosures’ to disclose related party transactions entered into between
bd two or more members of a group.

Going Concem

The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company will continue in operational existence for the going concem period assessed until 30 June
2026 having received a latter of support from Altrad Investment Authority SAS. This letter confirms continuing support for the gaing concem period until 30
June 2026. The directors have reviewed the resources of Altrad Investment Authority SAS and have concluded there is sufficient scope and headroom in its
fesources to adequately support the Company until 30 June 2026. This has enabled the Company's continued adoption of the going concem basis in
preparing its financial statements.

The directors therefore consider it appropriate to adopt the going concem basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.

Docusign Envelope !D: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 03337119
Altrad Babcock Limited

Notes To The Financial Statements

For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

a) Basis of preparation (continued)
Changes to accounting policies and disclosures
The Company has applied the fojlowing standards for the first time for reporting periods commencing on or after 1 September 2022:

. Deferred Tax related Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction (Amendments to IAS 12)
° Definition of Accounting Estimates (Amendments IAS 8)
. Disclosure of Accounting Policies (Amendments to IAS 1 and IFRS Practice Statement 2)

Their adoption has not had any material impact on the disclosure or on the amounts reported in the financial statements. .

New and amended standards and interpretations not yet adopted
There are no amendments to accounting standards, that are effective for the year ended 31 August 2024 that have a material impact on the
company’s financial statements.

b) ‘Significant accounting polictes

The principal accounting policies apptied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out befow. These policies have been consistently apptied to
all the years presented unless otherwise slated.

Investments
Investments in subsidiaries and joint ventures gre held at historical cost less any provision for impairment. Investments are reviewed at each balance sheet
date to determine whether there is an indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the assets recoverable amount is estimated.

An impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses
are recognised In the income statement.

On disposal of investments, the difference between disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the investment are recognised in the income statement.

Foreign currencies
The financial statements of the Company are presented in Pounds Sterling which is the Company's functional currency. The Company operates a branch in
France. The operation determined its functional currency to be Euros in accordance with IAS 21.9.

In preparing the branch financial statements, transactions in currencies other than functional currency are recognised at the rates of exchange prevailing on
the dates of the transactions. Al each reporting date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates
prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items carreid at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date
when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost are not retranslated.

Exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise except for exchange differences on transactions entered into In order
to hedge certain foreign currency risks. .

For the prupose of presenting financial statements, the assets and liabilities of the Company's foreign operations are translated at the exchange rate
prevailing on the reporting date. Income and expense items are translated at the average exchange rate for the period, unless exchange rate fluctuate
significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rate at the date of the transaction is used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognised
In other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity.

On the disposal of a foreign operation, all of the accumulated exchange differences in respect of that operation are reclassified to the income statement.

Tangible assets
Freehold properties, plant, machinery and equipment are stated at cost less accumutated depreciation and accumulated impairement losses.

Properties in the course of construction for production, supply and administratve purposes, or for purposes not yet determined, are carried at cost, less any
recognised impairement loss. Cost includes professional fees, and, for qualifying assets, any borrowing costs associated with financial assets, if
applicable. Depreciation of these assets, on the same basis as other property assets, commences when the assets are ready for intended use. The entire
asset register is regularly reviewed abd assets which are found to no longer be in use, of reduced life or to be of less value to the business than the net
book valuewill be impaired as appropriate.

The gain or loss arising on the disposal or scrappage of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of
the asset and is recognised in the income statement,

Depreciation is charged to cost on a straight-line basis at the rates appropriate to the expected useful lives of the assets concemed. Freehold tand and
assets in the course of construction are not depreciated.

- freehold buildings ~ 8 to 50 years

- teasehold land and buildings — the shorter of 50 years and the period of the lease
- plant and machinery — 3 to 15 years.

- motor vehicles - 4 to 8 years

- Office equipment and fumiture - 3 to 10 years

- Computers - 3 to 5 years

Docusign Envelope iD: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 03337119
Altrad Babcock Limited

Notes To The Financial Statements
For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

b) ‘Significant accounting policies (continued)

Intangible assets
Intangible assets relate to software. Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairement losses.

The expected usefui life for software, which is amortised on a straight line basis, is 3 to 7 years. Amortisation of intangible assets is charged to the income
statement.

Leases held under IFRS 16
The Company applies a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases, except for short-term leases and leases of low value assets, The
‘Company recognises lease liabilities to make lease payments and right-of-use assets representing the right to use the undertying assets.

The Company recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e. the date the underlying asset Is avaliable for use). Right-of-use
assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment tosses, and adjusted for any re-measurement of lease {iabilities. The cost
of right-of-use assets includes the amount of lease [liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the.
commencement date less any lease incentives received. Unless the Company is reasonably certain to obtain ownership of the leased asset at the end of
the lease term, the recognised right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of Its estimated useful life and the tease term,
Right-of-use assets are subject to impairment in the same manner as property, plant and equipment.

If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the Company at the end of the [ease term or the cost reflects the exercise of a purchase option, depreciation is
calculated using the estimated useful life of the asset.

At the commencement date of the lease, the Company recognises lease liabilities measured at the present value of lease payments to be made over the
lease term. The lease payments include fixed payments (including In substance fixed payments) less any lease incentives receivable, variable lease
payments that depend on an Index rate, and amounts expected to be pald on residual value guarantees. The lease payments also Include the exercise
price of @ purchase option reasonably certain to be exercised by the Company and payments of penalties for terminating a lease, if the lease term reflects
the Company exercising the option to terminate. The variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are recognised as an expense in
the period on which the event or condition that triggers the payment occurs.

(n calculating the present value of lease payments, the Company uses the incremental borrowing rate at the tease commencement date if the interest rate
implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After the commencement date, the amount of lease payments is increased to reflect the accretion of
interest and reduced for the lease payments made. In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is remeasured ff there is a modification, a change in
the lease term, a change in the In-substance fixed lease payments or a change in the assessment to purchase the undertying asset. The Company's lease
liabilities are shown separately on the face of the statement of financial position.

The Company applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term teases of machinery and equipment {i.e., those leases that have a lease
term of 12 months or less from the commencement date and do not contain a purchase option). It also applies the lease of low value assets recognition
exemption to leases that are considered low value (i.e. below £5,000). Lease payments on short term leases and leases of low value assets are recognised
as expense on a rental cost basis over the lease term.

Finance leases are capitalised at the lease’s commencement at the lower of the fair value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease
payments.

Each finance lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, are
Included in borrowings. The interest element of the finance cost is charged to the consolidated income statement over the lease period so as to produce a
constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period, Property, plant and equipment acquired under finance teases is
depreciated over the term of the lease or the useful economic life, if shorter.

Sale and Leaseback
Leases that arose from a sale of assets apply paragraph 100 of IFRS 16. As such the value of the Right of Use Asset is set to be the net book value of the
asset at the point of sale muttipiied by the lease liability divided by the market value of the asset at the point of sale. Any difference arising from this

between the initial tease liability and the right of use asset is deducted from the profit on sale of the asset.

Provisions
A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position if, as a result of a past event, there is a present legal or constructive obligation that can be
reasonably measured reliably, and it is probable that an outflow of economic benfits will be required to settle the obligation.

The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideraton required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date, taking into
account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measure using the cash flows estimated to settle the present
obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows.

Provisions for the expected cost of warranty obligations under local sale of goods legislation are recognised at the date of sale of the relevant products, at
the Directors' best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the Company's obligation.

Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured as provisions. An onerous contract Is considered to exist where the
Company has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be
received from it. However, before a separate provision for an onerous contract is established, the Company recognises any impairement loss that has
occurred on assets dedicated to that contract.

Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. An inventory provision is booked to state inventory at net realisable value where the
realisable value from sale of the inventory is estimated to be lower than the inventory carrying vatue. Costs comprise direct materials, and in the case of
work-in-progress, direct labour and overheads, including depreciation, but excludes selling and administration costs. Raw materials and consumables are
stated using the weighted average cost method.

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4016-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 03337119
Altrad Babcock Limited

Notes To The Financial Statements
For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

b) Significant accounting policies (continued)

Revenue recognition

IFRS 15 establishes a five-step model to account for revenue arising from contracts with clients, Revenue from contracts with clients is recognised when
contre! of the geods or services are transferred to the client at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled in
exchange for those goods or services, The Company has generally concluded that it is the principal in its revenue arrangements because it typically
controls the goods or services before transferring them to the client. The Company does not generally provide warranties as a service.

Construction contracts

Certain construction contracts contain multiple goods and services, but these are not distinct in the context of the contract. It is therefore appropriate to
combine the services into a single performance obligation. Related service contracts comprise maintenance, repair and overhaul services which are
typically regarded as a single performance obfigation. Revenue on contracts is determined using either a percentage of compietion approach (for fixed fee
contracts, where the Company commits to provide a service at an agreed upon price), or as contract cost plus a contractually agreed margin ("cost plus”),
to best represent the transfer of services to the customer depending on the features of the arrangement.

The majority of the Company's contracts are a cost plus an agreed margin. These include large, government funded projects.

Services are satisfied over time given that the client simuftaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Company. Consequently, the
‘Company recognises revenue from its construction contracts over time rather than at 4 paint in time.

Contract modifications, e.g. variations, are accounted for as part of the existing contract or a new contract depending on the details of the contract. For
material contract modifications, based on management's assessment, there may be cases where a separate contract may be recognised. this includes
scope changes on fixed fee contracts. Variable consideration, e.g. variation orders, claims and liquidated damages, are assessed at contract inception and
Te-assessed at each reporting period using the most likely amount method.

Contract costs on fixed fee contracts are recagnised In the Company Income statement as an input to percentage of completion. This Is because the
benefits of the work performed are transferred to the customer at the same rate that the costs are incurred, with all work being performed on the customer
site. As such, costs incurred to date is the best measure of percentage of work completed and therefore the amount of revenue to be recognised.

Judgements are made in determining the cost to fulfil a contract with a customer on fixed price contracts. These would include hourty rates to apply the
labour, hours required to complete the contract and expected costs of material based on market rates.

The advance payments for construction contracts are structured primarily for reasons other than the provision of finance to the Company, and they do not
provide clients with an altemative to pay in arrears. In addition, the length of time between when the client pays and the Company transfers goods and
services to the client is reatively short. Therefore, the Company has concluded that there is not a significant financing component within such contracts.
Currently, the Company does not have any contracts where payments by the cient are over a number of years after the Company has transferred goods.
and services to the cfient; if such cases arise in the future the transaction price far such contracts will be determined by discounting the amount of promised
consideration using an appropriate discount rate.

Pre-contract and bid costs are recognised as an expense,

Contract assets and contract liabilities for individual projects are presented on a net basis. Biling schedules and bill rates are agreed with each customer
for each project.

Taxation

The tax charge comprises current tax and deferred tax, calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Current tax and deferred tax are charged or credited to the income statement, except when they relate to items charged or credited directly to equity, in
which case the relevant tax is also reflected in equity. Current tax is expected to be received or otharwise settled within 12 months of the balance sheet
date.

Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and fabilitiesfor financial reporting purposes and the amounts.
used for taxation purposes. At each period end, the value recognised is adjusted to reflect the recoverable amount based on management's latest
forecasts.

‘The Valua ot taxable losses is recognised as a deferred tax asset to the extent thay are considered recoverable against relevant future profits, either within
the Company or within its tax group as far as group relief is available. The emount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation
or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.

Deferred tax assets and fiabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the
deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxabte entity or different taxable entities
where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.

Related party transactions
The company discloses transaction with related parties which are not whofy-owned within the same group.

Based on group instructions, the company regularly rationalises the intercompany balances to reflect the latest assessment of the true financial position and
in cases where this results in the forgiveness of an intercompany loan, this is accounted for as an equity transaction,

In the parent company, where a loan to a subsidiary is forgiven, this is considered an increase in the value of the investment. This is then assessed for
impairment in line with the normal process. In the subsidiary, this is recorded as a capita! contribution.

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A604-46BD-4C16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 033371 19
Altrad Babcock Limited

Notes To The Financial Statements
For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

by Significant accounting policies (continued)

Financial Instuments

Impairment

IFRS 9 requires the Company to record expected credit losses on of its debt securities, loans and trade receivables, either on a 12-month or lifetime basis.
The Company has applied the simplified approach and record lifetime expected losses on all loans and receivables, trade receivables, retention
receivables, amounts due from clients and bank balances. Intercompany receivables are considered separately as a different class of assets for the
Purposes of assessment as these are considered to be of lower risk.

Derivatives
The Company uses derivative financial instruments to tackle interest rate risk and hedge exposures to fluctuations in foreign currencies in accordance with
its risk management policies. Commodity risk is managed through escalation clauses in client contracts.

Derivatives are initially recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value on the date the derivative transaction Is entered into and are
‘subsequently remeasured at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised In the Income statement.

Financial assets

All financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a specific date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract whose terms
require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market concemed, and are initially measured at fair value, plus transaction
costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value.

Financial assets are classified into the following specified categorfes, financial assets, cash and cash equivalents or ‘loans and receivables’. The
dassification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.

Liquid resources and cash
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash In bank and in hand and overnight deposits.

Loans and receivables

Trade receivables, loans and other receivables are non-derivative financial assets that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active
market are classified as ‘toans and receivables’, After initial measurement, such financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the
€ffective interest method, less any impairment. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or
costs that are an integral part of the effective interest rate, interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term
receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.

The effective interest rate amortisation is included in finance income in the income statement. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the
income statement in finance costs. Loans will be tested for impairment at each period end to determine if any impairment exists.

The Company uses 4 provision matrix to calculate expected credit losses (ECLs) for trade receivables and contract assets. The provision rates are based
on days past due for the entire receivable portfolio and rates of delinquency by Client for the targest Clients, which covers over 90% of the overall balance
receivable, billed and unbiled.

Derecognition of financial assets

The Company derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial
asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Company neither transfers nor retains substantially all the
risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Company recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated
liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Company retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the
Company continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.

Financial liabilities

Financia! liabilities within the scope of IFRS9 are classified as loans and borrowings, financial liabilities at fair value through profit or toss, payables, as
appropriate. The Company determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition,

All financial fiabilities are recognised initially at fair value and in the case of borrowings, net of transaction costs, carried at amortised cost. The Company's
financial liabilities include trade and other payables, borrowings and derivative financial instriments.

Loans and borrowings

interest-bearing bank foans and overdrafts are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance charges, including premiums payable
on settlement or redemption and direct issue costs, are charged to the income statement on an accruals basis using the effective interest method and are
added to the carrying amount of the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the period in which they arise.

Trade ang other payables

‘Trade payables are not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost. Amounts dué to clients for Contract work relaté to advances received from clients" ~~

‘on contracts which are in progress.

Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

Exceptional items

Exceptional items are those items which are of a non-recurring nature or, in the judgement of the directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their
nature, size or incidence. Items which may be considered exceptional in nature include significant write-downs of goodwill and other assets, significant
changes in asset values as a result of changes in accounting estimates, business acquisition costs and restructuring costs.

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Company's Registered Number 03337113
Altrad Babcock Limited

Notes To The Financial Statements
For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

¢) Significant judgements and estimates:

i) Key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the appfication of the Company's accounting policies, which are described in note 2, the Campany makes estimates and assumptions conceming the
future. The resutting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual resutts. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant
risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are addressed below.

Long term contracts
The major uncertainty relating to ongoing contracts is the difficulty in assessing the final financial outcome and stage of completion of contracts recognised
na long-term contract accounting basis, The risk associated with this has reduced considerably in recent years as the Company no longer engages In
large risky projects.

The Company seeks to mitigate this uncertainty by regularly assessing the forecasted position on a contract by contract basis to confirm that they still
reflect a best estimate of expected costs to complete. The effect of any such risk will be reflected in the contract balances disclosed.

Long tenn provisions
Provisions include an amount of £11,722k (2023: £9,867k) relating to potential claims retating to industrial diseases for which the Company may be liable
together with related tega! costs. Due to the nature of these claims, itis not possible to predict precisely when these provisions wil be utilised, but It Is
anticipated that, in the majority of cases, it would be in the medium term. Further, management are required to make an estimate as to the total volume of
the claims.

ll) Significant Judgements In applying the Company's accounting policies
The following are the critical judgements that the Directors have made in the process of applying the Company's accounting policies and that have the most
significant effect on the amounts recognised in financia! statements.

Revenue and margin recognition
The Company's revenue recognition and margin recognition policies, which are set out in above are central to how the Company values the work it has
carried out in the financial year. These policies require forecasts to be made of the outcomes of long-term construction services which require assessments
and judgements to be made on recovery of pre-contract costs, changes in work scopes, contract programmes, changes in future costs of materials,
maintenance liabilities, potential fiquidated damages and changes in costs including costs to complete.

The Company defines Terminal Revenue as the total revenue expected on any given project, this is set at the start of the project, but can change if
variations are required to the project. Likewise Terminal cost is the total cost expected on the project. Terminal revenue and cost drive the recognition and
revenue and cost on projects, The terminal revenue will be based on the initial contract price, but if scope is reduced or increased judgements will have to
be made as to how much to change the terminal revenue. terminal cost is calcuated based on proposals drawn up for the cost to complete a project but will
have to be adjusted to reflect changes In scope and costs. Such changes will be recognised as contract modifications in accordance with IFRS15.
Judgements will have to be made as it is not atways certain what the future costs wil be on the project as circumstances can still change.

The Company recognises progress and hence tumover on projects through cost of sales incurred. Judgements must therefore be made as to whether
these costs contribute to the progress in satisfying the obligations.

Taxation
The Company provides for liabilities in respect of uncertain tax positions where additional tax may become payable in future periods and such provisions are
based on management's assessment of exposures. The Company also recognises assets where a reduction in future tax or a future receipt of tax may
crystallise, when it is deemed prudent to recognise such an asset based on management's assessment of such events.

Where, as has been the case in recent years, the Company has not made sufficient profits to pay tax or has accrued tax losses then a deferred tax asset
will be created. The calculation of this is based on the tax losses held, applying the expected future tax rate at which the losses will unwind along with other
adjustments for relevant timing differences. A judgement has been made over the recoverability of this asset given the expect future profits of the
Company. If any such profits are deemed uncertain these have been excluded from the calculation and any impairment resutting from this would be
reflected.

The Company's tax filings in different jurisdictions may include amounts which reffect complex transactions and the taxation authorities may challenge the
tax treatments adopted. The Company determined, based on tax legislation and advice from extemal advisers, that it is likely its adapted tay treatments
should be accepted by the taxation authorities, .

Fair Value Estimation

The fair vatue at initial cost of financial instruments traded in active markets (such as publicly traded derivatives or trading and available-for-sale securities)
is based on quoted market prices at the reporting date. The quoted market price used for traded financial assets held by the Company is the current bid
Pfica. The appropriate quoted market price for traded financial liabilities is the current offer price. The fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is
determined by measuring the difference between the exchange rate at the reporting date and the forward exchange rate per the contract. The fair value of
Interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of the estimated future cash flows. Investments are held at cost less any provision for impairment.

The fair value of financial instruments that are not traded in an active market is determined by using valuation techniques. The Company uses a variety of
methods which include the use of recent arm’s-ength transactions, reference to other instruments that are substantially the same, discounted cash flaw
analysis and option pricing models which reflect the specific instrument.

‘Where market values are not available, fair values are based on valuation methodologies which require inputs and forecasts to be made. Judgement is
required in determining the appropriate assumptions underlying those inputs and forecasts.
The nominal value of receivables (less estimated impairments) and payables are assumed to approximate their fair values. The fair value of financial

liabilities measured at amortised cost is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to the
Company for similar financial instruments. Discounted cash flows are used to determine the fair value for the majority of remaining financial instruments.

20

Docusign Envelope {D: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Altrad Babcock Limited
Notes To The Financial Statements
For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

2 Profit on ordinary activities before Investment Income, interest and taxation
2024 2023
£000 £000
Profit on ordinary activities before investment income, interest and taxation Is
stated after charging:
Services provided by the company’s auditors:
- Fees payable for audit of the company’s financial statements 824 803
Cost of inventories recognised as expenses
Depreciation on tangible fixed assets:
- owned assets 475 238
+ right of use assets 2,458 1,635
Amortisation of intangible assets 422 355
3. Revenue
a) Disaggregation of revenue
2024 2023
Revenua by destination £000 £000
UK 456,974 279,688
France 897 676
Hong Kong 3,245 1,977
Africa 2,069
Other 85 2,073
Total revenue by destination 461,201 286,483
2024 2023
Revenue by origin £000 £000
UK 461,116 286,479
France 85 4

Total revenue by origin 461,201 286,483

a

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Altrad Babcock Limited
Notes To The Financial Statements
For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

4. Other operating Income / (expenses)

2024 2023
£000 £000
Expected credit tosses on receivables and contract 5 66
assets
Net impact of impairment on intercompany loans 7,970 (2,054)
Restructuring costs (3,477) (2,025)
Office closure costs - (1,924)
Expenses relating to industrial disease claims 710 (445)
Other non operating expenses 368 -
Other operating income included in profil(loss) on
ordinary activities before investment income, 5,576 (6,382)
interest and taxation
5. Employee costs

All of the previous employees of the Company were transferred to Attrad Employment Services Limited, another group company, during the year. Consequently, the
Company received a recharge cost of £155m during the year towards these payroll services.

As not all of the employees had transferred into Aitrad Employment Services Limited before the start of the year, average monthly number of persons up to the date of
transfer employed during the year was 1,137 (2023: 2,462) and staff costs of these employees was £14m.

6.1 Remuneration of directors

All directors have been transferred to Altrad Employment Services Limited, another group company, during the year. The total aggregate emoluments paid to Directors
during the year was £19,897 (2023: £321,000).

Certain directors of the company during the year were also directors of the parent company Altrad UK Limited and fellow subsidiaries. The remuneration of these
directors was paid by the parent companies or fellow subsidiaries. The directors do not believe that it is practicable to apportion the amounts paid to these directors
between their services as directors of the company and their services as directors of the parent and fellow subsidiary companies.

Since the Directors of the Company are are also the key management personne! of the Company, no additional information is required to be disclosed by IAS 24 in
addition to the information already disclosed above.

6, Finance income and costs

2024 2023
£000 £000
Interest recelvable and similar income
Interest income on bank deposits and simitar income 482 478
Interest receivable on foans to parent and subsidiary undertakings =~ - . ~ 2421 7 -

Foreign exchange gains

Interest receivable and similar income 2,903 2,109

Interest payable and similar charges

Interest payable to third parties (4,410) (183)
Interest expense on loan from parent company (307) (161)
Unwind of discount (220) (160)
Lease interest (754) (472)
Foreign exchange losses (1,448) (2,610)
Interest payable and similar charges (4,139) (3,586)


Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Altrad Babcock Limited
Notes To The Financial Statements

For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

7. Tax on profit on ordinary activities
2024 2023
£000 £000
Current tax:
United Kingdom
- Corporation tax at 25% (2023: 21.52%) (80) (2,610)
- Adjustment in respect of previous years (119) (358)
Total current tax Income (209) (2,968)
Deferred tax - United Kingdom
~ Origination and reversal of timing differences (715) 586
~ Adjustment in respect of previous years (43) 137
- Withholding tax 115 (172)
Total deferred tax charge (643) 551
Tax charge / (income) in the income statement (852) (2.417)
The overall effective rate applied to these costs will vary year upon year depending on the nature of the cost.
The tax assessed for the year differs from that resulting from applying the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 25% (2023: 22.75%). The
differences are explained below.
2024 2023
£000 £000
“Profit / (loss) on ordinary activities before tax 13,621 (7.857)
Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by the standard rate of
corporation tax in the UK of 25% (2023: 22.75%) 3.380 (1.787)
Effects of:
Expenses not deductable for tax purposes . 19 247
Tax loss not recognised / (now recognised) (2,885) (993)
Overseas tax 22 (24)
tmpairment of intercompany (oans not taxable (1,210) 467
Withholding taxes : (140)
Difference between rate applied and rate of deferred tax : (114)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (66) (221)

Group relief 112) 148

~~ Total tax charge reported in the income statement (852) (2.417)

2

Docusign Envelope !D: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Altrad Babcock Limited
Notes To The Financial Statements

For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

8. Tanalble assets

; , Plant and

Land Buildings Equipment Total

£000. £000. £000. £000
Cost or valuation:
At 1 September 2023 60. 2,803 45,822 48,685
Additions at cost - 128 2,309 2,437
Disposals - - (106) (106)
Foreign exchange transtation differences - : 6 6
At 31 August 2024 60 2,931 48,031 61,022
Accumulated depreciation:
At 1 September 2023 - (2,477) (44,403) (46,880)
Charged during the year - (33) (442) (475)
Disposals - - 106 106
Foreign exchange translation differences : = (8) (8)
At 31 August 2024 - (2,610) (44,745) (47,285)
Net book values:
At 31 August 2024 60 421 3,286 3,767
At 31 August 2023 60 326 1,419 1,805

Software
£000
Cost or valuation:
At 1 September 2023 . 30,542
Additions at cost -
Disposals (1,712)
Foreign exchange translation difference 2
At 31 August 2026 28,832
Amortisation: .
At 1 September 2023 (29,178)
Charged during the year , (422)
‘Write off 960
Foreign exchange translation difference 2
At 31 August 2024 (28,638)
Net book values: _ a _ oe
- _ . - At 31 August 2024 - ie — ot - mo ~~ 7 ~~ 194

At 31 August 2023 1,364

24

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Altrad Babcock Limited
Notes To The Financial Statements
For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

10, Leases
Motor

Right-of-use assets Buildings Venictos Total

e000 —£'000 «000
Alot August 2023 75,580, 645 14,625
Additions . 1,336 3s 1,369
Disposals . :
Depreciation charge in the year (2,180) (30s) (2,458)

At 31 August 2024 13,166 374 13,540

The Company has lease contracts for various office and factory premises and items of plant, machinery, vehicles and other equipment used in its operations. Leases
of office and factory premises are for varying periods between 2 and 15 years. Leases of plant, machinery, vehicles and other equipment generally have lease terms
between 2 and 5 years. The Company's obligations under its leases are secured by the lessor’s title to the leased assets.

There are several lease contracts that inctude extension and termination options and variable lease payments, which are further discussed below. The Company also.
has certain teases of machinery with lease terms of 12 months or less and leases of office equipment with low value. The Company applies the ‘short-term lease’ and
‘tease of low-vaiue assets’ recognition exemptions for these leases.

2024 2023
Lease Liabilities e'000 €'000
Current 2,783 3,622
Non-current, 13,675 14,634
Lease Liabilities included in the statement. 16,458 18,256

2024 2023
00g 8
Lease liabilities as at 1 September 18,256 20,487
Additions 1,367 219
Disposals : (300)
Payments (3,919) (2,622)
Interest expense 754 472
Lease fabilitios as at 31 August 16,458 18,256

Some of the Companys leases contain extension or termination options exercisable by the Company up to one year before the end of the contract period. Where
practicable, the Company seeks to include extension and termination options in new teases to provide operational flexibility. These extension and termination options
are typically only exercisable by the Company and not by the lessors.

The Company assesses at lease commencement whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the extension or termination option. The Company reassesses whether it
is reasonably certain to exercise the options ff there is a significant event or there is a significant change in circumstances.

11. Jovestments
‘Shares tn subsidiary undertakings: 2024 2023
£'000 £'000
~ Gost - : . . . . . : , . - 44,636
Aggregate amounts provided - -
Disposals* - (44,636)
Net book value - -

* On 30 June 2022, Lentjes was transferred out of ABL Group to its then-parent company, DPSSA, as it was not included in the scope of the group's sale to Altrad UK
Limited and therefore was not owned by the Company upon completion of the sale, This transfer was carried out at fair vatue.

Direct subsidiaries of the Company:

AD 100% owned unless otherwise stated Notes. Registered Office

Principal subsidiary undertakings:

Doosan Babcock Genera! Maint Services LLC (49%) traustel SPLOT Neat Abu atl, UAE a
Industrial 67 Lyncestio Way, Barteycaste

Attrad Babcock Energy Services (overseas) Limited Services tans feplten, ‘Wanrington, WAS

Altrad Babcock Germany GmbH couseial Crsign Weg 5, 0.06188 Lendebory

Altrad Babcock for Oil and Gas Services W.L.L (49%) cena Pere ends owe wvest Bay,

Altrad Babcock America LLC peuetnal 1200, Ate, GA 30808 USA

Other subsidiary undertakings:

Altrad Babcock Power Systems Overseas Investments Limited Holding Company Lane’ Apnlwone Waiee waa

The shareholdings in the subsidiary undertakings are in ordinary shares and are held directly by the company

25

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

cock Limite
Notes To The Financial Statements
For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

12. Inventories

2024 2023

£'000 £'000
Raw materials and consumables : 382 557
Work-in-progress - 12
Inventory allowance (109) CY
Total inventory 282 502
‘The inventory allowance relates to a write down to fair value less costs to sell.

13, Trade and other receivables

2024 2023
Current: £000 £000
Trade receivables 16,948 24,557
Expected credit loss for trade receivables (257) (1,130)
Amounts owed by Group undertakings ** 2,855 737
Other taxes receivable 6,668 4577
Other receivables . 3,622 7,205
Prepayments 6,212 3,634

2024 2023
Non-current: £'000 £'000
Trade receivables - 2,826
Expected credit loss for trade receivables . {2,826)
Amounts owed by the former parent company * 48,706 48,706
Provision against amounts owed by the former parent company * (48,706) (48,708)
Amounts owed by group undertakings ** 46,153 127,890
Expected credit loss for amounts owed by group undertakings (39,652) (119,390)

6,601 8,500

* The majority of the loan balance receivable from DPSSA was settled on 22™ September 2022 via dividend, but £48.7m remained outstanding due to part of the
settlement dividend being regarded as unlawful. This balance was fully Impaired as the probability of recovery is deemed negligible.

“* All intercompany loans receivable bore interest a! the standard Aftrad Group rate of 5.4%. Interest is payable every six months and the loans are repayable on
demand. The only toan included within this balance which has not been impaired is the loan to subsidiary Altrad Babcock Europe S.A (Poland) which as a net balance
of £5m, £1m of which was deemed current and is included in the table above. This loan is being repaid in instalments over the next 5 years.

2024 2023

Expected credit toss for trade receivables e000 £000

Balance as at 1 September / 1 January (3,956) (4,438)
- Credited to the income statement - ~ - se - 7

Unused amounts reversed - 482

lied 3,699 =

Balance at 31 August (257; 9
Of which relates to:
Trade receivables due <lyear (287) (1,130)
Trade receivables due >1year = (2,826)

Batance at 31 August (257) (3,956)

The Directors consider that the carrying values of current trade and other receivables approximate their fair values. It is Company policy to protect against foreign
currency risk on cash inflow, using forward contracts.

Based on prior experience and an assessment of the current economic environment, management believes there is no further credit risk provision required in respect
of trade and intercompany receivables.

. 2024 2023

Expected credit loss for Intercompany receivables £'000 £000

Balance as at 1 September / 1 January (168,088) (167,032)
Charged to the income statement

Increase of provisions - (1,064)

lied 79,838 a

Balance at 31 August 25: (168,096)

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Aitrad Babcock Limited
Notes To The Financial Statements

For The Year Ended 31 August 2024
413. Trade and other recelyables (continued)

The expected credit toss for trade receivables is based on a review af financial circumstances of individual clients. The ageing of the impaired receivables based on
due date is as follows:

Expected

Trade receivables ECL Applied credit loss, N°t impaired

£'000 % £000 £'000

31 August 2004
Current 16,322 5.8% 954 15,368
Up to 3 months 373 0.0% : 373
3 to 6 months 634 0.0% - 634
6 to 12 months 316 0.0% : 316
Over 12 months (697) 0.0% (697) :
Totat 16,948 1.8% 257__—16,691
Due in <1 year 16.948 1.5% 257 16,691
Due in >1 year - ~ - -
31 August 2023

Current 20,164 1.5% 297 «19,867
Upto 3 months 3,266 0.7% 22 3,244
3 to 6 months . - 0.0% - -
6 to 12 months 423 28.3% 113 316
Over 12 months 3524 100.0% 3,524 5
Total 383 14.4% 3.956 23,427
Due in<1 year 24,557 4.6% 4.130 23.427
Due in>1 year 2,826 100.0% 2,826 :

The trade receivables disclosed above include amounts which are past due at the reporting date, but against which the Company has not recognised an expected
credit loss because there has not been a significant change in credit quality, and we have strong relationships with most of our clients. The Company does not hold any
collateral or other credit enhancements over these balances, nor does it have a legal right of offset against any amounts owed by the Company to the counterparty.

The expected credit loss (ECL) against the imercompany loans and receivables relates entirely 10 balances which have been outstanding for more than 12 months and
so no ageing is provided,

14, Creditors: Amounts falling duo within ono yoar
2024 2023
£'000 £000
Trade payables 47,958 46,212
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 19,145, 8,375
Other payables including taxation and social security 6,346 17,784
Accruals 29,161 32,917
Deferred income : 78
Subsidiaries called up share capital not paid 750 750
Total current liabilities 103,360 106,116
18, Borrowinas
2024 2023
£'000 £000
Current:
Loans from Companies in the Parent Group : 11,399
Total Borrowings a 11,399

This toan is from parent company Altrad UK Limited. The loan was settled in full during the year. Interest has been charged on this loan at standard Altrad Group rate
of 5.4%. Interest was payable every 6 months and the loan was repayable on demand,

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Altrad Babcock Limited
Notes To The Financial Statements

For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

16, Provisions for |iabilities

Office
Industrial Total non- Client Office closure Restructurn

cosure disease current daim costs Total nt Total
£'000 £'000 £'000 £000 £000 £'000 £000 £'000
Balance at 1 January 2023 - 9,867 9,867 60 - - 60 9,927
tncome statement charge 1,602 445 2,047 - 1,434 927 2,361 4,408
Unwinding of discount - 160 160 - - - - 160

lied in the - (352) (352) (60) = (249) (309) 661
Balance at 31 August 2023 1,602. 10,120 11,722 = 1.434 678 2,112 13,834
Income statement charge - (710) (710) - - - - (710)
Unwinding of discount - 220 220 - - : - 220
Applied in the year : (1,105) (1,105) - (2,047) (506) (2,553) (3,658)
Reclassification 1,602) = 1,602) - 1,602 = 1,602 -

Balance at 31 August 2024 = 8,525 8,525 = 989 172 1,161 9,686

The industrial disease provision of £8m (2023: £10m) relates to potential claims for which the Company may be liable, together with related legal costs. These daims
relate to employees who were working for the Company In a period prior to 1972 who were exposed to asbestos and are now suffering Illnesses because of this
exposure. Due to the nature of these claims, it is not possible to predict precisely when these provisions will be utilised, but it is anticipated that, in most cases, it would
be in the medium term. The provision comprises: (i) a current element based on actual claims received and estimates of the related amounts likely to be paid out
based on historical experience, and (ii) a future element derived by estimating the number and average value of future claims based on historical experience and using
an assumed inflation rate of 6.0% decreasing to 3.3% after 3 years and beyond with a discount rate of 2.2%.

17, tax asse!
Recelorated wimnnolding Pension Unused tax other Total
tax spreading losses
depreciation
£'000 £°000 £000 £'000 £'000 £7000
‘At 1 January 2023 3,963 (174) 3,761 9,701 1,798 19,049
{Charged) / credited to the Income statement 94 140 (1,884) 4,103 (4) (651)
Reclassification of R&D future tax benefit = = = ~ 453 153
At 31 August 2023 4,054 (34) 1,880 10,804 1,947 18,651
(Charged) / credited to the income statement (1,521) - (1,881) 4,301 (256) 643
Reclassification of R&D future tax benefit : 416) : : 103 13)
At31 August 2024 2,533 (150) u 15,105 1,794 19,281
At31 August 2023
Deferred tax assets 4,054 : 1,880 10,804 1,947 18,685
Deferred tax liabilities - _ (34) = : = (34)
4,054 (34) 1,880, 10,804 1,947 18,651
At 31 August 2024
Deferred tax assets 2,533 - (1) 15,105 1,794 19,431
Deferred tax liabilities = 150) = _ = = 150)
7 2,533 (150) 4 15,105, 1,794 19,281

Deferred tax asset has been recognised in respect of tax losses and other temporary differences because it is probable that these assets wil be recovered. In
considering their recoverability, the Company assesses the likelihood of their being recovered within a reasonably foreseeable timeframe of 5 years taking into account
current forecasts of expected profits of the Company, a pian to relieve losses to other UK Companies in the Altrad group, and any potential legislative restrictions on
use. The Company has a business plan to achieve these profits and has demonstrated its ability to carry this out through significant improvement in performance at
both the revenue and operating resutt levels. This business plan, improved near term outiook and a strong order book forecasts utilisation of these losses. The
estimates take account of the inherent uncertainties constraining the expected level of profit and any changes in these estimates will affect future profits and therefore
the period of recoverability of the deferred tax assets. The tax losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised amounts to £11m (2023: £33m). The
unrecognised tax deductions related to capital allowances for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised amounts to £7m (2023: Enil).

18, Called up share capital

2024 2023
£'000 £000

Allotted and fully paid:

69,957,000 (2023: 69,957,000) ordinary shares of £1 each 69,957 69,957

All ordinary shares are fully paid, ordinary sharescarry no fight to to fixed income, but each share carries the right to one vote at a general meeting of the Company.
There is no specified authorised share capital.

All shares are classed as equity.

Docusign Envelope ID: 17A3A6D4-46BD-4C 16-A7BC-B6EF63A91693

Altrad Babcock Limited
Notes To The Financial Statements

For The Year Ended 31 August 2024

19,_Rejated Pai insactions and Joint O; jons

As at the year-end there was a net balance of £2,446,000 (2023: £2,532,000) owed by Altrad Babcock Oil and Gas W.L.L (Qatar). These amounts are unsecured,
have no fixed date of repayment and are repayable on demand. During the year there was income of £Nii (2023: £8,000) and €Nil (2023:£200,000) of costs from this
entity

The Company has a total receivable of 2024: £38,500,000 (2023: £46,800,000) from Doosan Babcock Maint Services L.L.C., but the bafance has been fully impaired
to zero because it is not believed this company has sufficient future cash flows to enable to repay this loan. During the year there was income of ENil (2023: £5,000)
and £1,813,000 (2023:£ 1,342,000) of finance income fram this entity.

During the year, £74,625,000 loan balance was waived with a subsidiary. Since both the loan and the investment were already fully impaired, this had no net impact on
the balance sheet or income statement for Altrad Babock Limited.

The Company participates in two arrangements, described below, which it regards as joint operations because in each case {a) there is no separate legal entity
through which the business of the arrangement is conducted, and (b) the Company has concluded on the basis of the govemance and financial terms of the
arrangement that it has joint contro! with the other partners.

The Company is one of three partners with equal one-third interests in an arrangement known as ADAPT, under which the partners collaborate to provide services
under the Decommissioning Delivery Partner framework to a customer in the nuclear energy sector. ADAPT’s principal place of business is in the UK.

The Company is one of three partners with equal one-third interests in an arrangement known as KAD, under which the partners collaborate to provide services under
the Nuclear Technical Support Provider framework to a public sector customer. KAD’s principal place of business Is In the UK.

20. Ultimate parent undertaking
The immediate parent undertaking Is Altrad UK Limited, a company registered In England and Wales.

‘The ultimate parent undertaking of Altrad Babcock Limited is Altrad Participations, a company registered in France. Copies of the financial statements of Altrad
Participations can be obtained from the Company Secretary, 16 Avenue de la Gardie, 34510 Florensac, France.

29

