o000

Ark Schools

Consolidated annual report and financial statements

31 August 2024

Company limited by guarantee, registration number 05112090 (England and Wales)

THURSDAY

*ADVBO4MH*
AI7 #46

30/01/2025
COMPANIES HOUSE

Contents

Reference and administrative details ...............cccccssseeseeeeeeees 3
Directors CepOrt 2... ccc ce eecenseseeseseeeseereneeeeeseeeessseeeaesaeses 4
Governance statement...........-..- oseesecssessssescasecaussasessesasesaesaneenes 27
Statement of regularity, propriety, and compliance................. 32
Statement of directors’ responsibilities «0.0... cccsesnsseseesees 33

Independent auditor's report to the member of Ark Schools... 34

Independent reporting accountant’s report on regularity........ 40

Financial statements

Consolidated statement of financial activities

Balance Sheets ooo... eee esseteseeseersecresesseeseaesessessseersnsseeeseeseeeneees 43
Consolidated statement of cash fIOWS .......ccceeceeceressteeteeneee 44
Principal accounting Policies ............cssscssesseererserssecsserseeseenes 46

Notes to the financial statements

Reference and administrative details

Member

Trustees

Company Secretary

Senior Management Team

Registered office

Registration number

Auditor

Bankers

Solicitors

Absolute Return for Kids (referred to within these accounts as ‘Ark’)

Tina Alexandrou (Appointed as Chair on 12 April 2024)
Lord Stanley Fink

Fiona Forbes

Gerard Griffin

Richard King

Anthony Williams

Lucy Heller

Elizabeth Dawson (Resigned 24 May 2024)
Megan Mannion (Appointed 24 May 2024, resigned 27 September 2024)
Kathryn Godfrey (Appointed 27 September 2024)

Jerry Collins

Elizabeth Dawson (Resigned 24 May 2024)
Rose Dixon (Appointed 4 March 2024)
Laurie Grist

Lucy Heller

Sarah Pearson (Resigned 26 July 2024)
Jacqueline Russell

Maire Sloman (Appointed 3 June 2024)
Venessa Willms

1EdCity
EdCity Walk
London
W12 7TF

05112090 (England and Wales)

Buzzacott LLP
130 Wood Street
London

EC2V 6DL

Lloyds Bank plc
95 George Street
Croydon

CR9 2NS

Stone King LLP
Boundary House

91 Charterhouse Street
London

EC1M 6HR

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

The directors, who are also trustees of the charitable company, Ark Schools, present their annual
report and the audited consolidated financial statements of Ark Schools for the year to 31 August
2024 and its subsidiary company, Ark Academies Projects Limited (registered company in England
and Wales number 04101629), together known as ‘the Group’.

The report has been prepared in accordance with Part 8 of the Charities Act 2011 and it is also the
report of the trustees for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out on
pages 46 to 53 and comply with the charitable company’s memorandum and articles of
association, applicable laws and the requirements of the Accounting and Reporting by Charities:
Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance
with the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland
(FRS 102).

Objectives and activities
Objects and Aims

Ark Schools’ charitable objects, as laid out within our governing document, are to advance for the
public benefit education in the United Kingdom, in particular but without prejudice to, the
generality of the foregoing by:

(a) Establishing, maintaining, carrying on, managing, and developing schools offering a broad
curriculum with a strong emphasis on, but in no way limited to, one or a combination of
the specialisms specified in the funding agreements entered into between the Trust and
the Secretary of State.

Providing childcare facilities and adult training to develop the capacity and skills of

parents-to-be and parents with children primarily but not exclusively under five in such a
way that they are better able to identify and help meet the needs of children.

(b

a

Public benefit

The trustees have referred to the Charity Commission guidance on public benefit when reviewing
the charitable company’s objectives and aims and planning future activities and consider that the
charitable company’s aims are for the public benefit.

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Strategic report: achievements and plans for the future

Past Achievements

We have made good progress over the last two decades towards our vision that all children have
access to a great education and real choices in life.

Today, Ark Schools serves 30,000 students in our network of 39 schools across Birmingham,
Hastings, London, and Portsmouth. The wider work of the charity has also been instrumental in
raising standards beyond Ark Schools, influencing the system by sharing what we know to benefit
children nationally.

Through our work with Ark Start, Ark’s nursery programme, we can now provide education from
two to 18 - working throughout a child’s school journey, to reduce the achievement gap between
more and less advantaged children.

There remains a strong need for schools that can deliver for disadvantaged students. Post-
pandemic, we have seen:

e  Areversal in gains that had been made to close the attainment gap between disadvantaged
students and their peers.

¢ One million children living in destitution in 2023, nearly three times as many as in 2017.

@ One in five young people are now living with a mental health concern, compared to one in
nine in before Covid.

e Young people are now twice as likely to be persistently absent from school.

In this context, we are pleased to have made good progress in all of our strategic aims over the
past year.

The year in summary
Highlights from the past year include:

¢ Once again, Ark Schools was among the highest performing multi-academy trusts for Key
Stage 2 primary results.

e The number of students progressing to top third universities rose dramatically (13
percentage points up on the previous year).

e Exceptional Progress 8 performance placed four Ark secondary schools in the top five
percent of all schools across the country.

e Following 17 Ofsted inspections, 36 of our 39 schools are now rated Good or Outstanding.

e@ We expanded our personal development offer with an exciting new pilot arts programme in
partnership with the Clore Duffield Foundation.

¢ 190 new teachers completed the Ark Teacher Training programme — the eleventh and
biggest cohort to date.

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Strategic report: achievements and plans for the future (continued)

The year in summary (continued)

Highlights from the past year (continued)

Phase one of the EdCity development completed, including the opening of Ark White City
Primary and WEST Youth Zone. The Prince of Wales visited the centre and met with students
from the local community. In September 2024, Ark & Ark Schools moved into the new office
at 1EdCity . We are grateful to the Ark trustees, to the London Borough of Hammersmith
and Fulham, and to the other partners who have worked to make EdCity a reality.

Strong student performance, with results for disadvantaged students well above national
averages

Achild leaving an Ark primary school was 15 percentage points more likely to be on track in
reading, writing and Maths than the national average, with 76 percent achieving the
expected standard compared to 61 percent nationally. Children from disadvantaged
backgrounds in Ark schools are now more likely to meet the expected standard than non-
disadvantaged children nationally (69 v 67 percent).

At GCSE, 66 percent of all Ark students achieved 4+ in English and Maths, up two
percentage points on last year. Students achieving 5+ in English and Maths rose to 47
percent, up three percentage points compared to the previous year.

Pupil premium students taking the English Baccalaureate (EBACC) made better progress
than all pupils nationally.

Many of our schools made significant improvements in outcomes, including Ark Kings (+6
percentage points) and Ark Charter (+12 percentage points) for 4+ grades in English and
Maths.

Exceptionally high progress scores placed four of our schools amongst the top performing
secondaries in the country. Provisional data shows that Ark Greenwich Free School (+1.4)
was in the top 15 schools nationally, King Solomon Academy (+1.18) in the top one
percent, Ark Bolingbroke (+1.05) in the top two percent, and Ark Isaac Newton (+0.91) in
the top five percent. Ark students eligible for pupil premium had an average progress score
of -0.03 compared to a national average for disadvantaged students of

-0.57. This means that, on average, disadvantaged Ark students made over half a grade
more progress than disadvantaged students nationally.

In Key Stage 5, 80 percent of all A level grades were A*-C, up three percentage points on
2023 and four percentage points above the national average. The proportion of students
achieving three or more A*-C grades also increased by three percentage points, to 65
percent.

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Strategic report: achievements and plans for the future (continued)

The year in summary (continued)

Strong student performance, with results for disadvantaged students well above national
averages (continued) .

e Forty-one percent of students taking A level-equivalent BTEC qualifications achieved
distinctions graded D*DD or higher, two percentage points up on last year.

e Alps grades (which measure the performance of our schools given the starting points of
their students) for both A-level and BTEC remain in line with last year at a grade 4 for both
qualifications. This indicates that progress is above average.

e  Eighty-three percent of all Ark sixth form students progressed to university — more
than twice the national average of 37 percent. Of those going to university, 70 percent are
progressing to a top third university, a big jump up from 55 percent in 2023.

e Ten students secured places at Oxford or Cambridge. Fourteen went on to high-quality
degree apprenticeships with organisations such as Bloomberg and Accenture.

e Bursaries totalling £970k were awarded to 58 students to support university costs. 76
percent of bursary awardees are the first generation in their family to attend university.

More Ark schools are now good or outstanding

There were seventeen Ofsted inspections in Ark schools this year. All bar one of the judgements
was Good or Outstanding:

e Ark Pioneer and Ark Soane, both new schools, received Outstanding grades on their first
inspections. Three other schools retained their Outstanding grades and Ark Little Ridge was
upgraded from Good to Outstanding.

e We were particularly pleased that both Ark Kings and Ark St Albans now have Good grades.

e = Ark Alexandra was judged Good in all areas, except behaviour, which meant the school
retained its Requires Improvement grading. The report recognised that the school sets high
expectations for behaviour and attendance, but the impact of recent improvements in
these areas was yet to be fully realised.

In light of the government's decision to end one-word judgements, we will be revising how we
communicate Ofsted judgements over the upcoming year.

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Strategic report: achievements and plans for the future (continued)

The year in summary (continued)

Our enrichment and personal development programmes are increasing wellbeing and
developing skills for work and life

Fifteen years after launching Ark Music, we are seeing what is possible for music in state
schools and remain determined to ensure that every child has a rich and broad musical
experience. Across the network, 4,000 students took part in free music-making activities
beyond core music lessons. Ark students from disadvantaged backgrounds are 50 percent
more likely to pass their Music GCSE than disadvantaged students nationally (75 percent
compared to 50 percent). Eight Ark students sing with the National Youth Choir of Great
Britain.

Ark Sport was launched in 2022 so that every child attending an Ark school could develop a
love of movement and find a sport that they enjoy. In just two years, it has transformed
the sporting culture of our schools: all 30,000 Ark students have increased access to free
clubs, over 2,500 have entered competitions and nearly 100 have been selected for a
scholarship. Two scholars won gold medals this year at the English Schools Track and Field
Championships.

The Ark Clore Duffield Cultural Learning Programme successfully completed its first year.
The pilot, which will run for another three years and expand into other regions across
England, is designed to develop a new approach to arts education. We want to see how
school trusts can use their scale and strategic oversight to connect with local, regional, and
national arts organisations in meaningful ways. This year, the focus was on arts
engagement, including providing activities for 3,000 pupils in Hastings as well as training
for 500 teachers. Partners include the Tate, the Royal Opera House, and the National
Theatre.

Historically, Personal Development has not had the same rigour or profile in schools as
core subjects. Through our Personal Development Framework, expectations for best
practice have now been standardised. The framework is being used by all 39 schools to
guide their implementation journey across ten strands of work. All schools are now
delivering good or outstanding Personal Development (judged either by Ofsted or internal
monitoring visits).

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Strategic report: achievements and plans for the future (continued)

The year in summary (continued)
We have responded to the near trebling of student mental health concerns since 2019

Through our Mentally Healthy Schools strategy, we are providing in-school specialist services so
that any student can access the help they need, when they need it. We are embedding -
preventative approaches to mental health into daily school life, so that every Ark school can be a
mentally healthy school. The strategy is delivered in partnership with leading mental health
charities, Place2Be and Healthy Minds at Work. This year, nearly 2,500 students attended group
support sessions and more than 500 had specialist counselling.

Our Al strategy launched, with a focus on student outcomes and organisational efficiency

Increasingly, we see that Artificial Intelligence (Al) has the potential to help solve some of
education’s most persistent challenges. But there are also risks in the areas of data privacy, cyber
security, and over-reliance on Al generated content. During the past academic year, we delivered
Al awareness training to all teaching staff across Ark schools, and bespoke training sessions for a
range of teaching, operations, and central staff. Training has focused on the safe and productive
use of Large Language Models, with Copilot being our preferred tool.

Attendance remains a focus

School absence is strongly linked to outcomes, so improving attendance remains a key focus area.
While the national figures have yet to be published for 2023/24, we have sought to build on the
foundations of the previous year which saw persistent absence among Ark’s students who receive
Free School Meals significantly lower than the national average (21.3% vs 36.5%).

Ark Learning Institute established to bring together our professional development offer

We believe Ark School’s approach to professional development is one of our most distinct qualities,
and essential to our mission. Through the Ark Learning Institute, we are bringing all of our training
functions together into an organisation that will serve the development of over 3,500 employees
and impact the wider education sector. The Institute launched in October 2024 and operates from
EdCity, where it can take advantage of the exceptional new training and workshop facilities.

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Strategic report: achievements and plans for the future (continued)

Our schools and the wider work of Ark
Ark’s wider work as a charity continued to benefit Ark Schools this year.
EdCity

In October 2023, Ark White City Primary opened at the EdCity campus in West London. Ark Schools’
central team followed, moving into new offices at 1EdCity over the summer. The space includes
training and event facilities, designed to bring mission-aligned organisations and the sector
together to focus on improving the lives of children, especially through education.

EdCity is a unique not-for-profit partnership between Ark and the London Borough of
Hammersmith & Fulham. The ambitious £150m regeneration project is designed to open up social,
economic, and educational opportunities for the White City community of every generation, from
infants to adults. When completed, the campus will include the primary school and office block, as
well as a nursery, a youth zone, an adult education centre, and 132 affordable homes.

Ark Start

As a network, we know that we cannot achieve our ambitions for every child without solving the
inequity that exists in the early years. Ark Start was set up by Ark as an independent nursery group,
partnering with Ark Schools, to provide quality early years care to children who were not able to
access this previously. Ark Oval and Ark John Archer were the first to have an Ark Start nursery and
in 2024/25 two further sites will open at Ark Globe and Ark Brunel. In July, Ark Start welcomed
Bridget Phillipson to Ark Start Oval for her very first visit as the new Secretary of State for
Education.

Ark Curriculum Plus

Ark Curriculum Plus (ACP) continues to use what we have learned in Ark schools to support
improved subject outcomes in over 700 schools nationally. This year, ACP launched new
programmes in geography and science and partnered with Ambition Institute to develop a new
National Professional Qualification for Leading Primary Maths (NPQLPM).

10

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Strategic report: achievements and plans for the future (continued)
Plans for the Future

The coming year is a period of transition for Ark Schools. We will further embed existing priorities
from the 2021-24 strategic plan and use the year to set our longer-term direction and future goals.
Ark School’s 2024/25 network priorities are:

Excellent schools

We will continue to drive quality of teaching through targeted development opportunities,
with the launch of the Ark Learning Institute as a major milestone. Schools will also be
supported to increase impact through our reading and personal development strategies.
We will test which Al and digital innovation tools can help drive academic outcomes and
operational sustainability.

Sustainable organisation

Apart from Early Years, there is unlikely to be significant additional public funding for
schools in the short to medium term. We will increase financial sustainability by improving
operational effectiveness where we can, through better systems, tools, and more efficient
structures. Schools will also be supported to fundraise for items such as sports equipment
and instruments through trusts and foundations.

Workforce and recruitment
This year we will trial new approaches to flexible working, improve professional
development for operations staff, and continue to focus on recruitment and retention.

The Ark Learning Institute aims to increase the number of new teacher trainees by 10
percent in the coming year, and to further build upon our 200 school partnerships.

Ark Share

Through our wider Ark programmes, we will aim to increase our impact on outcomes for
children within and beyond Ark’s current network. As we celebrate the move to EdCity,
the focus will be on activating the new space as a centre for education and securing rental
terms for the office building.

Ark’s school-based programmes will also grow their impact:

e = Ark Start’s main aim for 2024/25 will be to drive expansion (to eight sites) and
grow its profile as a model for early years.

e = Ark Curriculum Plus will launch its English Mastery Primary programme nationally
and aims to increase adoption of its recently launched Geography and Science
programmes.

Future strategy
We have begun work on the formation of a new ten-year strategy and three-year strategic
plan that will set out our aspirations and drive our activity over the coming years.

11

Directors’ report (including strategic report) ‘
Year to 31 August 2024

Structure, governance, and management

Constitution

Ark Schools was established in 2004. It is a company limited by guarantee and an exempt charity.
The charitable company’s memorandum and articles of association are the primary governing
documents of the academy trust. The directors of Ark Schools are also the trustees of the charitable
company for the purposes of charity law. Ark Schools’ sponsor charity, Absolute Return for Kids
(referred to within these accounts as ‘Ark’), provides a separate annual report and accounts on its
work. Details of the trustees who served during the year, and to the date these accounts are
approved, are included in the Reference and Administrative Details on page 3.

Member's liability

The member of the charitable company is the principal sponsor, Ark. As the member, Ark is liable
to contribute a maximum of £10 to the company’s assets if it should be wound up while Ark is a
member or within one year after it ceases to be a member, for payment of the charitable
company’s debts and liabilities.

Trustees’ indemnities

In accordance with normal commercial practice, Ark Schools insures its trustees against errors,
negligent acts, or omissions relating to their work for Ark Schools for up to £2m on any single
claim. Four trustees served as Chairs or Governors of an Ark school local governing body for all or
part of the year.

Method of recruitment and appointment of trustees

The Articles of Association require at least three trustees to hold office at any given time. The
trustees who served during the year are shown on page 3. When new trustees are to be
appointed, the Board approves an appropriate process and criteria for recruitment. This includes a
review of the skill and capability requirements of the Board, the current needs of the school
network, good practice governance for multi-academy trusts, and the requirements of the
charitable company’s governing documents.

Policies and procedures for the induction and training of trustees

Trustees are briefed regularly by the senior management team on educational, financial, and other
Ark Schools matters through a combination of briefings at Board meetings, other sessions, visits to
schools and individual meetings. When new trustees join the Board, tailored induction training is
arranged to give new trustees a good understanding of the wider education context, Ark Schools’
mission and aspirations, the operation of the network, and their governance responsibilities.

12

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Structure, governance, and management (continued)
Organisational structure

The trustees set general policy, approve the annual plan and budget, monitor performance against
the plan and budget, and make major decisions about the direction of the charitable company,
capital expenditure, and senior staff appointments.

The trustees delegate the day-to-day management responsibility to the senior management team,
who are listed on page 3, led by the Managing Director, Lucy Heller. The running of each individual
school is delegated to its Principal.

There is a local governing body (LGB) attached to each school. The LGB provides local challenge
and support to the school, reviewing and monitoring school performance data, annual school
plans and financial reports. The LGB are consulted on the budget prior to Board approval and are
kept informed on internal audit outcomes. Parental and community engagement is a key element
of the LGB, considering local stakeholder voice and participating in local school events.

The organisational structure of Ark Schools’ wholly owned subsidiary is described within the
“Related Parties and other Connected Charities and Organisations” section below.

Arrangements for setting key management pay and remuneration

The trustees consider that they and the senior management team comprise the key management
personnel of Ark Schools in charge of directing, controlling, running, and operating the charitable

company on a day-to-day basis. Lucy Heller is an employee of Ark, as disclosed in note 24. None of
the trustees receive any remuneration for their services as trustees.

Ark Schools' senior management team salaries are set on appointment and follow market
conditions. The Managing Director of Ark Schools approves all senior management team salaries
on appointment. A remuneration committee recommends to the Board the pay assumptions to be
used throughout the network. The salaries of Principals are reviewed by the remuneration
committee as are all central salary increases over £5k. The Managing Director's salary is paid by
Ark and is decided by a subcommittee of the Ark Board.

Fundraising

Ark Schools is supported to raise funds by a small team of professional fundraisers employed by
our sponsor charity, Ark. Ark fundraises from a defined list of individuals, companies, and
charitable trusts and foundations. This list is carefully considered, and approaches are only made
to those we already have a connection to, or we think may have an interest in Ark’s work.

Ark does not conduct mass mailing or telephone campaign fundraising and does not outsource
fundraising activities. Our schools conduct their own fundraising and may use fundraising
platforms such as Just Giving to promote specific school campaigns.

Donor data is handled securely and with care in accordance with statutory obligations. Ark is a
member of the Fundraising Regulator and complies with advice and guidance set by it. Ark has
never received any fundraising complaints.

13

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Employee involvement

Ark Schools is a collegiate network, encouraging staff contributions at all levels and close
collaboration between the schools. Principals meet regularly to share knowledge and good
practice. The Ark Schools training programme provides information and access to internal and
externa! professional development and support. Network days are held for subject specific
training. New staff are fully inducted, and teachers take part in training before the start of and
during each school year. Staff surveys are conducted on an annual basis and the feedback shared
across the network and with trustees.

Disabled employees

Ark Schools ensures that training, career development, and promotion opportunities are available
to all employees. Applications for employment by disabled people are given full and fair
consideration. When employees become disabled, every effort is made to meet their needs so that
their employment may continue. Some school buildings have restricted access in areas that have
yet to be modernised. In such cases, the schools manage access through room allocations.
Modernised and new buildings are designed to comply with statutory regulations for disabled
access.

Related Parties and other Connected Charities and Organisations

The following are connected organisations within the meaning of the latest Accounts Direction
issued by the Education and Skills Funding Agency:

¢ Absolute Return for Kids (‘Ark’) - Company no. 04589451, Charity no. 1095322 (see note 23)
e Ark UK Programmes — Company no. 05932797, Charity no. 1137932 (see note 23)

« = Ark Academies Projects Ltd — Company no. 04101629 (see note 23 and below)

e  EdCity Office - Company no. 11596797, Charity no. 1184547 (see note 23)

e EdCity Management Company Limited - Company no. 11528726 (see note 23)

« EdCity Development Limited —- Company no. 1151870 (see note 23)

Ark Academies Projects Limited is a wholly owned trading subsidiary of Ark Schools. The
company’s principal activity is the provision of nursery education and the letting of facilities at
several schools operated by Ark Schools. The results of the trading subsidiary have been
consolidated in arriving at the group figures contained in these financial statements.

EdCity Office, EdCity Management Company Limited and EdCity Development Limited are Special
Purpose Vehicles which were established to manage the EdCity project. Ark (company no.
04589451) is the sole member of these companies and a shareholder. Ark UK Programmes
(company no. 05932797) is a 100% subsidiary of Ark.

14

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Engagement with parents, students, and the community

Trustees see their responsibilities to understand and consider the views of students and parents as
stakeholders as key to the success of individual schools and the network. Student voice is a regular
part of school life and channels of communication are available to parents both at school and trust
level. There are two parent governor spaces on each local governing body providing an additional
layer of engagement. Consultations are held as necessary both at school and community level
before decisions are taken.

Engagement with suppliers and other business relationships

Ark Schools has a procurement code of practice which defines the processes that the organisation
must follow to tender for new or existing contracts. All contracts over £50,000 must be formally
tendered. Decision making follows our Decision Making Framework and Financial Scheme of
Delegation, which is overseen by our Risk and Audit Committee. We follow the guidelines set out
in the Academies Trust Handbook, including ensuring that all trustees and local governors fully
disclose any interests with details published on our website where relevant.

Promoting the success of Ark Schools

In making decisions, the trustees and senior management team aim always to work towards giving
children and young people the best start in life. In doing this, we are mindful of the pressures on
our teaching and operational staff at schools and in network roles. Our schools are often at the
heart of our communities, and we encourage interaction at a local community level. We strive for
the highest standard of conduct and are always mindful to follow the seven principles of public
life.

15

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Streamlined energy and carbon reporting

The Energy and Carbon Reporting Regulations came into force on 1 April 2019. As the trust
consumes more than 40,000 kWh of energy, we report below our energy consumption for the year
to 31 August 2024.

UK Greenhouse gas emissions and energy use data 2023/24 2022/23
Energy consumption used to calculate
emissions (kWh) 34,857,225 45,638,712

Energy consumption breakdown (kWh)
(optional)
: gas 20,275,389 30,647,053
electricity 14,319,917 14,795,374
transport fuel 261,919 196,285

Scope 1 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e
Gas consumption

Owned transport — mini-buses

Total

3,708.37 5,606.23
20.47 14.02
3,728.84 5,620.25

Scope 2 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e
Purchased electricity

Scope 3 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e
Business travel in employee-owned vehicles
Total gross emissions in metric tonnes CO2e

Intensity ratio
Tonnes CO2e per pupil
Pupil Numbers

Quantification and reporting methodology

3,064

32.85
8,717.10

We follow the Government’s 2019 HM Government Environmental Reporting Guidelines. We have
also used the GHG Reporting Protocol — Corporate Standard and have used the 2023 UK
Government’s Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.

The chosen intensity measurement ratio is total gross emissions in metric tonnes CO2e per pupil,
the recommended ratio for the sector.

16

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Streamlined energy and carbon reporting (continued)
Measures taken to improve energy efficiency

The trust has been developing its overarching decarbonisation strategy since 2019 and has the
ambition to reduce both its electricity and gas carbon by 75 percent by 2030. To meet this aim, we
have completed comprehensive energy surveys of our schools and are now actively rolling out a
programme of LED and photovoltaic installations. All our schools have smart meters to help us get
a more detailed picture of consumption so we can target reduced consumption. We are using Al
technology in our more complex schools to help us manage our building management systems.
This year, we hired an Energy Manager to work with our schools on their energy reduction plans.
We are pleased to see a real reduction in our gas consumption this year and hope to see a step
change in electricity usage in the coming year.

Trade union facility time

There were 38 (2022/23: 53) Ark Schools’ employees and 30 (2022/23: 49) expressed as full-time
equivalents who were relevant trade union officials in 2023/24. None (2022/23: seven) of these
employees spent between 51 percent and 99 percent of their contracted hours on facility time, 34
of these employees (2022/23: 42) spent between 1 percent and 50 percent of their contracted
hours on facility time, and four of these employees (2022/23: four} spent none of their contracted
hours on facility time. The total cost of the facility time to Ark Schools was £28k in 2023/24
(2022/23: £33k), equating to 0.013 percent (2022/23: 0.017 percent) of its total pay bill of
£213.5m (2022/23: £197.3m) in the same period. The total time spent on trade union activities as
a percentage of total paid facility time hours was 100 percent (2022/23: 100 percent).

Going concern

The trustees are confident that, despite the current financial challenges, Ark Schools has sufficient
resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future. The trustees have looked at the
financial position, including income, expenditure, and reserves, on our beneficiaries, and
employees. While we acknowledge the increased cost pressures on the day-to-day operations,
action is being taken to bring the network to an operating surplus, as set out in the section below,
and therefore we do not consider these to be a cause for material uncertainty in respect of Ark
Schools’ ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements have therefore been
prepared on a going concern basis. The principal accounting policies give further information.

17

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Financial review

Asummary of the results for the year is included in the statement of financial activities on page 42.
The operational result for the year (which excludes capital income and expenditure, buildings
transferred into the network, and non-cash pension adjustments in respect of defined benefit
schemes) is summarised below:

Income and expenditure

Years ended 31 August 2024 2023

£m £m
OfE revenue grants 244.4 230.3
Other grants and income (excluding capital) 15.7 13.6
Other trading activities 3.4 3.1
Voluntary income (excluding capital) 6.6 64
Total operating income 270.1 253.4

Academy Educational Operations

- Direct costs excluding depreciation 141.4 130.8
- Educational support costs excluding capital 126.1 117.5
- Development, Governance, and fundraising 4.1 3.6
Total operating expenditure 271.6 251.9
Net operating income (1.5) 15

This year we made a conscious decision to invest in educational outcomes and ensure our pupils
have the support they need. Naturally, this necessary investment has incurred additional costs,
and this has impacted on the financial results in several of our schools, resulting in a £1.5m deficit
for the network. The challenge of low-income inflation with high-cost inflation has also hit all
schools, with the sustainability of our London primaries remaining a focus. We are now actively
looking at a review of our cost base to identify efficiencies. This efficiency and effectiveness drive
is fully supported by our Risk and Audit Committee, with regular reporting to our full Trustee
Board. A full reconciliation of the operating result is provided at note 29 to the financial
statements.

In addition to our investment in education, we remain committed to ensure all our schools are fit
for purpose. We have continued to invest in our IT and estates infrastructure. Our focus has been
on roof and window replacements and green initiatives, with an active campaign to install LEDs
and photovoltaics in our schools to reduce energy costs. These investments are delivering results
with consumption levels reducing. Total capital additions were £16.8m in 2023/24 (2022/23:
£23.8m). While most additions were funded by capital income, a significant proportion was funded
by revenue reserves. This, alongside the operating deficit, has resulted in a net decline in our
revenue reserves of £5.5m (2022/23: £3.4m).

18

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Financial review (continued)

Our target remains to hold school reserves at 3 percent of annual operating income for long term
security and investment in our estates and IT infrastructure. For this purpose, reserves are
classified as the balance of restricted GAG reserves, capital and IT reserves, and any unrestricted
reserves. We have invested heavily in improving educational outcomes, and with these now secure
in the majority of our schools, we are confident that we can return to this target.

Summary of assets and liabilities

As at 31 August 2024 2023
£m £m
Fixed assets 496.3 499.7
Current assets 48.3 63.6
Current liabilities (34.7) (45.1)
Total assets less current liabilities 509.9 518.2
Liabilities due after one year (1.8) {1.8)
Pension deficit (1.5) (2.2)
Net assets 506.6 514.2
Represented by:
Fixed assets fund 502.6 505.4
Pension reserve (1.5) (2.2)
Revenue reserves
- Restricted 3.3 9.2
- Unrestricted 2.2 1.8
Grand total 506.6 514.2

Fixed assets have decreased to £496.3m (2022/23: £499.7m). The total fixed assets balance
includes £16.5m for our new Ark White City Primary which opened to pupils during the year. This
new build, which is part of the EdCity development, was only possible through generous donations
from Ark who fully funded the rebuild.

Ark Soane, which opened to pupils in 2022/23, is awaiting formal practical completion of their site
and is currently occupying under a license to occupy. Therefore, the building is not included in
fixed assets.

The pension deficit has decreased to £1.5m from £2.2m. This is a 32 percent decrease in pension
liability, in line with the sector average. There has been no major change to the nature of the
liabilities. The valuation is based on spot rates at 31 August 2024 and subject to stock market
fluctuations.

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Financial review (continued)

Thirty-seven schools would have ended the year with a pension asset. These have been capped to a
nil liability position as required under FRS 102 and under the terms of funding agreements.

School capital reserves increased by £0.6m (2022/23: £0.4m increase). These reserves are held to
fund future investment in estate and IT infrastructure. All schools have ten-year IT refresh plans.

Financial outlook for 2024/25

While we are grateful for the additional Core Schools Budget Grant to fund the teachers’ pay
award, the financial outlook for 2024/25 continues to be extremely challenging. Schools are
budgeting an operating surplus of £2.3m in 2024/25 and we will work with them to ensure that
this is delivered. In addition, we are undertaking a full review of our cost base, focusing on
efficiencies and effectiveness, fully supported by our Risk and Audit Committee and Board. This
will focus initially on curriculum efficiencies, catering and energy. While curriculum efficiencies will
take time to implement, we expect to deliver savings on energy and catering in 2024/25. We
expect capital spending to continue to be high as we deliver projects to replace roofs, windows, and
lighting with new LED lights. In addition to ensuring financial sustainability and delivering on our
core objective of delivering excellent schools, we are now developing our new ten-year strategic plan
which will be launched in September 2025.

Financial report for the year
Operating income

Total operating income was £270.1m (2022/23: £253.4m). Approximately 90 percent of operating
income comes from the DfE as recurrent grants (2022/23: 91 percent). These grants and the
associated expenditure are included within restricted funds in the statement of financial activities.
For the year ended 31 August 2024, DfE/ESFA revenue grants were £244.4m (2022/23: £230.3m)
which are all restricted to core school activities.

Non-core activity is funded separately. For the year ended 31 August 2024, other grants and income
were £15.7m (2023: £13.6m). Lettings income and Ark Ayrton nursery generated

£3.4m (2022/23: £3.1m). Additional voluntary income from the sponsor organisation, Ark, and its
subsidiaries and others amounted to £6.6m (2022/23: £6.4m).

Operating expenditure

Total operating expenditure for the year ended 31 August 2024 was £271.6m (2022/23:
£251.9m). Direct costs excluding depreciation accounted for 52 percent (2022/23: 52 percent) of
the total operating expenditure. The network continues to be supported by voluntary income for
specific network programmes.

20

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Financial report for the year (continued)
Impact of capital items, depreciation, and pension scheme adjustments

Once voluntary income, capital grants, net asset transfers from Local Authorities, depreciation, and
pension scheme adjustments were included, the outcome for the year to 31 August 2024 was a net
decrease in funds of £7.6m (2022/23: increase of £19.2m). This net decrease includes a £0.7m
increase in funds in the pension liability. Total income was £285.1m (2022/23: £272.7m). This
includes a £1.7m capital grant from Ark for the Ark White City Primary development on the EdCity
site, bringing the total capital grant from Ark for the project to £16.5m.

Academies are funded by the ESFA and the DfE for both school operations and capital projects and
the way income is recognised has three important consequences for Ark Schools’ financial
statements:

e Capital grant receipts from the Df€ are recorded as income in the income and expenditure
account. In accordance with the Charities Statement of Recommended Practice, ‘Accounting
and Reporting by Charities’ (Charities SORP FRS 102), these grants are shown in the Statement
of Financial Activities as restricted income under the fixed assets fund.

e Ark Schools capitalises the school buildings it leases on a long-term basis but does not receive
recurring capital grants at levels that fully offset the depreciation charges on the whole estate.
The restricted fixed assets fund balance is reduced by annual depreciation charges over the
expected useful life of the assets concerned. This leads to accounting deficits once the grant
programmes are completed. These deficits do not represent a cash shortfall.

e Ark Schools is required to record any change in the attributable share of local government
pension scheme surpluses or deficits, although the trustees have no control over the
management of the pension funds, their financial arrangements or investment decisions. The
network is required to remain a member of these pension schemes. Additionally, Ark Schools
assumes the pension liability of new schools that join the network thus increasing the overall
liability. Ark Schools accepts its financial responsibilities and has fully implemented the
provisions of section 28 of FRS 102 relating to the pension schemes. Ark Schools understands
that with effect from 18 July 2013, in the unlikely event that an academy trust ceased
operating altogether, Parliament has agreed, at the request of the Secretary of State for
Education, that the DfE would meet any outstanding pension liability. On 21 July 2022, the
Df€ reaffirmed its commitment to the guarantee, with a parliamentary minute published on
the GOV.UK website.

21

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Financial report for the year (continued)
Net assets

At 31 August 2024, net assets were £506.6m (2022/23: £514.2m) and the net book value of
tangible fixed assets was £496.3m (2022/23: £499.7m). The majority of assets are long term
leasehold school buildings that have been granted to Ark Schools by the owners of the freehold,
typically the Local Authority, Diocese or Charitable Foundation.

At 31 August 2024, investments were £0.155m (2022/23: £0.138m). Investments relate to surplus.
school funds that are invested with a fund manager (see note 23).

Reserves policy and financial position

Restricted revenue reserves relate to unspent income from donors that are school or project
specific.

Total funds at 31 August 2024 were £506.6m (2022/23: £514.2m), which consisted of £504.4m
restricted funds (2022/23: £512.4m) and £2.2m unrestricted funds (2022/23: £1.8m). Of the total
restricted funds, £3.3m (2022/23: £9.2m) represents revenue reserves which are restricted by the
donor for specific schools or projects.

The level of available reserves, defined as unrestricted reserves pilus restricted GAG and other
donations, is kept under close review by the directors as there is a need for schools to continue
investing in their capital and infrastructure while holding adequate working capital.

The directors believe that schools should target an amount, equivalent to at least 3 percent of their
annual operating income, for long-term security and for capital and IT infrastructure projects to
ensure our school estate remains fit for purpose. These reserves are in addition to reserves held
centrally. We allow schools to include their capital and IT reserves in this target, as we encourage
schools to actively set aside funds for these purposes. Currently, 16 (2022/23: 13) schools fail to
meet this threshold and we are working with them as part of our long-term planning process to
improve the level of reserves they hold.

During the year, we transferred nil (2022/23: £1.9m) from unrestricted funds and £4.0m (2022/23:
£3.0m) from restricted funds to fund capital expenditure. Each school is encouraged to have a
dedicated IT reserve. This totals £3.7m (2022/23: £3.2m). This amount, alongside capital reserves,
is included in the restricted fixed assets fund (see note 16 to the financial statements). This is to
ensure schools have adequate funds available to invest in IT infrastructure.

Our combined reserves, which include revenue reserves plus capital and IT reserves, total £11.9m,
4.4% of operating income. The directors are confident that there are funds in place to maintain
the school estate and infrastructure, and that the level of reserves provides sufficient contingency
to cover unforeseen events.

Included within restricted funds is the pension reserve deficit of £1.5m (see note 20) (2022/23:
£2.2m), as noted earlier in this report. The local government pension schemes to which this
relates are funded schemes and therefore employers’ pension contributions fluctuate with
triennial valuations of the deficit to be funded.

Financial report for the year (continued)

Reserves policy and financial position (continued)

As noted in the Directors’ Report of previous annual accounts, it is unlikely that Ark Schools will be
liable for lump sum amounts and the increased pension contribution will be met through budgeted
annual income. Accordingly, there is no direct impact on Ark Schools’ free reserves in recognising

22

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

the deficit.
Individual school deficits

15 schools had a deficit in their revenue reserves at the end of 2023/24 (2022/23: 13).
Arrangements are in place to support these schools through this difficult period by way of intra-
academy loans with careful and strict monitoring of their financial budget and performance. All
schools have detailed five-year plans, and we expect all to return to financial sustainability over the
medium term. The reserves of all schools are detailed in note 16.

Investment policy

Allsurplus funds are invested to generate the best possible returns without incurring undue risk.
Mostly, this is invested with our commercial banking partner through current and deposit accounts
or short-term investments on the money market which can generate higher levels of return. In
addition, Ark Schools can invest funds via Ark UK Programmes through JP Morgan on a longer-term
basis. Funds can be added to this at any time, but only when they are not required for at least 12
months.

Risks and uncertainties

The trustees have assessed the major risks and uncertainties to which Ark Schools is exposed.
During the academic year, the Ark Schools risk register was fully updated and subject to detailed
review by the Risk and Audit Committee. Particular attention was paid to risks around staff
retention, safeguarding, financial sustainability, and cyber risk.

Trustees also reviewed and discussed the Strategic and Operational Risk Registers, particularly
focusing on safeguarding and financial pressures. The trustees have also considered their
responsibilities to ensure that the Trust's estate is safe, well-maintained, and complies with
relevant legislation, by reviewing risk registers and regularly receiving updates on the estate
through the Risk and Audit Committee.

Risk management

The trustees are responsible for identifying risks faced by the charitable company, establishing
procedures to mitigate these risks, and ensuring that employees are aware of these procedures
and of the implications of failing to implement them. They are satisfied that these procedures are
consistent with guidelines issued by the DfE/ESFA and the Charity Commission.

The trustees receive regular reports on key risks including educational outcomes, safeguarding,
school operations, financial health, and project delivery. Ark Schools has an effective system of
internal financial control, and this is explained in more detail in the governance statement.

Risks and uncertainties (continued)
Risk management (continued)

Operating procedures and internal controls are regularly reviewed and updated by the senior
management team with oversight from trustees in response to ongoing delivery and in line with all
relevant guidance. Internal audit reports are used to inform Ark Schools’ risk register and the
internal audit programme for the year.

During the 2023/24 financial year, trustees continued to review the internal control environment
across the education, operations, and finance teams. The trustees also continued to receive
regular reports according to the Board assurance framework encompassing oversight of provision
across safeguarding, HR, finance, procurement, health and safety, fire safety, IT, data protection
and information security.
23

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

The Ark Schools policy framework and a range of good practice resources made available to schools
by the governance team was regularly refreshed to provide continued clarity around workflows,
processes, and procedures, and to ensure consistency across the network. Where significant risks
remain, the Board has ensured that, where possible, Ark Schools maintains adequate insurance
cover.

The trustees have assessed the major risks and uncertainties to which Ark Schools is exposed and
confirm that these are as follows:

The failure of school leadership, which leads to the failure of an individual school and the
possibility of the school being re-brokered to another Trust. This impacts on Ark Schools’
ability to grow as a Trust. To mitigate this, we have a regional structure in place to ensure
there is appropriate oversight and an internal assurance system of monitoring visits across
the Trust.

The shortage of qualified teachers, with many of our schools working hard to recruit the
specialisms they require. Staff retention and turnover continue to be high, and it is not
uncommon to have vacancies in key roles. We have expanded Ark Teaching Training and
developed the Ark Learning Institute, providing new learning and development opportunities.
We have also piloted flexible working within schools and provided support through the
Employee Assistance Programme.

The risk of a failure of safeguarding and pastoral systems. We have dedicated training for our
Designated Safeguarding Leads, safeguarding governors, and wider staff. The Ark Schools
Board has also appointed a safeguarding link trustee. Regular school audits are undertaken by
the Head of Safeguarding and regular reporting and analysis of trends ensures we constantly
review the effectiveness of our systems of control. We have implemented SENSO software
monitoring on our students’ digital devices.

Demographic trends that, despite the overall increase in the school population, mean some Ark
schools are at risk of being undersubscribed. We continue to work with local communities and

encourage schools to work together to mitigate the impact of these changes.

“24

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Risks and uncertainties (continued)
Risk management (continued)

e  Cyber-attack, given the increasing number of attacks within the sector. We have worked to
ensure our systems are protected and backed up and that if we need to restore systems, this
can be done quickly and efficiently. Multi-factor authentication has been implemented and
we continue to train our staff on the risks presented including those around phishing activity.
We continue to review our set up and procedures to ensure systems are as robust as they
can be. We are pleased to receive Cyber Essentials accreditation for our central systems and
are now in the process of extending this accreditation to our schools.

e = The effect of increasing costs, many of which are unfunded. We have again seen significant
increases in support and teaching staff, our electricity costs and particularly food, print and
paper costs. While we are grateful for the additional government income to support cost
increases, as a network these challenges remain considerable.

e The risk of reserves being further depleted due to financial overspends. All schools have plans
to achieve financial sustainability which are continually reviewed. Any item of exceptional
spend, including on capital, must be authorised via a project expenditure request which
itemises how the project is to be funded.

e Supplier fraud, especially due to the increased sophistication of attempts, continues to
concern the trustees. All new suppliers must be set up centrally and we are constantly
reviewing our due diligence procedures to ensure the integrity of our supplier base.

e The quality of our estate. Trustees review the asbestos register and are aware that RAAC
remains at Ark Boulton resulting in the kitchen remaining out of action. We undertake
detailed condition survey reports and annual health and safety checks. We continue to work
with the OfE on mitigation for the final RAAC removal.

Financial risk management objectives and policies

Ark Schools has cash balances and other working capital balances. The main risk is liquidity risk.
Liquidity risk

The charitable company manages its cash resources, including sufficient working capital, so that all

its operating needs will be met even if it is unable to access short-term borrowing. Surplus cash is
invested in accordance with the investment policy.

Interest rate risk

In accordance with ESFA requirements, Ark Schools is not able to enter debt finance arrangements
without the prior approval of the ESFA. Trustees continue to monitor interest rate risk.

25

Directors’ report (including strategic report)
Year to 31 August 2024

Risks and uncertainties (continued)
Other risks

The group is exposed to price risks but is funded by the Government on the same basis as other
schools and budgets its expenditure accordingly. Nearly all funding comes from the Government,
so credit risk is negligible.

Auditor
So far as the directors are aware:

e There is no relevant audit information of which the charitable company’s auditor is unaware;
and

e The trustees have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of
any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.

The trustees’ report, incorporating a strategic report, was approved by order of the Board of
trustees, as the company trustees, on 11" December 2024, and signed on the Board’s behalf
by Tina Alexandrou:

Of Maan

Trustee

26

Governance statement Year to 31 August 2024

Scope of responsibility

As trustees, we acknowledge we have overall responsibility for ensuring that Ark Schools has an
effective and appropriate system of financial and management control. However, such a system is
designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can
provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.

The trustees have delegated to the Managing Director, as Accounting Officer, responsibility for
maintaining this system and for ensuring that it meets the requirements of the funding agreement
between Ark Schools and the Secretary of State for Education. The Accounting Officer is also
responsible for reporting to the Board any material weaknesses or breakdown in internal control.
The Trustees also receive the Academy Trust Handbook each year and letters to the Accounting
Officer from the ESFA.

Governance

The information here supplements the directors’ report and the statement of directors’
responsibilities. The Board has formally met five times during the last year and continued to
operate effectively, reviewing a full range of reports as set out in the annual agenda plan.

The Board maintains additional oversight of Ark Schools’ education and financial delivery and
public funds in between meetings, including the review of management accounts, through
updates on key strategic projects provided by correspondence, and regular meetings between the
Chair and Managing Director.

Number of meetings Out ofa
Director attended possible
Tina (Christina) Alexandrou (Chair as of 12 April 2024) 5 5
Fiona Forbes 5 5
Lord Stanley Fink 3 5
Gerard Griffin 3 5
Lucy Heller 5 5
Richard King 5 5
Sir Paul Marshall (Chair - Resigned 12 April 2024) 3 3
Anthony Williams 4 5

Sir Paul Marshall stepped down from the Ark Schools Board on 12 April 2024. Tina Alexandrou was
subsequently appointed as Chair of the Ark Schools Board.

In addition to the Board meetings, Ark Schools operates a Risk and Audit Committee which is

chaired by one of the trustees (see below). This provides significant scrutiny outside of Board
meetings, and regular updates on significant matters are shared by the Committee to the Board.

27

Governance statement Year to 31 August 2024

Conflicts of interest

Ark Schools manages its Conflicts of Interest policy by publishing a Register of Interests for all
directors on its website, regularly reviewing its Conflicts of Interest policy, and Declarations of
Interests being a standing item on the agenda of each Board and Committee meeting. The Risk and
Audit Committee also reviews and approves any Related Party Transactions in relation to other
entities related to Ark Schools.

Committees

The Risk and Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the main Board. It supports the Board to
oversee the controls environment and risk management within the network. The committee exists
to secure probity and efficiency in the management and expenditure by Ark Schools of income
from all sources: public funding, donations and investment, and commercial income, and review
compliance with the ESFA Academy Trust Handbook.

Attendance at the Risk and Audit Committee meetings in the year was as follows:

Number of meetings

attended Out of a possible

Committee member

Gerard Griffin 2
*Stephen West

*Lucy Slinger (Resigned 31 December 2023)
**Lynne Counsell (Leave of absence effective from
January 2024)

Richard King (Chair)

Pr NY NAA

3
2
1
4

*Denotes Non-Executive Co-Opted Committee Member
**Denotes Non-Executive Co-Opted Associate Member

Lucy Slinger stepped down from the Risk and Audit Committee on 31 December 2023. Gerard
Griffin stepped down from the Risk and Audit Committee on 31 August 2024 and was replaced by
Anthony Williams, a Trustee of Ark Schools, from 1 September 2024. Lynne Counsell is taking a
leave of absence from the committee, effective from January 2024.

Governance reviews

We continue to review the skills on an annual basis across our Board, committee, and local
governing bodies to ensure that we have the right support for our schools. The Board review is led
by the adviser to the Board and is based on the Df€ ‘21 questions’ and Confederation of School
Trusts guidance. In 2021-22, we piloted a new assessment model and skills audit for our local
governing bodies which was used across the network in 2023-24.

28

Governance statement Year to 31 August 2024

Review of value for money

As Accounting Officer, the Managing Director has responsibility for ensuring that Ark Schools
delivers good value in the use of public resources. The Accounting Officer understands that value
for money refers to the educational and wider societal outcomes as well as estates safety and
management, achieved in return for the taxpayer resources received. The Accounting Officer
considers how the charitable company’s use of its resources has provided good value for money
during the academic year, and reports to the Board of trustees where value for money can be
improved, including the use of benchmarking data where available.

Ark Schools has delivered and improved value for money during the year by:

y)

2)

3)

4)

Delivering results

Our schools provide a rich education across all subjects. Music, sport, learning outdoors and
other activities are offered alongside the core curriculum. We are particularly proud of our
strong student performance with our disadvantaged students achieving significantly ahead of
the national average. Students receive strong support as they make decisions about careers
and higher education with more than 83 percent of sixth formers going on to university this
year and almost 70 percent going to a “top third” university or a “top 100” apprenticeship
provider. Our vision remains to ensure that all children have access to a great education and
real choices in life.

Cost & budget management

We have invested in strong regional finance teams to improve the quality and accuracy of
budgeting and forecasting, to ensure Principals have the information they need to make
informed decisions. We actively issue benchmarking information and share learning. Working
closely with Principals and Regional Directors, we continue to develop our integrated
curriculum financial planning model to assess the efficiency and effectiveness of staffing
structures and deliver the best curriculum with the funding available. All schools have five-
year plans, and the expectation is that they will be financially sustainable over the medium
term. We are actively working with schools to reduce supply, catering costs, and energy
consumption and to look at ways our operations can become more efficient.

Procurement & financial controls

The Ark Schools procurement policy requires schools to make purchases from approved
suppliers to guarantee the best possible value for money. We have a central procurement team
who support our schools in achieving value for money. Each year, we review all our spend and
look at ways we can improve the management of our cost base either through new regional or
network contracts or retendering existing agreements.

Fundraising

Ark continued to raise funds for our schools. £3.9m was received from Ark and its subsidiaries,
including £1.7m for the development of the new Ark White City Primary. This took the total
amount donated for the school to £16.5m, all of which was funded by Ark. Funds are actively
sought to support our schools for curriculum programmes, academic intervention, and mental
health. All costs of fundraising are covered by Ark.

29

Governance statement Year to 31 August 2024

The purpose of the system of internal control

The system of internal control is designed to manage risk to a reasonable level rather than to
eliminate all risk of failure to achieve policies, aims and objectives; it can therefore provide
reasonable but not absolute assurance of effectiveness. It is based on established processes
designed to identify and prioritise risks, to assess the probability and possible impact of significant
risks, and to manage them efficiently, effectively, and economically. The system of internal control
operated during the year to 31 August 2024 and up to the date of approval of the annual report
and financial statements.

Capacity to Handle Risk

The trustees have reviewed the main risks to Ark Schools together with the operating, financial
and compliance controls in place to mitigate these risks. The trustees are of the view that there
was a robust process for identifying, evaluating, and managing significant risks in place for the year
to 31 August 2024 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
This process is regularly reviewed by the trustees.

The Risk and Control Framework

Ark Schools’ system of internal! financial control is based on a framework of regular management
information and administrative procedures including the segregation of duties and a system of
delegation and accountability. It includes:

* comprehensive financial monitoring systems with an annual budget and periodic financial
reports showing performance against budgets or forecasts which are reviewed and where
relevant approved by the Board.

e regular reviews by the Board of major purchase plans, capital works and expenditure.
e setting targets to measure financial and other performance.

e delegation of authority and segregation of duties.

e identification and management of risks.

Ark Schools appoints an independent audit firm to carry out a programme of internal audit visits
each year. The use of an external provider to complement audits undertaken by Ark Schools’
Heads of Department reflects the size and scale of Ark Schools’ operations.

The trustees approved the appointment of Beever and Struthers as internal auditors at their
meeting on 1 December 2022 to provide independent assurance to the Board that its financial and
other controls and risk management procedures were operating effectively. Reports are made
available to the Board, Risk and Audit Committee, and local governing bodies of relevant schools.
This year, twelve schools were visited, testing eighteen core controls. While some improvements
to procedures have been recommended, no material control weaknesses were reported this year.

30

Governance statement Year to 31 August 2024

The Risk and Control Framework (continued)

Detailed internal control checks are performed as part of the programme of visits and include the
following:

¢ Detailed internal control checks on key areas of the Balance Sheet and Income and
Expenditure Account.

e Budget setting and monitoring to include evidence of proper presentation to the local
governing body and the scrutiny applied.

e Observation as to whether the school has entered into any education service level
agreements with suppliers and the controls over those contracts.

The Beever and Struthers internal audit report is one of several sources of assurance obtained by
the Risk and Audit Committee from internal and external sources. Other reports include, but are
not limited to, compliance of our Single Central Register, the condition of our buildings from
independent building surveyors, and on fire safety and health and safety compliance from external
consultants.

Review of Effectiveness

As Accounting Officer, the Managing Director is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the
system of internal control. During the year, this review has been informed by:

e the work of the internal and external auditors.
e the financial management and governance self-assessment process.

e the work of the staff responsible for the development and maintenance of the internal
control framework.

The Accounting Officer has been advised of the implications of the result of their review of the
system of internal contro! by the Risk and Audit Committee and a plan to address weaknesses and
ensure continuous improvement of the system is in place.

Conclusion

Based on the advice of the Risk and Audit Committee and the Accounting Officer, the Board of
trustees is of the opinion that the academy trust has an adequate and effective framework for
governance, risk management and control.

Approved by order of the Board of trustees on 11" December 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

e Qleughou Lown Hewev

Tina Alexandrou Lucy Heller
Trustee Accounting Officer

31

Statement of regularity, propriety, and compliance
Year to 31 August 2024

As Accounting Officer for Ark Schools, | have considered my responsibility to notify the Board and
the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) of material irregularity, impropriety, and non-
compliance with ESFA terms and conditions of funding including for estates safety and
management, under the funding agreement between the academy trust and the Secretary of State
for Education. As part of my consideration, | have had due regard to the requirements of the
Academy Trust Handbook 2023, including responsibilities for estates safety and management.

| confirm that | and the Board can identify any material irregular or improper use of funds by Ark
Schools or material non-compliance with the terms and conditions of funding under Ark Schools
funding agreement and the Academy Trust Handbook 2023.

I confirm that no instances of material irregularity, impropriety, or funding non- compliance have
been discovered to date. | have reached this conclusion through oversight of internal controls and
scrutiny functions, in addition to reviewing other sources of assurance.

If any instances are identified after the date of this statement, these will be notified to the Board
of Trustees and ESFA.

how Hewev

Lucy Heller
Accounting Officer

Date: 11" December 2024

32

Statement of directors’ responsibilities
31 August 2024

The directors (who act as the trustees of the charitable company for the purposes of charity law)
are responsible for preparing the directors’ report and the financial statements in accordance with
the Annual Accounts Requirements issued by the Education and Skills Funding Agency, United
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) and
applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the charitable company and the group and of the
income and expenditure of the group for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the
directors are required to:

e select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.

e observe the methods and principles in the Charities’ Statement of Recommended
Practice (the Charities’ SORP) 2019 and the Academies Direction 2023 to 2024.

e make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.

e state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards FRS 102 have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.

© prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to
presume that the charitable company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show
and explain the charitable company and group’s transactions and disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the charitable company and group and enable them
to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the charitable company and the group and hence for
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are responsible for ensuring that in its conduct and operation the charitable

company applies financial and other controls, which conform to the requirements both of

propriety and of good financial management. They are also responsible for ensuring grants
received from the ESFA and DfE have been applied for the purposes intended.

The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the charitable company and
financial information included on the charitable company’s website. Legislation in the United
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions.

Approved by order of the members of the Board of directors and signed on its behalf by:

Tina Alexandrou
Trustee
Date: 11" December 2024

33

Independent auditor’s report to the member of Ark Schools
31 August 2024

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Ark Schools (the ‘charitable parent company’) and its
subsidiary (the ‘group’) for the year ended 31 August 2024 which comprise the group statement of
financial activities, the group and charitable parent company balance sheets, the group statement
of cash flows, the principal accounting policies, and the notes to the financial statements. The
financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law, United
Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland’ (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice), Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of
Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with the
Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) (the Charities
SORP 2019) and the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024.

In our opinion, the financial statements:

¢ give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the charitable parent company’s
affairs as at 31 August 2024, and of the group’s income and expenditure for the period then
ended.

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice.

@ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

® have been prepared in accordance with the Charities SORP 2019 and Academies Accounts
Direction 2023 to 2024.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the ‘Auditor's
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ section of our report. We are
independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our
audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the trustees’ use of the going concern
basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating
to events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the group or
charitable parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve
months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

34

Independent auditor’s report to the member of Ark Schools
31 August 2024

Conclusions relating to going concern (continued)

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the trustees with respect to going concern are
described in the relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The trustees are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report other than the financial statements and our auditor's
report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and,
except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements, or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be
materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the
financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we
have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

e the information given in the directors’ report, which includes the strategic report, for the
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial
statements; and

e the director’s report, which includes the strategic report, has been prepared in accordance
with applicable legal requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the charitable parent company
and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material
misstatements in the trustees’ report including the strategic report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies
Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

e adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not
been received from branches not visited by us; or

e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
e certain disclosures of trustees’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

¢ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

35

Independent auditor's report to the member of Ark Schools
31 August 2024

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the trustees’ responsibilities statement, the trustees (who are also the
directors of the charitable company for the purposes of company law) are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view,
and for such internal control as the trustees determine is necessary to enable the preparation of
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the trustees are responsible for assessing the group’s and
the charitable parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable,
matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless trustees
either intend to liquidate the group or the charitable parent company or to cease operations, or
have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an
auditor's report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is
not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We
design procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material
misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are
capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.

Our approach to identifying and assessing the risks of materiat misstatement in respect of
irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, was as follows:

e the engagement partner ensured that the engagement team collectively had the appropriate
competence, capabilities, and skills to identify or recognise non- compliance with applicable
laws and regulations.

e we identified the laws and regulations applicable to the group through discussions with
management, and from our knowledge of the academy trust sector.

e the identified laws and regulations were communicated within the audit team regularly and
the team remained alert to instances of non-compliance throughout the audit.

* we considered the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group and
determined that the most significant are the Companies Act 2006, the Charities SORP 2019,
the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024, the Academy Trust Handbook 2023, and the
academy trust's funding agreement with the ESFA as well as legislation pertaining to
safeguarding in the UK.

36

Independent auditor’s report to the member of Ark Schools
31 August 2024

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements (continued)

e we understood how the group is complying with those legal and regulatory frameworks by
” making inquiries to management and those responsible for legal, compliance, and
governance procedures. We corroborated our inquiries through our review of the minutes of
trustees’ meetings and the subsidiary company directors’ meetings and papers provided to
the trustees and directors.

e we planned and carried out a separate limited assurance engagement in respect of regularity,
propriety, and compliance in accordance with the Framework and Guide for External Auditors
and Reporting Accountants of Academy Trusts issued by the ESFA, as set out in our separate
independent reporting accountant’s assurance report on regularity.

We assessed the susceptibility of the group’s financial statements to material misstatement, including
obtaining an understanding of how fraud might occur, by:

e making enquiries of management and those charged with governance as to where they
considered there was susceptibility to fraud, their knowledge of actual, suspected, and
alleged fraud.

© considering the internal controls in place to mitigate risks of fraud and non-compliance with
laws and regulations.

To address the risk of fraud through management bias and override of controls, we:
¢ performed analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships.
e tested journal entries to identify unusual transactions.
e tested the authorisation of expenditure as part of our substantive testing thereon.

e assessed whether judgements and assumptions made in determining the accounting
estimates set out in the accounting policies were indicative of potential bias.

e used data analytics to identify any significant or unusual transactions and identify the
rationale for them.

In response to the risk of irregularities and non-compliance with laws and regulations, we designed
procedures which included, but were not limited to:

¢ agreeing financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation.

e reviewing the minutes of trustees’ meetings and subsidiary company directors’
meetings.

® enquiring of management and those charged with governance as to actual and potential
litigation and claims.

e reviewing any available correspondence with Ofsted, ESFA, and HMRC.

37

Independent auditor’s report to the member of Ark Schools
31 August 2024 ,

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements (continued)

e the work undertaken in relation to the limited assurance engagement in respect of regularity,
propriety, and compliance in accordance with the Framework and Guide for External Auditors
and Reporting Accountants of Academy Trusts issued by the ESFA, as set out in our separate
independent reporting accountant’s assurance report on regularity.

There are inherent limitations in our audit procedures described above. The more removed that
laws and regulations are from financial transactions, the less likely it is that we would become
aware of non-compliance. International Standards on Auditing also limit the audit procedures
required to identify non-compliance with laws and regulations to enquiry of the trustees and
other management and the inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on
the Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This
description forms part of our auditor's report.

38

Independent auditor’s report to the member of Ark Schools
31 August 2024

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the charitable company’s member, as a body, in accordance with
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we
might state to the charitable company's member those matters we are required to state to them
in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the charitable company and the charitable
company's member as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have
formed.

Katharine Patel (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of Buzzacott LLP, Statutory Auditor 130
Wood Street

London
EC2V 6DL

17 December 2024

39

Independent reporting accountant’s report on regularity
31 August 2024

Independent reporting accountant’s assurance report on regularity to Ark Schools and the
Education and Skills Funding Agency

In accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated 31 July 2023 and further to the
requirements of the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) as included in the Academies
Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024, we have carried out an engagement to obtain limited assurance
about whether the expenditure disbursed and income received by Ark Schools during the period
from 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 have been applied to the purposes identified by
Parliament and the financial transactions conform to the authorities which govern them.

This report is made solely to Ark Schools and the ESFA in accordance with the terms of our
engagement letter. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to Ark Schools and the
ESFA those matters we are required to state in a report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Ark
Schools and the ESFA, for our work, for this report, or for the conclusion we have formed.

Respective responsibilities of Ark Schools’ Accounting Officer and the reporting accountant

The Accounting Officer is responsible, under the requirements of Ark Schools’ amended and
restated master funding agreement dated 28 August 2013 with the Secretary of State for
Education and the Academy Trust Handbook, extant from 1 September 2023, for ensuring that
expenditure disbursed, and income received is applied for the purposes intended by Parliament
and the financial transactions conform to the authorities which govern them.

Our responsibilities for this engagement are established in the United Kingdom by our profession’s
ethical guidance and are to obtain limited assurance and report in accordance with our
engagement letter and the requirements of the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024. We
report to you whether anything has come to our attention in carrying out our work which suggests
that in all material respects, expenditure disbursed, and income received during the period from 1
September 2023 to 31 August 2024 have not been applied to purposes intended by Parliament or
that the financial transactions do not conform to the authorities which govern them.

Approach

We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Framework and Guide for External Auditors and
Reporting Accountant of Academy Trusts issued by ESFA. We performed a limited assurance
engagement as defined in our engagement letter.

The objective of a limited assurance engagement is to perform such procedures as to obtain
information and explanations in order to provide us with sufficient appropriate evidence to express
a negative conclusion on regularity.

A limited assurance engagement is more limited in scope than a reasonable assurance
engagement and consequently does not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware
of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement.
Accordingly, we do not express a positive opinion.

40

Independent reporting accountant’s report on regularity
31 August 2024

Approach (continued)

Our engagement includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the regularity and
propriety of the Ark Schools’ income and expenditure.

The work undertaken to draw to our conclusion includes:

e An assessment of the risk of material irregularity and impropriety across all of Ark
Schools’ activities.

e Further testing and reviewing of the areas identified through the risk assessment including
enquiry, identification of control processes and examination of supporting evidence across all
areas identified as well as additional verification work where considered necessary.

* Consideration of evidence obtained through the work detailed above and the work
completed as part of our financial statements audit in order to support the regularity
conclusion.

Conclusion

In the course of our work, nothing has come to our attention which suggests that in all material
respects the expenditure disbursed and income received during the period from 1 September 2023
to 31 August 2024 has not been applied to purposes intended by Parliament and the financial!
transactions do not conform to the authorities which govern them.

Buzzacott LLP
Chartered Accountants
130 Wood Street

London
EC2V 6DL

17 December 2024

41

Consolidated statement of financial activities
Year to 31 August 2024

Restricted funds
Fixed 2024 2023
Unrestricted General Pension assets Total Total
funds funds reserve fund funds funds
£'000 £000 £7000 £'000 £000 . £000
Income from:
Donations and capital grants 2 _ 3,628 - 14,184 17,812 21,427
Other trading activities 3 1,940 1,095 - - 3,035 2,981
Investments and interest receivable 288 34 - - 322 104
Income from charitable activities
. Funding for Ark Schools’
educational operations 4 1s 259,789 ae 7 259,804 245,387
. Project management grants 5 - 307 - _ 307 215
. Teaching School . _- 543 _ _ 543 456
Other income 6 119 2,399 778 = 3,293 2,152
Total income 2,362 267,795 775 14,184 285,116 272,722
Expenditure on:
Raising funds 8a 1,950 - _ - 1,950 1,694
Charitable activities
. Ark Schools’ educational operations 8b 10 267,331 - 20,928 288,269 269,405
. Development costs 8d 1 1,962 - - 1,963 1,708
. Teaching School 8e - 443 - = 443 288
Total expenditure 7 1,961 269,736 _ 20,928 292,625 273,095
Net income (expenditure) before
investment gains and losses 401 (1,941) 775 (6,744) (7,509) (373)
Net gains on investments _ 17 _— _ 17 2
Net income (expenditure) before transfers 401 (1,924) 775 (6,744) (7,492) (371)
Gross transfers between funds 16 - (3,985) _ 3,985 _ -
Net income (expenditure) 401 {5,909} 775 {2,759) (7,492) (371)
Other recognised gains and losses
Actuarial (losses) gains on defined benefit
pension schemes 19 = - (129) _ {129) 19,545
Net movement in funds 401 (5,909) 646 {2,759) (7,621) 19,174
Fund balances brought forward at 1
September 2023 16 1,793 9,185 (2,175) 505,368 514,171 494,997

Fund balances carried forward at 31

August 2024 2,194 3,276 (1,529) 502,609 506550 514,171

All the group’s activities derived from continuing operations. All recognised gains and losses are included in the above
statement of financial activities. For management purposes, the operational surplus or loss for any given year is deemed
to equal net (expenditure) income before transfers, in respect of the unrestricted funds and the restricted general
funds. For the year ended 31 August 2024, this equated to an operational deficit of £1,523k which is made up of a
£411k surplus in unrestricted funds and a £1,951k deficit in restricted general funds (2022/23: operational surplus of
£1,478k). See note 29 for a reconciliation.

42

Balance sheets

2024 2023
Ark
Group Schools Group Ark Schools
£’000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 12 496,179 496,182 499,537 499,537
Investments 155 155 138 138
496,334 496,337 499,675 499,675
Current assets
Debtors 14 29,562 31,171 22,536 23,848
Short term deposits 3,197 3,197 5,027 5,027
Cash at bank and in hand 15,582 15,535 36,048 35,977
48,341 49,903 63,611 64,852
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 15 (34,796) (36,361) (45,140) (46,381)
Net current assets 13,545 13,542 18,471 18,471
Total assets less current liabilities 509,879 509,879 518,146 518,146
Creditors: amounts falling due after one year 15 (1,800) (1,800) (1,800) (1,800)
Net assets excluding pension liability 508,079 508,079 516,346 516,346
Pension scheme liability 19 (1,529) (1,529) (2,175) (2,175)
Net assets including pension liability 506,550 506,550 $14,171 $14,171
The funds of the charity
Income funds
Restricted funds 16
. Fixed assets fund 502,609 502,609 505,368 505,368
. General funds 3,276 3,276 9,185 9,185
. Pension reserve (1,529) (1,529) (2,175) (2,175)
504,356 504,356 512,378 512,378
Unrestricted funds 16
. General funds 1,949 1,949 1,548 1,548
. Designated funds 245 245 24S 245
2,194 2,194 1,793 1,793
506,550 506,550 514,171 514,171

Approved by the Board of directors and signed on their behalf by Tina Alexandrou:

Q. ZOU

Date: 11 December 2024
Company registration number: 05112090

Ark Schools

43

Consolidated statement of cash flows
Year to 31 August 2024

Net cash flows from operating activities
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities

Change in cash and cash equivalents in the reporting period

Cash and cash equivalents at 1 September 2023

Cash and cash equivalents at 31 August 2024

2024

Notes £'000
A (19,972)
B (494)
(20,466)

Cc 36,048
Cc 15,582

2023
£'000

1,645

(8,361)

(6,716)

42,764

36,048

A Reconciliation of net income (expenditure) to net cash flow from operating activities

Net expenditure (as per the statement of financial activities)
Adjustments for:
Capital funding grants

Defined benefit pension scheme service cost adjustment (note 20)
Defined benefit pension scheme finance cost adjustment (note 20)

Depreciation (note 12)

Loss on disposal of tangible fixed assets
Interest receivable

(Increase) in debtors

(Decrease) Increase in creditors

2024
£'000

(7,509)

(14,184)
(695)
(80)
20,183
1
(322)
(7,026)
(10,340)

Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (19,972)

B Cash flows from investing activities

Purchase of tangible fixed assets
Capital grants received

Investment income received
Movement in short term deposits
Net cash (used in) investing activities

CAnalysis of cash and cash equivalents

Cash at bank and in hand
Total cash and cash equivalents

2024
£000

(16,830)
14,184
322
1,830
(494)

At31
August
2024
£’000

15,582
15,582

2023
£000

(373)

(19,353)
2,020
665
18,444
(104)
(5,244)
5,594
1,645

2023
£000
(23,804)
19,353
104
(4,014)
(8,361)

At31
August
2023
£'000

36,048
36,048

Consolidated statement of cash flows
Year to 31 August 2024

D Analysis of changes in net debt

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash at bank and in hand
Debt

ESFA loan

Atl
September
2023

£’000

36,048

(1,800)
34,248

Cash flows
£'000

(20,466)

(20,466)

At31
August
2024
£'000

15,582

(1,800)
13,782

4s

Principal accounting policies

Asummary of the principal accounting policies adopted (which have been applied consistently,
except where noted), judgements, and key sources of estimation uncertainty, is set out below.

Basis of preparation

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention (unless
otherwise stated in the relevant accounting policies below or the notes to the financial
statements) in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard Applicable in the UK and Republic
of Ireland (FRS 102), Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice
applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with the Financial Reporting
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) (Charities SORP (FRS 102)), the
Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024 issued by ESFA, the Charities Act 2011 and the
Companies Act 2006.

Ark Schools meets the definition of a public benefit entity under FRS 102.
The financial statements are presented in sterling to the nearest thousand pound.
Basis of consolidation

The consolidated statement of financial activities and group balance sheet includes the financial
statements of Ark Schools and its wholly owned trading subsidiary, Ark Academies Projects Limited,
made up to the balance sheet date.

No separate statement of financial activities has been presented for Ark Schools alone, as
permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. .

Assessment of going concern

The directors assess whether the use of going concern is appropriate i.e., whether there are any
material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability
of Ark Schools to continue as a going concern.

The directors make this going concern assessment in respect of a period of at least one year from
the date of authorisation for issue of the financial statements. Despite the challenges from the
current economic climate, the directors have concluded that Ark Schools has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The trustees have looked at the
financial position, including income, expenditure, and reserves, on our beneficiaries, and
employees. While the increased cost pressures on the day-to-day operations is acknowledged,
action is being taken to bring the network to an operating surplus and there is no material
uncertainty in respect of Ark Schools’ ability to continue as a going concern. The financial
statements have therefore been prepared on a going concern basis. The principal accounting
policies give further information.

Income

All income is recognised when Ark Schools has entitlement to the funds, the receipt is probable,
and the amount can be measured reliably.

46

Principal accounting policies

Donations

Donations are recognised on a receivable basis (where there are no performance-related conditions)
where the receipt is probable, and the amount can be reliably measured.

Capital grants

Capital grants are recognised when the trust is deemed to be entitled to the funds subject to any
conditions being met. Such conditions may include Ark Schools approving and contractually
committing to the project being funded; and sufficient funding being secured by Ark Schools to
fully fund the capital project. Capital grants are not deferred over the life of the asset on which they
are expended.

Sponsorship income

Sponsorship income provided to Ark Schools which amounts to a donation is recognised in the
statement of financial activities in the period in which it is receivable (where there are no
performance-related conditions), where the receipt is probable, and it can be measured reliably.

Trading activities and other income

Other income, including the hire of facilities, is recognised in the period it is receivable and to the
extent Ark Schools has provided the goods or services.

Grants receivable

Grants are included in the statement of financial activities on a receivable basis. The balance of
income received for specific purposes but not expended during the period is shown in the relevant
funds on the balance sheet. Where income is received in advance of meeting any performance-
related conditions, there is no unconditional entitlement to the income and its recognition is
deferred and included in creditors as deferred income until the performance- related conditions
are met. Where entitlement occurs before income is received, the income is accrued.

General Annual Grant (GAG) is recognised in full in the statement of financial activities in the year
for which it is receivable and any abatement in respect of the period is deducted from income and
recognised as a liability.

Transfer on conversion

Schools joining the Ark Schools network transfer identifiable assets and liabilities and the
operation of the predecessor school. The assets and liabilities transferred have been valued at their
fair value, being a reasonable estimate of the current market value that the directors would
expect to pay in an open market for an equivalent item. The amounts are recognised under the
appropriate balance sheet categories at the point when the risks and rewards of ownership pass
to Ark Schools. A corresponding amount is recognised as donations income in the statement of
financial activities and analysed under unrestricted funds, restricted general funds, and restricted
fixed asset funds.

47

Principal accounting policies

Transfer of existing academies into the trust

Where assets are received on the transfer of an existing academy into the Ark Schools network,
the transferred assets are measured at fair value and recognised in the balance sheet at the point
when the risks and rewards of ownership pass to Ark Schools, which is on signing of the transfer
agreement with the transferring trust. An equal amount of income is recognised for the transfer of
an existing academy into the Ark Schools network within donations and capital grant income.

Donated fixed assets (excluding transfers on conversion/transfers from other trusts)

Where the donated good is a fixed asset, it is initially recognised at fair value, unless it is
impractical to measure this reliably, in which case the cost of the item to the donor is used. The
donation is recognised as income from donations and a corresponding amount is included in the
appropriate fixed asset category and depreciated over the useful economic life in accordance with
Ark Schools’ accounting policies.

Expenditure

Expenditure is recognised once there is a legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic
benefit to a third party, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required in
settlement and the amount of the obligation can be measured reliably. Expenditure is classified by
activity.

All expenditure is inclusive of irrecoverable VAT.
Expenditure on raising funds

This includes all expenditure incurred by Ark Schools to raise funds for its charitable purposes
and includes costs of all fundraising activities, events, and non-charitable trading.

Expenditure on charitable activities

These are costs incurred on the Ark Schools’ educational operations, including support costs and
costs relating to the governance of Ark Schools and are apportioned to charitable activities.

The costs of each activity are made up of the total of direct costs and shared costs, including
support costs involved in undertaking each activity. Direct costs attributable to a single activity are
allocated directly to that activity. Shared costs which contribute to more than one activity and
support costs which are not attributable to a single activity are apportioned between those
activities on a basis consistent with the use of resources. Central staff costs are allocated on the
basis of time spent, and depreciation charges allocated on the portion of the asset’s use.

Agency Arrangements

The academy trust acts as an agent in distributing 16-19 bursary funds from ESFA. Payments received
from ESFA and subsequent disbursements to students are excluded from the statement of financial
activities as the academy trust does not have control over the charitable application of the funds. The
academy trust can use up to 5 percent of the allocation towards its own administration costs and this
is recognised in the statement of financial activities. The funds received and paid, and any balances
held are disclosed in note 26.

Tangible fixed assets

Assets costing £2,000 or more are capitalised as tangible fixed assets and are carried at cost, net of
depreciation and any provision for impairment.

Where tangible fixed assets have been acquired with the aid of specific grants or where they are
gifted, either from the government or from the private sector, they are included in the balance
sheet at cost or at an appropriate value and are depreciated over their expected useful economic
life. Where there are specific conditions attached to the funding requiring the continued use of the

48

Principal accounting policies

asset, the related grants are credited to a restricted fixed assets fund in the statement of financial
activities and carried forward in the balance sheet. Depreciation on the relevant assets is charged
directly to the restricted asset fund in the statement of financial activities. Where tangible fixed

" assets have been acquired with unrestricted funds, depreciation on such assets is charged to the
unrestricted fund.

Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets other than freehold land, at rates calculated
to write off the cost (or original valuation, taken subsequently to be the deemed cost) of each
asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life as follows:

@ Furniture, fittings, and equipment 25 percent p.a.

@ Computer equipment 50 percent p.a.

@ Motor vehicles 25 percent p.a.

@ Freehold & leasehold buildings 2 percent p.a.

@ Leasehold improvements 2 percent to 25 percent p.a.

Assets in the course of construction are included at cost. Depreciation on these assets is not
charged until they are brought into use.

The cost of buildings constructed under the UK Government’s programmes as funded through
local authorities, are recognised in the statement of financial activities as voluntary income in the
period in which the buildings are brought into use. No value is brought into the financial
statements before this time. A review for impairment of a fixed asset is carried out if events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of any fixed asset may not be
recoverable. Shortfalls between the carrying value of fixed assets and their recoverable amounts
are recognised as impairments. Impairment losses are recognised in the statement of financial
activities.

Properties occupied under operating lease arrangements are not capitalised. This includes any
properties developed under a Private Finance Initiative (PFI) agreement, where Ark Schools is not
directly party to the PFI agreement itself and rather the local authority has directly contracted
with the PFI contractor, and Ark Schools has contracted with the local authority to make financial
contributions towards facilities management.

Under such arrangements, the school premises are maintained and managed for a period of 25
years by the PFI contractor subject to contractual annual fees payable by the academy. Upon
expiry of the PFI contract, the residual benefit of the premises passes to the academy as a result of
a 125-year lease granted to them.

49

Principal accounting policies _

Tangible fixed assets (continued)

As Ark Schools only enjoys the benefits of the premises subject to the restrictions under the PFI
agreement over the initial 25-year term, the academy does not substantially hold all of the risks
and rewards of ownership of the premises during this period and the property is therefore
accounted for as an operating lease. The annual charges payable by Ark Schools under the sub-
agreement are expensed to the statement of financial activities as maintenance expenditure.

Investments

Ark Schools’ shareholding in its wholly owned subsidiary, Ark Academies Projects Limited,
is included on Ark Schools’ balance sheet at the cost of the share capital owned.

Other investments are included on the balance sheet at fair value. Unrealised and realised gains
{or losses) on such investments are credited (or debited) to the statement of financial activities.

Debtors

Debtors are recognised at their settlement amount, less any provision for non- recoverability.
Prepayments are valued at the amount prepaid. They have been discounted to the present value of
the future cash receipt where such discounting is material.

Cash at bank and in hand

Cash at bank and in hand represents such accounts and instruments that are available on demand
or have a maturity of less than three months from the date of acquisition. Deposits for more than
three months but less than one year have been disclosed as short-term deposits. Cash placed on
deposit for more than one year is disclosed as a fixed asset investment.

Liabilities

Liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation at the balance sheet date as a result of a past
event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be required in settlement, and the
amount of the settlement can be estimated reliably. Liabilities are recognised at the amount that

Ark Schools anticipates it will pay to settle the debt or the amount it has received as advanced
payment for the goods or services it must provide.

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when Ark Schools has an obligation at the reporting date as a result of a
past event which it is probable will result in the transfer of economic benefits and the obligation
can be estimated reliably.

Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the amounts required to settle the obligation.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is based on the present
value of those amounts, discounted at the pre-tax discount rate that reflects the risks specific to
the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised within interest payable and similar
charges.

50

Principal accounting policies

Fund accounting

The unrestricted funds represent monies which may be applied for any purpose within the Ark
Schools’ objects.

Restricted general funds are grants from the DfE and other donors which are to be used for
specific purposes.

The restricted fixed assets fund comprises resources which are to be applied to specific capital
purposes imposed by the ESFA and other funders where the asset acquired or created is held fora
specific purpose.

Leased assets
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Financial instruments

Ark Schools only holds basic financial instruments as defined in FRS 102. The financial assets and
financial liabilities of Ark Schools and their measurement basis are as follows:

e Financial assets — trade and other debtors are basic financial instruments and are debt
instruments measured at amortised cost. Prepayments are not financial instruments.
Amounts due from Ark Schools’ wholly owned subsidiary is held at face value less any
impairment. Listed investments held by Ark Schools are also considered to be basic financial
instruments. The investments are initially recognised at cost and subsequently carried on the
balance sheet at fair value. Changes in the fair value are reflected as investment gains or
losses through the statement of financial activities.

e Cash at bank — is classified as a basic financial instrument and is measured at face value.

¢ Financial liabilities — trade creditors, accruals and other creditors are financial instruments,
and are measured at amortised cost. Taxation and social security are not included in the
financial instruments disclosure definition. Deferred income is not deemed to be a financial
liability, as the cash settlement has already taken place and there is an obligation to deliver
services rather than cash or another financial instrument.

Taxation

Ark Schools is considered to pass the tests set out in Paragraph 1 Schedule 6 of the Finance Act
2010 and therefore it meets the definition of a charitable company for UK corporation tax
purposes. Accordingly, Ark Schools is exempt from taxation in respect of income or capital gains
received within categories covered by Chapter 3 Part 11 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 or Section
256 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992, to the extent that such income or gains are
applied exclusively to charitable purposes. .

51

Principal accounting policies

Pensions Benefits

Retirement benefits to employees of Ark Schools are provided by the Teachers’ Pension Scheme
(‘TPS’) and various Local Government Pension Schemes (‘LGPS’) or to The Pensions Trust (‘TPT’).
Staff employed in the central office are auto enrolled either to LGPS or TPS depending on their role
unless they opt out and request to join TPT. The TPS and LGPS are defined benefit schemes and
the TPT is a money purchase arrangement.

The TPS is an unfunded scheme, and contributions are calculated so as to spread the cost of
pensions over employees’ working lives with Ark Schools in such a way that the pension cost is a
substantially level percentage of current and future pensionable payroll. The contributions are
determined by the Government Actuary on the basis of quadrennial valuations using a prospective
unit credit method. The TPS is a multi-employer scheme and there is insufficient information
available to use defined benefit accounting. The TPS is therefore treated as a defined contribution
scheme for accounting purposes and the contributions recognised in the period to which they
relate.

The LGPS are funded schemes, and the assets are held separately from those of Ark Schools in
separate trustee administered funds. Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and
liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and discounted
at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent
term and currency to the liabilities. The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and
are updated at each balance sheet date. The amounts charged to operating surplus are the
current service costs and the costs of scheme introductions, benefit changes, settlements, and
curtailments. They are included as part of staff costs as incurred. Net interest on the net defined
benefit liability is also recognised in the statement of financial activities and comprises the interest
cost on the defined benefit obligation and interest income on the scheme assets, calculated by
multiplying the fair value of the scheme assets at the beginning of the period by the rate used to
discount the benefit obligations. The difference between the interest income on the scheme assets
and the actual return on the scheme assets is recognised in other recognised gains and losses.

Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other recognised gains and losses.

Ark Schools participates in several different schemes with various local authorities. If the present
value of any given scheme’s defined benefit obligation at the reporting date is less than the fair
value of its plan assets at that date, the plan would be in surplus. Surpluses can only be recognised
as an asset to the extent that the Trust is able to recover the surplus, either through reduced
contributions in the future or through refunds from the plan. If the surpluses are unable to be
recovered, as is the case under the terms of academy funding agreements, the liability is capped
at zero.

52

Principal accounting policies

Critical accounting estimates and areas of judgement

Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and
other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances.

The directors of Ark Schools make estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The
resulting accounting estimates and assumptions will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual
results.

The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.

e The present value of the Local Government Pension Scheme defined benefit liability depends
on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a variety of
assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net cost (income) for pensions
include the discount rate. Any changes in these assumptions will impact on the carrying
amount of the pension liability. Furthermore, a roll forward approach which projects results
from the latest full actuarial valuation performed at 31 March 2022 has been used by the
actuary in valuing the pensions liability at 31 August 2024. Any differences between the
figures derived from the roll forward approach and a full actuarial valuation would impact on
the carrying amount of the pension liability. The asset in the scheme is judged to be non-
recoverable as Ark Schools, under FRS 102 28.22, has no unconditional right to a refund from
the scheme in respect of this asset.

e The net book value of tangible fixed assets is based on the original cost of the asset net of
provision for depreciation. The depreciation provision to date is based on the directors’
assessment of the estimated useful economic lives of such assets.

e¢ The values attributed to properties donated to Ark Schools are initially recognised either
based on historical cost, an independent professional valuation or through an estimate
determined by Ark Schools’ management. The property’s condition, the nature of
educational use, and the geographical location are taken into consideration in estimating the
value.

© The treatment of our lease agreement with EdCity Office is as an operating lease rather than
a finance lease. This is based on the terms of the lease agreement between Ark Schools and
EdCity Office.

e The values attributed to donated assets (other than properties) are initially recognised based
on the estimated commercial value of the asset at the time of the donation.

53

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

General Annual Grant (GAG)

Under the funding agreement with the Secretary of State, all schools within the Ark Schools
network were subject to limits at 31 August 2024 on the amount of GAG that could be carried

forward from one year to the next. An amount equal to 12 percent of GAG could be carried forward,
of which up to 2 percent could be used for general recurrent purposes, with any balance being
available for premises / capital purposes. No schools within the Ark Schools network exceeded
these limits during the current or prior years.

Donations and capital grants

2024

Donations — capital grant ESFA

Devolved formula capital allocations
Academy main building grants

Local authority ICT capital grants
Donations — other

Donations — Ark and subsidiaries (note 23}
Ark Schools Coronavirus Fund - Ark (note 23)

2023

Donations — capital grant ESFA

Devolved formula capital allocations
Academy main building grants

Local authority ICT capital grants
Donations — other

Donations — Ark and subsidiaries (note 23)
Ark Schools Coronavirus Fund - Ark (note 23)

Unrestricted
general funds
£'000

Unrestricted
general funds
£'000

Restricted
general
funds
£000

1,612
1,879

137
3,628

Restricted
general
funds
£'000

Restricted
fixed assets
fund

£'000
9,584

597

1,737

54

531

1,681

14,184

Restricted
fixed assets
fund

£'000

5,649

1,723

2,344

46

82

9,507

19,351

2024
Total
funds
£’000

9,584
s97
1,737
54
2,143
3,560
137
17,812

2023
Total
funds
£'000

5,649
1,723
2,344
46
1,137
10,434
94

21,427

2023
Total
funds
£'000

5,649
1,723
2,344
46
1,137
10,434
94

21,427

54

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

Other trading activities
Unrestricted
general
funds
Year to 31 August 2024 £000
Nursery fees -
Hire of facilities 1,940
Catering income from staff -
1,940

All other trading income in 2023 was unrestricted in nature.

Funding for Ark Schools’ educational operations
Unrestricted
general
funds

Year to 31 August 2024 £'000

DfE/ESFA revenue grants

General annual grant (GAG) =
Other Df€ / ESFA grants

. Universal Infant Free School Meals =
. Start up A -
. Start up B -
- Pupil Premium od
. 16-19 Core Education Funding -
. Schools Supplementary Grant -
. Mainstream Schools Annual Grant -
. Teachers Pay Grant -
. Teachers Pension Employer Contribution Grant -
: Teachers Pension Grant -

. Other DfE/ESFA Grants 15

Other grants
Local authority funding _
Extended schools programme -

Miscellaneous grants -
¢ —_—___

Other income .
School meals income -
School uniform sales _
Parent contributions to school trip costs

COVID-19 additional funding (DfE/ESFA)
Recovery Premium Grant -

Other DfE/ESFA COVID-19 funding _

15

Restricted
general
funds
£’000

203

855

37

1,095

Restricted
general
funds
£’000

192,944

1,392
94
270
14,783
15,315
6,820
3,500
710
1,816
2,875

240,519

11,492
541
313

12,346

2,767
51
769
3,587

2,903
434
3,337

259,789

2024

Total funds
£’000

203

2,795

37

3,035

2024
Total funds
£’000

192,944

1,392
94

270
14,783
15,315
6,820
3,500
710
1,816
2,890
240,534

11,492
S41
313

12,346

2,767
51
769
3,587

2,903

434
3,337

259,804

2023

Total funds
£'000

226

2,717

38

2,981

2023
Total funds
£'000

183,290

1,047
187
274

14,080
14,348
5,358
2,821
27

599
3,064
225,095

10,980
481
368

11,829

2,918
49
786
3,753

3,383
1,327
4,710

245,387

55

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

4. Funding for Ark Schools’ educational operations (continued)

Year to 31 August 2023

DfE/ESFA revenue grants

General annual grant (GAG)

Other DfE / ESFA grants

. Universal Infant Free School Meals
. Startup A

. Start up B

. Pupil Premium

. 16-19 Core Education Funding

. Schools Supplementary Grant

. Mainstream Schools Annual Grant
. Teachers Pay Grant

. Teachers Pension Employer Contribution Grant
. Other DfE/ESFA Grants

Other grants

Local authority funding
Extended schools programme
Miscellaneous grants

Other income

School meals income

School uniform sales

Parent contributions to school trip costs

COVID-19 additional funding (DFE/ESFA)
Recovery Premium Grant
Other DfE/ESFA COVID-19 funding

Unrestricted

general
funds
£'000

481
26
507

2,918
49
786
3,753

4,260

Restricted
general
funds
£'000

183,290

1,047
187
274

14,080

14,348

5,358
2,821
27
599
3,064

225,095

10,980

342
11,322

3,383
1,327
4,710

241,127

2023
Total funds
£7000

183,290

1,047
187
274

14,080

14,348

5,358
2,821
27
599
3,064

225,095

10,980
481
368

11,829

2,918
49
786
3,753

3,383
1,327
4,710

245,387

56

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024
Project management grants

Restricted general funds

2024 2023
£'000 £'000

Project management grant 307 215

Project management grants are received from Ark in relation to activities in preparation for the
opening of new academies and academy building projects (note 23).

Other income

2024 2023

£’000 £'000

Pension interest income (note 20) 778 -
Miscellaneous income 2,518 2,152
3,293 2,152

All amounts above are restricted in nature for the year ended 31 August 2024 (2023: none) with
the exception of £119k of miscellaneous income which is unrestricted (2023: £2,152k).

Miscellaneous income comprises self-generated income including income derived from Ark
Teacher Training, network programmes, and consultancy services.

57

7.

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

Expenditure
Staff
costs
(note 9) Premises Other costs Total 2024 = Total 2023
Year to 31 August 2024 £'000 £000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Raising funds (note 8a)
. Direct costs 522 - 13 535 448
. Support costs 56 1,343 16 1,415 1,246
578 1,343 29 1,950 1,694
Educational operations
. Direct costs (note 8b) 124,407 20,183 17,028 161,618 149,306
. Educational support costs (note 8b) 87,859 - 38,615 126,474 119,918
. Governance costs (note 8c) - 7 177 177 181
212,266 20,183 55,820 288,269 269,405
Development costs (note 8d) 288 13 1,662 1,963 1,708
Teaching School (note 8e) 348 - 95 443 288
213,480 21,539 57,606 292,625 273,095
Staff
costs Totat
(note 9) Premises Other costs 2023
Year to 31 August 2023 £’000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Raising funds (note 8a)
. Direct costs 443 ~ 5 448
. Support costs 33 1,194 19 1,246
476 1,194 24 1,694
Educational operations
. Direct costs (note 8b) 113,863 18,444 16,999 149,306
. Educational support costs (note 8b) 82,568 - 37,350 119,918
. Governance costs (note 8c) - _ 181 181
196,431 18,444 54,530 269,405
Development costs (note 8d) 160 30 1,518 1,708
Teaching School (note 8e) 235 - 53 288
197,302 19,668 56,125 273,095

58

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

7. Expenditure (continued)

Net expenditure for the year is stated after charging:

2024
£'000
Operating lease rentals
. Plant and machinery 844
Depreciation 20,183
Loss (gain) on disposal of fixed assets 1
Fees payable to external auditor for:
. Statutory audit services 101
. Other services 54
Unrecoverable debt (see below) 389

Cash losses (see below) : -

Unrecoverable debt and cash losses

2023
£'000

677
18,444
(5)

95
51

£389k bad debt was written off in the year as unrecoverable debt, following the liquidation of
Schools Lettings Solutions (SLS). SLS provided a lettings service toeleven schools within the trust.

Approval to write off the debt was received from the ESFA.

There were no reportable instances of fraud during the year (2023: none).

8a. Cost of raising funds

2024

Total

funds

£'000

Lettings and nursery 1,950

2023
Total
funds
£'000

1,694

The surplus from trading activities totalled £1.52m in the year (2023: surplus of £1.25m). See note

13.

59

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

8b. Ark Schools’ charitable educational operations

2024
Total
funds
£’000
Direct costs

Staff costs 124,407
Depreciation 20,183
Educational supplies 5,225
Examination fees 3,076
Transport costs 223
Other pupil support costs 7,291
Extended schools programme 1,213
161,618

Educational support costs
Staff costs 87,859
Pension service cost (note 20) -
Recruitment and other staff costs 2,864
Catering contract 7,084
Printing and stationery 2,552
Office overhead 251
Heat and light 4,471
Premises (including buildings insurance)* 16,766
Legal costs - other 115
Technology costs 3,720
Finance costs and interest/charges payable 76
Other expenses 699
Small equipment less than £2,000 expensed 16
Loss/ (Gain) on disposal of tangible fixed assets 1
126,474
Governance costs {note 8c) 177
288,269

*This includes £730k of expenditure on making good RAAC defects across the network as funded by

capital grants.

2023
Total
funds
£'000

113,863
18,444
5,797
2,654
210
6,724
1,614

149,306

80,550
2,018
3,128
6,880
2,558

291
4,231
14,856
76
3,616
730
916

73

(5)

119,918

181

269,405

60

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

8c. Governance costs
2024 2023
Total Total
funds funds

£’000 £'000
Audit of group financial statements*

. Current year 145 141
. Prior year under provision - 3
Other expenses including internal audit services 32 37

177 181

*This also includes regularity assurance and Teacher's Pension end of year certificate assurance.

8d. Other development costs

2024 2023
Total Total
funds funds
£’000 £’000
Project implementation
Staff costs 288 160
Building costs 14 30
Project implementation 2 6
Research and marketing 158 131
Miscellaneous costs 11 17
473 344
Continuing professional development
Education development 564 385
Staff training and induction 926 979
, 1,490 1,364
1,963 1,708

Development costs relate to the opening of new academies and new academy buildings, as well
as continuing professional development and transition costs of open academies.

All amounts above are restricted in nature for the year ended 31 August 2024 (2023: all) with the
exception of £1k of project implementation which is unrestricted (2023: nil).

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

8e. Teaching School expenditure

2024 2023
Total Total
funds funds
£000 £000
Direct costs
Staff costs 348 235
348 235
Continuing professional development
Education development 95 53
95 __53
443 288
9. Staff
a. Staff costs and other employee benefits
Staff costs during the period were as follows:
2024 2023
£'000 £’000
Wages and salaries 155,477 141,297
Social security costs 15,883 14,662
Pension costs 31,786 29,614
Apprenticeship levy 768 696
203,914 186,269
Supply staff costs 9,172 10,888
Severance 175 135
Redundancy 219 10

213,480 197,302

b. Severance payments

The academy trust paid 8 severance payments in the year, disclosed in the following bands:

2024 2023
No. No.
£0 - £25,000 5 12

£25,001 - £50,000 4 =

10.

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

Staff (continued)
c. Staff numbers — full-time equivalent

The average full-time equivalent number of persons employed by the group during the year ended 31
August 2024, analysed by function, was as follows:

2024 2023
No. No.

Charitable activities
Teachers 1,695 1,677
Education support and administration staff 1,579 1,496
Management 149 163

3,423 3,336

d. Staff numbers — headcount

The average gross number of persons employed by the group during the year ended 31 August
2024, analysed by function, was as follows:

2024 2023
No. No.

Charitable activities
Teachers 1,764 1,736
Education support and administration 1,923 1,854
Management 154 168
3,841 3,758

e. Higher paid staff

The number of full-time equivalent employees during the period who earned over £60,000 in the
year (including benefits and bonuses but excluding pension contributions) was as follows:

2024 2023

Number Number

£60,001 - £70,000 255 191
£70,001 - £80,000 124 65
£80,001 - £90,000 62 44
£90,001 - £100,000 31 17
£100,001 - £110,000 11 8
£110,001 - £120,000 6 8
£120,001 - £130,000 3 5
£130,001 - £140,000 4 3
£140,001 - £150,000 7 3
£150,001 - £160,000 3 3
£160,001 - £170,000 2 1
£180,001 - £190,000 _ 3
£190,001 - £200,000 3 _

511 351

Key management personnel

The key management personnel of Ark Schools comprise the directors and the senior
management team as listed on page 3, although seven members of the team (5 FTE) are paid by

63

11.

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

the sponsor organisation, Absolute Return for Kids (“Ark”). The total amount of employee benefits
(including pension and social security contributions) received by key management personnel for
their services, which was paid by Ark Schools was £827,725 (2023: £917,140). In addition,
£655,281 was paid to key management personnel of Ark Schools by Ark, including employee
benefits received by the Managing Director (see note 24).

Central services/holdback

The central team at Ark Schools fulfils several functions including education support, training/CPD
coordination, HR, financial and management accounting, legal support, and governance services.
In addition, the central team provides:

e Corporate governance and reporting, in line with the obligations imposed by company and
charity law as well as by the DfE and the ESFA

e Risk management and quality assurance

¢ Central administration

e New project management service

The academy funding model allocates all funding directly to schools, including elements that are
intended to cover costs incurred at the central office. The central holdback is computed at 5
percent of the general annual grant (2023: 5 percent). The amounts charged to each school are
detailed below. The centre also negotiates contracts on behalf of schools and charge these costs
to each school.

64

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

11. Central services/holdback (continued)

2024 2023

£000 £'000
All through Schools
Ark 547 $17
Burlington Danes 405 457
Globe 571 529
isaac Newton 549 $20
John Keats 590 SSS
Kings 321 334
King Solomon 460 451
Victoria 481 437
Secondary Schools
Acton 346 357
Alexandra 542 533
All Saints 316 301
Blake : 255 177
Bolingbroke 287 264
Boulton 351 334
Charter 349 322
Elvin 510 451
Evelyn Grace 218 212
Greenwich 258 236
Pioneer - 331 243
Putney 378 341
St Alban’s 367 356
Walworth 477 462
Soane : 218 134
Primary Schools
Atwood 120 112
Ayrton 128 122
Bentworth 60 57
Brunel 95 97
Blacklands 146 139
Byron 114 104
Castledown 102 90
Conway 67 64
Dickens 121 113
Franklin 158 154
John Archer . 73 70
Little Ridge 101 96
Oval 165 152
Priory 117 110
White City Primary (formerly Swift) * 102 60

Tindal 114 109
Total central services income 10,910 10,171

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

12. Tangible fixed assets

Freehold Furniture,

land and Long leasehold Leasehold iT and Motor — Assets under

buildings buildings improvements equipment equipment vehicles construction Total
Group £000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £000 £'000 £’000 £000
Cost
At 1 September 2023 16,550 541,163 26,616 30,726 28,469 100 21,800 665,424
Reclassifications - 16,524 5,059 - 96 32 (21,714) -
Additions - 107 6,149 2,710 977 15 6,868 16,826
Disposals a (3,058) (98) (2,429) (378) = _ (5,963)
At31 August 2024 16,550 554,736 37,726 31,007 29,164 147 6,957 676,287
Depreciation
At1 September 2023 1,465 106,941 4,001 28,124 25,278 78 - 165,887
Charge for the year 236 13,471 1,043 3,642 1,767 24 - 20,183
Disposals = (3,058) (98) (2,428) (378) = = (5,962)
At31 August 2024 1,701 117,354 4,946 29,338 26,667 102 - 180,108
Net book value
At31 August 2024 14,849 437,382 32,780 1,669 2,497 45 6,957 496,179
At31 August 2023 15,085 434,222 22,615 2,602 3,191 22 21,800 499,537

Freehold Furniture,

land and Long leasehold Leasehold Tv and Motor Assets under

buildings buildings improvements equipment equipment vehides construction Total
ArkSchools 0H. «_C ODD «_C £0 OD _ 000 £000 C00
Cost
At 1 September 2023 16,550 $41,163 26,616 30,722 28,446 100 21,800 665,397
Reclassifications - 16,524 5,059 - 96 32 (21,711) -
Additions - 107 6,150 2,710 977 15 6,868 16,827
Disposals = (3,058) (98) (2,429) (379) = = (5,964)
At31 August 2024 16,550 $54,736 37,727 31,003 29,140 147 6,957 676,260
Depreciation
At 1 September 2023 1,465 106,941 4,001 28,124 25,254 78 - 165,860
Charge for the year 236 13,471 1,043 3,642 1,767 24 _ 20,183
Disposals = (3,058) 98) (2,423) (386) = = (5,965)
At31 August 2024 1,701 117,354 4,946 29,340 26,635 102 = 180,078
Net book value
At31 August 2024 14,849 437,382 32,781 1,663, 2,505 45 6957 496,182
At31 August 2023 15,085 434,222 22,615 2,601 3,192 22 21,800 499,537

The land on which the individual academies are sited is leased at peppercorn rents. No value has
been placed on the land in the financial statements due to restrictive covenants in the leases.

£1.7m of the additions made in the year relate to the new White City Primary on the EdCity
development. This brings the total value of the asset to £16.5m, all of which was donated by Ark.
The asset was reclassified in the year from assets under construction to long leasehold buildings.

66

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

13. Wholly owned trading subsidiary

Ark Academies Projects Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Ark Schools. The following is a
summary of the financial statements of Ark Academies Projects Limited for the year ended 31
August 2024, which has been included in the consolidated financial statements.

During the year ended 31 August 2024, the company’s principal activities were the provision of
nursery education, fees for license to occupy land, and the letting of facilities through a number of
schools operated by Ark Schools.

2024 2023
£000 £'000

Turnover 3,485 3,274

Cost of sales (1,958) (2,026)
Gross profit 1,527 1,248
Administrative expenses {6) + (2)
Retained profit before charitable donation under Gift Aid at 31 August 1,521 1,246
Charitable donation under Gift Aid (1,521) (1,246)

Retained profit after charitable donation under Gift Aid at 31 August - -
Retained earnings brought forward at 1 September - _
Retained earnings carry forward at 31 August . - -

The £1 issued share capital of Ark Academies Projects Limited is wholly owned by Ark Schools.

Turnover and cost of sales for the year ended 31 August 2023 have both been grossed up by
£1,055k in order for the treatment of lettings income in both years to be consistent. There is no
impact on the company’s reported profit or charitable donation made in that year.

14. Debtors

Ark Ark

Group Schools Group Schools

2024 2024 2023 2023

£'000 £’000 £'000 £'000

Trade debtors 680 683 653 653
Amounts due from DfE/ESFA 4,930 4,930 3,278 3,278
Sponsorship due from Ark 9,477 9,477 9,371 9,371
Other debtors 2,288 2,312 2,124 2,124
Prepayments and accrued income 4,912 4,878 4,070 4,032
Amounts due from subsidiary - 1,616 - 1,350
VAT recoverable 7,275 7,275 3,040 3,040

29,562 31,171 22,536 23,848

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

15. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

Ark Ark
Group Schools Group Schools
2024 2024 2023 2023
£'000 £000 £'000 £'000
Trade creditors 5,822 $,822 7,179 7,179
Taxation and social security 3,938 3,938 3,742 3,742
Accruals 7,702 7,702 11,168 11,168
Deferred income 12,500 12,497 18,655 18,651
ESFA creditor — abatement of GAG 428 428 40 40
Other creditors 4,406 4,449 4,356 4,355
Amounts owed to subsidiary - 1,525 - 1,246
34,796 36,361 45,140 46,381

2024 2023

£'000 £'000

Deferred income

Deferred income at 1 September 18,655. 21,054
Amounts deferred in the year 8,404 8,231
Amounts released from previous years {14,559) (10,630)
Deferred income at 31 August 12,500 18,655

During the year ended 31 August 2024, Ark Schools received funding in advance for Universal
Infant Free School Meals for the period September 2024 to March 2025 and from local authority
sources (Special Educational Needs, Early Years and Foundation Stage and other local authority
income). The balance of deferred income also includes capital grant funding which has not yet
been recognised as income due to conditions of entitlement not being met at the balance sheet
date.

Creditors: amounts falling due after one year

Ark Ark

Group Schools Group Schools

2024 2024 2023 2023

£’000 £’000 £'000 £'000

ESFA loan 1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800
1,800 1,800 1,800 1,800

The above loan relates to an advance made by the ESFA to Ark Schools in 2018/19 for Ark William
Parker Academy, which merged with Ark Helenswood Academy to become Ark Alexandra
Academy on 1 September 2019. The Df€ has confirmed that they will pause the repayments of the
loan, originally anticipated to commence in September 2024, pending a review of the financial
sustainability of Ark Alexandra. The discussion is anticipated to take place in 2024/25. We are
confident that this is correctly classified as a long term creditor.

68

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

16. Funds

Group

Restricted fixed assets fund

Df€ fixed assets fund

Ark sponsorship fixed assets fund
Devolved Formula Capital and School
Condition Allocation

Other fixed assets funds

Restricted general funds
General Annual Grant (GAG) (note 4)
Start up and lead in (note 4)
Pupil Premium
16-19 Core Funding
Universal Infant Free Schoo! Meals
Mainstream Schools Annual Grant
Teachers Pay Grant
Teachers Pension Employer Contribution
Grant
Teachers Pension Grant
Other DfE/ESFA grants (note 4)
Recovery Premium Grant
Other DfE/ESFA COVID-19 funding
Donations from Ark

Ark Schools Coronavirus Fund

Ark Programme Grants
Teaching School
UK programmes — grants
Local authority grants
Other donations

Pension reserve
Total restricted funds

Unrestricted funds
Unrestricted general funds
. Other unrestricted funds
. Designated funds

Total unrestricted funds
Total funds

At1
September
2023

£’000

206,429
16,352

11,470
271,117
505,368

5,897

1,482
454
448
114
793

9,185

2,175)
512,378

1,548
245

1,793
514,171

Income
£’000

1,681

10,181
2,322
14,184

192,944
364
14,783
15,315
1,394
6,820
3,500

710
1,816
2,875
2,904

434

137
1,879
543
11,492
9,885
267,795

775
282,754

2,362
2,362
285,116

Expenditure
£'000

(4,129)
(332)

{753}
15,714
(20,928)

(194,517)
(364)
(14,783)
(15,315)
(1,394)
(6,820)
(3,500)

(710)
(1,816)
(2,875)
(2,904)

(434)

(137)
(2,215)
(443)
(11,492)
10,017
269,736

290,664

(1,961)
1,961)
292,625)

Transfers
and other At31
gains and August
losses 2024
£’000 £’000
- 202,300
- 17,701
_ 20,898

3,985 261,710
3,985 502,609

(3,985) 339
- 1,146

~ 554

(293) 155

- 111

310 971

(3,968) 3,276
(129) 1,529
112 504,356
- 1,949

= 245

= 2,194

112 506,550

69

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

16. Funds (continued)
The purposes for which the funds are to be applied are as follows:
Restricted fixed assets fund

This fund equates to the net book value of Ark Schools’ tangible fixed assets plus funding received
from central/local government and other donors for capital which has not been expended by the
balance sheet date. The capital funding may be used to complete capital projects or undertake
maintenance works on existing tangible fixed assets.

The fund balance includes the carrying value of school buildings (and other tangible fixed assets)
inherited by Ark Schools where a school has converted or joined Ark Schools from another
academy trust.

Transfers from either general funds or unrestricted funds to the restricted fixed assets fund are
made where a shortfall exists in the capital reserves available to fully fund the cost of tangible
fixed assets owned by Ark Schools.

Restricted general funds

Restricted general funds represent the balance of funds available from revenue grants received
from local/central government and other donors, the application of which is timited to the
conditions imposed by the grantor/donor.

The principal funding receivable from the government is the General Annual Grant (GAG) provided
by the ESFA. Under the funding agreement with the Secretary of State, Ark Schools was subject to
limits on the amount of GAG that it could carry forward at 31 August 2024. Note 1 discloses that
these limits were not exceeded. Transfers from other restricted funds or unrestricted funds to the
GAG fund have been made in order to cover the deficit which would otherwise have existed in this
fund.

Pension reserve

The pension reserve is equal to Ark Schools’ share of the deficit within the various Local
Government Pension Schemes in which Ark Schools participates.

Unrestricted funds

The unrestricted general funds represent monies which may be applied for any purpose within the
Ark Schools’ objects. The designated fund balances relate to amounts set aside for specific future
projects. During the year, we transferred £4.0m (2023: £4.9m) from revenue funds to fund in-year
capital expenditure.

Transfers from unrestricted general funds to restricted general funds are made in order to cover
any shortfall which would otherwise exist on restricted general funds due to insufficient funding
being receivable.

70

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

16. Funds (continued)
Analysis of fund balance by academy
The table below provides further analysis of the fund balances attributable to each school and the
_central function including:
e Revenue reserves, comprising the aggregate balance of the restricted general funds and
unrestricted funds.

‘Capital reserves being funding received by schools to address their own priorities but unspent
at the balance sheet date. The funds will be used for improvements to buildings and other
facilities including repairs, refurbishment, and minor works.

¢ General capital reserves representing funds set aside for specific contractual reasons
(maintenance on sports facilities etc.) These balances are included as part of Ark Schools’
restricted fixed assets fund.

e ITreserves, being other amounts designated as at the balance sheet date for future
expenditure on IT equipment and upgrades.

71

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

16. Funds (continued)

Analysis of fund balance by academy (continued)

2024
2024 2024 General 2024 2024 2023
Revenue Capital Capital T Total Total!
reserves reserves reserves reserves reserves reserves
£'000 £000 £000 £’000 £'000 £'000
All through Schools
Ark 637 64 59 149 909 1,012
Burlington Danes 556 36 - 232 824 862
Globe 788 151 - 17 956 1,152
Isaac Newton 1,017 213 150 190 1,570 1,456
John Keats 669 62 - 121 852 1,006
Kings 600 145 _ 240 985 1,472
King Solomon 395 3 - 136 534 1,083
Victoria {78) 108 _ 216 246 297
Secondary Schools
Acton 361 134 - 99 594 781
All Saints 836 67 - 90 993 1,035
Alexandra (5,916) 36 110 159 (5,611) (4,945)
Blake (854) 20 - - {834} (803)
Bolingbroke (909) 31 _ 57 (822) (668)
Boulton 431 98 - 608 1,137 1,465
Charter (1,294) 3 - 87 (1,234) (887)
Elvin 692 34 _- _ 726 1,118
Evelyn Grace (182) 67 - 113 (2) 635
Greenwich 797 94 - 158 1,049 1,011
Pioneer 31 3 - 5 39 91
Putney (1,693) 68 - 75 (1,550) (1,368)
Soane (16) 1 _ - (15) (228)
St Alban’s 368 145 - 352 865 S500
Walworth 316 1 - 222 539 568
Primary Schools
Atwood 97 102 - 34 233 405
Ayrton 114 28 _ 11 153 116
Bentworth (230) 34 - 50 (146) (117)
Brunel 187 41 - 46 274 368
Blacklands 547 85 - 15 647 766
Byron (424) 41 - - (383) (207)
Castledown 559 59 - 13 631 554
Conway _ (244) 64 - 4s (135) (29)
Dickens 264 27 - . 11 302 327
Franklin 1,303 84 - 29 1,416 1,452
John Archer (678) 36 - 36 (606) (615)
Little Ridge 241 3 - 13 257 241
Oval (525) 29 _ 40 (456) (208)
Priory (5) 57 = 9 61 146
Tindal 596 48 =_ 15 6s9 1,133
White City Primary (formerly Swift) (1,487) 48 - 43 (1,396) (1,116)
Hastings Opportunity Area — — - - - 18
Teaching School Hub 554 - - - 554 455

Ark Schools Central 7,049 35 - _ 7,084 6,475
5,470 2,405 319 3,706 11,900 16,809

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

16. Funds (continued)

Analysis of fund balance by academy (continued)

2024 2023
£’000 £'000
Total revenue reserves (as per above) 5,470 10,978
Fixed asset fund (including unspent capital reserves above) 502,609 505,368
Pension reserve __(1,529)  ___(2,175)

Total 506,550 514,171

® Alexandra had a net funds deficit of £5,611k as at 31 August 2024 (2023: deficit of £4,945k).
Alexandra was created through the merger of William Parker and Helenswood in September
2019. The school is expected to move to sustainability in the medium term. It continues to be
supported by Ark Schools and by a £1.8m DfE loan as noted in note 15.

e Blake had a net funds deficit of £834k as at 31 August 2024 (2023: deficit of £803k). Blake was
a new start school which opened in September 2020. As pupil numbers grow through the
secondary phase, the school will recover to achieve a positive funds balance.

e Bolingbroke had a net funds deficit of £821k as at 32 August 2024 (2023: deficit of £668k).
Bolingbroke is expected to generate a surplus from 2024/25 and to return to a financial
equilibrium in the medium term.

e Charter had a net funds deficit of £1,234k as at 31 August 2024 (2023: deficit of £887k).
Charter is now expected to generate a small in-year surplus and return to financial
equilibrium in the medium term.

e Evelyn Grace had a net funds deficit of £2k as at 31 August 2024 (2023: surplus of £635k).
Evelyn Grace has historically generated surpluses and has a business plan in place to support
the school.

e Putney had a net funds deficit of £1,550k as at 31 August 2024 (2023: deficit of £1,368k).
Putney has a business plan in place and is expected to return to financial equilibrium in the
medium term.

e Soane had a net funds deficit of £15k as at 31 August 2024 (2023: deficit of £228k). Soane
was a new school in 2021/22. As pupil numbers grow through the secondary phase, the
school will recover to achieve a positive funds balance.

e Bentworth had a net funds deficit of £146k as at 31 August 2024 (2023: deficit of £117k).
Bentworth has historically generated surpluses and has a business plan in place to support
the school.

e Byron had a net funds deficit of £383k as at 31 August 2024 (2023: deficit of £207k). Byron
has historically generated surpluses, has a business plan in place and is expected to start
generating surpluses within the next two years.

e Conway had a net funds deficit of £135k as at 31 August 2024 (2023: deficit of £29k). Conway
has a sustainable business plan and is expected to restart generating surpluses within the next
three years.

73

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

16. Funds (continued)
Analysis of fund balance by academy (continued)

e John Archer had a net funds deficit of £606k as at 31 August 2024 (2023: deficit of £615k). John
Archer has a sustainable business plan and is expected to start generating surpluses within the
next three years.

e Oval had a net funds deficit of £456k as at 31 August 2024 (2023: deficit of £208k). Oval has
historically generated surpluses and is developing a business plan to start generating
surpluses within the next three years.

e On1 September 2023, Swift merged with Burlington Danes Primary to become White City
Primary, opening in a new building within the EdCity development. White City Primary had a
net funds deficit of £1,396k as at 31 August 2024 (2023: deficit of £1,116k). The school is
developing a sustainable business plan and the long-term outlook for the school is positive.

16. Funds (continued)

Comparative information

Transfers
At 1 September andother At31 August
2022 gains and 2023
£’000 Income__ Expenditure losses £000

74

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

Group

Restricted fixed assets fund

DfE fixed assets fund

Ark sponsorship fixed assets fund
Devolved Formula Capital and School
Condition Allocation

Other fixed assets funds

Restricted general funds

General Annual Grant (GAG) (note 4)
Start up and lead in (note 4)

Pupil Premium

Universal Infant Free School Meals
Schools Supplementary Grant
Mainstream Schools Annual Grant
Other DfE/ESFA grants (note 4)
Recovery Premium Grant

Other DfE/ESFA COVID-19 funding

Donations from Ark
Ark Schools Coronavirus Fund
Ark Programme Grants
Teaching School
UK programmes — grants
Local authority grants
Other donations

Pension reserve

Total restricted funds
Unrestricted funds
Unrestricted general funds
. Other unrestricted funds
. Designated funds

Total unrestricted funds

Total funds

210,642
6,989

4,577
277,434
499,642

8,890

1,482
286
446
111

1,320

12,535

19,037)
493,140
1,612
245

1,857

494,997

£’000

9,507

7,370
2,474
19,351

197,638
461
14,080
1,047
5,358
2,821
3,690
3,384
1,327

94
927
456

10,980
2,666
244,929

264,280

8,442

8,442

272,722

£’000

(4,213)
(144)

(477)
(13,683}
18,517

(197,638)
(461)
(14,080)
(1,047)
(5,358)
(2,821)
(3,690)
(3,384)
(1,327)

(94)
(927)
(288)

(10,980)
(3,193)
245,288

2,683)

266,488)

(6,607)

{6,607)

273,095)

£’000
- 206,429
- 16,352
- 11,470
4,892 271,117
4,892 505,368
(2,993) 5,897
- 1,482
- 454
2 448
- 411
- 793
2,991, 9,185
19,545 2,175
21,446 $12,378
(1,899) 1,548
- 245
(1,899) 1,793
19,547 514,171

75

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

17. Expenditure Analysis — analysis of cost by academy

Expenditure incurred by each academy during the year was as follows:

Other costs
Teaching (excluding
and Other depreciation
educational support and losses on
support staff Educational disposal of 2024 2023
costs costs supplies assets) Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £’000 £'000 £7000
All through Schools
Ark 9,375 1,407 150 1,999 12,931 12,197
Burlington Danes 5,973 884 252 2,024 9,133 10,617
Globe 8,205 1,109 292 3,309 12,915 11,765
Isaac Newton 8,249 1,376 197 2,096 11,918 11,231
John Keats 9,487 1,302 312 2,241 13,342 13,022
Kings 5,107 1,131 146 1,486 7,870 8,003
King Solomon 8,416 836 153 2,590 11,995 10,952
Victoria 7,307 1,237 180 2,255 10,979 10,068
Secondary Schools
Acton 5,320 398 262 2,606 8,586 8,536
All Saints 4,216 _ 1,080 116 1,412 6,824 6,918
Alexandra 8,599 1,391 331 1,907 12,228 11,081
Blake 3,602 536 134 1,348 5,620 4,460
Bolingbroke 4,169 839 258 1,562 6,828 6,172
Boulton 5,078 740 141 1,774 7,733 7,376
Charter 5,232 879 147 1,495 7,753 7,282
Elvin 7,612 1,145 258 2,248 11,263 10,173
Evelyn Grace 3,181 649 73 1,730 5,633 5,268
Greenwich 3,396 419 180 1,300 5,295 5,212
Pioneer 5,136 916 209 1,459 7,720 5,650
Putney 6,293 780 170 1,713 8,956 8,046
Soane 3,063 393 108 1,159 4,723 3,342
St Alban’s 5,377 803 114 1,336 7,630 7,462
Walworth 6,699 1,179 180 2,289 10,347 10,530
Primary Schools O
Atwood 2,198 429 77 550 3,254 3,210
Ayrton 2,089 335 71 534 . 3,029 3,071
Bentworth 1,069 200 23 282 1,574 1,622
Brunel 1,868 164 56 541 2,629 2,662
Blacklands 2,396 420 57 464 3,337 3,054
Byron 1,875 313 55 $81 2,824 2,579
Castledown 1,741 189 54 471 2,455 2,226
Conway 998 302 34 401 1,735 1,633
Dickens 2,105 349 70 $19 3,043 2,970
Franklin 2,689 $26 72 713 4,000 3,684
John Archer 1,107 247 40 377 1,771 1,889
Little Ridge 1,769 265 39 421 2,494 2,276
Oval 2,904 566 138 624 4,232 3,981
Priory 2,123 325 69 546 3,063 2,913
White City Primary (formerly Swift} 2,087 309 63 564 3,023 1,956
Tindal 2,012 384 14 485 2,955 2,733
Hastings Opportunity Area - - - - - 21
Teaching School Hub 313 56 - 7s 444 288
Ark Schools Central 302 15,357 - 4 15,663 14,753
Ark Schools excluding subsidiaries 170,737 42,165 5,355, 51,490 269,747 252,884

76

18.

19.

20.

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

Analysis of net assets between funds
Restricted funds

Total
Unrestricted General Pension _Fixed assets funds
funds funds reserve fund 2024
Group £'000 £'000 £’000 £'000 £000
Fund balances at 31 August 2024 are
represented by:
Tangible and investment assets - 155 _ 496,179 496,334
Current assets 2,194 28,906 _ 17,241 48,341
Creditors: amounts falling due within one
year 7 (23,985) 7 (10,811) (34,796)
Creditors: amounts due after one year - (1,800) - - (1,800)
Pension scheme fiability - = (1,529) - (1,529)
2,194 3,276 (1,529) 502,609 506,550
Restricted funds
Total
Unrestricted General Pension _ Fixed assets funds
funds funds reserve fund 2024
Ark Schools £'000 £'000 £'000 £’000 £’000
Fund balances at 31 August 2024 are
represented by:
Tangible and investment assets — 155 - 496,182 496,337
Current assets 2,194 30,471 - 17,238 49,903
Creditors: amounts falling due within one
year ~ (25,550) ~ (10,811) (36,361)
Creditors: amounts due after one year - (1,800) - - (1,800)
Pension scheme liability - =_ (1,529) = (1,529)
2,194 3,276 (1,529) 502,609 506,550

Member Liability

The member of the charitable company undertakes to contribute to the assets of the company in
the event of it being wound up while it is a member, or within one year after it ceases to be a
member, such amount as may be required, not exceeding £10 for the debts and liabilities
contracted before it ceases to be a member.

Pensions and similar obligations

Ark Schools’ employees belong to one of three principal pension arrangements: the Teachers’
Pension Scheme England and Wales (TPS) for academic and related staff; the Local Government
Pensions Scheme (LGPS) for non-teaching staff (both are defined benefit schemes) and a money
purchase arrangement for Ark Schools’ employees employed by the central office who do not
work directly and specifically for any academy, who have opted out of the LGPS.

The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS related to the period ended 31 March 2020 and of the
LGPS to the period ended 31 March 2022.

There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions at either the beginning or the end of the
financia! period.

77

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

20. Pensions and similar obligations (continued)
Central Office Money Purchase Scheme

Ark Schools’ staff employed in the central office who do not work directly or specifically for any
school, and those who have opted not to join the Local Government Pension Scheme, have the
option to join a non-contributory scheme administered by The Pensions Trust.

Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Teachers' Pension Scheme (TPS) is a statutory, contributory, defined benefit scheme,
governed by the Teachers’ Pension Scheme Regulations 2014. Membership is automatic for
teachers in academies. All teachers have the option to opt-out of the TPS following enrolment.

The TPS is an unfunded scheme to which both the member and employer make contributions, as a
percentage of salary - these contributions are credited to the Exchequer. Retirement and other
pension benefits are paid by public funds provided by Parliament.

Valuation of the Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Government Actuary, using normal actuarial principles, conducts a formal actuarial review of
the TPS in accordance with the Public Service Pensions (Valuations and Employer Cost Cap)
Directions 2014 published by HM Treasury every four years. The aim of the review is to ensure
scheme costs are recognised and managed appropriately and the review specifies the level of
future contributions.

Actuarial scheme valuations are dependent on assumptions about the value of future costs,
design of benefits and many other factors. The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS was carried
out as at 31 March 2020. The valuation report was published by the Department for Education on
27 October 2023, with the SCAPE rate, set by HMT, applying a notional investment return based
on 1.7percent above the rate of CPI. The key elements of the valuation outcome are:

© employer contribution rates set at 28.68 percent of pensionable pay (including a 0.08 percent
administration levy). This is an increase of 5% in employer contributions and the cost control
result is such that no change in member benefits is needed.

e Total scheme liabilities (pensions currently in payment and the estimated cost of future
benefits) for service to the effective date of £262,000 million and notional assets (estimated
future contributions together with the notional investments held at the valuation date) of
£222,200 million, giving a notional past service deficit of £39,800 million The next valuation
result is due to be implemented from 1 April 2027.

The result of this valuation will be implemented from 1 April 2024.The next valuation result is due to be
implemented from 1 April 2028.

The employer’s pension costs paid to TPS in the period amounted to £20,881k (2023: £17,964k).

A copy of the valuation report and supporting documentation is at
https://www.teacherspensions.co.uk/news/employers/2019/04/teachers-pensions-valuation-

report.aspx.

78

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

20. Pensions and similar obligations (continued)
Valuation of the Teachers’ Pension Scheme (continued)

Under the definitions set out in FRS 102, the TPS is an unfunded multi-employer pension scheme.
The academy trust is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the plan.
Accordingly, the academy trust has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 102 and has
accounted for its contributions to the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme. The
academy trust has set out above, the information available on the scheme.

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS)

Each LGPS is a multi-employer funded defined-benefit scheme, with the assets held in separate
trustee-administered funds. Ark Schools is currently part of sixteen different funds. The total
contribution made (as referenced by the scheme actuaries) for the year ended 31 August 2024 was
£10,537k (2023: £9,626k), of which employees' contributions totalled £2,849k (2023: £2,595k)
and employers’ contributions totalled £7,688k (2023: £7,031k). The agreed contribution rates for
future years are between 13.5 percent and 31.4 percent for employers and between 5.5 percent
and 12.5 percent for employees.

Parliament has agreed, at the request of the Secretary of State for Education, to guarantee that in
the event of an academy trust closing, outstanding LGPS liabilities would be met by the Dfe.

The guarantee came into force on 18 July 2013, and on 21 July 2022, the Department for
Education reaffirmed its commitment to the guarantee with a parliamentary minute published on
the GOV.UK website.

79

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

20. Pensions and similar obligations (continued)

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) (continued)

Pension Fund — Administering Authority Academies
Greater London
City of Westminster Atwood*
King Solomon*
London Borough of Brent Ark*
Elvin*
Franklin®
London Borough of Barnet Pioneer*
London Borough of Croydon Blake*
Oval*
London Borough of Ealing Acton
Byron*
Priory*
Soane*
London Borough of Enfield John Keats*
London Borough of Greenwich Greenwich*
London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham Bentworth
Burlington Danes*
Conway*
White City
London Borough of Lambeth Evelyn Grace*
London Borough of Redbridge Isaac Newton*
London Borough of Southwark All Saints*
Globe*
Walworth*
Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea Brunel*
London Borough of Wandsworth Bolingbroke*
Putney*
John Archer*
East Sussex
East Sussex County Council Alexandra*
Blacklands*
Little Ridge*
Castledown*
Hampshire
Hampshire County Council Ayrton*
Charter*
Dickens*
West Midlands
West Midlands Fund Boulton*
Kings*
St Alban’s*
Tindal*
Victoria*

*These schools have schemes that have been valued at a net asset position. Under the rules of the
schemes, the surpluses are not recoverable, and as such, the recognition of these surpluses on the
balance sheet has been restricted by its ceiling amount as calculated by the scheme actuaries. The
adjustment for this ‘asset ceiling’ of £31,553k has been offset against the overall actuarial gain for
the year.

80

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

20. Pensions and similar obligations (continued)

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) (continued)

Range of principal actuarial assumptions:

Rate of increase in salaries

Rate of increase in pension payments
Discount rates

Inflation assumptions

2024
percent
Average

3.65

2.65
5.00
2.65

2023
percent
Average

3.85
2.85
5.25
2.85

The current mortality assumptions included sufficient allowance for future improvements in
mortality rates. The range of assumed life expectations in years beyond the retirement age of 65

across the funds are:

2024 2024

Lowest Highest
Retiring today
Males 19.2 22.0

I

Females 22.6 24.6
Retiring in 20 years
Males 20.5 22.3
Females 24.1 25.6
Sensitivity analysis — increase (decrease) in overall deficit
Discount rate +0.1percent
Discount rate -0.1percent
Mortality assumption — 1 year increase
Mortality assumption — 1 year decrease
CPI rate +0.1percent
CPI rate -0.1percent

2023 2023

Lowest Highest

19.8 22.7

23.1 25.1

22.2 22.9

24.7 26.1

At31 At31

August August

2024 2023

£'000 £’000
(2,576) (2,290)
2,648 2,354
2,542 2,213
(2,308) (2,012)
2,668 2,370
2599) (2,309

81

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

20. Pensions and similar obligations (continued)

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) (continued)

Fair value Fair value

at 31 at 31

August August

2024 2023

Ark Schools’ share of the assets in the schemes was as follows: £000 £000
Equities 64,418 59,429
Corporate/government bonds 32,139 15,682
Property 9,484 7,760
Cash 3,388 2,524
Other 7,611 18,846
Total market value of assets 117,040 104,241
“The amounts recognised in statement of financial activities were as follows: 2024 2023

£’000 £'000

Current service cost 6,589 8,679
Net finance cost (80) 665
Admin expenses 404 370
Total amount recognised in the SOFA 6,913 9,714
2024 2023

Movements on the overall deficit during the year was as follows: £000 £000
Deficit at 1 September 2023 (2,175) (19,037)
Current service cost (6,589) (8,679)
Administration cost (404) (370)
Employer contributions 7,688 7,031
Net finance cost 80 (665)
Actuarial gain (loss) (129) 19,545
At 31 August 2024 (1,529) (2,175)
Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows: 2024 2023
£7000 £'000

At 1 September 2023 106,415 123,939
Current service cost 6,589 8,679
Interest cost 5,631 5,299
Employee contributions 2,849 2,595
Actuarial (gain) loss {1,871) (33,086)

Benefits paid 1,044) (1,011)

At 31 August 2024 118,569 106,415

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

20. Pensions and similar obligations (continued)

21.

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) (continued)

Movements in the present value of defined benefit assets were as follows: 2024 2023

£'000 £'000
At 1 September 2023 104,240 104,902
Expected return on assets 5,711 4,634
Administration expenses (404) (370)
Employer contributions 7,688 7,031
Employee contributions 2,849 2,595
Actuarial (loss) gain (2,000) (13,541)
Benefits paid (1,044) (1,011)
At31 August 2024 117,040 104,240

The five years history of experience adjustments is as follows:

2024 2023 2022 2021 2020

£000 £7000 £000 £'000 £000
Present value of scheme obligations (118,569) (106,415) (123,939) (201,565) (148,617)
Fair value of assets 117,040 104,240 104,902 111,123 84,761
Net deficit in schemes 1,529 2,175) 19,037) 90,442 (63,856)
Experience (loss) gain on scheme assets 2,000) 13,541) 15,307) 18,330 314
Experience gain (!oss) on scheme
liabilities 1,871 33,086 104,355 (34,225) (1,205)

Lease commitments

At 31 August 2024, the total of Ark Schools’ future minimum lease payments under non-
cancellable operating leases in relation to buildings, plant and machinery was:

2024 2023
£’000 £'000
Amounts due within one year 1,159 677
Amounts due between one and five years 2,650 371
Amounts due after five years 2,239 _-
6,048 1,048

In the year, Ark Schools entered into a new twenty-five-year lease with EdCity Office, a 100%
subsidiary of Ark, in the new EdCity development. This lease agreement was approved by the
Secretary of State. The lease commenced on 1% September 2024. There are allowances to break
the lease at ten year intervals.

83

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

21. Lease commitments (continued)

The property occupied by Ark Kings Academy was financed by a Private Finance Initiative
agreement between the PFI contractor and the local authority (the owner of the freehold). Ark
Schools is subject to a sub-agreement with the Local Authority which requires Ark Schools to make
an annual contribution towards facilities management for a period of 25 years expiring on 30 April
2042. At 31 August 2024, the total of Ark Schools’ future minimum commitments under this sub-
agreement was as follows:

2024 2023

Property occupied by Ark Kings Academy £’000 £'000
Amounts due within one year 100 98
Amounts due between one and five years 541 528
Amounts due after five years 1,657 2,690
2,298 3,316

The property occupied by Ark Acton Academy was financed by a Private Finance Initiative
agreement between the PFI contractor and the local authority (the owner of the freehold). Ark
Schools is subject to a sub-agreement with the Local Authority which requires Ark Schools to make
an annual contribution towards facilities management for a period of 13 years expiring on 31 July
2032. At 31 August 2024, the total of Ark Schools’ future minimum commitments under this sub-
agreement was as follows:

: 2024 2023
Property occupied by Ark Acton Academy £000 £000
Amounts due within one year 853 816
Amounts due between one and five years 4,266 4,081
Amounts due after five years 1,706 2,449
: 6,825 7,346
22. Capital commitments

At 31 August 2024, the group had capital commitments as follows:

2024 2023

£’000 £'000

Contracted for but not provided in the financiat statements 3,475 5,064

84

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

23. Related party transactions
Transactions with Ark

Ark Schools is sponsored by Ark, which is also the only member of Ark Schools. Ark is a charitable
company and has one director (2023: two) in common with Ark Schools.

During the year, Ark and its subsidiaries donated £3.9m (2023: £10.7m) with £3.7m (2023:
£10.5m) included in donations from Ark in note 2: £1.7m towards the new White City Primary
building (2023: £9.5m); £1.1m donations for extracurricular programmes, music and pathways and
enrichment (2023: £0.8m); £0.1m from trustees, sponsors and corporates for the Ark Schools
Coronavirus Appeal (2023: £0.1m); £0.3m from trustees towards Mental Health initiatives (2023:
£0.1m); £0.1m towards digital transformation, data modernisation and website development
(2023: £0.1m); and £0.3m to the Ark Learning Institute (2023: nil).

There was £9.5m (2023: £9.4m) of sponsorship due from Ark included in the debtors note 14.

A further £0.3m (2023: £0.2m) relating to amounts received to fund Ark Schools’ Projects team is
included in note S.

Ark Schools’ central team shares offices with Ark. Ark Schools has made payments on behalf of Ark.
These are recharged to Ark based on an agreed apportionment of actual usage where possible, and
otherwise in proportion to the number of desk spaces occupied by each entity's staff. The amounts
recharged in respect of the year ended 31 August 2024 to Ark are included in the table below.
None of these recharges were included in creditors at the year-end (2023: £75k in ‘Other
Creditors’).

2024 2023
£’000 £’000

Recharged to Ark
Rent and service charges 762 683
IT service costs 156 147
Technology services 21 20
939 850

8S

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

23. Related party transactions (continued)
Transactions with Ark UK Programmes

Ark has a charitable subsidiary, Ark UK Programmes which carries out educational work in the UK,
principally in relation to provision of extended school programmes at the schools operated by Ark
Schools.

Ark Schools made payments of £227k (2023: £138k) to Ark UK Programmes for the provision of
Mathematics Mastery and English Mastery resources and training, and shared supplier accounts.

Ark UK Programmes administers the endowment funds for the benefit of certain Ark academies.
Each of the academies run by Ark Schools and opened pre-September 2011 was granted an
endowment to support the academy in the future. For some of the academies this was a condition
of the funding agreement, but for four, this is in addition to the sponsor capital contribution
stipulated in the funding agreement. The initial endowments were received by Ark UK
Programmes via Ark and invested as part of a listed investment portfolio. At 31 August 2024, the
value of the amounts held by Ark UK Programmes in relation to the above endowments was
£5.4m (2023: £5.1m). £0.3m (2023: £1.0m) was withdrawn from endowments during the year
ended 31 August 2024. No balances were owed to Ark Schools by Ark UK Programmes in respect
of these withdrawals.

In addition to the endowments above, surplus funds earned by certain schools within the network
may be transferred to Ark UK Programmes for investment in the same listed investments
portfolio. At 31 August 2024, Ark UK Programmes had invested a cumulative amount of £155k in
respect of Ark King Solomon Academy (2023: £138k) as part of their investment strategy. During
the year, the cumulative unrealised gain amount of £17k (2023: £2k) has been recognised through
Ark Schools’ statement of financial activities. The investment balance is owed to Ark Schools by
Ark UK Programmes and included on the balance sheet.

Transactions with other related parties

No donations were received in the year from Jagclif Charitable Trust (2023: £0.1m).

The academy trust conducted the above related party transactions in accordance with the
requirements of the Academy Trust Handbook, including notifying the ESFA of all transactions
made on or after 1 April 2019 and obtaining their approval where required, and with their financial
regulations and procurement procedures.

86

24,

25.

26,

27,

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

Directors’ emoluments

The Managing Director is also a statutory director of Ark Schools. The total amount of employee
benefits paid by Ark Schools received by the Managing Director, Lucy Heller, was nil (2023: nil). The
total paid to the Managing Director, as the CEO of Ark (rather than as Trustee of Ark Schools), was
£214,931 (2023: £208,671). In addition, a pension contribution of 11 percent was made,
totalling £23,642 (2023: a pension contribution of £7,651 plus £13,249 cash in lieu of pension).

No directors of the company received any payment or other emoluments from Ark Schools in the
reporting period (2023: none). No directors had any beneficial interest in any contract with Ark
Schools during the year (2023: none).

Directors’, Governors’, and Officers’ insurance

In accordance with normal commercial practice, the trust has purchased insurance to protect
directors and officers from claims arising from negligent acts, errors or omissions occurring whilst
on academy business with cover up to £2m in the aggregate inclusive of costs. The insurance
additionally provides for corporate legal liability and employment practices liability. For the year
ended 31 August 2024, the premium is £15,179 (2023: £7,651). The cost of this insurance is
included in the total insurance cost.

Agency arrangements

The academy trust distributes 16-19 bursary funds to students as an agent for ESFA. In the
accounting period ending 31 August 2024, the academy trust received £312k and disbursed £382k
from the fund. As at 31 August 2024, the cumulative unspent 16-19 bursary fund is £276k, of which
nil relates to undistributed funding that is repayable to ESFA. Comparatives for the accounting
period ending 31 August 2023 are £285k received, £323k disbursed, total cumulative unspent fund
of £206k of which nil was repayable to ESFA.

The trust also receives and distributes teacher training bursaries as agent for the DfE.

2024 2023
£000 £'000
16-19 bursaries 312 285
Teacher training bursaries 2,054 1,518

2,366 1,803

An amount of £nil is held in other creditors at the end of the year repayable to the DfE (2023:
Enil).

Taxation

Ark Schools is a charity (by statute) and therefore is not liable to income tax or corporation tax on
income from charitable activities, as it falls within the exemptions available to registered charities.

87

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

28. Comparative statement of financial activities

Fixed
Unrestricted General Pension assets 2023
funds funds reserve fund ‘Total funds
£000 £'000 £000 £'000 £'000
Income from:
Donations and capital grants 2 - 2,076 - 19,351 21,427
Other trading activities 3 2,981 - - - 2,981
Investments and interest receivable 104 - - - 104
Income from charitable activities
. Funding for Ark Schools’
educational operations 4 4,260 241,127 - - 245,387
. Project management grants 5 = 215 _ - 215
. Teaching School - 456 = - 456
Other income 6 2,152 = = = 2,152
Total income 9,497 243,874 = 19,351 272,722
Expenditure on:
Raising funds 8a 1,694 - - - 1,694
Charitable activities
. Ark Schools’ educational operations 8b $,968 242,237 2,683 18,517 269,405
. Development costs 8d = 1,708, - - 1,708
. Teaching School 8e _ 288 - = 288
Total expenditure 7 7,662 244,233 2,683 18,517 273,095
Netincome (expenditure) before investment
gains and losses 1,835 (359) (2,683) 834 (373)
Net gains (losses) on investments = 2 - ad 2
Netincome (expenditure) before transfers
1,835 (357) (2,683) 834 (371)
Gross transfers between funds 16 (1,899) (2,993) =_ 4,892 =
Net (expenditure) income (64) (3,350) (2,683) 5,726 (371)
Other recognised gains and losses
Actuarial gains on defined benefit
pension schemes a
Net movement in funds (64) (3,350) 16,862 5,726 19,174
Fund balances brought forward at 1
September 2022 16 1,857 12,535 (19,037) 499,642 494,997

Fund balances carried forward at 31
August 2023 1,793 9,185 (2,175) 505,368 §14,171

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

29. Reconciliation of operating position

Year ended 31 August 2024

General funds Other funds
Total
Unrestricted Restricted Revenue Pension Fixed assets Total
funds funds Reserves Reserve fund funds
£000 £000 £'000 £'000 £’000 £'000
Fund balance brought forward 1,793 9,185 10,978 (2,175) 505,368 $14,171
Fund balance carried forward 2,194 3,276 5,470 (4,529) 502,609 $06,550
Net increase (decrease) in funds (as per the
statement of financial activities) 401 (5,909) (5,508) 646 (2,759) (7,621)
Add:
Transfer of revenue to fixed assets fund 3,985
Operational deficit (1,523)

The operating deficit disclosed is deemed to equal net income before transfers in respect of the
unrestricted funds and the restricted general funds. It excludes capital income and expenditure,
buildings transferred into the network, non-cash pension adjustments in respect of defined
benefit schemes, and any inherited revenue reserves.

Year ended 31 August 2023

General funds Other funds
Total Fixed
Unrestricted Restricted Revenue Pension assets Total
funds funds Reserves Reserve fund funds
£7000 £/000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Fund balance brought forward 1,857 12,535 14,392 (19,037) 499,642 494,997
10,97
Fund balance carried forward 1,793 9,185 8 (2,175) 505,368 514,171
Net (decrease) / increase in funds (as per the
statement of financial activities) (64) (3,350) (3,414) 16,862 5,726 19,174
Add:
Transfer of revenue to fixed assets fund 4,892

Operational surplus ,

