Registered number: 04165861

Annual report and financial statements

for the year ended 31 March 2024

*ADAIMQ37*
A10

29/08/2024 #163.
COMPANIES HOUSE

THURSDAY

Company Information

Directors

Registered number

Registered office

Independent auditors

S| Best

~C M Laishley

OE Gant
A Ramburuth

04165861

1 Admiral Way

Doxford International Business Park
Sunderland

Tyne & Wear

SR3 3XP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Central Square South

Orchard Street

Newcastle upon Tyne

NE1 3AZ

Contents

Page(s)
Strategic report . oO 1-4
Directors’ report 5-12
Independent auditors’ report 13-16 °
Statement of comprehensive income 17 4
Balance sheet ; 18-19
Statement of changes in equity : 20

Notes to the financial statements 21-46

meget

Strategic report .
for the year ended 31 March 2024

The directors present their Strategic report for the year ended 31 March 2024. -

Principal activities

The principal activity of the company during the year was the operation of passenger railway services.
Review of business ,

Arriva Rail London Limited (“the company”) started trading on 13 November 2016 and operates the London
Overground for Transport for London ("TfL"). The company won the right to operate the London Overground
when it was awarded the London Rail Concession (“the Concession”) by TfL. The duration of the Concession
was initially seven and a half years to April 2024, with a two year extension option to 3 May 2026. TfL have |
now confirmed the two year extension period to 3 May 2026 2:00am.

The London Overground network consists of passenger railway services between Richmond and Stratford (the
North London Line — new name Mildmay), Watford and Euston (known as the DC Line - new name Lioness),
Clapham Junction and Willesden Junction (the West London Line), Gospel Oak and Barking (new name
Suffragette), the East London Line (new name Windrush) operating between Highbury Islington/Dalston
Junction and Crystal Palace/West Croydon, and the West Anglia Line (new name Weaver) service which runs
from Liverpool Street to Chingford/Cheshunt.

Transport for London has initiated a line naming project, to make travel on the London Overground simpler and
easier for our customers to navigate. Each of the six routes that make up the London Overground has been
given its own name and colour indicator. The new names honour and celebrate London’s many historic
locations and stories in the public realm.

Turnover for the year ended 31 March 2024 was £265,130,000 (2023: £234,658,000). This income is
predominantly from TfL by way of a fixed concession payment. The core concession income increased in the
year as a result of an inflationary uplift to the base payment.

The company’s Statement of comprehensive income on page 17 shows a profit before tax for the year of
£12,320,000 (2023: £9,010,000). The increase in profit was mainly due to an increase in Concession income
of 12%, which is offset by an equivalent increase in cost of sales and administration expenses. There was also
£3,812,000 income of interest receivable resulting from higher interest rates, this was up from last years figure
of £1,453,000. :

The company used an industry standard Public Performance Measure (“PPM”) during the year. The result for
the year ended 31 March 2024 was 93.6% (2023: 93.3%). PPM is the UK rail industry's recognised measure of
operational train performance. The figure is a 12 month moving annual average and represents the percentage
of timetabled passenger services arriving at their scheduled destination within five minutes of the published
arrival time. The London Overground is the third highest performing train operator in the UK.

As at the balance sheet date, the company had net assets of £30,096,000 (2023: £30,214,000). The decrease
in net assets reflects the profit for the year partially offset by the dividend paid during the year of £9,600,000
(2023: £9,500,000). The company’s funding position will allow it to complete its committed obligations and
spend on projects arising from the concession agreement. .

The directors consider the state of the company's affairs to be satisfactory. .


Strategic report (continued)
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Principal risks and uncertainties

The management of the business and the execution of the company’s strategy are subject to a number of
risks. ‘

Major Incidents

As with any operator of public transportation there is the risk that the company is involved in a major incident,
which could result in injuries to the public or staff. Resulting risks include damage to the company’s reputation
and possible claims against the company.

Breach of concession

The company is required to comply with certain conditions as part of its concession agreement. If it fails to
comply with these conditions it may be liable to penalties or the potential termination of the concession.
Compliance with concession conditions are closely managed to minimise the risk of non-compliance.

Further discussion of these risks and uncertainties in the context of the group as a whole, is provided in the
annual report of Arriva Limited (formerly Arriva plc) which does not form part of this report. :

Key performance indicators

During the financial period ended 2024, the Management Board of Deutsche Bahn AG, the ultimate parent
company, managed the group's operations on a divisional basis. For this reason, the company's directors
believe that analysis using key performance indicators for the company is not necessary or appropriate for an
understanding of the development, performance or position of the company. The development performance
and position of the group, including this company, is discussed in the Deutsche Bahn AG group's Integrated
Report which does not form part of this report.

Future developments and going concern

Following the year end the company continues to invest with the aim to achieving its vision “To be the industry
leader for our people and our customers’.

The company remains confident that it will trade in line with expectations in the future.

On 19 October 2023, Deutsche Bahn AG announced an agreement had been signed under which Arriva
Limited, the intermediate parent company, would be sold to | Squared Capital. The transaction completed on
31 May 2024. Management will continue to work with the new owners going forward.

The Department for Transport (DfT) had a long-term funding settlement in place with Transport for London
(TfL) until 31 March 2024 which covered the risk of revenue shortfall due to lower passenger numbers arising
from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. As TfL is now considered to have reached financial sustainability
the funding arrangement has not been extended beyond 31 March 2024.

The directors have a. reasonable expectation that the company will continue to receive its contractually due
payments from TfL. As a result, the directors remain confident of the company's ability to continue to operate
and to discharge its liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future and have prepared the statements on a
going concern basis.

Page 2

ARRIVA RAIL LONDON LIMITED

Strategic report (continued)
for the year ended.31 March 2024

Future developments and going concern (continued)

The Labour Government set out in the King's Speech on 17 July 2024, its intention to legislate to bring rail
services back into public ownership through the ‘Passenger Railway Services (Public Ownership) Bill’.

tn line with the UK Government's manifesto commitment, the Bill makes the necessary amendments to the
Railways Act 1993 to enable services currently contracted by the Secretary of State of Transport to transfer to
public ownership as those contracts end in accordance with their terms, including through the use of
contractual break points. The Bill also allows for existing franchises to be extended by way of a further direct
award.

The UK Government has not at this stage set out a detailed schedule of expiry dates for existing contracts and
has indicated this will depend on the pace of progress of the Bill through Parliament. The UK Government has
made clear its expectation that all services will have transferred to Great British Railways by the end of the
current five-year Parliament.

The UK Government has also confirmed its intention to publish a Railways Bill to establish ‘Great British
Railways’ to create a unified rail system bringing track and train back together and planning services on a
whole-system basis, alongside other reforms including establishing a passenger watchdog (Passenger
Standards Authority).

The UK Government has confirmed that wherever there is a case that open access operators can add value to
the network, as assessed by the Office for Road and Rail, they will be able to.

Arriva Rail London is contracted by Rail for London Limited under a Concession Agreement to operate the
‘London Overground’ and there is no impact from the ‘Passenger Railway Services (Public Ownership) Bill’.

Section 172 (1) statement

Section 172 (1) of the Companies Act 2006 requires a director of a company to act in the way he or she
considers, in good faith, would most likely promote the success of the company for the benefit of its members
as a whole. In doing this, section 172 (1) requires a director to have regard to (amongst other matters):

the likely consequences of any decisions in the long-term;

the interests of the company’s employees;

the need to foster the company's business relationships with suppliers, customers and others;

the impact of the company's operations on the community and environment;

the desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct; and
the need to act fairly as between members of the company.

The directors of the company have regard to their Section 172 (1) obligations and work to promote the success
of the company, by considering the impact that their decisions may have on the company, along with the
company’s stakeholders. The issues and factors which have guided the directors’ decisions are outlined in the
‘Review of business’ and the ‘Principal Risks and Uncertainties’ sections of this report.

The directors of the company promote good governance, which is key to driving the success of the company.
The company has its own Delegation of Authority Policy for key decision, which is aligned and sits below the
Arriva group Scheme of Delegation. The Company’s Delegation of Authority Policy ensures that decisions are
made at the right level within the company and that the correct governance constraints are applied.

The implementation of the strategy and policies of the company, including those relating to its relationships
with key stakeholders, are managed by the management board of the company, which includes directors from
the Arriva UK Trains Leadership team as well as the company’s statutory directors. Any major matters of
interest are then communicated to the Arriva Management Board (the “AMB"), a subcommittee of the board of
Arriva Limited (formerly Arriva plc). The membership of the AMB includes the Managing Director of the Arriva
UK Trains division.

Page 3

ARRIVA RAIL LONDON LIMITED

Strategic report (continued)
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Section 172 (1) statement (continued)

The directors of the company aim to meet quarterly in each financial year to discuss the matters that cannot be
delegated under the Companies Act 2006. The role of the company’s board of directors (the Board) is to be
collectively responsible for the company’s long-term sustainable success, providing strategic leadership,
direction and governance within a framework of effective controls. The Board recognises that it is accountable
to its stakeholders for ensuring that the company is appropriately managed and achieves its objectives in a
way that is supported by the right culture and behaviours.

During the financial year ended 31 March 2024, the company has and continues to engage with Transport for
London (TfL), customers and customer groups to ensure a positive customer experience. Regular dialogue
with TfL is maintained through periodic meetings, which is an effective way to share customer insights and
initiatives. For further details please see the ‘Engagement with suppliers, customers and others’ section of the
Directors’ report.

The company takes payment practice commitments to suppliers seriously and seeks prompt payment of
invoices (in line with Arriva group's policies) and a clear process in the event of any invoice dispute. The
company believes that prompt payment of invoices is key to facilitating a good relationship with suppliers.

Within its individual business functions, Arriva encourages staff to volunteer for, and support, charities and
projects in the local community. Business functions align this work in a manner that fits best with their structure
and that maximises the benefit that the company can be deliver to its communities.

Further information on engagement with employees during the financial year ended 31 March 2024, including
monitoring how the company is performing against the Arriva group's strategy in relation to employees, is
provided in the ‘Employee engagement’ section of the Directors’ report.

Further information on engagement with customers during the financial year ending 31 March 2024 is provided
in the ‘Engagement with suppliers, customers and others’ section of the Directors' report.

This report was approved by the board on 23 August 2024 and signed on its behalf.

fio?

A Ramburuth
Director

Page 4

Directors’ report,
for the year ended 31 March 2024

The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024.
Results and dividends
The profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to £9,632,000 (2023: £7,243,000).

The company paid a dividend of £9,600,000 during the year (2023: £9,500,000). The directors do not
“recommend payment of any further dividend. :

Directors

The directors who served during the year and up to the date of signing the financial statements were:
S| Best

C M Laishley (appointed 8 June 2023)

OE Gant (appointed 16 April 2024)

A Ramburuth (appointed 16 April 2024)

M C Pocock (resigned 1 June 2023)

P W Hutchings (resigned 9 January 2024)

Engagement with suppliers, customers and others

The Board seeks to achieve its strategic objectives by taking into account the needs of its stakeholders and .the
impact the business of the Arriva group may have on them. The Board is aware that its decisions can impact
one or more groups of stakeholders and that effective engagement ensures that stakeholder interests are
considered in Board discussions and decisions. :

The key stakeholders which are most relevant to the decision making of the Board, include, but are not limited
to:

. Customers (including passengers and Transport for London (TfL) in respect of contracted services)
Employees

Suppliers

Network Rail

Rail Delivery group

Office of Rail and Road (ORR)

Rail Safety Standards Board

London Travel watch

Arriva UK Trains Limited

Deutsche Bahn AG (during the period under review only) .

| Squared

Local communities in which the company operates.

Cr

The implementation of strategy and policies of the company, including those relating to its relationships with
key stakeholders, are managed locally by the board of the company, and oversight is provided by the Arriva UK
Trains Leadership team. Any major matters of interest are communicated to the Arriva Management Board (the
AMB), a subcommittee of the board of Arriva Limited (formerly Arriva plc). The membership of the AMB
includes the Managing Director of the UK Trains business unit.

so : : ; Page 5.

NE NR ne a ER A A

ARRIVA RAIL LONDON LIMITED

Directors’ report (continued)
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Engagement with suppliers, customers and others (continued)

The Board is regularly updated on how the company engages with national and local passenger groups, and
how it collects feedback from customers through a variety of methods, including:

. Regular communication with Transport Focus, which is a lobbying group acting on behalf of passengers
as well as the escalation body for complaints that cannot be resolved between customers and the train
operator. This ensures an ongoing dialogue about important issues affecting passengers.

. London Travel Watch ("LTW"), which fulfils a similar function to Transport Focus for train operators
serving the Greater London area. The company liaises with LTW on a regular basis and more formally at a
regular monthly meeting.

. All customer contact activities are managed by TfL. As such, the company is not required to establish a
customer contact centre but is expected to ensure that London Overground customers know how to contact
TfL if they wish to make a complaint or suggestion and is also required to provide timely information to TfL in
support of its investigations into complaints.

. A survey of passenger views across all national rail train operators that many train operators use as their
benchmark to deliver the services that customers want. The National Rail Passenger Survey is conducted
every year. TfL also conducts extensive passenger and mystery shopper surveys every quarter to benchmark
performance across its operating modes, including London Overground.

Employee engagement

The Board recognises that its employees are key to its success, and it is committed to creating a working
environment where everyone has the opportunity to learn, develop and contribute to the success of the
company, whilst working within a common set of values. The Board is committed to assist the company's
aspirations to be an employer of choice and to employ a workforce with the skills, abilities and attitudes
required to meet the company’s business objectives and needs. The company's aim is to provide appropriate
remuneration, benefits and conditions of employment which serve to attract, retain, motivate and reward its
employees.

The Board is supportive of the company’s promotion of employee engagement and inclusion, whereby subject
to the restraints of commercial confidentiality, the company endeavours to make information available to
employees about recent and future developments and the business activities of the company, including
financial and economic factors which may have an impact on the company’s performance. ‘

Diversity and inclusion
The Board are supportive of the Arriva Group's Inclusion strategy whereby all Arriva group employees are

considered and given fair and equal consideration. The Inclusion strategy aims to ensure a co-ordinated
approach to inclusion across all of its businesses by setting ambitious targets, so that all parts of the Arriva
group are aligned behind common goals.

Having a strong strategy with clear targets will help the company to overcome societal challenges such as the
ageing population, the skills gap in professions such as engineering and the technological age which has
created a need for different skills and qualifications as the world transitions to net-zero. The group-wide
strategy aims to mitigate these factors by focusing on early careers and increasing the representation of
underrepresented groups to broaden the skills, perspectives and experiences of the workforce.

Employee feedback and communication
The company conducts both group wide and local employee surveys, the most recent survey took place in

October 2023, and just over 19,000 employees from the Arriva group took the opportunity to complete the
survey and share their views.

Page 6

ARRIVA RAIL LONDON LIMITED

Directors’ report (continued)
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Employee engagement (continued)

Employee feedback and communication (continued)

The employee surveys are used to highlight areas of engagement and areas for improvement and action. The
results of the employee surveys are shared with the Board by the Chief People Officer and discussed with the
Board, however, the AMB oversees the progress across the Arriva group to implement actions plans from the
employee surveys to improve any areas highlighted by the surveys, and to maintain those areas deemed to be
working well.

The results of the employee surveys are communicated via the Arriva group's intranet and across the UK Rail
division via social media channels and applications as well as notice boards. In addition, meetings are held by
line managers with representatives of their teams in order to address areas of concern and seek employee
input to find solutions.

There are a number of communication platforms that the Arriva group uses to inform and engage its
employees. Briefings are cascaded via line managers, bulletins are pasted via email and notice boards, as well
as the Arriva group’s Yammer feed and the intranet. In the UK Rail division communications are also made via
social media channels, notice boards and elected employee representatives.

Employee health and wellbeing

All employees have access to online training and assessments on topics such as emotional wellbeing, mental
health and remote working. This is in addition to the Arriva group programme Global Arriva Inclusion Network
(GAIN), which is aimed at promoting support for mental health and encouraging employees to share their
stories in order to tackle mental health concerns. GAIN is a place for employees to celebrate and share their
experience of working at the Arriva group. Open and honest feedback is vital to making the Arriva group a
place where employees can be themselves every day — regardiess of their race, religion, disability, gender,
sexual orientation, or any other characteristic.

The GAIN community is supported by members of the AMB, who act as executive sponsors, using their voices
to influence change within the business. Five colleagues also lead the GAIN communities and act as a driving
force, helping to plan events, collate feedback and coordinate the group's activity.

Leadership Schemes and Learning
The Board is aligned to the Arriva group's strategic objective to ‘build the future generation of leaders’ and

building talent pools helps to achieve this. In addition to local initiatives, group-wide programmes are in place to
develop emerging and future leaders across the Arriva group.

The ‘Emerging Leaders’ programme is aimed at identifying and developing future leaders whose next step is a
senior manager role, and who demonstrate the performance, potential and aspiration required to progress to
this. As part of this programme candidates are required to complete an assessment for development which will
give them the opportunity to discuss their career goals and experience in more detail and receive valuable
feedback on their strengths and development areas against the Arriva Leadership Model. The assessment will
result in a development plan, highlighting what steps they can take to help them achieve their career goals.
Following the assessment certain candidates progress to the next phase, which includes leadership workshops
and projects. .

The ‘Lift Off for Leadership’ programme is an initiative for individuals who are still in the early stages of their
career, who have demonstrated the potential to be a leader of the future. The programme focuses on
improving readiness for broader roles. Participants join a 12-month programme of workshops and ongoing
development activities, including coaching and job shadowing.

Page 7

Directors’ report (continued)
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Employee engagement (continued)

Equal opportunities
The Board believes in equal opportunities regardless of gender, age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage

and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race, religion or belief, sex and sexual orientation. This
approach is underpinned by the Arriva group’s commitment to providing equal opportunities to its current and
potential employees and applying fair and equitable employment practices. The group gives full and fair
consideration to job applications from people with disabilities, considering their skills and abilities.

Where an employee may become disabled, whether through accident, illness or injury, every reasonable and
practicable consideration will be given to ensure that they may remain in employment. There may be some
instances where there are no reasonable adjustments that can be made; where this occurs, the company will
endeavour to find a suitable alternative position. The Arriva group’s Diversity, Inclusion and Equality Policy
forms part of the Arriva group policies and standards.

Financial risk management objectives and policies

During the financial year ended March 2024, Deutsche Bahn AG was the principal source of funding for Arriva
Limited (formerly Arriva plc) and its subsidiaries. The Arriva group's financial risks, including liquidity risks and
those arising from interest rates, commodity prices and currency fluctuations are managed in accordance with
the Deutsche Bahn treasury policy. For further details relating to financial risk management please refer to the
Deutsche Bahn AG 2023 Integrated Report (https://ir.deutschebahn.com/en/reports/db-group-and-db-ag/).

Qualifying third party indemnity provisions

The company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its directors as part of a
group wide insurance policy. The qualifying third-party indemnity provisions (as defined in Section 234 of the
Companies, Act 2006) were in force during the year ended 31 March 2024 and continue to remain in force at
the date of approval of these financial statements.

Matters covered in the Strategic report

’

Details of future developments and consideration of the company's ability to continue as a gaing concern have
been disclosed in the Strategic report.

Directors' report (continued)
for the year ended 31 March 2024 |

Streamlined energy and carbon reporting disclosure (SECR)

UK energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions for Arriva Rail London Limited (the Company) for the
period 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024.

Scope 1 — Fuel use from transport and combustion of 27,655.01 31,030.23
natural gas/tCO,e!

Scope 2 — Emissions resulting from the purchase of 1,750.94 1,571.75
electricity, including heat, steam, or cooling (location
based)/tCQ,e
Scope 3?— Emissions from business travel in rental
cars or employee-owned vehicles where the company
is responsible for purchasing the fuel/tCQ,e

Total gross emissions/tCO,e 29,431.03 32,637.96
tCO2e per full time equivalent employees 19.04 20.07
Energy consumption used to calculate the above 142,031,597 168,818,747
emissions / kWh

1tCOze means tonnes (t) of carbon dioxide (COs) equivalent (e).

2Due to aggregation of underlying data by the company emissions from business travel are included in Scope 3.

Methodology
The company is required to report its UK energy use and carbon emissions in accordance with the Companies

(Directors’ Report) and Limited Liability Partnerships (Energy and Carbon Report) Regulations 2018 which
implement the UK Government's policy on Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting. The data detailed in
these tables represent emissions and energy use for which the company is responsible and does not represent
data for the whole Arriva group.

As a whally owned subsidiary of Deutsche Bahn AG, the company is bound to use their approved emission
factors for site energy and the source for site consumption emission factors is the GEMIS database (GEMIS:
IINAS, Darmstadt (Germany)). To calculate the emissions, the company has used the UK Government GHG
Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2023.

Environmental policy
Arriva group strives for best practice in environment, health, wellbeing, and safety (‘EHS’) and aims to play an

important role in the reduction of greenhouse gases to stabilise the increase in global temperatures, reduce the
group's ecological footprint, deliver business efficiencies, and protect the environment.

Page 9

Directors’ report (continued)
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Streamlined energy and carbon reporting disclosure (SECR) (continued)

Environmental policy (continued)
The EHS policy, which consists of the group’s internal environmental risk assurance standards. The policy i is
built around the following objectives:

. robust environmental management and risk assurance

clear accountability

clear communication of goals and progress

targeting improvements in CO2e emissions, Energy, Water and Waste
ensuring compliance with local law regulations, and that key environmental risks are mitigated.

Sustainability

Sustainability has a central role in the Arriva group’s strategy. The Arriva group inspires and promotes greener,
more connected transport for all, and is working towards becoming a climate neutral business.

In May 2022, the Arriva Group, announced a new Zero Emission Institute which is fed by a team of experts in
fleet planning, to accelerate its journey to net-zero in partnership with cities and regions.

The Institute now acts as a central hub of knowledge and expertise for Passenger Transport Authorities and for
Arriva’s business units, sharing experience and best practice in the roll-out of alternative fuels and transitioning
fleets to zero emissions. This is helping to build longer term decarbonisation strategies alongside town and city
transport authorities.

The Institute has started to forge relationships and partnerships with a number of external organisations which
will in turn build Arriva’s internal expertise and knowledge of the latest emerging technologies. Partnerships
include green energy companies, academic institutions, technological innovators, engineers, vehicle designers
and manufacturers.

The Institute was set up to support Arriva’s vision to help shape a future where passenger transport is the best
choice. To achieve this, partnership and clear government policies that encourage people to use public
transport are essential. Modal shift to public transport will make a significant difference in the journey to
decarbonisation by reducing car use, which in turn reduces emissions in our towns and cities. At the same
time, adopting cleaner and greener fuel technology will ensure public transport makes its contribution to the
UK's goal to become climate neutral by 2050.

Eneray efficiency actions
The company, and the Arriva group, are committed to reducing their carbon footprint and operate both BS EN

SO 14001:2015 (certificate number 722011) and BS EN ISO 50001:2018 (certificate number 721753) which
cements our commitment to continual improvement of our environmental management systems and a
reduction in energy usage across our business.

A drop in total emissions has been seen due to changes with how the company combines data from both
Transport for London and Network Rail.

,

To continue to improve the company’s energy consumption the company has installed LED lighting at several
stations as a continuation of the LED rollout program and work has already begun for the 2024 phase. The
company have maintained their 100% renewable energy agreement with non-traction electricity provider, SSE.
SSE’s Green Electricity programme is certified by Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin and is
independently verified by EcoAct. This agreement has had significant positive impact on the company’s
market-based Scope 2 emissions.

Page 10


mea ARRIVA RAIL LONDON LIMITED

Directors’ report (continued)
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Streamlined energy and carbon reporting disclosure (SECR) (continued)

Eneray efficiency actions (continued)

Over 95% of the company's energy usage comes from trains and as this is purchased through Network Rail or
Transport for London, energy production sources are out of the company's control. Several actions have been
taken to reduce this traction electricity consumption and increase the accuracy of the reported data; the
company (in partnerships with Alstom and Network Rail) has started to install on-train energy metering on its
710 trains, with the 378’s to be looked at in the future. As mentioned in previous reports, the company have
installed an intelligent stabling mode on its 710 fleet which significantly reduces the amount of energy used
while stabled overnight, last year it was introduced in the Ilford and Willesden Depots and is in the process of
being introduced at Chingford Sidings.

Statement of directors' responsibilities in respect of the financial statements

The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulation.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that taw the
directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure
Framework”, and applicable law).

Under company law, directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that
period.

IIn preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to:

. select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
. make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
. state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards comprising FRS 101 have been followed, subject to

any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

. prepare the audited financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to
presume that the company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.

The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Page 11

Directors’ report (continued)
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Directors' confirmations
In the case of each director in office at the date the directors’ report is approved:

. so far as the director has is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the company's auditors
are unaware, and :

. the director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make
themsleves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the company's auditors are
aware of that information.

This report was approved by the board on 23 August 2024 and signed on its behalf.

A Ramburuth
Director

au : : . Page 12

Independent auditors’ report to the
members of Arriva Rail London
Limited

Report on the audit of the financial statements

Opinion
In our opinion, Arriva Rail London Limited’s financial statements:

e give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 March 2024 and of its profit

. forthe year then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure
Framework”, and applicable law); and :

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual report and financial statements
(the “Annual Report”), which comprise: the Balance sheet as at 31 March 2024; the Statement of
comprehensive income and the Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and the notes
to the financial statements, comprising materia! accounting policy information and other explanatory
information.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence

We remained independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are
relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard,
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

Conclusions relating to going concern

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to
events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s
ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial
statements are authorised for issue.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern
basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Page 13

However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this conclusion is not a
guarantee as to the company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are
described in the relevant sections of this report.

Reporting on other information

The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial
statements and our auditors’ report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordirigly, we do
not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any
form of assurance thereon.

in connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with
the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated. If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are
required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial
statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are
required to report that fact. We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.

With respect to the Strategic report and Directors' Report, we also considered whether the disclosures
required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.

Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 requires us also to |
report certain opinions and matters as described below.

Strategic report and Directors' Report

in our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the
Strategic report and Directors' Report for the year ended 31 March 2024 is consistent with the
financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the -
course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and
Directors' Report. :

Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit

Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements

As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial
statements, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance
with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The directors
are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation
of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

Page 14

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using
the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or
to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee
that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken
on the basis of these financial statements.

irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in
respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting
irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.

Based on our understanding of the company and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-
compliance with laws and regulations related to the London Rail Concession agreement, and we
considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial
statements. We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial
statements such as the Companies Act 2006 and tax legislation. We evaluated management’s
incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements (including the
risk of override of controls), and determined that the principal risks were related to posting
inappropriate journal entries to improve financial results and management bias in significant
judgements and accounting estimates. Audit procedures performed by the engagement team
included:

e Discussions with management, including consideration of known or suspected instances of non-
compliance with laws and regulations and fraud;

e Review of board minutes;
Significant accounting judgements and estimates were assessed for possible management bias;

¢ Review of legal expenditure in the year to identify potential non-compliance with laws and
regulations; and

e Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries posted with unusual account
combinations.

There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. We are less likely to become
aware of instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations that are not closely related to
events and transactions reflected in the financial statements. Also, the risk of not detecting a
material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error,
as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional
misrepresentations, or through collusion.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the
FRC’s website at: www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’
report.

Page 15

Use of this report .

This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a
body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any
other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly
agreed by our prior consent in writing.

Other required reporting

Companies Act 2006 exception reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

* we have not obtained all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

e adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our
audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or

¢ certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.

We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.

lon Marra

lan Morrison (Senior Statutory Auditor)

for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Newcastle upon Tyne

23 August 2024

Page 16

Statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Note
Turnover “4
Cost of sales
Gross profit ,
Administrative expenses
Other operating income : 5
Operating profit 6
Interest receivable and similar income , 10
Interest payable and similar expenses 11
Profit before tax
Tax on profit 12
Profit for the financial year
Other comprehensive expense:
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Actuarial loss related to pension scheme 22

Total other comprehensive expense

Total comprehensive income for the year

The notes on pages 21 to 46 form part of these financial statements.

2024
£000

265,130
(233,875)

31,255

(24,981)
2,619

8,893

3,812
(385)

12,320.
(2,688)

9,632

(150)

(150)

9,482

: Page 17

2023
£000

234,658

- (207,919)

26,739

(21,208)
2,316

7,847

1,453
(290)

9,010
(1,767)

7,243

(147) .

(147)

7,096

Fixed assets

Intangible assets
Tangible assets

Current assets

‘Debtors: amounts falling due after more
than one year

Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors: amounts falling due within one
year

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due after more
than one year

Provisions for liabilities

Other provisions
Pension liability
Net assets

Capital and reserves

Called up share capital
Share premium account
Profit and loss account

Total shareholders’ funds

Balance sheet
as at 31 March 2024 |

2024

Note £000
14 1,005
15 11,249

12,254
16 -
16 12,098
89,029
101,127
17 (58,619)
42,508
54,762
18 (18,686)
36,076
20 (5,980)
22 -
30,096
21 -
25,000
5,096
30,096

2023
£000

1,678 «
10,507

12,185
36
26,745
61,249
88,030
(53,504)
34,526

46,711

(12,070)

34,641

(4,427)

30,214

25,000
5,214

30,214

Page 18

Balance sheet (continued)
as at 31 March 2024

The financial statements on pages 17 to 46 were approved and authorised for issue by the board and were
signed on its behalf on 23 August 2024.

Mao?

A Ramburuth
Director

The notes on pages 21 to 46 form part of these financial statements.

' Page 19

Statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Called up
share
capital
£000
At 1 April 2022 -
Comprehensive income / (expense) for the
year
. Profit for the financial year , -
Actuarial loss related to pension scheme -
Total other comprehensive expense for the
year . -
Total comprehensive income for the year -
Dividends (Note 13) -
At 31 March 2023 and 1 April 2023 :
_ Comprehensive income / (expense) for the
year
Profit for the financial year : -
Actuarial loss related to pension scheme :
Total comprehensive income for the year :
Dividends (Note 13) -
At 31 March 2024 -

The notes on pages 21 to 46 form part of these financial statements.

Share
premium
account

£000

25,000

25,000

25,000

Profit and Total

loss shareholders’
account funds
£000 £000
7,618 32,618
7,243 7,243
(147) (147)
(147) (147)

7,096 7,096

(9,500) (9,500)
5,214 30,214
9,632 9,632
(150) (150)
9,482 9,482
(9,600) (9,600)
5,096 30,096

' Page 20

1.

Material accounting policies

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024 .

1.1 Basis of preparation of financial statements

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101
‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ ("FRS 101") and the Companies Act 2006. The principal
accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the financial statements are set out below and
have been consistently applied to all years, unless otherwise stated.

The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis under the historic cost
convention and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.

There are no amendments to accounting standards, or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for
the year ended 31 March 2024 that have had a material impact on the company’s financial
statements.

Going concern

On 19 October 2023, Deutsche Bahn AG announced an agreement had been signed under which
Arriva Limited, the intermediate parent company, would be sold to | Squared Capital. The
transaction completed on 31 May 2024. Management will continue to work with the new owners
going forward.

The Department for Transport (DfT) had a long-term funding settlement in place with Transport for
London (TfL) until 31 March 2024 which covered the risk of revenue shortfall due to lower
passenger numbers arising from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. As TfL is now considered
to have reached financial sustainability the funding arrangement has not been extended beyond 31
March 2024.

The directors have a reasonable expectation that the company will continue to receive its
contractually due payments from TfL. As a result, the directors remain confident of the company's
ability to continue to operate and to discharge its liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future
and have prepared the statements on a going concern basis.

The Labour Government set out in the King’s Speech on 17 July 2024, its intention to legislate to
bring rail services back into public ownership through the ‘Passenger Railway Services (Public
Ownership) Bill’.

In line with the UK Government's manifesto commitment, the Bill makes the necessary
amendments to the Railways Act 1993 to enable services currently contracted by the Secretary of ©
State of Transport to transfer to public ownership as those contracts end in accordance with their
terms, including through the use of contractual break points. The Bil! also allows for existing
franchises to be extended by way of a further direct award.

The UK Government has not at this stage set out a detailed schedule of expiry dates for existing
contracts and has indicated this will depend on the pace of progress of the Bill through Parliament.
The UK Government has made clear its expectation that all services will have transferred to Great
British Railways by the end of the current five-year Parliament. - ”

The UK Government has also confirmed its intention to publish a Railways Bill to establish ‘Great
British Railways’ to create a unified rail system bringing track and train back together and planning
services on a whole-system basis, alongside other reforms including establishing a passenger
watchdog (Passenger Standards Authority). -

. . ; Page 21

1.

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Material accounting policies (continued)

1.1

1.2

1.3

1.4

1.5

Basis of preparation of financial statements (continued)

The UK Government has confirmed that wherever there is a case that open access operators can
add value to the network, as assessed by the Office for Road and Rail, they will be able to.

Arriva Rail London is contracted by Rail for London Limited under a Concession Agreement to
operate the ‘London Overground’ and there is no impact from the ‘Passenger Railway Services
(Public Ownership) Bill’.

Turnover

Concession payments relate to amounts receivable from Transport for London and is presented in
line with IFRIC 12 Service Concession Arrangements. Income is accrued where it is earned in an
earlier period to that in which it is billed or received in cash, income is deferred where it is received
in an earlier period than that to which it relates.

Station access income relates to other train companies using and stopping at stations operated by
the company.

Other income is derived from other services excluding value added tax and is recognised in the
Statement of comprehensive income on an accruals basis.

Intangible assets
Intangible assets relate to the right to operate the London Overground Rail concession and
Software assets are valued at cost less accumulated amortisation. Amortisation charges are

included in administrative expenses in the Statement of comprehensive income on the following
bases:

Right to operate concession - straight-line over 7.5 years, being the length of the concession
agreement.

Software - straight line over the remaining length of the concession agreement.

Debtors

Trade and other debtors are held with the intention to collect the contractual cash flows and are
initially measured at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost less any allowance for
impairment (where such allowance is material).

The simplified approach is used to measure expected lifetime credit loss allowances under IFRS 9
for trade and other debtors on a collective basis for any assets that are not considered to be

individually impaired.

Allowances for expected credit losses on trade and other debtors are recognised only where they
are material.

Cash

Cash balances comprise cash in hand and all bank balances and are stated in the balance sheet at
fair value. The company does not hold any cash equivalents.

Page 22

1.

ARRIVA RAIL LONDON LIMITED

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Material accounting policies (continued)

1.6 Financial Reporting Standard 101 - reduced disclosure exemptions

The company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101:

the requirements of the second sentence of paragraph 110 and paragraphs 113(a), 114,
115, 118, 119(a) to (c), 120 to 127 and 129 of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with
Customers

the requirements of paragraph 52, the second sentence of paragraph 89, and paragraphs 90,
91 and 93 of IFRS 16 Leases. The requirements of paragraph 58 of IFRS 16, provided that
the disclosure of details in indebtedness relating to amounts payable after 5 years required
by company law is presented separately for lease liabilities and other liabilities, and in total

the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements' to present
comparative information in respect of:

- paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1;

the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38A, 38B, 38C, 38D, 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D,
111 and 134-136 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements

the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows

the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in
Accounting Estimates and Errors

the requirements of paragraph 17 and 18A of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures

the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions
entered into between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is
a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member

the requirements of paragraphs 130(f)(ii), 130(f)(iti), 134(d)-134(f) and 135(c)-135(e) of IAS
36 Impairment of Assets.

The company is a qualifying entity for the purpose of FRS 101 and Note 24 gives details of the
company’s ultimate parent and from where its consolidated financial statements, prepared in
accordance with IFRS, may be obtained.

FRS 101 sets out a reduced disclosure framework for a “qualifying entity” as defined in the standard
which permits a qualifying entity to apply the recognition, measurement and disclosure
requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the UK, but makes
amendments where necessary in order to comply with the Companies Act 2006.

The equivalent disclosures are included in the consolidated financial statements of the ultimate
parent company, Deutsche Bahn AG, in accordance with the application guidance of FRS 100
"Application of financial reporting requirements”.

Page 23

1.

Material accounting policies (continued)

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

1.7 Leases

1.8

For leases within the scope of IFRS 16, a lease liability and corresponding right-of-use asset are
recognised at the lease commencement date.

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of future lease payments, discounted,
using the incremental borrowing rate of the company (or rate implicit in the lease, if available).
Future lease payments include fixed and variable payments, amounts repayable under a residual
value guarantee, and the exercise price of future purchase options the company is reasonably
certain to exercise (where applicable). Lease payments to be made under reasonably certain
extension options are also included in the measurement of the liability. The liability is subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with the financing cost recognised
within ‘Interest payable and similar charges’.

Corresponding right-of-use assets are measured at the initial amount of the lease liability, adjusted
for any lease payments prepaid at the commencement date, initial direct costs, lease incentives,
and an estimate of costs to dismantle or remove the underlying asset. Subsequently, the right-of-
use asset is depreciated on a straight line basis over lease term. Where an impairment indicator is
identified the right-of-use asset is adjusted by any associated impairment losses. The right-of-use

asset is also adjusted for any remeasurements of the lease liability.

The company has elected to apply the exemption included within IFRS 16 for short-term leases
(lease terms of less than 12 months from the commencement date), and low value leases (asset
values less than €5,000). The lease payments associated with these leases are recognised as an

expense on a Straight-line basis over the lease term.

Tangible assets

. Tangible assets are stated at historic purchase cost less accumulated depreciation. Cost includes
the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working

condition for its intended use.

Tangible assets include right-of-use assets under lease arrangements. Note 1.7 outlines the

accounting policies for such assets.

Depreciation is provided on the following basis:

Short-term leasehold
improvements

Plant and machinery
Right-of-use assets

- over the term of the lease

- 1 to 25 years or until the end of the concession
- over the term of the lease

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

1. Material accounting policies (continued) -

1.9 Creditors

Creditors, including amounts owed to group undertakings, are obligations to pay for goods /

‘. services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business. Trade and other creditors are
initially stated at fair value and are measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective
interest method.

Capital grants are credited to deferred income on the balance sheet and released to the Statement
of comprehensive income over the estimated useful economic lives of the related assets.

Accruals represent amounts for expenses that the company is due to pay to third parties in the
ordinary course of business which have been incurred, but not yet billed.

1.10 Government grants

Government grants received on capital expenditure are initially recognised within deferred income
on the company’s Balance sheet and are subsequently recognised in profit or loss on a systematic
basis over the useful life of the related capital expenditure.

1.11 Dividends
Equity dividends are recognised when they become legally payable.
1.12 Employee benefits

The company provides a range of benefits to employees, including annual bonus arrangements,
paid holiday arrangements and defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans. Short-term
benefits, including holiday pay and other similar non-monetary benefits, are recognised as an
expense in the period in which the service is received and relates to staff costs for all employees
employed in fulfilling the company’s operations.

Pensions
Certain employees of the company participate in a funded defined benefit scheme, which forms
part of the overall Railways Pension Scheme (‘RPS’).

The deficit recognised in the Balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme is the
present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date less the fair value of the
plan assets. The deficit disclosed for the RPS represents 60 per cent of the full deficit of the
relevant sections of the RPS, in accordance with trustee guidelines which detail how the scheme
-surpluses and shortfalls are shared between the employer and scheme members. Only the net
deficit or net surplus that the company is obligated to fund or recover over the life of the franchise is
recognised.

The balance sheet franchise adjustment reflects the amount of the deficit that the company does

‘not expect to fund over the tife of the franchise. The net deficit, after adjusting for member share
and the franchise adjustment, represents the present value of the obligation of the company as at
that date.

‘ Page 25

1.

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Material accounting policies (continued)

1.12 Employee benefits (continued)

Pensions (continued)

The defined benefit obligation is calculated using the projected unit credit method. Formal actuarial
valuations are carried out on a triennial basis, with updated calculations being prepared at each
balance sheet date by qualified independent actuaries. The present value of the defined benefit
obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of
high-quality corporate bonds and that have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the
related pension liability. ,

The cost of providing future benefits (service cost) is charged to the Statement of comprehensive
income as required. The Statement of comprehensive income includes a franchise adjustment to
current period costs with the net service cost (post franchise adjustment) reflecting the increase in
present value of the defined benefit obligation relating to the entity resulting from employee service
in the current period. The return on scheme assets and interest obligation on scheme liabilities
comprise a pension finance adjustment which is included in other finance income/charges. Actuarial
gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are
credited or charged to other comprehensive income in the period they arise.

1.13 Provisions for liabilities

Provisions are made where an event has taken place that gives the company a legal or constructive
obligation that probably requires settlement by a transfer of economic benefit, and a reliable _
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.

Provisions are charged as an expense to profit or loss in the year that the company becomes aware
of the obligation, and are measured at the best estimate at the balance sheet date of the
expenditure required to settle the obligation, taking into account relevant risks and uncertainties.

When payments are eventually made, they are charged to the provision carried in the Balance
sheet.

1.14 Current and deferred taxation

The tax charge or credit in the Statement of comprehensive income represents the sum of the
current tax charge or credit and the deferred tax charge or credit for the year. Tax is recognised
within the Statement of comprehensive income, except to the extent that it relates to items
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in shareholders’ funds.

The current tax charge or credit is based on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit can differ
from the profit or loss before tax as reported in the Statement of comprehensive income because it
excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years, or that are never
taxable or deductible. The company’s liability or asset relating to current tax is calculated using
rates prevailing during the year.

Deferred taxation is recognised on the temporary differences arising between the tax bases of
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.

Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets

are recognised for all deductible temporary timing. differences to the extent that it is probable that- ~~

taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.

Page 26

1.

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Material accounting policies (continued)

1.14 Current and deferred taxation (continued)

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to
the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or
part of the asset to be recovered.

Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability
is settled or the asset is realised, using rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at
the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Statement of comprehensive
income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case
deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset
current taxation assets against current taxation liabilities and when the deferred taxation assets and
liabilities relate to taxation levied by the same taxation authority, and the company intends to settle
its current taxation assets and liabilities on a net basis.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
1.15 Shares and shares premium

Proceeds from the issuance of shares are accounted as equity (forming part of Total shareholders’
funds) only to the extent that they include no contractual! obligation upon the company to deliver
cash or other financial assets to another party (or exchange financial assets or financial liabilities
with another party on unfavourable terms). Where this condition is not satisfied, the proceeds of
issuance are accounted as financial liabilities, initially measured at fair value and subsequently at
amortised cost.

Where shares are accounted as equity, any proceeds from issuance in-excess of the nominal value
of new shares issued is recognised within the Share premium account.

- General information

The company is a private limited company, limited by shares and incorporated and domiciled in England,
the United Kingdom.

The registered company number is 04165861 and the address of the registered office is 1 Admiral Way,
Doxford International Business Park, Sunderland, Tyne & Wear, SR3 3XP.

Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires management to make
estimates and judgements in the application of accounting policies that affect the reported amounts of
assets, liabilities, income and expense. Estimates and judgements are based on historical experience
and management's best knowledge of the amount. Due to the inherent uncertainty in making estimates
and judgements, actual results in future periods may be based on amounts which differ from those
estimates.

Page 27

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Judgements in applying accounting policies (continued)

3.1. Critical judgements in applying accounting policies

The following are the critical judgements that have been made in the process of applying the company's
accounting policies, apart from those involving estimations, that have the most significant effect on the
financial statements.

Franchise adjustments to defined benefit pension scheme obligations

The company’s accounting policy for RPS defined benefit pension schemes is to recognise franchise
adjustments, to ensure the net surplus or deficit recorded in the Balance sheet reflects only the share of
the net deficit or surplus that the company is obligated to fund or recover over the life of the franchise
contract. See Note 1.12 for further details of the accounting policy and Note 22 for the values of the
adjustments.

Term of lease contracts

In determining the lease term at commencement of a lease (or the remaining lease term on adoption of
IFRS 16) management considers the terms of the contracts and all facts and circumstances of the
company’s operations, including the expected duration of the franchise contract, that create an
economic incentive to exercise an extension option, or not exercise a termination option (where
applicable).

Extension options (or periods after termination options) are only included in the lease term if the lease is
reasonably certain to be extended (or not terminated).

Some of the company’s leases have been assessed as short-term leases that are exempt from IFRS 16
measurement requirements. See Note 1.7 for further details of the accounting policy.

3.2 Critical assumptions and key sources of estimation uncertainty

The following areas are the critical assumptions concerning the future and the key sources of estimation
uncertainty in the reporting period. These areas may have a significant risk of causing a material
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year:

Defined benefit pension scheme obligation

The company has an obligation to pay pension benefits to certain employees. The cost of these benefits
and the present value of the obligation depend on a number of factors, with those most likely to lead to a
material change in the obligation being; life expectancy, future salary increases, inflation, future pension
increases, and the discount rate on corporate bonds. Management estimate these factors in determining
the net pensions obligation in the Balance sheet. The assumptions reflect historical experience and
current trends.

See Note 22 for the sensitivity analysis of potential impacts to the defined benefit pension obligations
recorded at the balance sheet date for changes to assumptions for those factors.

Useful economic lives of tangible assets

The annual depreciation charge for tangible fixed assets is sensitive to changes in the estimated useful
economic lives and residual values of the assets. The useful economic lives and residual values are
reassessed annually. They are amended when necessary to reflect current estimates, based on
technological advancement, future investments, economic utilisation and the physical condition of the
assets. See Note 15 for the carrying amount of the tangible fixed assets and Note 1.8 for the useful
economic lives for each class of assets. . eee

Page 28

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Judgements in applying accounting policies (continued)
3.2. Critical assumptions and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)

Dilapidations provision -
The company makes a provision for future costs of dilapidations in Note 20. The estimation of the

dilapidation provision is based on the directors’ best estimate of future.dilapidation costs arising from
existing contractual obligations.

Turnover

An analysis of turnover by class of business is as follows: '

_ 2024 2023

; £000 £000

Concession income . . 254,248 . 226,073
Station access income Coo 5,779 «5,709
Other income . 5,103 ‘2,876

265,130 =. °' 234,658

All turnover arose within the United Kingdom.

Other operating income

- 2024 * 2023
£000 £000
Grant release 2,619 2,316
2,619 2,316
Operating profit

The operating profit is stated after charging:
2024 "2023
; £000 £000
Staff costs (Note 8) 118,798 112,430
Depreciation of tangible assets (Note 15) 5,102 4,008
Amortisation of intangible assets (Note 14) . 673 755

ween cn meee oF “ _ so ~~

Page 29

aot te

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

7. Auditors' remuneration

2024
£000
Fees payable to the company's auditors for the audit of the company's
financial statements 420
8. — Staff costs
Staff costs, including directors’ remuneration, were as follows:
2024
£000
Wages and salaries 100,759
Social security costs 11,157
Other pension costs (see note 22) 6,882
118,798

2023
£000

116

2023
£000

94,770
10,897
6,763

112,430

The average monthly number of employees, including the directors, during the year was as follows: .

2024

No.

Drivers, train crew and operations 1,226
Engineering & maintenance 128
Administration 157
1,511

2023
No.

1,198
120
192

1,510

10.

11,

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Directors’ remuneration

Directors' emoluments
Company contributions to defined benefit pension scheme

2024
£000

611
70

681

2023
£000

625
77

702°

During the year retirement benefits were accruing to 4 directors (2023: 3) in respect of defined benefit

pension schemes.

The highest paid director received remuneration of £242,000 (2023: £287,000).

The value of the company's contributions paid to a defined benefit pension scheme in respect of the

highest paid director amounted to £25,000 (2023: £32,000).

Interest receivable and similar income

Bank interest receivable

Interest payable and similar expenses

Interest on lease liabilities

2024
£000

3,812

3,812

2024
£000

385

385

2023
£000

1,453

1,453

2023
£000

290

290


12.

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Tax on profit

Corporation tax

Current tax on profit for the year
Adjustments in respect of prior years

Total current tax
Deferred tax

Origination and reversal of timing differences
Adjustments in respect of prior years

Total deferred tax (Note 19)

Total tax charge for the year

2024
£000

2,978
(88)

2,890

65
(267)

(202) ©

2,688

2023
£000

1,809
(68)

1,741

(164)
190

26

1,767

12.

13.

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024 .

Tax on profit (continued)

Factors affecting tax charge for the year

The tax assessed for the year is lower than (2023 - higher than) the standard rate of corporation tax in
the UK of 25% (2023: 19%). The differences are explained below:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Profit before tax ‘ 12,320 9,010
Profit before tax multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of
25% (2023: 19%) : 3,080 1,712
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes (38) (28)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (354) 122
Impact of rate change on deferred tax - (39)
Total tax charge for the year . 2,688 1,767

Factors that may affect future tax charges
Effective from 1 April 2023, the UK corporate tax rate increased from 19% to 25%.

On 20 June 2023, Finance (No.2) Act 2023 was substantively enacted in the UK, introducing a global
minimum effective tax rate of 15%. The legislation implements a domestic top up tax and a multinational
top up tax, effective for accounting periods starting on or after 31 December 2023. The Arriva group is
reviewing these rules to understand any potential impacts. The Company does not account for deferred
tax on top up taxes and therefore, if these rules had been substantively enacted on the balance sheet
date, there would have been no deferred tax accounting impact.

Dividends
2024 2023
£000 £000
Dividends paid on ordinary shares , 9,600 9,500
_ _ —_
. . Page 33

14...

Intangibie assets

Cost
At 1 April 2023

At 31 March 2024

Accumulated amortisation
At 1 April 2023
Charge for the year

At 31 March 2024

Net book value

At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Right to

operate

Software concession
£000 £000
2,644 169
2,644 169
991 144

648 _ 2
1,639 169

1,005 . -

1,653 25

Total
£000

2,813

2,813

1,135
673

1,808

1,005

1,678

The right to operate concession asset represents the costs incurred for the right to operate the London

Overground Rail concession.

see ene eee

Page 34

15.

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Tangible assets

Cost

At 1 April 2023
Additions
Disposals
Reclassifications:

*Acquired at end of lease
At 31 March 2024

Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2023

Charge for the year on owned assets* *

Disposals

Reclassifications:

*Acquired at end of lease

At 31 March 2024

Net book value

At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

Short-term
leasehold
property
£000

- 11,601
6,281
(3,388)

749

15,243

3,916
3,013

- (2,376)
749

5,302

9,941

7,685

* Plant and

machinery
£000

10,005
583
(649)

9,939

7,183
2,089
(641)

8,631

1,308

2,822

Total
£000

21,606
6,864
(4,037)

749

25,182

_ 14,099

5,102
(3,017)

749

13,933

11,249

10,507

* After a review of the company's short-term lease, it was noted that tangible assets cost and
depreciation were understated by £749,000. This was due to prior period disposal being accounted for
incorrectly by being shown netted off the asset to which they related. This adjustment had no impact on
profit or loss, net assets or equity as at 31 March 2024 or as at 1 April 2023, which is the beginning of

the earliest period presented.

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

15. Tangible assets (continued)

Information on right-of-use lease assets included within tangible assets is provided in the following table:

Cost

At 1 April 2023
Additions

Disposals
Reclassifications:
Acquired at end of lease*

At 31 March 2024

Accumulated depreciation

_ At 1 April 2023

Charge for the year
Disposal
Reclassifications:
Acquired at end of lease*

At 31 March 2024
Net book value
At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

Short-term
leasehold property

£000

4,235
3,296
(3,388)

749

4,892

2,447
1,979
(2,376)

749

2,799

2,093

1,788

Plant and Total
machinery

£000 £000

766 5,001

- 3,296

- (3,388)

- 749

766 5,658

613 3,060

151 - 2,130

- (2,376)

- 749

764 3,563

2 2,095

153 1,941

* After a review of the company's short-term lease, it was noted that tangible assets cost and
depreciation were understated by £749,000. This was due to prior period disposal being accounted for
incorrectly by being shown netted off the asset to which they related. This adjustment had no impact on
profit or loss, net assets or equity as at 31 March 2024 or as at 1 April 2023, which is the beginning of

the earliest period presented.

eae megane sommes smamepane Oe

Page '36

16.

*ZARRIVA RAIL.LON

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Debtors

Amounts failing due after more than one year

Mobilisation costs

Amounts falling due within one year

Trade debtors

Amounts owed by group undertakings
Mobilisation costs

Other debtors

Prepayments and accrued income
Deferred taxation asset (Note 19)

2024 2023

£000 £000
- 36
- 36
2024 2023
£000 £000
2,933 18,623
22 -
35 439
1,438 1,757
7,008 5,466
662 460

12,098 26,745

Prepayments and accrued income includes £533,000 (2023: £395,000) relating to contract assets under

IFRS 15.

~~ - ~

Page 37

--

17.

18.

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year

2024

£000

Lease liabilities 1,098
Trade creditors 4,854
Amounts owed to group undertakings 273
Corporation tax 173
Taxation and social security 8,396
Deferred capital grants 389
Other creditors 1,178
Accruals and deferred income 42,258
58,619

2023
£000
1,158
4,753
455
1,984
5,074
2,532
1,443
36,105

53,504

Accruals and deferred income includes deferred revenues under contracts with Rail for London of
£16,576,000 (2023: £10,062,000). All of the deferred revenues at 1 April 2023 were recognised in

revenue in the year to 31 March 2024.

Amounts owed to group undertakings are all interest free, have no security and are
demand.

Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year

2024

£000

Lease liabilities 959
Deferred capital grants 7,648
Accruals and deferred income 10,079
18,686

All lease liabilities are due between 1 to 5 years.

The cash outflow on leases during the year was £2,706,000 (2023: £1,242,000).

repayable on

2023
£000

1,131
4,965
5,974

12,070

Page 38

"

19.

20.

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Deferred taxation

At 1 April
Credited / (charged) to profit or loss (Note 12)

At 31 March

The deferred tax asset is made up as follows:

Decelerated capital allowances

Other provisions

Dilapidations

£000
At 1 April 2023 , 4,005
Additions 1,545
At 31 March 2024 5,550

2024 —

£000

460
202

662

2024
£000

662

662

Legal
‘£000

422

430

2023
£000

486
(26)

460

2023
£000

460

460

Total
£000

4,427
1,553

5,980

The dilapidations provision represents the directors’ best estimate of future dilapidation costs arising

from existing contractual obligations.

The legal provision represents the directors’ best estimate of casts to settle potential legal claims against

the company.

21.

22.

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Called up share capital

2024 2023
£000 £000
Authorised :
*~ 10,000,000 (2023: 10,000,000) Ordinary shares of £1 each 10,000 10,000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
2 (2023: 2) Ordinary shares of £1 each : -

Pension commitments

Certain employees of Arriva Rail London Limited participate in funded defined benefit sections, which
form part of the overall Railways Pension Scheme (‘RPS'). The directors believe that separate
consideration should be given to the RPS under IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits' (revised 2011) as the
company has no rights or obligations in respect of the scheme following the expiry of the franchise.

The calculations used to assess the IAS 19 ‘Employee benefits' (revised 2011) liabilities of the
company's sections of the RPS are based on the most recent actuarial valuations, updated by qualified
independent actuaries to 31 March 2024. The scheme's assets are stated at their market value at 31

March 2024.

The following financial assumptions have been made:

2024 2023

% %

Rate of increase in salaries 3.2 3.3
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.2 2.3
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.2 2.3
Discount rate 5.0 4.9
3.2 3.3

Inflation assumption

The weighted average life expectancy for mortality tables to determine benefit obligations:

2024 2023

. : Years Years

Member age 65 (current life expectancy) Male 20 21
Female : 23 23

Member age 45 (life expectancy at age 65) Mate 22 22
Female 24 24

22.

ed

ARRIVA ‘RAIL:EONDON
SP OA

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Pension commitments (continued)

The fair value of the assets in the RPS sections and the expected rate of return, the present value of the
related liabilities and the resulting surplus are:

2024 2023

£000 £000
Equities 287,803 258,562
Other ‘ 11,583 11,556
Total market value of assets 299,386 270,118
Present value of scheme liabilities {317,136) (307,392)
Deficit in the scheme (17,750) (37,274)
Surplus relating to scheme members 7,100 14,910
Rail franchise adjustment ao 10,650 22,364"

Net pension result

The deficit disclosed for the RPS represents 60 per cent of the full deficit of the relevant sections of the
RPS, in accordance with trustee guidelines which detail how the scheme surpluses and shortfalls are
shared between the employer and scheme members and is stated after the recognition of a franchise
adjustment as detailed above.

Analysis of amounts (charged)/credited to operating profit:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Current service costs (11,332) (21,918)
Franchise adjustment to service cost , 5,038 15,780
Pension administration costs (473) (451)

(6,767) (6,589)

Analysis of the amount credited/(charged) to other finance income:

2024 2023

£000 £000 .
Interest income on plan assets . . 8,025 4,456
Interest on liabilities (8,964) (7,788)
Interest on rail franchise adjustment 939 3,332

ee -

Other finance income . wee

Page 41

22.

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Pension commitments (continued)

Analysis of the amount recognised in other comprehensive expense:.

2024 2023
£000 £000
Difference between expected and actual return on assets 6,371 (7,552)
Effect of changing the actuarial assumptions 6,132 115,009
Rail franchise adjustment . . (12,653) (107,604)
Actuarial loss (150) (147)

An analysis in the movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations for the year ended 31
March is as follows:

2024 2023

£000 £000
At 1 April ‘ 307,392 480,981
Current service cost . / 11,332 27,978 °
Franchise adjustment to service cost ° Lo (5,038) (15,780)
Interest cost* 14,940 12,979
Benefits paid (5,419) (5,030)
Member contributions paid 4,563 4,405
Actuarial gain (10,634) (192,081)
At 31 March . 317,136 307,392

. Page 42 ,

22.

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Pension commitments (continued)

An analysis of the movements in the fair value of scheme assets for the year ended 31 March is as
follows:

2024 2023

£000 £000
At 1 April : 270,118 269,919
Interest income on plan assets* . . 13,375 7,427
Employer contributions * 6,918 6,736
Member contributions : 4,563 4,405
Benefits paid . (5,419) (5,030)
Return on plan assets (excluding interest)* : 10,619 (12,587)
Administration expenses* . (788) (752)
At 31 March : 299,386 270,118

The actual gain on plan assets* was £23,994 ,000 (2023: loss of £5,160,000).

* Before RPS shared cost adjustment.

The movement in the present value of defined benefit obligations and in the fair value of the scheme
assets do not take into account the shared cost nature of the RPS. The Statement of comprehensive

income and the statement of other comprehensive income include 60 per cent of the relevant RPS
amounts. ;

History of experience of gains and losses:

. 2024 2023
Experience adjustments on scheme assets:
- Amounts (£000) 6,371 (7,552)
- Percentage of scheme assets (%) 3.5 . (4.7)
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities:
- Amounts (£000) ~ 9,377 78,727
- Percentage of scheme assets (%) 49 42.7

The company expects to contribute £6,969,000 to its defined benefit pension scheme in 2024/25.

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

22. Pension commitments (continued)

Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in equity:

2024 2023

_ £000 £000

At 1 April (52) 95
Actuarial loss recognised in the year , » (150) (147)
At 34 March (202) (52)

The sensitivity analysis for the decrease / (increase) in defined benefit obligation balance at 31 March is

as follows:

2024 2023

£000 £000
Calculated with +1% discount rate - 56,063 56,629
Calculated with -1% discount rate (74,871) (76,321)
Calculated with +1% inflation rate . (73,387) (75,765)
Calculated with -1% inflation rate 56,296 57,450
Calculated with +0.5% compensation increase (12,310) (12,763)
Calculated with +0.5% pension increase rate (18,964) (19,512)
Calculated with increased expectation of life of 1 year (9,514) (9,222)

At 31 March 2024, the weighted average duration/maturity of the defined benefit obligation was 20
years.

bee ne pe

Page 44

6 a ee

23.

24.

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Post balance sheet events

On 19 October 2023, Deutsche Bahn AG announced an agreement had been signed under which Arriva
Limited, the intermediate parent company, would be sold to | Squared Capital. The transaction
completed on 31 May 2024. Management will continue to work with the new owners going forward.

The Department for Transport (DfT) had a long-term funding settlement in place with Transport for
London (TfL) until 31 March 2024 which covered the risk of revenue shortfall due to lower passenger
numbers arising from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. As TfL is now considered to have reached
financial sustainability the funding arrangement has not been extended beyond 31 March 2024.

The directors have a reasonable expectation that the company will continue to receive its contractually
due payments from TfL. As a result, the directors remain confident of the company's ability to continue
to operate and to discharge its liabilities as they fall due for the foreseeable future and have prepared
the statements on a going concern basis.

The Labour Government set out in the King's Speech on 17 July 2024, its intention to legislate to bring
rail services back into public ownership through the ‘Passenger Railway Services (Public Ownership)
Bill’. :

In line with the UK Government's manifesto commitment, the Bill makes the necessary amendments to
the Railways Act 1993 to enable services currently contracted by the Secretary of State of Transport to
transfer to public ownership as those contracts end in accordance with their terms, including through the
use of contractual break points. The Bill also allows for existing franchises to be extended by way of a
further direct award.

The UK Government has not at this stage set out a detailed schedule of expiry dates for existing
contracts and has indicated this will depend on the pace of progress of the Bill through Parliament. The -
UK Government has made clear its expectation that all services will have transferred to Great British
Railways by the end of the current five-year Parliament.

The UK Government has also confirmed its intention to publish a Railways Bill to establish ‘Great British
Railways’ to create a unified rail system bringing track and train back together and planning services on
a whole-system basis, alongside other reforms including establishing a passenger watchdog (Passenger
Standards Authority).

The UK Government has confirmed that wherever there is a case that open access operators can add
value to the network, as assessed by the Office for Road and Rail, they will be able to.

Arriva Rail London is contracted by Rail for London Limited under a Concession Agreement to operate
the ‘London Overground’ and there is no impact from the ‘Passenger Railway Services (Public
Ownership) Bill’.

Ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party
The immediate parent company is Arriva UK Trains Limited.

The ultimate parent company and ultimate controlling party at 31 March 2024 was Deutsche Bahn AG, a -
company registered in Germany, which has prepared group financial statements incorporating the
results of the company. Copies of these financial statements can be obtained from Potsdamer Platz 2,.
10785 Beriin.

Deutsche Bahn AG was the largest and smallest group to consolidate the financial statements of Arriva
Rail London Limited.

. , Page 45

24.

Notes to the financial statements
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party (continued)

From 31 May 2024, the ultimate parent of the company is 1SQ Global Fund III GP, LLC (“Fund III GP”),
which serves as the main general partner of ISQ Global Infrastructure Fund Itl (“Fund Ill”), a private
equity fund. Fund Ill is the ultimate economic owner of the Company. ISQ Global Fund Ill Lux GP,
S.a.r.. (‘Lux GP”) is the managing general partner for the Luxembourg limited partnerships within Fund
Ul. Fund Ill GP is a limited liability company incorporated and registered with the Delaware Secretary of
State in Delaware, U.S.A. (with registered number 7893192). Its registered address is at c/o Corporation
Service Company, 251 Little Falls Drive, Wilmington, DE 19808, U.S.A. Lux GP is a Luxembourg limited
liability company registered with the Luxembourg Trade and Companies Register under number B
239.493. Its registered address is at 6 Rue Eugéne Ruppert, L-2453, Luxembourg, Grand Duchy of
Luxembourg.

There is not considered to be any ultimate controlling party of the entity.

we eee te ,

' Page 46

