Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B5658B

Charity Registration No. 800143

Company Registration No. 02150619 (England and Wales)

ARTSWORK LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT AND
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

!

FLT

nn)

44/12/2024 #295
COMPANIES HOUSE

wu

AO

i

SATURDAY

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C18565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION

Trustees

Secretary
Charity number
Company number

Registered office

Auditor

Bankers

N Betjemann

F Parkinson

E Dyer

J Shah

AWG Nyachae

L Thurbon (Appointed 6 December 2023)

S Warwick
800143
02150619

142-144 Above Bar Street
Southampton
$014 7DU

Fiander Tovell Limited
Stag Gates House
63/64 The Avenue
Southampton
Hampshire

$017 1XS

Santander UK PLC

Business and Corporate Banking Operations
Bridle Road

Bootle

Merseyside

L30 44GB

Unity Trust Bank PLC
Nine Brindley Place
4 Oozells Square
Birmingham

B1 2HB

Triodos Bank UK
Deanery Road
Bristol

BS1 5AS


Docusign Envelope 1D: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED
CONTENTS
Page

Trustees report 1-13
Independent auditor's report 14-17
Statement of financial activities 18
Balance sheet 19
Statement of cash flows 20

Notes to the financial statements 21-34


Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED
TRUSTEES REPORT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The Trustees present their report and financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024.

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out
in note 1 to the financial statements and comply with the charity's Memorandum and Articles of
Association, the Companies Act 2006 and the Statement of Recommended Practice, “Accounting
and Reporting by Charities’, issued in March 2005, subsequently updated with effect from January
2019 (FRS 102).

Introduction

At Artswork we strive to make the arts and creativity available to everyone. We aim to break
through barriers and develop new ways for people to discover the success, empowerment and
sheer joy that the arts and creativity can bring to classrooms, communities and careers.

Imagine if... all our children were happy and confident, strong in their sense of self and the world
that they live in.

Imagine if... every child — irrespective of race, background, wealth, identity or ability - felt valued,
heard and represented.

Imagine if... we gave them all the opportunity to explore and fulfil their potential in a future that
we are all making together.

Imagine if... we kept a sense of wonder, creativity and learning throughout our lives.

The Artswork team works regionally, nationally and internationally to make these aspirations a
reality.

Chair’s Statement 2023/24

2023/24 was our first year as an Arts Council National Portfolio Organisation. Artswork moved
from being a Sector Support Organisation to being engaged in direct delivery. ‘Activate’ became
the mantra as we delivered new work and underpinned existing relationships that would empower
children, young people and those that work with them.

Youth voice has been central to everything we've been doing. The Activate Young Cultural
Changemakers programme grew from our Arun Inspires model. This expanded programme
delivered creative consultations in five key Priority Places in 2023-24: the New Forest, Isle of
Wight, Slough, Arun and Dover. We learned what young people like and want from the places in
which they live and work and what they feel is lacking. Recurring themes of safety, mental health
and wellbeing, as well as a deeply feit concern about the environment emerged. This enabled our
Placemaking Creative Producers and Creative Producer Apprentices to engage with children and
young people in a variety of settings to develop and lead initiatives that responded to local need.
In Slough young people presented ‘Safe & Sound’ at the Curve. The day was designed to draw
wider attention to positive activities as opposed to anti-social or violent behaviour. More than 100
young people took part in skills workshops in DJing, creative writing, dance and virtual reality
explorations of sculpture, and voiced their concerns and hopes for the future.

Our Activate Creative Careers strand inspired young people from primary school age through to
those entering the workplace to develop an interest in and be supported into creative careers.
Events such as the Isle of Wight Creative Careers taster day led to 91% of participants
demonstrating a wider understanding of available creative careers, 92% of participants feeling the
event enabled them to access activities they wouldn't usually have access to, 83% of teachers
feeling more confident discussing creative careers with their students and 100% of teachers
feeling the session helped their students find out more about pathways into the creative industries.

1

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED
TRUSTEES REPORT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The Breakthrough programme placed 20 young people with employers for 6 month paid work
opportunities. 100% of participants completed their work and training programme and developed
knowledge, skills and experience. One participant reflected: “I’m expanding my knowledge when
it comes to diversity, inclusion and the lived experiences of members of my local community.
Taking on this job role was a new challenge for me and I’m really glad that | was given the
opportunity!” The programme also provided creative sector employers with ways to embed youth
voice in their organisations.

9 Apprentices trained with Artswork during the year and the RISE bursary provided recipients
(aged 13-25) with micro-investments of £500 each to develop their creative practice. As one
Apprentice said: “My Apprenticeship has opened new doors of opportunity for what I'd like to do
as a career. | have a much better understanding of the creative industries and where I'd like to fit
into that.”

Portsmouth Creative Skills has gone from strength to strength. During 2023/24 it supported 20
young people who were not in education, training or employment to explore the creative industries,
develop their skills and increase their confidence though initiatives such as an intensive 6-week
pre-employment training scheme that targeted the most disadvantaged and underserved young
people.

Artswork remains committed to supporting schools-based arts and creative learning through our
Activate Creative Learning programme which provides Continuing Professional Development
opportunities for teachers. Courses built on aspects of Artswork’s Golden Threads approach of
weaving creativity into different learning settings and aspects of education. The programme
enabled creative commissions involving whole schools or Multi-Academy Trusts which were led
by youth voice, developed teachers’ practice, and supported schools to use creativity to explore
environmental sustainability.

Artswork Professional Development is a key driver of increased income generation through online
self-led courses and highly popular live online and in-person training sessions. We developed
tailored professional development packages for organisations including the Crafts Council, Derby
Theatre, Marlow Theatre, National Archives, Southbank and V&A.

During 23/24 we partnered with BearFace Theatre to deliver the Choices programme in schools.
The work delivered for the Police and Crime Commissioner for Hampshire and the Isle of Wight
uses theatre-based techniques that enable year 6 and year 7 pupils and their teachers to examine
the risks and impact of knife crime and the dangers of exploitation and other violence. It supports
participants to identify and try out solutions and enables them to build positive relationships that
will lead to progressive change in their communities. Feedback has been extremely positive with
teachers saying, “It really changed the way | think about approaching these topics with students’.

2023/24 was a challenging but extremely rewarding year. Artswork enabled nearly 6,000 children
and young people to make active change in their communities through creative consultations and
youth-led creative commissions. These positively impacted more than 20,000 members of the
wider community - a significant achievement in the first year of this new work.

Artswork underwent significant structural change to make the transition from being a Bridge
organisation to being a National Portfolio Organisation. | want to commend the Senior Leadership
Team, as well as all staff, for their openness to new ways of working and for continuing to deliver,
with passion and commitment, Artswork’s mission of improving the life chances of children and
young people.

Docusign Envelope ID: C0B927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED
TRUSTEES REPORT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

As | said at the outset, youth voice is central to our work. Our Youth Board has provided meaningful
insights into how we can best deliver the ‘now’ and how we can hone the Artswork of the future -
thank you to them. In addition, | want to thank all our Trustees for their support in realising our
new remit, in considering the route map forward and in underpinning the Arts Council's Investment
Principles of Inclusivity & Relevance, Dynamism, Ambition & Quality, and Environmental
Responsibility. Finally, thanks to Arts Council England, and to ail our funders for their continued
support, without which this work would not be possible.

Norinne Betjemann
Chair

Artswork Trustees 2023/24
The trustees, who are also the directors for the purpose of company law, and who served in the
year were:

Norinne Betjemann (appointed May 2016)

Fiona Parkinson (appointed May 2016)

Dr Emma Dyer (appointed February 2017)

Jason Jones — Hall (appointed December 2018, resigned 29 February 2024)
Wanjiku Nyachae (appointed December 2020)

Jayanti Shah (appointed March 2022)

Christopher Amedu (appointed December 2023, resigned 11 October 2024)
Kevin Mutheci Wanjiku (appointed December 2023, resigned 23 July 2024)
Lisa Thurbon (appointed December 2023)

Artswork Leadership Team 2023/24

Louise Govier — Chief Executive (appointed August 2020)
Sarah Warwick — Chief Finance Officer

Annabel Cook — Deputy Chief Executive

Donna Vose — Head of Budgets, Contracts & Policy

Lucy Marder — Head of Business Development

See full Artswork team: https://artswork.org.uk/about-us/staff-trustees-trainers/
Artswork’s Aims, Objectives and Activities

The trustees have paid due regard to guidance issued by the Charity Commission on public
benefit on deciding what activities the charity should undertake.
At Artswork we believe in the power of the arts and creativity to:

e Fundamentally shape happier and healthier children and young people

e Broaden horizons, open opportunities and enrich the lives of children and young people

e Make a difference from birth - we sing before we talk, we dance before we walk

© Help develop skills and experiences enabling all children and young people to thrive,
progress and achieve

e Enable and inspire expression for everyone

Docusign Envelope !D: COB927D2-4892-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED
TRUSTEES REPORT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

We achieve our mission through:

Enabling children and young people from any background to find their voice and
encouraging others to listen to and support them

’ Devising and delivering inclusive programmes that empower the most under-represented

young people to lead change in their communities
Developing young people's skills, for their own growth and as future cultural leaders

Working in partnerships across cultural organisations and education to
create lasting change

Delivering creative training that nurtures innovation and progress in cultural
organisations, learning settings and a wide range of other contexts including healthcare
and Local Authorities.

The objectives of the charity are to promote, maintain, improve, and advance public education,
appreciation and understanding of youth arts. The charitable company continues to explore new
ways of improving provision for children and young people in creative activities.

Public benefit aims
Public benefit is at the heart of what Artswork does. In the second year of our current business
plan, Artswork is delivering its mission through the following key public benefit aims:

1.

6.

Empower young people of all ages through creativity, including listening to children and
young people through creative consultations and enabling them to lead and deliver
creative commissions that will make a difference where they live.

. Lead and strengthen arts and cultural engagement with children and young people, by

activating young cultural changemakers, creative careers and creative learning.

. Recognise, facilitate and lead the development of opportunities for work-based learning,

employability and entrepreneurship.

. Enhance expertise, skills, knowledge and understanding of the arts and culture in work

for, with and by children and young people, developing through training the skills of
people working in a wide range of contexts.

. Collect and share evidence of good practice and success stories regionally, nationally

and internationally, particularly around youth voice and youth-led practice centred on
creativity.

Practice effective governance, leadership and management of Artswork.

We deliver our aims through three main strategic programmes as an Arts Council England funded
National Portfolio Organisation which generates additional income through training and
consultancy:

* Activate Young Cultural Changemakers - place-based programmes in Arun, Dover, Isle of
Wight, New Forest and Slough. We hold creative consultations that enable young people
locally to express their views, and then enable young people to respond to those ideas by

4

Docusign Envelope ID:-COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED
TRUSTEES REPORT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

leading and delivering Changemaking creative commissions that will make a difference
where they life.

« Activate Creative Careers — enabling equitable routes for young people into creative careers,
from building awareness in primary schools to careers tasters for secondary students, and a
range of work-based training and skills development programmes.

* Activate Creative Learning — advocating for and developing creative learning, including
continuing professional development for teachers; creative commissions within learning
settings that develop practice; training and consultancy for a wide range of organisations that
work with and for young people.

Trustees monitor performance on a quarterly basis and measure this against key performance
indicators, budget allocation and spend.

The Year in Numbers

During 2023/24, Artswork:

enabled 5,797 young people to make active change in their communities through 58
youth consultations and 18 youth-led creative commissions

90% of young people we worked with felt heard

20,813 members of the wider community in key places felt positively impacted by our
youth-led Changemaking creative commissions

2,319 adults took part in Artswork Professional Development, through 24 in-house and
open training courses

2,215 children and 53 teachers took part in Choices, our creative approach to violence
reduction training for pupils in Years 6 and 7

69 young people improved their careers prospects and skill levels through our in-depth
work and practice-based support, including intensive skills programmes for young people
facing significant challenges, our 6-month paid Breakthrough employability scheme, and
Apprenticeships

21 young people used Artswork’s RISE micro-investments to develop their creative
practice or business

We supported 14 members of our youth board, bringing in new members from our place-
based work

82% of people taking part in our programmes felt their confidence had improved

A full summary of activities and achievements is contained in the Appendix to this report.

Financial Review 2023/24

Artswork's income in the financial year 2023/24 decreased moderately compared to 2022/23. This
was due to the transition between Artswork’s previous programme portfolio and the start of our
new role, during which several programmes came to an end. 2023/24 was our first year as a
National Portfolio Organisation and we saw investment of £1,394,508 from Arts Council England.

Docusign Envelope ID: C0B927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED
TRUSTEES REPORT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Artswork has again been successful in generating programme income from a range of sources,
including local and national agencies, and via delivery and receipt of training and event fees.
Artswork controls expenditure well, both within core and project budgets. We also maintain healthy
reserves. Artswork's Professional Development programme continues to generate a steady and
sustainable income stream.

The ongoing use of effective control and tracking systems (including purchase orders and ongoing
interrogated budgeting) has produced clarity in short-term and long-term financial planning and
management. Regular reviews of Artswork's financial planning and management accounts at
Trustee board meetings have enabled the Trustees to maintain a consistent and detailed overview
of the charity's financial progress and achievements.

Principal funding sources and activities 2023/24

Artswork achieved income from a range of sources during 2023/24. We also maintained excellent
accounts and financial processes — evidenced by a complimentary report on the prior year from
our auditors, Fiander Tovell.

Funds raised included:

e Arts Council England — £1,394,508 to deliver the NPO role

e Arun District Council - £30,000 for our placemaking work in Arun

e Naval Children's Charity — £11,505 for Your Creative Futures, a bespoke activity
designed and delivered for young people accessing this organisation’s services

e Police & Crime Commissioner for Hampshire & Isle of Wight — £110,800 to deliver
Choices, a Schools Violence Reduction programme

e Employers’ training contributions - £20,000 for the Breakthrough programme

Reserves Policy

Artswork, like many small charities, has limited opportunity to generate unrestricted income.
Through continued careful budget forecasting, application for full cost recovery where possible,
strict management of expenditure and utilisation of high interest bank accounts, Artswork has
continued to build up reserves of £626,008 for general contingency requirements. Artswork aims
to retain at least £210,000 of unrestricted funds. Designated funds are established by Trustees for
specific future spending plans and projects, and after making these designations, the Trustees
seek to retain a general fund to cover 12 months core running costs and closure costs, not
specifically met by programme grants. ~

Going Concern

Artswork has been innovative in its delivery over the last year and is opening new markets by
responding to sector change, through online delivery and increased referrals, and in making
successful grant applications and by winning tenders. The charity has repositioned its programme
delivery to respond to Arts Council England’s Creative People, Communities and Country agenda.
Simultaneously Artswork has offered a new model enabling creative sector employers to provide
training and work opportunities for young people and continues its Apprenticeship offer.
Specifically, the following highlights the rationale for Artswork regarding itself as a going concern.

1) New Arts Council England National Portfolio Organisation (NPO) funding for 2023-2026
2) New grant funding for programmes from national and regional partners
3) An increase in unrestricted revenue from training courses and consultancy

4) Artswork reviewed all areas of its operational and programme budgets to model new
costings for 2024/25 onwards and has allocated savings into emerging growth

6

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED
TRUSTEES REPORT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

opportunities. The charity is confident that the budget for 2024 - 2026 is sound and
achievable

5) Artswork will continue to implement its fundraising strategy to achieve growth by seeking
funds from a range of sources to enable it to deliver its plans

6) Artswork has an additional amount of free reserves (after agreed allocations and
designations) which provides further contingency if required.

Environmental Responsibility

Artswork has committed to a comprehensive set of targets and responsibilities to reduce the
ecological impact of our work and programmes. Our Environmental Action Plan is aligned to UN
Sustainable Development Goals and national policy to achieve a 78% reduction in greenhouse
gas emissions by 2035. This year we re-calculated the baseline for our measurable scope 2 and
3 emissions based on changes in government conversion factors for homeworking, and by
considering more of our supply chain and digital footprint emissions. This saw our measurable
emissions increase to 18.2 tonnes of COze which presents a more accurate picture of Artswork’s
impact.

Artswork’s ambition is to:

e calculate and understand our emissions data to set ambitious and achievable targets
advocate for a transition to a low-carbon creative sector and society

e increase our employees and Trustees awareness, knowledge and understanding

¢ enable employee and Trustee training and volunteering

See Artswork’s website for more information.

During 2023/24, Artswork:
e Calculated our emissions as 18.2 tonnes

e Maintained the charity's no fly policy

e Supported a creative sustainability programme for young people in schools in our
Placemaking areas with 2022 participants

e Planted 20 trees in schools to improve biodiversity and air quality. These trees are
buddied with a Verified Carbon Standard scheme operating in Cambodia and Congo
which guarantees carbon credits for 20 tonnes of CO2

* Continued advocacy work by commissioning youth voice to share Artswork’s
environmental journey and progress through social media and our website

Plans for 2024/25 onwards

We will continue to build on the success of 2023/24, Year 1 of our current role as an Arts Council
England (ACE) National Portfolio Organisation (NPO), further delivering on ACE’s Let's Create
strategy.

Artswork’s Activate Young Cultural Changemakers programme will extend its impact in the New
Forest, Isle of Wight, Slough, Arun and Dover with further creative consultations and youth-led
creative commissions that respond to young people's concerns, enabling them to create positive

7

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED
TRUSTEES REPORT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

change in their communities. The training that supports these young people will be more flexible,
recognising experiential learning gained by practical experience. We will generate more in-kind
support and additional income to supplement this work as local businesses and stakeholders are
better able to understand it and see its impact through the evidence of Year 1 outputs such as
wellbeing gardens, murals, exhibitions and festivals that are now being enjoyed by communities.

Our Activate Creative Careers programme will extend its work with schools around careers
awareness, taster sessions and the development of equitable models for work experience, from
primary through to secondary and 16+ options. We will increase the number of RISE micro-
investments that enable young people to develop their creative practice to 25, and extend the age
group eligible to apply to 13-30 year olds, responding to need expressed in Year 1. We will focus
our Breakthrough 6 month paid employability programme wherever possible on Priority Places,
recognising that there is increased demand for these places from employers following the success
of Year 1. We will continue to train and support Apprentices and will also explore alternatives for
a one-year work-based training option that meets more of the needs of both young people and
employers. We will continue to deliver and adapt Portsmouth Creative Skills, our in-depth work
with care experienced young people who are not in employment, education or training, including
how and where else we could deliver using this model.

Activate Creative Learning will see Artswork supporting more teachers with continuing
professional development and extending our sustainability focused whole school or Multi Academy
Trust commissions in Gosport and Rushmoor. The Artswork Professional Development team’s
work will see a shift from the focus on product development that drove much of their work in Year
1, concentrating now on: marketing and engagement with existing products, building our pool of
trusted trainers, and developing a suite of learning products around youth-led practice. ACE have
also commissioned us to lead on and deliver a series of online learning sessions designed to build
confidence around youth voice and youth-led practice in multiple organisations across the south.

Artswork’s plan for its own organisational development that responds to ACE's Investment
Principles will focus on moving forwards our youth leadership practice and finding further ways to
enable young people (including our Youth Board) to influence our work. As a team we will explore
and start to use more productivity tools, including our Customer Relationship Management system
and other technology tools that increase efficiency, to save time and money, and drive income to
meet stretch targets. We continue to explore new approaches to consultancy and income-
generating business and will add staffing support around fundraising and development.

We will use our environmental impact data to ensure the team understands which practices can
keep improving our performance and why they are effective. Artswork will hold whole team focused
periods of learning around Access, Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity and Environmental
Responsibility. We will also undertake a range of measures to enable the organisation to move
towards our 2040 vision, including a pilot project that we aim to run in Portsmouth (partnering with
Portsmouth Creates) where we enable young people to take over, programme and run a new
creative space in.the town centre which will also have support for young creative entrepreneurs.

Artswork will continue to monitor and evaluate our achievements, learning through continuous
feedback from participants and reporting achievements to communities, funders and other
stakeholders.

Louise Govier, Chief Executive, Artswork

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED
TRUSTEES REPORT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Structure, Governance and Management

The organisation is a charitable company, limited by guarantee, incorporated on 27th July 1987
and registered as a charity on 5th October 1988. The company was established under a
Memorandum of Association, which established the objects and powers of the charitable company
and is governed under its Articles of Association. Artswork has an active and committed Board of
Trustees with the necessary skills and experience to guide and govern the charity. New trustees
are recruited using a variety of methods: via ‘Board Bank’ (including e.g. Inclusive Boards);
personal recommendations by Chair, trustees, senior management team and other staff; from our
pool of volunteers; through recruitment adverts. Trustees’ Skills Audits identify potential skills gaps
on the Board and inform Artswork's Board recruitment strategies.

Prospective new trustees meet with the Chair and Chief Executive prior to appointment and/or
may be invited to a more formal interview process. Following appointment, they are supplied with
a 'Governance/Induction Pack’, containing: Artswork constitution; history of Artswork; all approved
Artswork policies, including those outlining Artswork's commitment to Equalities, Environment and
Safeguarding; most recent annual report; Charities Commission ‘Role of'Trustees' booklet; most
recent minutes; most recent audited accounts; generic publicity information; declaration form and
project information.

New Trustees attend a quarterly Board meeting and are nominated by an existing Trustee; this
nomination is seconded by another Trustee (this is minuted). Annually, Artswork organises a
Board and Staff Away Day, and all Trustees are encouraged to attend Artswork’s projects,
programmes and events.

At quarterly meetings, new policies are presented to the Board for approval. Key policies are also
reviewed (usually annually) by Board and senior staff. Artswork's Business Plan and related
annual work plans and budget forecasts are prepared by senior staff and approved by the Board.
Management accounts are presented to the Board each quarter.

The Chief Executive is responsible for the day-to-day management of Artswork. She works with a
senior team who have an overview of the Artswork’s work (Chief Financial Officer; Deputy CEO)
with input and advice from other members of the leadership team. In addition, there are a small
number of other organisational teams who lead on our key areas of work:

e Placemaking team

e Careers and Professional Development team

e Finance and Operations team

e Communications, Sales & Marketing team
Trustees agree the operational and programme action plans and the staff team deliver these,
reporting back on progression on a quarterly basis. Trustees set the salary of the Chief Executive.
They also review pay and remuneration on an annual basis agreeing appropriate increases in line
with sector benchmarking and with a guaranteed annual 2% increment. Sector benchmarking is

generally undertaken every 3 years.

Funds held as Custodian Trustee on Behalf of Others
None.

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED
TRUSTEES REPORT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Risk Review

The Chair and Chief Executive have carried out a risk assessment of the charitable company's
activities. The risk assessment matrix produced as a result of this process also contains an
assessment of fraud risk. The matrix has been fully reviewed by the Board of Trustees at Board
Meetings. All Trustees are satisfied that the appropriate mechanisms are in place for the different
functions of the organisation. The Board of Trustees has agreed to continue to monitor Artswork's
risk assessment quarterly and review each project on an individual basis annually. Risk
Assessment is a standard agenda item at all Board Meetings and the Chief Executive notifies
Trustees of any potential issues which could activate changes in risk weighting. |

Members of the Board of Trustees

Members of the charitable company guarantee to contribute an amount not exceeding £1 to the
assets of the charitable company in the event of winding up. The total number of such guarantees
as of 31 March 2024 was 8. The trustees have complied with the duty in section 4 of the Charities
Act 2006 to have due regard to public benefit guidance published by the Charity Commission.

Responsibilities of the Trustees

The trustees (who are also directors of Artswork Limited for the purposes of company law) are
responsible for preparing the Trustees’ Report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice).

Company law requires the trustees to prepare financial statements for each financial year which
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the charitable company and of the incoming
resources and application of resources, including the income and expenditure, of the charitable
company for the year. In preparing these financial statements, the trustees are required to:

e select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently
e observe the methods and principles in the Charities SORP
e make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent

e state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements

* prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to
presume that the charitable company will continue in operation.

The trustees are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the charitable company and enable them to ensure
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the charitable company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Disclosure of information to auditor
In so far as the trustees are aware:
e there is no relevant audit information of which the charitable company’s auditors are
unaware

e the trustees have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that
information.

10

Docusign Envelope ID: C0B927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED
TRUSTEES REPORT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

This report has been prepared in accordance with the special provisions relating to small
companies within Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006.

Auditors
The auditors, Fiander Tovell Limited, are deemed to be reappointed under Section 487(2) of the
Companies Act 2006.

Monue Baumann

Signed on behalf of the trustees on 12/12/2024 | 08:53 GMT
Norinne Betjemann (Chair)

Appendix to the report — Programme Highlights 2023/24
See Artswork’s website and our YouTube channel to find out more.

During the first part of the year, Artswork pivoted rapidly from its previous role as a Bridge
organisation for Arts Council England (ACE), delivering strategic support to a wide range of other
organisations, to being a National Portfolio Organisations (NPO), still for ACE but delivering
directly with children and young people in key priority places across the south. The organisation
underwent a significant change programme that included consultation around the re-structure
needed for Artswork to have staff in relevant roles and locations, to deliver the new NPO
programme and grow income. This process was supported by external HR consultants, and
resulted in new and restructured roles, as well as some redundancies. Recruitment to vacant roles
ensured the revised team was in place by June 2023.

The focus has been to build on existing relationships and develop new ones in key places
alongside delivering strategies designed to grow income in the short and longer term, especially
within Artswork Professional Development. Artswork also put in place new systems for evaluation
and measurement that linked to ACE’s revised reporting requirements.

The Activate Young Cultural Changemakers strand delivered 58 creative consultations with
children and young people in the New Forest, on the Isle of Wight, in Slough, Arun and Dover.
Each one offered a high-quality creative activity, encompassing many different art forms including
tap, graffiti, trainer art, circus skills, stained glass window design, ceramics and willow sculpture,
to a wide range of children and young people. Participants expressed their views about where
they live, what they like to do and what they'd like to change. Concerns about safety, supporting
mental health and wellbeing, about having interesting things to do, connecting with nature and
promoting environmental sustainability were common, along with frustration about their town often
mixed with pride, love and optimism for its future.

Artswork’s Placemaking Creative Producers, supported by our Creative Producer Apprentices,
worked with groups of different young people — from schools, youth groups, Pupil Referral Units,
Young Carers and many others — to help them shape, develop and lead creative commissions
that responded to these needs and were designed to make a difference where they lived.

The commissions have included murals and ceramic wall decorations, well-being gardens
including one in a hospital, visual arts exhibitions, dance performances, a fashion show and
installations. We've created films like in Simpler Times, a huge winter festival complete with
projections designed by young people as part of Dover at Night, and the ‘Safe and Sound’ festival!
in Slough that promoted pro-social activities in the area to stop young people from becoming

11

Docusign Envelope ID: COB92702-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED
TRUSTEES REPORT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

involved in anti-social behaviour and violence:

These projects have positively impacted the young people involved and been welcomed within the
wider communities within which they have been sited. For example, an exhibition and mural by
young people from the Pupil Referral Unit, installed at the railway station in Littlehampton, Arun,
received over 700 likes on local social media within the first day after unveiling, and has made a
significant difference to local perceptions of the station.

Activate Creative Careers has seen the Careers team work with Artswork Professional
Development to deliver new interactive programme for primary children, which introduces them to
different creative roles and then enables them to set up their own mini film company, make a film
and hold a ‘premiere’ for other students, parents and carers.

The Careers team has also launched its new Breakthrough programme, responding to need from
both young people and employers for 6 month-long paid early career roles, giving valuable
experience for young people’s CVs and a way into creative careers while also providing creative
employers (often small enterprises) with youth voice and additional staff capacity.

9 more Apprentices have trained with Artswork this year. 21 young people have accessed micro-
investments of £500 each to develop their independent creative practice or business. See our
RISE film where recipients talk about the difference this funding makes. Portsmouth Creative
Skills, our intensive programme for young people not in education, training or employment who
are often care-experienced, provided specialist support and help for 20 young people in
Portsmouth, who learned key employability skills, gained a Bronze Arts Award and discovered
many different creative work options. One group worked together to create animated ‘avatars’ that
expressed the ways that they positively supported their mental health and wellbeing.

Activate Creative Learning saw teams working with teachers on Continuing Professional
Development and with whole schools on creative commissions that support environmental
sustainability, including a bike shed with nature habitats built into it conceived by 9-year-olds in
Dover. Artswork Professional Development produced new ranges of learning products, expanding
the self-led online courses that now make up a significant part of our income generation from this
area as well as delivering live online and in-person courses and training sessions. The team honed
a range of packages to offer potential business clients, including consultancy for organisations
wishing to achieve more significant change, and drove income generation for this part of
Artswork’s operation to new levels. Clients now include the National Gallery, Victoria & Albert
Museum, Southbank Centre, Shakespeare’s Globe, Bristol Beacon and many more.

Artswork has also continued to be commissioned to deliver services for other stakeholders, such
as Hampshire's Violence Reduction Unit. The Choices programme has seen Artswork partner with
BearFace to deliver an innovative drama-based learning programme in schools across Hampshire
and the Isle of Wight. Year 6 and Year 7 pupils explore scenarios in which they might need to
choose a course of action that could affect their personal safety and that of other people. They
respond to animations voiced by young people currently in the justice system and rehearse the
decisions they could take and the consequences those might have, preparing for making positive
decisions in real life. This has been very successful and has brought additional management
income to Artswork.

Artswork’s delivery with children, young people, and the professionals who work with them is
supported by several core teams: Finance and Operations; Business Development;
Communications, Sales & Marketing; and Data, Evaluation & Impact. These teams provide
essential capacity and resource to create and sustain support structures for the new programmes
Artswork has been delivering, and ensure that they are managed, delivered and evaluated

12

Docusign Envelope 1D: C0B927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED
TRUSTEES REPORT
FOR YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

successfully, in line with our legislative and governance responsibilities, particularly around data
collection and protection. The Communications, Sales & Marketing team has made effective use
of video to tell the stories of the work we do and share the impact it has made for young people
and the communities in which they live.

13

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4892-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF ARTSWORK LIMITED

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Artswork Limited for the year ended 31 March 2024 which comprise the
statement of financial activities, the balance sheet, the statement of cash flows and the notes to the financial
statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has been
‘applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial
Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:

- give a true and fair view of the state of the charitable company's affairs as at 31 March 2024 and of its
incoming resources and application of resources, including its income and expenditure, for the year then
ended;

- have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice;
and .

- have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of
the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the charitable company in accordance with the
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical
Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe
that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the trustees’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the charitable company’s ability to continue
as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for
issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the trustees with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report other than the financial statements
and our auditor's report thereon. The trustees are responsible for the other information contained within the annual
report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent
otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. Our
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears
to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are
required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If,
based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

-~14-

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT (CONTINUED)
TO THE MEMBERS OF ARTSWORK LIMITED

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of our audit:

- the information given in the trustees’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are
prepared, which includes the directors’ report prepared for the purposes of company law, is consistent with the
financial statements; and .

- the directors’ report included within the trustees’ report has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the tight of the knowledge and understanding of the charitable company and its environment obtained in the
course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the directors’ report included within the
trustees’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires

us to report to you if, in our opinion:

- adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or

- the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

- certain disclosures of trustees' remuneration specified by law are not made; or

- we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

- the trustees were not entitled to prepare the financial statements in accordance with the small companies
regime and take advantage of the small companies' exemptions in preparing the trustees’ report and from the
requirement to prepare a strategic report.

Responsibilities of trustees

As explained more fully in the statement of trustees’ responsibilities, the trustees, who are also the directors of the
charitable company for the purpose of company law, are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the trustees determine is
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due
to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the trustees are responsible for assessing the charitable
company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the trustees either intend to liquidate the charitable company or
to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance
with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.

-15-

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C18565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT (CONTINUED)
TO THE MEMBERS OF ARTSWORK LIMITED

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud
Our approach to identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including
fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, was as follows:

+ the engagement partner ensured that the engagement team collectively had the appropriate competence,
capabilities and skills to identify or recognise non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations.

« we identified the laws and regulations applicable to the company through discussions with directors and
other management, and from our commercial knowledge and experience.

« we focused on specific laws and regulations which we considered may have a direct material effect on the
financial statements or the operations of the company, including the Companies Act 2006, taxation
legislation, data protection, employment, environmental and health and safety legislation.

* we assessed the extent of compliance with the laws and regulations identified above through making
enquiries of management. :

We assessed the susceptibility of the company’s financial statements to material misstatement, including obtaining
an understanding of how fraud might occur, by:

« making enquiries of management as to where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud, their
knowledge of actual, suspected and alleged fraud.

« considering the internal controls in place to mitigate risks of fraud and non-compliance with laws and
regulations.

Audit response to risks identified
To address the risk of fraud through management bias and override of controls, we:

performed analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships.

tested journal entries to identify unusual transactions.

tested a sample of BACS payments to identify payments being made to unexpected bank accounts.

performed transactional testing on payroll costs in respect of those employees with responsibility or

authority in connection with the payroll function.

« assessed whether judgements and assumptions made in determining the accounting estimates were
indicative of potential bias.

« investigated the rationale behind significant or unusual transactions.

In response to the risk of irregularities and non-compliance with laws and regulations, we designed procedures
which included, but were not limited to:

* agreeing financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation.
+ enquiring of management as to actual and potential litigation and claims.

There are inherent limitations in our audit procedures described above. The more removed that laws and
regulations are from financial transactions, the less likely it is that we would become aware of non-compliance.
Auditing standards also limit the audit procedures required to identify non-compliance with laws and regulations to
enquiry of the directors and other management and the inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.

Material misstatements that arise due to fraud can be harder to detect than those that arise from error as they may
involve deliberate concealment or collusion.

A further description of our responsibilities is available on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at: https://
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with section 391 of the Companies
Act 2014. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we
are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law,
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

-16-

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB.

ARTSWORK LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT (CONTINUED)
TO THE MEMBERS OF ARTSWORK LIMITED

Adam Buse
Adam Buse FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor) 12/12/2024 | 09:25 GMT
for and on behalf of Fiander Tovell Limited cesses seseeeeeeeeneees
Chartered Accountants
Statutory Auditor Stag Gates House
63/64 The Avenue
Southampton
Hampshire
$017 1XS

-17-

Oocusign Envelope ID: COB92702-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES
INCLUDING INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Unrestricted Restricted Total Unrestricted Restricted Total
funds funds funds funds
2024 2024 2024 2023 2023 2023
Notes £ £ £ £ £ £
Income from:
Donations and legacies 3 472 - 472 - 4,000 1,000
Charitable activities 4 87,978 1,784,605 1,872,583 428,278 2,082,510 2,210,788
Investments 5 57,236 - 57,236 21,966 - 21,966
Total income 145,686 1,784,605 1,930,291 150,244 2,083,510 2,233,754
Expenditure on:
Charitable activities 6 29,646 1,601,992 1,631,638 85,313 2,558,943 2,644,256
Other expenditure W - - - - 2,482 2,482
Total expenditure 29,646 1,601,992 1,631,638 85,313 2,561,425 2,646,738
Net income/(expenditure) 116,040 182,613 298,653 64,934 (477,915) (412,984)
Transfers between
funds 91,942 (91,942) - - - -
Net movement in
funds 7 207,982 90,671 298,653 64,931 (477,915) (412,984)
Reconciliation of funds:
Fund balances at 1 April 2023 552,363 939,740 1,492,103 487,432 1,417,655 1,905,087
Fund balances at 31 March
2024 1,790,756 552,363 939,740 1,492,103

760,345

1,030,411

The statement of financial activities includes all gains and losses recognised in the year. All income and expenditure

derive from continuing activities.

-18-

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 MARCH 2024

2024 2023

Notes £ £ £ £
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 13 4,236 12,329
Current assets
Debtors 14 16,378 27,961
Cash at bank and in hand 1,855,895 1,595,575

1,872,273 1,623,536

Creditors: amounts falling due within 15
one year (85,753) (143,762)
Net current assets 1,786,520 1,479,774
Total assets less current liabilities 1,790,756 1,492,103
The funds of the charitable company
Restricted income funds 18 1,030,411 939,740
Unrestricted funds 19 760,345 552,363

1,790,756 1,492,103

. 12/12/2024 | 08:53 GMT
The financial statements were approved by the trustees on «0.0.0...

N Betjemann
Trustee

Company registration number 02150619 (England and Wales)

-19-

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Notes
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from/(absorbed by) 22
operations
Investing activities
Purchase of tangible fixed assets
Investment income received

Net cash generated from investing
activities

Net cash used in financing activities

Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash
equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

2024

203,084

57,236

57,236

260,320
1,595,575

1,855,895

2023
£ £
(384,089)
(3,883)
21,966
18,083
(366,006)
4,961,581

1,595,575

-20-

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

141

1.2

1.3

1.4

Accounting policies

Charity information

Artswork Limited is a charitable company limited by guarantee incorporated in England and Wales. The
registered office is 142-144 Above Bar Street, Southampton, SO14 7DU.

Accounting convention

The accounts have been prepared in accordance with the charitable company's Memorandum of Association,
the Companies Act 2006 and “Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice
applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) (as amended for accounting periods commencing
from 1 January 2016). The charitable company is a Public Benefit Entity as defined by FRS 102.

The accounts are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the charitable company. Monetary
amounts in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest £.

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention. The principal accounting
policies adopted are set out below.

Going concern

At the time of approving the accounts, the trustees have a reasonable expectation that the charitable
company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus the
Trustees continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the accounts.

The Trustees have considered the level of funds held and the expected level of income and expenditure for 12
months from authorising these financial statements. The budgeted income and expenditure is sufficient with
the level of reserves for the charitable company to be able to continue as a going concern.

Charitable funds

Unrestricted funds are available for use at the discretion of the trustees in furtherance of their charitable
objectives.

Designated funds comprise funds which have been set aside at the discretion of the trustees for specific
purposes. The purposes and uses of the designated funds are set out in the notes to the financial statements.

Restricted funds are subject to specific conditions by donors or grantors as to how they may be used. The
purposes and uses of the restricted funds are set out in the notes to the financial statements.

Income

income is recognised when the charitable company is legally entitled to it after any performance conditions
have been met, the amounts can be measured reliably, and it is probable that income will be received.

Cash donations are recognised on receipt. Other donations are recognised once the charitable company has
been notified of the donation, unless performance conditions require deferral of the amount. Income tax
recoverable in relation to donations received under Gift Aid or deeds of covenant is recognised at the time of
the donation.

Legacies are recognised on receipt or otherwise if the charitable company has been notified of an impending
distribution, the amount is known, and receipt is expected. If the amount is not known, the legacy is treated as
a contingent asset.

Grants are recognised in full in the Statement of Financial Activity in the year in which they are receivable.
Grants related to specific performance outputs or service level agreements are classified as incoming
resources for charitable activities and are recognised when the charitable company has earned entitlement.

-21-

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1.5

1.6

1.7

1.8

1.9

Accounting policies , (Continued)

Expenditure
Liabilities are recognised in the period to which they relate. The value of any liability includes irrecoverable
VAT where applicable.

Resources expended are allocated directly to the relevant activity, project or fund as far as possible and in
accordance with the agreed funding terms.

Tangible fixed assets

Tangible fixed assets are initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost or valuation, net of
depreciation and any impairment losses.

Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets less their residual values over their
useful lives on the following bases:

Fixtures and fittings 25% reducing balance
Computers 33% straight line

The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds
and the carrying value of the asset, and is recognised in the statement of financial activities.

Impairment of fixed assets

At each reporting end date, the charitable company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible assets to
determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such
indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the
impairment loss (if any).

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown
within borrowings in current liabilities.

Financial instruments
The charitable company has elected to apply the provisions of Section 11 ‘Basic Financial Instruments’ and
Section 12 ‘Other Financial Instruments Issues’ of FRS 102 to all of its financial instruments.

Financial instruments are recognised in the charitable company's balance sheet when the charitable company
becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument..

Financial assets and liabilities are offset, with the net amounts presented in the financial statements, when
there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net
basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

Basic financial assets

Basic financial assets, which include debtors and cash and bank balances, are initially measured at
transaction price including transaction costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective
interest method unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the transaction is
measured at the present value of the future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest. Financial assets
classified as receivable within one year are not amortised.

-22-

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB.

ARTSWORK LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1

1.10

1.12

Accounting policies (Continued)

Impairment of financial assets

Financial assets, other than those held at fair value through income and expenditure, are assessed for
indicators of impairment at each reporting date. Financial assets are impaired where there is objective
evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset,
the estimated future cash flows have been affected.

If an asset is impaired, the impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and the present
value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the asset's original effective interest rate. The impairment loss
is recognised in net income/(expenditure) for the year. ,

If there is a decrease in the impairment loss arising from an event occurring after the impairment was
recognised, the impairment is reversed. The reversal is such that the current carrying amount does not
exceed what the carrying amount would have been, had the impairment not previously been recognised. The
impairment reversal is recognised in net income/(expenditure) for the year.

Derecognition of financial assets

Financial assets are derecognised only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or
are settled, or when the charitable company transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and
rewards of ownership to another entity, or if some significant risks and rewards of ownership are retained but
control of the asset has transferred to another party that is able to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated
third party.

Basic financial liabilities

Basic financial liabilities, including creditors and bank loans are initially recognised at transaction price unless
the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the debt instrument is measured at the present
value of the future payments discounted at a market rate of interest. Financial liabilities classified as payable
within one year are not amortised.

Debt instruments are subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of
operations from suppliers. Amounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one
year or less. if not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Trade creditors are recognised initially at
transaction price and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

Derecognition of financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the charitable company’s contractual obligations expire or are
discharged or cancelled.

Employee benefits
The cost of any unused holiday entitlement is recognised in the period in which the employee’s services are
received.

Termination benefits are recognised immediately as an expense when the charitable company is
demonstrably committed to terminate the employment of an employee or to provide termination benefits.

Retirement benefits
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.

Leases
Rentals payable under operating leases, including any lease incentives received, are charged as an expense
on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease.

-23-

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

2 Critical accounting estimates and judgements

in the application of the charitable company's accounting policies, the trustees are required to make
judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amount of assets and liabilities that are not readily
apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience
and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised where the revision affects only that
period, or in the period of the revision and future periods where the revision affects both current and future
periods.

The trustees consider there are no critical judgements or sources of estimation uncertainty in the financial
statements.

3 Income from donations and legacies

Unrestricted Restricted Total Unrestricted Restricted Total
funds funds funds funds
2024 2024 2024 2023 2023 2023
£ £ £ £ £ £
Donations and gifts 472 - 472 - 1,000 1,000
4 Income from charitable activities
Unrestricted Restricted Total Unrestricted Restricted Total
funds funds funds funds
2024 2024 2024 2023 2023 2023
£ £ £ £ £ £
Charitable
Income
Services provided under :
contract 87,978 - 87,978 128,278 - 128,278
Performance related
grants - 1,784,605 1,784,605 - 2,082,510 2,082,510
87,978 1,784,605 1,872,583 128,278 2,082,510 2,210,788

-24-

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

4 Income from charitable activities (Continued)
Performance related grants analysis

Charitable Charitable

Income Income

2024 2023

£ £

ACE - Bridge project - 1,641,354
Arun 30,000 53,900
Youth Endowment Fund - 226,292
Kickstart . - 47,346
ACE - NPO 1,412,050 -
Other 342,555 113,618

1,784,605 2,082,510

5 Income from investments
Unrestricted Unrestricted
funds funds
2024 2023
£ £

Interest receivable 57,236 21,966

-25-

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

6 Expenditure on charitable activities

Charitable Charitable
Expenditure Expenditure
2024 2023
£ £
Direct costs
Staff costs 808,436 1,007,491
Depreciation and impairment 8,093 11,461
Enter ac905 in database 804,279 1,614,277
1,620,808 2,633,229
Share of support and governance costs (see note 8)
Governance 10,830 11,027
1,631,638 2,644,256
Analysis by fund
Unrestricted funds 29,646 85,313
Restricted funds 1,601,992 2,558,943
1,631,638 2,644,256
7 Net movement in funds 2024 2023
£ £
The net movement in funds is stated after charging/(crediting):
Fees payable for the audit of the charity's financial statements 9,600 9,647
Depreciation of owned tangible fixed assets 8,093 11,461
Loss on disposal of tangible fixed assets - 2,482
8 Support costs
Support Governance 2024 Governance 2023
costs costs costs
£ £ £ £ £
Audit fees : - 9,600 9,600 9,647 9,647
Accountancy - 1,230 1,230 1,380 1,380
- 10,830 10,830 41,027 11,027
Analysed between
Charitable activities - 10,830 10,830 11,027 11,027

-26-

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B5658B,

ARTSWORK LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

10

Trustees

None of the trustees (or any persons connected with them) received any remuneration during the year; but 2
of them were reimbursed a total of £65 travelling expenses (2023 - None of the trustees received any expense

reimbursements).
Employees

The average monthly number of employees during the year was:

Full time
Part time
Total

Employment costs

Wages and salaries
Social security costs
Other pension costs

The number of employees on a full time equivalent basis was 22 (2023: 33).

The number of employees whose annual remuneration was more than £60,000
is as follows:

£60,000 to £70,000

Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of key management personnel was as follows:

Aggregate compensation

None of the key management personnel are trustees or directors.

-27-

2024
Number

1
19

30

2024

£
728,749

60,681
19,006

808,436

2024
Number

1

2024
£

292,664

2023
Number

16
31

47

2023

£
906,642

77,547
23,302

1,007,491

2023
Number

1

2023

363,596


Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

11

12

13

14

Other

Net loss on disposal of tangible fixed assets

Taxation

Total

2024

Restricted
funds

2023
£

2,482

The charity is exempt from taxation on its activities because all its income is applied for charitable purposes.

Tangible fixed assets

Cost
At 1 April 2023

At 31 March 2024

Depreciation and impairment
At 1 April 2023

Depreciation charged in the year

At 31 March 2024

Carrying amount
At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023 —

Debtors
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade debtors

Other debtors
Prepayments and accrued income

Computers

Fixtures and Total
fittings

£ £ £

1,516 87,871 89,387

1,516 87,871 89,387

1,508 75,550 77,058

2 8,091 8,093

1,510 83,641 85,151

6 4,230 4,236

8 - 12,321 12,329

2024 2023

£ £

10,193 9,567

3,305 3,305

2,880 15,089

16,378 27,961

-28-


Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

15

16

17

Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

2024 2023
Notes £ £
Other taxation and social security 15,099 26,080
Deferred income 16 2,975 6,860
Trade creditors 56,011 18,621
Accruals 11,668 92,201
85,753 143,762
‘
Deferred income
2024 2023
£ £
Other deferred income 2,975 6,860
Deferred income is included in the financial statements as follows:
2024 2023
£ £
Deferred income is included within:
Current liabilities 2,975 6,860
Movements in the year:
Deferred income at 1 April 2023 6,860 4,639
Released from previous periods (6,860) (4,639)
Resources deferred in the year . 2,975 6,860
Deferred income at 31 March 2024 2,975 6,860

Deferred income relates to course booking fees received in advance. The entirety of the balance at 31 March
2023 had been released to the SOFAin the year ended 31 March 2024.

Retirement benefit schemes :
2024 2023

Defined contribution schemes £ £
Charge to profit or loss in respect of defined contribution schemes 19,006 23,302

The charitable company operates a defined contribution pension scheme for all qualifying employees. The
assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the charitable company in an independently
administered fund.

A total of £2,498 (2023 - £4,445) of these contributions were unpaid as at the balance sheet date.

-29-

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

18

Restricted funds

The restricted funds of the charity comprise the unexpended balances of donations and grants held on trust
subject to specific conditions by donors as to how they may be used.

Bridge

Portsmouth Skills

Arun

Let's Create

Youth Endownment Fund
Kickstart

Apprenticeships

Schools Violence Reduction
NPO 23-26

Naval Childrens Charity
Breakthrough Programme
Artsmark

Previous year:

ACE - Bridge including
Artsmark and DFE
Portsmouth Skills

Arun

Let's Create

HAF

Youth Endowment Fund
Kickstart

Jubilees Fund
Apprenticeships
Equitable routes

Syliva Fund

Schools Violence Reduction

At 1 April Incoming Resources Transfers At 31 March
2023 resources expended 2024

£ £ £ £ £
834,245 - (263,081) - 571,164
9,207 19,898 (29,105) - -
45,380 30,000 (75,380) - -
133° - (133) - -
10,343 - (10,343) - -
12,718 - (12,718) - -
(2,134) 38,240 (36,106) - -
29,848 110,800 (126,549) - 14,099

- 1,496,074 (847,677) (211,018) 437,379

- 11,505 (3,736) - 7,769

- 20,062 (139,138) 119,076 -

- 58,026 (58,026) - -

939,740 1,784,605 (1,601,992) (91,942) 1,030,411
At 1 April Incoming Resources Transfers At31 March
2022 resources expended 2023

£ £ £ £ £
1,238,732 1,641,354 (2,045,841) - 834,245
21,396 34,374 (46,563) - 9,207
78,735 53,900 (87,255) - 45,380
278 (145) - - 133

- 1,175 (1,175) - -

31,168 226,292 (247,117) - 10,343
47,346 64,770 (99,398) - 12,718

- 6,945 (6,945) - -
- 18,668 (20,802) - (2,134)

- 5,000 (5,000) - -

- 1,177 (1,177) - -

- 30,000 (152) - 29,848
1,417,655 2,083,510 (2,561,425) - 939,740

-30-

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

18

Restricted funds {Continued)

a) Bridge :

Aims to improve outcomes for children and young people through the integration of arts, culture, and
education. This strategic initiative focused on working with partners such as local authorities and arts and
cultural organisations to foster aspiration and ambition among young people and enhance their life chances,
wellbeing and opportunities. In 23/24 we were using committed carry forward from the 2018-22 funding. This
fund was previously knows as ‘ACE - Bridge inctuding Artsmark and DFE’.

b) Naval Childrens Charity

A short programme of activities led by Artswork in partnership with the Naval Childrens Charity in which the
children of current and veteran forces families learnt about the range of creative careers and pathways into
creative work and careers.

c) Portsmouth Creative Skills Programme

Building on the success of the Creative Skills Initiative (a national programme for 16-21 year olds), we have
begun delivery of the second year of a three-year Portsmouth Creative Skills Programme, which we are
undertaking with Portsmouth City Council’s Virtual School and Leaving Care Service. This is funded through
The Blagrave Trust, and forms part of the work of Portsmouth’s Cultural Education Partnership, with
associated Partnership Investment.

d) Arun

Accultural development programme for and by children and young people in the District of Arun which includes
the towns of Bognor Regis, Littlehampton and Arundel. We work with local stakeholders to create

meaningful new creative opportunities in schools, communities and in partnership with existing infrastructure.

e) Let's Create
To facilitate and produce an online workshop and accompanying resources suitable for children in
participating schools.

f) Breakthrough

A paid 6-month training and work placement scheme for young people run in the south east with SME
employers. The programme provides entry level work opportunities alongside employability training. Artswork
uses NPO grant funding to reimburse the wages, NI & pension contributions of the participating employees
and their host employers contribute a training fee to Artswork.

g) NPO 23-26

The main grant programme for 2023-26 that delivers against Arts Council England strategic objectives,
principles and targets. There are three strands of work: Young Cultural Changemakers, Creative Careers and
Creative Learning. This fund underpins most of Artswork’s operational costs. Transfers out to other restricted
projects and to unrestricted funds are in accordance with the terms of the funding agreement.

h) HAF

Artswork was given a Grant by Portsmouth City Council, a registered provider of the Government Holiday
Activities and Food (HAF) programme. The Grant was to deliver a programme of healthy food and enriching
activities during the summer and winter school holidays for pupils who receive benefits-related free school
meals. The participants attended free sessions during which a meal was provided alongside arts and physical
activities, nutritional information and education for participants and their families and signposting to services
and further support. The programme was delivered in Portsmouth during August and December 2021.

-31-

Docusign Envelope 1D: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

18

Restricted funds (Continued)

i) Youth Endowment Fund

Artswork is a Grant recipient of the Youth Endowment Fund for the Peer Action Collective programme. The
work aims to prevent children and young people from becoming involved in crime and violence. The National
Peer Research and Social Action Network is working to:

+ Gain a deeper understanding of young people's experiences of violence and the factors that could
prevent it

+ Create strong local networks and relationships for change

« Help children and young people develop skills and access opportunities

+ Achieve direct change in people's communities

Artswork is employing and leading a team of young Peer Researchers to design the research, recruit and
interview participants about their experiences of crime and violence and enlisting participants to become
Changemakers. The programme ran from summer 2021 until March 2023.

j) Kickstart

Artswork is a participant in the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) Kickstart employment programme
for young people at risk of long-term unemployment. The DWP Grant requires Artswork to deliver a 6 month
employment and training programme in partnership with its Gateway partner Real Ideas Organisation. The
Grant covers the salary, national insurance and pension contributions for each employee plus set-up, training
and support costs for each participant. The programme runs between July 2021 and March 2024.

k) Jubilees Fund
To facilitate and produce an online workshop and accompanying resources suitable for children in
participating schools.

!) Apprenticeships

An employability programme providing young people the opportunity to work in the creative industries on a
combined programme of work and learning to enable them to develop the knowledge, skills and confidence to
start a career in the arts.

m) Schools Violence Reduction

Training services for the Year 6 and Year 7 Schools Project that works to reduce knife crime, gang violence,
county lines involvement and promote healthy peer relationships. Artswork is providing inset training for
teachers and classroom training for pupils. -

n) Artsmark

Encourage and support schools, education and youth justice settings to apply for the Artsmark accreditation, a
kitemark for creativity in education. This work was part of our Bridge programme and we received additional
funds in 23/24 to continue delivery before the new service provider commenced the role in August 23.

0) Equitable Routes :
Youth-led research into the current opportunities for creative and cultural careers for young people in the
Solent region.

p) Sylvia Fund

A grant scheme for young people from Artswork’s employability programmes who face financial disadvantage
as a barrier to the next step in their career journey. Applicants receive a contribution towards training and
development costs, equipment or materials, travel or job related costs or those associated with setting up a
creative enterprise.

-32-

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C1B565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

19

20

Designated funds

The unrestricted funds of the charity comprise the unexpended balances of donations and grants which are
not subject to specific conditions by donors and grantors as to how they may be used. These include
designated funds which have been set aside out of unrestricted funds by the trustees for specific purposes.

Balance at Transfers Balance at Resources Balance at

1 April 2022 1 April 2023 expended 31 March 2024

£ £ £ £ £

International Development 537 - 537 (537) -
Rent Provision 10,000 (10,000) - - -

10,537 (10,000) 537 (537) -

a) International Development

This was a fund designated to support Artswork in the development of international partnerships. Artswork’s
CEO travelled to Chile in August 2017 to deliver a presentation at an international symposium run by
Balmaceda Arte Joven — a Chilean youth arts organisation. The CEO was supported by Arts Council England
(International Artists Development Fund) and by the Anglo-Chilean Society with only a small amount drawn
down from Artswork’s designated fund. This fund was closed in March 2024.

b) Rent Provision
A provision of £10,000 was in place to allocate toward rent from the Wider Programmes budget. This has now
been transferred out.

Analysis of net assets between funds

Unrestricted Designated Restricted Total
funds funds funds
£ £ £ £
Fund balances at 31 March 2024 are
represented by: —
Tangible assets - - 4,236 4,236
Current assets/(liabilities) . 760,345 - 1,026,175 1,786,520
760,345 - 1,030,411 1,790,756
Unrestricted’ Designated Restricted Total
funds funds funds
£ £ £ £
Fund balances at 31 March 2023 are
represented by:
Tangible assets : - - 12,329 12,329
Current assets/(liabilities) 551,826 537 927,411 1,479,774
551,826 537 939,740 1,492,103

-33-

Docusign Envelope ID: COB927D2-4B92-4588-A144-BD76C18565BB

ARTSWORK LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

21

22

23

Financial commitments, guarantees and contingent liabilities

The charitable company is committed to pay £1,030,412 (2023 - £976,242) in relation to funding agreements
agreed with providers for programme delivery where payment conditions have not yet been met.

Cash generated from operations 2024 2023
£ £

Surplus/(deficit) for the year 298,653 (412,983)

Adjustments for:

Investment income recognised in statement of financial activities (57,236) (21,966)

(Gain)/loss on disposal of tangible fixed assets - 2,482

Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets 8,093 41,461

Movements in working capital:

Decrease in debtors 11,583 65,039
(Decrease) in creditors (54,124) (30,343)
(Decrease)/increase in deferred income (3,885) 2,221
Cash generated from/(absorbed by) operations 203,084 (384,089)

Analysis of changes in net funds ©

The charitable company had no material debt during the year.

-34-

