Babcock Training Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024

Company registration number 02817838

mL

ll

<
a
w
Ww
2 ‘ADGOBDWV'
A10 26/11/2024 #10

COMPANIES HOUSE

Babcock Training Limited
COMPANY INFORMATION
Directors J Parker

J Rayson
M Abbott

Company secretary Babcock Corporate Secretaries Limited

Registered number 02817838

Registered office 33 Wigmore Street
London
W1U 1QX

Independent auditors Deloitte LLP
1 New Street Square
London
EC4A 3HQ

Registered number 02817838

Page 1

Babcock Training Limited

CONTENTS

Strategic report

Directors’ report

Independent Auditors report

Income statement

Statement of comprehensive income
Statement of financial position
Statement of changes in equity

Notes to the financial statements

Registered number 02817838

Page

12
16
16
17
18

19

Page 2

Babcock Training Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 March 2024

The directors present their Strategic report on the company for the year ended 31 March 2024.

Principal activities

The principal activities of the company are the provision of apprenticeship and other vocational training
across the emergency services and defence sectors to a range of customers including the London Fire
Brigade and the Metropolitan Police Service.

Review of the business

2024 _ 2023

£000 £000

Revenue 59,728 75,150
Profit before tax 2,977 5,877
Net assets 71,406 67,479

The company is a significant provider of apprenticeship and other vocational training across the emergency
services and defence sectors.

During the prior year the company divested part of its Civil Training business through the sale of trade and
assets at net book value to its subsidiary Babcock Skills Development and Training Limited (BSDTL). On 1
February 2023 the company completed the sale of BSDTL to Inspirit Tulip Bidco Limited with a joss on
disposal of £12,678,000 this was offset by a final distribution of £13,668,000. Following the divestment and
sale the company only continues its contracts with the London Fire Brigade, the Metropolitan Police Service
and certain UK Ministry of Defence related customers.

The decrease in revenue and profit is principally driven by the divestment of the Civil Training business and
reduced profitability on certain contracts. Increase in net assets is principally driven by a reduction in value
of investments offset by an increase in pension assets and trade receivables.

Principal risks and uncertainties

The company’s ultimate controlling parent is Babcock International Group PLC. Risks are managed at a
group level in accordance with the risk management framework of Babcock International Group PLC. The
principal risks and uncertainties of Babcock International Group PLC are discussed in its Annual Report for
the year ended 31 March 2024 which does not form part of this report.

The management of the business and the execution of the company’s strategy are subject to various risks
and uncertainties. These are managed through the operational review process, supplemented at group level
by independent challenge and review by the Group Risk Manager and the Audit and Risk Committee.

The key risks and uncertainties affecting the company are considered to be related to changes in government
policy, budget allocations and the changing political and regulatory environment.

The directors manage this risk by meeting on a regular basis with government funding bodies and by
repositioning the business as required to meet their requirements and those of employers. Further discussion
of these risks and uncertainties, in the context of the Group as a whole, is provided on pages 89 to 106 of
the annual report of Babcock International Group PLC, which does not form part of this report.

Registered number 02817838 Page 3

Babcock Training Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 March 2024 (continued)

Key performance indicators

The company’s activities are managed on a divisional basis. The growth and performance of Land, a sector
of Babcock International Group PLC, which includes the company, is discussed on page 52 of the annual
report of Babcock International Group PLC, which does not form part of this report.

Management continues to use all relevant financial information in operating the company’s contracts and in
controlling its cost base. Individual contracts have key performance indicators (KPIs) integrated into their
terms and conditions. The KPIs for the company are principally based on the successful delivery of training
courses and the progression of learners to achieving their qualification. These KPls are at the heart of the
company’s activities and customer satisfaction and as such they are monitored by management on a regular
basis.

In the last year the company has continued to maintain the high levels of service KPIs to its existing and new
customers and deliver a consistently high service to the customer throughout the year. The company's key
customers continue to be satisfied with the level of performance.

We have identified the following financial and non-financial key performance indicators that reflect the internal
benchmarks we use to measure the success of our company business and strategy.

2024 2023
Revenue Growth -20.5% 0.8%
Operating Return on Revenue -6.7% -14.4%

Order Book £438.7m £436.1m

Revenue Growth
The decrease in revenue in the current financial year is driven by the divestment of the Civil Training
business.

Operating Return on Revenue
The increase in return reflects the one off impact of the loss on disposal of BSDTL recognised in the prior

year.

Order Book
The company has a number of long-term contracts which provide a significant order book giving strong
visibility of revenue for a number of years.

$172(1) Statement and Stakeholder engagement

This statement contains an overview of how the directors have performed their duty to promote the success
of the company as set out in Section 172(1) of the Companies Act 2006. That section requires a director of
a company to act in the way they consider, in good faith, would most likely promote the success of the
company for the benefit of the shareholders. In doing this, the director must have regard, amongst other
matters, to:

a) the likely consequences of any decision in the long term,

b) the interests of the company's employees,

c) the need to foster the company's business relationships with suppliers, customers and others,

d) the impact of the company's operations on the community and the environment,

e) the desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct,
and

f) the need to act fairly as between members of the company.

Registered number 02817838 Page 4

Babcock Training Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 March 2024 (continued)
$172(1} Statement and Stakeholder engagement (continued)

The company manages stakeholder engagement in accordance with Group policies and procedures which
are discussed on pages 60, 61, and 119 of the annual report of Babcock International Group PLC, which
does not form part of this report.

The company manages stakeholder engagement in accordance with Group policies and procedures which
are discussed on pages 60, 61, and 119 of the annual report of Babcock International Group PLC, which
does not form part of this report.

Depending on the matter under consideration the relevance of the different factors set out in s172(1) will
vary. The Board does seek to balance the interests of its different stakeholders, but, where there are
competing interests, not every decision the Board has made will result in a positive outcome for all our
stakeholders. However, by considering key stakeholder groups and aligning our activities with our strategic ~
plan, as well as the company’s culture and values, we aim to act fairly, transparently and in the best interests
of the company over the long term. Stakeholder engagement in relation to key stakeholder groups includes
the following: :

Customers :

The future success of the company is driven by the long-term relationships with our customers. The directors
are committed to conducting business honestly, transparently and with integrity. Understanding the needs
and challenges of our customers allows us to help them to succeed. We work in partnership with public and
private customers across the globe, enabling them to deliver critical programmes and services, adding value
to their operations. We seek to solve their challenges through excellent operational performance and the
introduction of innovative solutions and technology to support their longer-term needs.

What matters to them:
« Safety
© Operational excellence
© Value for money

Suppliers

The company requires an efficient and highly effective supply chain to support its business operations and
strategy. This means the directors need to foster trusted and collaborative relationships with suppliers who
share our appetite to drive improvement through innovation and best practice. Our external supply chains
are an important part of our performance and by working collaboratively with suppliers we can ensure
continuity of supply, minimise risk and bring innovative solutions to our customers. These engagement
activities form part of the company’s implementation of the Group-wide Procurement Strategy as described
on pages 16-17 and 86-87 of the annual report of Babcock International Group PLC.

Regulators

We are committed to providing safe and effective operations. We must maintain positive and constructive
relationships with regulators to be able to operate, to help shape policy in our markets and to position for
future opportunities.

What matters to them:

« Regulations, policies and standards
Governance and transparency
Trust and ethics
Safety and compliance of operations
Sustainability

Registered number 02817838 Page 5

Babcock Training Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 March 2024 (continued)

Employees

Employee engagement is a primary focus for the directors of the company. We continue to strengthen our
employee value proposition by enhancing our engagement and promoting an agile global workplace. We are
committed to creating an inclusive and diverse organisation where employees can develop their full potential.
We focus on developing and supporting a truly engaged workforce, living our principles and working on
shared goals, united by our common Purpose. These engagement activities form part of the company's
implementation of the Group-wide People Strategy as described on pages 12 to 17 and 80 to 84 of the annual
report of Babcock International Group PLC, which does not form part of this report.

What matters to them:
e« Remuneration and reward
Professional development
The Company’s aims, goals, priorities and reputation
Health, safety and wellbeing
Inclusion and diversity

Communities

We are committed to the communities in which we operate and the broader interests of the customers we
serve. As good corporate citizens, we want to make a genuine difference by supporting our local communities
both economically and socially; community engagement and social value creation is a key aspect of our ESG
strategy.

Business relationships

We are committed to conducting business honestly, transparently and with integrity. Understanding the
needs and challenges of our customers allows us to help them to succeed. We work in partnership with public
and private customers across the globe, enabling them to deliver critical programmes and services, adding
value to their operations. We seek to solve their challenges through excellent operational performance and
the introduction of innovative solutions and technology to support their longer-term needs. We build and
maintain long-term relationships with our customers to promote the future success of the company.

The company requires an efficient and highly effective supply chain to support its business operations and
strategy. This means the directors need to foster trusted and collaborative relationships with suppliers who
share our appetite to drive improvement through innovation and best practice. Our external supply chains
are an important part of our performance and by working collaboratively with suppliers we can ensure
continuity of supply, minimise risk and bring innovative solutions to our customers.

Sustainability and environment

Sustainability is an integral part of our corporate strategy and how we do business and it underpins our
corporate Purpose: to create a safe and secure world, together. We have done a lot in the past year to drive
our sustainability programme across the Group, ensure progress towards our corporate commitments and
deliver our five ESG priorities shown below.

1. We will reduce emissions and set science-based targets to get to net zero across our estate,
assets and operations by 2040.

2. We will integrate environmental sustainability into programme design to minimise waste and
optimise resources.

3. We will ensure the safety and wellbeing of all our people.

4. We-will make a positive difference to the communities we're proud to be part of and provide high-
quality jobs that support local economies.

5. We will be a collaborative, trusted partner across the supply chain, helping to tackle common
challenges.

Registered number 02817838 Page 6

Babcock Training Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 March 2024 (continued)
Sustainability and environment (continued)

Climate action remains a key focus. Building on our Group wide climate-related risk management process
from last year, which considered the following time horizons: short (present to 2030), medium (2030 to 2040),
and long-term horizons (2040 to 2100), sectors and regions considered the insight and recommendations
from the KPMG climate-related risk assessment report and identified the immediate actions required in their
five-year strategic plans to support corporate commitments. These included Net Zero, wider environmental
targets, and to address key climate-related risks and opportunities.

These activities form part of the Group-wide ESG Strategy as described on pages 62 to 88 of the annual
report of Babcock International Group PLC, which does not form part of this report.

This report was approved by the board on 21 November 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

Vela

J Parker
Director
21 November 2024

Registered number 02817838 Page 7.

Babcock Training Limited

Directors’ report for the year ended 31 March 2024

The directors present their report and the audited financial statements of the company for the year ended
31 March 2024.

Dividends
A dividend of £nil was paid in the year (2023: £nil).

Directors and their interests
The directors who held office during the year and up to the date of signing the annual report were as follows:

S Doherty (resigned 20 September 2024)
J Parker
J Rayson
M Abbott (appointed 19 November 2024)

The Board is not aware of any contract of significance in relation to the company in which any director has,
or has had, a material interest.

Future developments

The directors plan to continue to expand the company’s delivery of both government funded training
programmes and outsourced training management and delivery services in the emergency services and
defence sectors. This will be achieved through tendering for new contracts and, where appropriate, by
investing in strategic acquisitions.

To generate and preserve value in the longer term the company is also committed to developing its people
and sustaining talent.

Going concern

The company’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development and
financial position are set out within the Strategic report. In addition, within the Directors’ report there are
details of the financial risks that the directors have highlighted as significant to the business.

As the company is part of a larger group it participates in the Group’s centralised treasury arrangement s and
so shares banking arrangements with its parents and fellow subsidiaries. The company is in a net current
asset position of £41,374,000. Amounts owed by group undertaking of £48,948,000 were settled in July 2024
and are currently swept into the group cash pooling arrangements.

Given the above assessment the directors are not aware of any material uncertainties related to events or
conditions that may cast significant doubt upon the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Thus,
they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.

Financial risk management

The applicable financial risk management policies and exposure to financial risks including price, credit,
liquidity and cash flows are discussed in detail within the annual report for Babcock International Group PLC,
which does not form part of this report.

Employment of disabled persons

Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the respective
aptitudes and abilities of the applicant concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every
effort is made to ensure that their employment with the company continues, and the appropriate training is
arranged. It is the policy of the company that the training, career development and promotion of a disabled
person should, as far as possible, be identical to that of a person who does not suffer from a disability.

Employee involvement

Consultation with employees or their representatives has continued at all levels, with the aim of ensuring that
their views are taken into account when decisions are made that are likely to affect their interests and that all
employees are aware of the financial and economic performance of their business units and of the company
as a whole. Communication with all employees continues through the in-house newspaper and newsletters,
briefing groups and the distribution of the annual report.

Registered number 02817838 ; Page 8

Babcock Training Limited

Directors’ report for the year ended 31 March 2024 (continued)

Employees
The company is committed to equal opportunities and will not discriminate on the basis of disability, age,
tace, colour, ethnic origin, gender, marital status, religious or political beliefs or sexual orientation.

We believe that only by encouraging applicants from the widest pool of talent possible, and then selecting
the best candidate based on their ability to do the job, can we ensure we continue to deliver our best for our
customers and safeguard the future of Babcock. For more information about our inclusion and diversity policy,
please see pages 12 to 17 and 81 to 84 of the annual report for Babcock International Group PLC, which
does not form part of this report.

Engagement with UK employees has been considered on page 6 of the Strategic Report.

Safety policy

The company recognises the promotion of health and safety at work as an important objective. It is company
policy to take steps to ensure, as far as reasonably practical, the health, safety and welfare of the employees
of the company.

Research and development
The company commits resources to research and development to the extent management considers
reasonable for the evolution and development of the business.

Energy and carbon reporting

The company has taken advantage of the exemption granted under The Companies (Directors’ Report) and
Limited Liability Partnerships (Energy and Carbon Report) Regulations 2018 as this information is disclosed
in the annual report for the year ended 31 March 2024 of its ultimate parent, Babcock International Group
PLC.

Engagement with suppliers and customers
Engagement with suppliers and customers has been considered in the Strategic report on page 6.

Environment

The company recognises its responsibility to minimise, so far as reasonably possible, the potential for
adverse impacts from its operations. It aims to achieve the highest standards in environmental management
and seek accreditation to appropriate standards where appropriate.

The company has developed and implemented an environmental policy to ensure that the impact of its
activities on the environment is limited to the minimum practicable level.

Qualifying third party indemnity provisions

Babcock International Group PLC provides protections for directors of companies within the Group against
personal financial exposure they may incur in their capacity as such. These include qualifying third-party
indemnity provisions (as defined by Companies Act 2006) for the benefit of members of Babcock International
Group PLC, including, where applicable, in their capacity as a director of the company and other companies
within the Group. These indemnities came into force in 2012 and remain in force.

Post balance sheet events
There have been no significant events affecting the company since the year end.

Statement of disclosure of information to auditors

Each director, as at the date of this report, has confirmed that in so far as they are aware there is no relevant
audit information of which the Company’s auditors are unaware, and they have taken all the steps that they
ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and
to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of this information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the s418 of the
Companies Act 2006.

Registered number 02817838 Page 9

Babcock Training Limited

Directors’ report for the year ended 31 March 2024 (continued)

Appointment of auditors

Deloitte LLP are not seeking reappointment as auditors of the Company. A resolution appointing Forvis
Mazars LLP as their replacement for Babcock International Group plc and its subsidiaries has been proposed
and approved by the Audit Committee and approved at the 2024 AGM.

This report was approved by the Board on 21 November 2024 and signed on its behalf by:
JRL,
\ —

J Parker
Director
21 November 2024

Registered number 02817838 Page 10

Babcock Training Limited

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities

The directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic report, the Directors’ report and the financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law
the directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including Financial
Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (FRS 101). Under company law, the directors
must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.

In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:

° Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

° Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

° State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

. Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to

presume that the company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They, are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information

included on the company's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Registered number 02817838 Page 11

Babcock Training Limited

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Babcock Training Limited

REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

OPINION

In our opinion the financial statements of Babcock Training Limited (the ‘company’):

e give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 March 2024 and of its profit for
the year then ended;

¢ have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 "Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements which comprise:
the income statement;

the statement of comprehensive income;

the statement of financial position;

the statement of changes in equity;

the related notes 1 to 23.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United
Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure
Framework” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

BASIS FOR OPINION

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor's
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report.

" We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our
audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’'s’) Ethical
Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.

CONCLUSIONS RELATING TO GOING CONCERN
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events
or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to
continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are
authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in
the relevant sections of this report.

Registered number 02817838 Page 12

Babcock Training Limited

Independent auditors’ report to the members of Babcock Training Limited
(continued)

OTHER INFORMATION

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial
statements and our auditor's report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information
contained within the annual report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other
information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibitity is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information
is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit,
or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent
material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in
the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a
material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for
such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concem and using the
going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from materia! misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of
these financial statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s
website at: www. fre.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Registered number 02817838 Page 13

Babcock Training Limited

Independent auditors’ report to the members of Babcock Training Limited
(continued)

EXTENT TO WHICH THE AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED CAPABLE OF DETECTING IRREGULARITIES,
INCLUDING FRAUD

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of
irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities,
including fraud is detailed below.

We considered the nature of the company’s industry and its control environment, and reviewed the
company’s documentation of their policies and procedures relating to fraud and compliance with laws and
regulations. We also enquired of management and the directors about their own identification and
assessment of the risks of irregularities.

We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the company operates in, and

identified the key laws and regulations that:

e had a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. These included the UK Companies Act and relevant pensions and tax legislation; and

e donot have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental
to the company’s ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty.

We discussed among the audit engagement team and relevant internal specialists, including tax, pensions
and IT specialists, regarding the opportunities and incentives that may exist within the organisation for
fraud and how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements.

As a result of performing the above, we identified the greatest potential for fraud or non-compliance with
Jaws and regulations in the following areas, and our specific procedures performed to address them are
described below:

Revenue and margin recognition on key long-term contracts with significant management judgment

o Obtaining an understanding of relevant manual and IT controls and project accounting processes
which management have established to ensure that contracts are appropriately forecast, managed,
challenged and accounted for;

o Making inquiries of contract project teams and other personnel to obtain an understanding of the
performance of the project throughout the year and at year-end;

o Analysing historical contract performance and understanding the reason for in-year movements or
changes;

o Testing the underlying calculations used in the contract assessments for accuracy and
completeness, including the estimated costs to complete the contract and associated contingencies.
We considered historical forecasting accuracy of costs, compared to similar programmes, and
challenged future cost expectations with reference to those data points;

o Examining external correspondence to assess the timeframe for delivery of the product or service
and any judgements made in respect of these;

o Examining external evidence to assess contract status and estimation of variable consideration
(including associated recoverability of contract balances), such as customer correspondence;

o  Enquiring with in-house regarding contract related litigation and claims; and

o Considering whether there were any indicators of management override of controls or bias in arriving
at their reported position.

In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also required to perform specific procedures to
respond to the risk of management override. In addressing the risk of fraud through management
override of controls, we tested the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments; assessed
whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and
evaluated the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal
course of business.

Registered number 02817838 Page 14

Babcock Training Limited

Independent auditors’ report to the members of Babcock Training Limited
(continued)

In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to the risks identified included the following:

* reviewing financial statement disclosures by testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance
with provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct effect on the financial
statements;

© performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate
risks of material misstatement due to fraud;

© — enquiring of management and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and
claims, and instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations; and

¢ reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance and reviewing internal audit reports.

REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS

OPINIONS ON OTHER MATTERS PRESCRIBED BY THE COMPANIES ACT 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

¢ the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

e the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course
of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’
report.

MATTERS ON WHICH WE ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT BY EXCEPTION

Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report in respect of the following matters if, in our
opinion:
e adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

USE OF OUR REPORT

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16
of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To
the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.

‘Signed by:

James (sterwood.

197 SOBCA07604EA...

James Isherwood ACA (Senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP

Statutory Auditor

Birmingham, United Kingdom

21 November 2024

Registered number 02817838 Page 15

Babcock Training Limited

Income Statement for the year ended 31 March 2024

Revenue
Cost of sales

Gross profit

Administrative expenses

Impairment of investments

Disposal of subsidiary

Operating loss -

Income from shares in group undertakings
Finance income

Finance expenses

Profit before taxation

Income tax expense

Profit for the financial year

The notes on pages 19 to 45 are an integral part of these financial statements.

All of the above results derive from continuing operations.

Note

for)

Statement of Comprehensive Income for year ended 31 March 2024

Profit for the financial year

Other comprehensive income/(loss):

Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to income

statement:

Gain on re-measurement of net defined benefit obligation

Tax on net defined benefit obligation

Total other comprehensive income
Total comprehensive income

Registered number 02817838

Note

17

2024 2023
£7000 £000
59,728 75,150
(56,025) (68,551)
_ 3,703 6,599
(1,438) (1,494)
(6,288) (3,239)
- (12,678)
(4,023) (10,812)
- 17,194
7,531 61
(531) (563)
2,977 5,877
(446) (292)
2,531 5,585
2024 2023
£7000 £'000
2,534 5,585
1,864 6,916
(465) (1,800)
1,396 5,116
3,927 40,701

Page 16

Babcock Training Limited

Statement of Financial Position as at 31 March 2024

Note 2024 2023
£000 £000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 10 15,260 15,463
Tangible assets 11 7,609 7,980
Right-of-use assets 12 7,722 6,813
Investments 13 2,999 9,287
Deferred tax asset 9 - 736
Trade and other receivables 14 4,953 3,937
Post-employment benefits 17 3,693 271
42,236 44,487
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 14 59,154 47,773
Contract assets 14 : 3,193 5,639
Cash and cash equivalents - 121
62,347 53,533
Current liabilities :
Trade and other payables 15 (10,979) (11,224)
Contract liabilities 15 (9,283) (9,989)
Lease liabilities 12 (695) (599)
Bank overdraft (16) -
Net current assets 41,374 31,721
Total assets less current liabilities ; 83,610 76,208
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liability 9 (175) -
Lease liabilities 12 (8,413) (6,511)
Provisions for liabilities 16 (3,616) (2,218)
Net assets 71,406 67,479
Equity
Called up share capital 20 17,051 17,051
Share premium account 37,499 37,499
Other reserves 2 2
Retained earnings 16,854 12,927
Total shareholders’ funds 71,406 67,479

The notes on pages 19 to 46 are an integral part of these financial statements.

The financial statements on pages 16 to 46 were approved by the Board of Directors on 21 November 2024
and signed on its behalf by:

Vee

J Parker
Director
21 November 2024

Registered number 02817838 Page 17

Babcock Training Limited

Statement of Changes in Equity as at the 31 March 2024

Balance at 31 March
2022

Profit for the financial
year

Total other
comprehensive income

Balance at 31 March
2023

Profit for the financial
year

Total other
comprehensive income

Balance at 31 March
2024

Called up Share Other Accumulate Total

share capital premium Reserves dlosses/ Share-

£000 account £'000 retained holders’

£000 earnings funds

£000 £000

17,051 37,499 2 2,226 56,778

- - - 5,585 5,585

- - : 5,116 5,116

17,051 37,499 2 12,927 67,479

- - - 2,531 2,531

- - - 1,396 1,396

17,051 37,499 2 16,854 71,406
Page 18

Registered number 02817838

Babcock Training Limited
Notes to the financial statements
1 General information

Babcock Training Limited is a private company limited by shares which is incorporated and domiciled in
England and Wales, UK. The address of the registered Office is 33 Wigmore Street, London W1U 10X.
Its ultimate controlling party is disclosed in note 23.

The principal activity of the company is set out in the Strategic report on page 3. These financial statements,
which have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, are presented in pounds sterling
and, unless stated otherwise, rounded to the nearest thousand.

2 Summary of material accounting policies

The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented.

Basis of preparation

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101,
‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (FRS 101). These financial statements are prepared on a going concern
basis, under the historical cost convention. The financial statements are prepared in sterling which is the
functional currency of the company and rounded to the nearest thousand.

The company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Babcock Education and Training Holdings LLP and is included
in the consolidated financial statements of Babcock International Group PLC which are publicly available.
Consequently, the company has taken advantage of the exemption from preparing consolidated financial
statements under the terms of section 400 of the Companies Act 2006.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical
accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the
company’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas
where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in note 3.

The company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under Financial Reporting Standard 100 (FRS 100)
issued by the Financial Reporting Council. Accordingly, these financial statements have been prepared in
accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (FRS 101). Where
relevant, equivalent disclosures have been given in the group accounts of Babcock International Group PLC.
In preparing these financial statements, the company applies the recognition and measurement requirements
of International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the UK, but makes amendments where
necessary in order to comply with the Companies Act 2006 and sets out below where advantage of the FRS
101 disclosure exemptions have been taken:

a) IFRS 7, ‘Financial instruments: Disclosures’

b) Paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13 ‘Fair value measurement’ (disclosure of valuation techniques and
inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities).

c) Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’ comparative information in respect of:

d) paragraph 79(a) (iv) of IAS 1 ‘Share capital and reserves’;

e) paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 ‘Property, plant and equipment’; and

f) paragraph 118(e) of IAS 38 ‘Intangible assets’ (reconciliations between the carrying amount at the
beginning and end of the period)

g) IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’

h) Paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38A, 38B, 38C, 38D, 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D, 111 and 134 to 136 of IAS
1 Presentation of Financial Statements.

i) Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8 ‘Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors’

j) Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, ‘Related party transactions’ in respect of key management compensation

k) The requirements of IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ to disclose related party transactions
entered into between two or more members of a group

!) Paragraphs 130(f)(ii), 130(A)(iii), 134(d) to 134(f) and 135(c) to 135(e) of IAS36, ‘impairment of
asset

m) The requirements of the second sentence of paragraph 110 and paragraphs 113(a), 114, 115, 118,
119(a) to (c), 120 to 127 and 129 of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.

Registered number 02817838 . Page 19

Babcock Training Limited
Notes to the financial statements

2 Summary of material accounting policies (continued)

Basis of preparation (continued)
The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods
presented in these financial statements.

The company intends to continue to prepare its financial statements in accordance with FRS 101.

Adoption of new and revised standards
The following standards and amendments to IFRS became effective for the annual reporting period beginning
on 1 April 2023 and did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements:

e {FRS 17, ‘Insurance Contracts’: IFRS 17 establishes the principles for the recognition,
measurement, presentation and disclosure of insurance contracts and supersedes IFRS 4.

« Amendments to IAS 1, ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’: The amendments change the
requirements in IAS 1 with regard to disclosure of accounting policies.

e Amendments to IAS 8, ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’: The
amendments replace the definition of a change in accounting estimates with a definition of
accounting estimates.

« Amendments to IAS 12, ‘Income Taxes’. The amendments introduce a further exception from the
initial recognition exemption.

The company has not early adopted any other amendment, standard or interpretation that has been issued
but is not yet effective. It is expected that these standards and amendments will be adopted on the applicable
effective date. The following new or amended IFRS accounting standards, amendments and interpretations
not yet adopted are not expected to have a significant impact on the company:

e Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28: Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its
Associate or Joint Venture

Amendments to IAS 1: Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current

Amendments to IAS 1: Non-current Liabilities with Covenants

Amendments to IAS 7 and IFRS 7: Supplier Finance Arrangements

Amendments to IFRS 16: Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback

All standards listed above will be adopted with effect from 1 April 2024 with the exception of the Amendments
to IFRS 10 and IAS 28 for which the mandatory effective date has not yet been set by the IASB

Going concern

The company’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development and
financial position are set out within the Strategic report. In addition, within the Directors’ report there are
details of the financial risks that the directors have highlighted as significant to the business.

As the company is part of a larger group it participates in the Group’s centralised treasury arrangements and
so shares banking arrangements with its parents and fellow subsidiaries. The company is in a net current
asset position of £41,374,000. Amounts owed by group undertakings of £48,948,000 were settled in July
2024 and are currently swept into the group cash pooling arrangements.

Given the assessment above, the directors are not aware of any material uncertainties related to events or

conditions that may cast significant doubt upon the company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Thus,
they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.

Registered number 02817838 Page 20

Babcock Training Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

2 Summary of material accounting policies (continued)

Revenue

Revenue recognised represents income derived from contracts with customers for the provision of goods
and services in the ordinary course of the company’s activities. The company recognises revenue in line with
IFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. IFRS 15 requires the identification of performance
obligations in contracts, determination of contract price, allocation of the contract price to the performance
obligations and recognition of revenue as performance obligations are satisfied.

{a) Performance obligations

Contracts are assessed to identify each promise to transfer either a distinct good or service or a series of
distinct goods or services that are substantially the same and have the same pattern of transfer to the
customer. Goods and services are distinct if the customer can benefit from them either on their own or
together with other resources readily available to the customer and they are separately identifiable in the
contract.

In assessing whether the performance obligations are separately identifiable, the services are reviewed to
determine the extent to which the goods or services within a contract are interrelated and whether they modify
other goods or services within a contract. The company also considers whether the goods and/or services
are integrated and represent a combined output for which the customer has contracted. The integrated output
nature of many of the services provided by the company results in some contracts only having one
performance obligation.

(b) Determination of contract price

The contract price represents the amount of consideration which the company expects to be entitled in
exchange for delivering the promised goods or services to the customer. Contracts can include both fixed
and variable consideration.

Inclusion of variable consideration in the contract price requires the exercise of judgement in relation to the
amount to be received through unpriced contract variations and claims (see section (e) below for further
details) and variable elements of existing contracts, such as performance-based penalties and incentives,
and gain/pain share arrangements where cost under/overspends are shared with the customer. Elements of
variable consideration are estimated at contract inception and at the end of each reporting period. Any
required adjustment is made against the contract price in the period in which the adjustment occurs.

Variable consideration is estimated using either the expected value or the most likely amount only to the
extent that it is highly probable that there will not be a reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue
recognised once the underlying uncertainty is resolved. This judgement is made by suitably qualified and
experienced personnel based on the contract terms, status of negotiations with customers and historical
experience with customers and with similar contracts. As part of this judgement, variable consideration may
be constrained until the uncertainty is resolved. In the case of unpriced variations, these will be constrained
to the extent that such variable consideration is not considered highly probable.

Variable consideration may be included in the total transaction price or, in certain circumstances, may be
allocated to a specific time period. Where variable consideration is allocated to a specific time period this will
typically be in relation to performance related deductions.

(c) Allocation of contract price to performance obligations

Given the bespoke nature of many of the goods and services the company provides, standalone selling
prices are generally not observable and, in these circumstances, the company allocates the contract price to
performance obligations based on cost plus margin. This amount would be the standalone selling price of
each performance obligation if contracted with a customer separately.

Registered number 02817838 Page 21

Babcock Training Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
2 Summary of material accounting policies (continued)

Revenue (continued)

(d) Revenue and profit recognition

Performance obligations are satisfied, and revenue recognised, as control of goods and services is
transferred to the customer. Control can be transferred at a point in time or over time and the company
determines, for each performance obligation, whether it is satisfied over time or at a point in time.

Revenue recognised over time
Performance obligations are satisfied over time if any of the following criteria are satisfied:
« the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits of the company’s performance
as it performs; or
e the company’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the company and
the company has an enforceable right to payment for work done; or
e the company’s performance creates or enhances an asset controlled by the customer.

Typical performance obligations in the company’s contracts that are recognised over time include the delivery
of services (such as maintenance, engineering and training), as the customer simultaneously receives and
consumes the benefits of the company’s performance as it performs the services. Revenue from the design,
manufacture and enhancement of bespoke assets is also recognised over time, as the company’s
performance does not create an asset with an alternative use to the company and the company has an
enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date, being recovery of costs incurred in satisfying
the performance obligation plus a reasonable profit margin.

Where the company satisfies performance obligations over time, the company primarily uses an input method
to measure satisfaction of each performance obligation based on costs incurred compared to total estimated
contract costs. For the majority of the company’s contracts, this is deemed to be the most appropriate method
to measure Babcock’s effort in satisfying the applicable performance obligations. Costs are included in the
measurement of progress towards satisfying the performance obligation to the extent that there is a direct
relationship between the input and satisfaction of the performance obligation. For contracts where costs
incurred is not deemed to be the most appropriate measure, the company uses time elapsed to measure
satisfaction of the performance obligation.

Under most of the company's contracts, the customer pays in accordance with a pre-arranged payment
schedule or once milestones have been met. If the amount of revenue recognised by the company (as
measured by the methods described above) exceed the amount of cash received from the customer then
the difference will be held on the statement of financial position. This will typically be comprised of a mixture
of contract assets and trade receivables. If the amount of cash collected together with amounts due under
the contract but uncollected exceeds the amount of revenue recognised then the difference is also held on
the statement of financial position as a contract liability. See section (h) for further details on how contract
assets and liabilities are recognised.

Revenue recognised at a point in time
If control of the goods or services is not transferred to the customer over time, then revenue is recognised at
the point in time that control is transferred to the customer.

Point in time recognition mainly applies to sale of goods. Control typically transfers to the customer when the
customer has legal title to the goods and this is usually coincident with delivery of the goods to the customer
and right to receive payment by the company.

Assessment of contract profitability

Profit is recognised to the extent that the final outcome on contracts can be reliably assessed. Contract
outturn assessments are carried out on a contract-by-contract basis, including consideration of technical and
other risks, by suitably qualified and experienced personnel and the assessments of all significant contracts
are subject to review and challenge.

Registered number 02817838 Page 22

Babcock Training Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
2 Summary of material accounting policies (continued)

Revenue (continued)

Assessment of contract profitability (continued)

Estimating contract revenues can involve judgements around whether the company will meet performance
targets and earn incentives, as well as consideration as to whether it is necessary to constrain variable
revenues to meet the highly probable not to significantly reverse test set out in paragraph 56 of IFRS 15.
When considering variations, claims and contingencies, the company analyses various factors including the
contractual terms, status of negotiations with the customer and historical experience with that customer and
with similar contracts. Estimates of costs include assessment of contract contingencies arising out of
technical, commercial, operational and other risks. The assessments of all significant contract outturns are
subject to review and challenge and estimation uncertainty is resolved on a contract-by-contract basis as
contracts near the end of the project lifecycle.

lf a contract is deemed to be loss making the present obligation is recognised and measured as provisions.
Further detail is included in the Provisions accounting policy.

(e) Contract modifications

Claims and variations

The company’s contracts are often amended for changes in the customers’ requirements. Contract
modifications can relate to changes in both contract scope and price arising in the ordinary course of
delivering contracts, which are referred to as contract variations. Such variations may arise as a result of
customer requests or instructions or from requests from the company in response to matters arising during
the delivery of contracts. For example, some contracts include the requirement to conduct surveys and to
report on or to recommend additional work as required. Some contracts may require the company to proceed
with variations and to agree pricing subsequently. See further detail on accounting for contract modifications
below.

Contract modifications can also refer to changes in price only, with no change in scope, where there is a
difference of view or dispute in relation to interpretation of contracts.

These contract claims and variations are considered to be modifications as referred to in paragraph 18 of
IFRS 15. :

Accounting for contract modifications
The company accounts for contract modifications in one of three ways, based on the facts and
circumstances of the contract modification:
a) Prospectively, as an additional, separate contract;
b) Prospectively, as a termination of the existing contract and creation of a new contract; or
c) As part of the original contract using a cumulative catch-up.

The company recognises contract variations, which impact both scope and price, when they are approved in
accordance with IFRS 15. The company’s preferred approach is to approve contract modifications by formal
contract amendment. However, the approval of contract modifications often requires to be carried out at pace
and other mechanisms, informed by established customer relationships and local working arrangements, can
be used to achieve approval of contract modifications. In approving contract modifications in these
circumstances, the company considers the scope of the contract modification in the context of the contract
scope and contract terms. Contract variations where the formal contract amendment has not been received
but which are, in management's judgement, approved are accounted for as a contract modification in
accordance with IFRS 15 paragraph 18. Revenue from these contract variations is treated as variable
consideration and subject to constraint as outlined in section (b) above, until the pricing is agreed.

Contract claims are also considered to be contract modifications in accordance with IFRS 15, and revenue
is subject to constraint as outlined in section (b).

Registered number 02817838 : Page 23

Babcock Training Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
2 Summary of material accounting policies (continued)

Revenue (continued)

Claims and variations which are not deemed to be contract modifications

Claims can also be raised by Babcock against third-party sub-contractors or suppliers to the company. As
these do not relate to contracts with customers, but rather relate to contracts with suppliers, they are not
accounted for under IFRS 15. The company’s accounting policy is to account for such claims in accordance
with the contingent asset guidance per IAS 37. Income in relation to these claims will only be recognised
once it is virtually certain.

(f) Costs of obtaining a contract

Directly attributable costs to obtain a contract with a customer that the company would not have incurred if
the contract had not been won are recognised as an asset and amortised on a straight-line basis. Costs to
obtain a contract that would have been incurred regardless of whether the contract was won or lost are
recognised as an expense when incurred.

(g) Costs to fulfil a contract
Costs to fulfil a contract which do not fall within the scope of another standard are recognised under IFRS 15
as an asset in capitalised contract costs where they meet all of the following criteria:
i. the costs relate directly to a contract or to an anticipated contract that can be specifically identified;
ii. the costs generate or enhance resources of the entity that will be used in satisfying (or in continuing
to satisfy) performance obligations in the future; and
iii. the costs are expected to be recovered.

Costs of recruiting or training staff are expensed as incurred.

(h) Contract assets and liabilities

Contract assets represent amounts for which the company has a conditional right to consideration in
exchange for goods or services that the company has transferred to the customer. Contract liabilities
represent the obligation to transfer goods or services to a customer for which consideration has been
received, or consideration is due, from the customer.

Payment terms are set out in the contract and reflect the timing and performance of service delivery. For
substantially all contracts the payment terms are broadly in line with satisfaction of performance obligations,
and therefore recognition of revenue, such that each contract has either a contract asset or contract liability,
however these are not overly material in the context of the contract.

Finance costs
Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred unless they are
attributable to an asset under construction, in which case finance costs are capitalised.

Finance income
Finance income is recognised in the period to which it relates using the effective interest rate method.

Employee benefits

a) Pension obligations

The company participates in a defined benefit scheme that shares risks between entities under common
control. The defined benefit scheme defines the amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on
retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.

The cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit actuarial valuation method.

The total service cost and associated administration costs of the pension scheme are charged to operating
profit. In addition, a retirement benefit interest charge on the net pension deficit is charged to the income
statement as a finance cost. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised directly in equity through the
statement of comprehensive income so that the company’s statement of financial position reflects the IAS 19
measurement of the schemes’ surpluses or deficits at the statement of financial position date.

Registered number 02817838 Page 24

Babcock Training Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

2 Summary of material accounting policies (continued)
Employee benefits (continued)

a) Pension obligations (continued)
The fair value of plan assets is measured in accordance with the FRS 101 fair value hierarchy using
appropriate valuation techniques.

The extent to which the company recognises its share of the income statement charge, the assets and
liabilities of the scheme, and the actuarial gain or loss is determined by the proportion of active members of
the scheme that it employs.

The scheme’s liability is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting date
less the fair value of the plan assets at the reporting date.

The company participates in a defined contribution scheme. Obligations for contributions to the defined
contribution pension plan are recognised as an expense in the income statement.

b) Holiday pay
Paid holidays are regarded as an employee benefit and as such are charged to the income statement as the
benefits are earned. .

Taxation

(a) Current income tax

Current tax, including UK corporation tax, is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using
the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at
the end of the reporting period in the countries where the company and its subsidiaries and associates
operate and generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with
respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation and considers whether it is
probable that a taxation authority will accept an uncertain tax treatment. The company measures its tax
balances either based on the most likely amount or the expected value, depending on which method provides
a better prediction of the resolution of the uncertainty.

Current tax assets and tax liabilities are offset where the entity has a legally enforceable right to offset and
intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

(b) Deferred income tax

Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between
the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial statements.
However, if the deferred income tax arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction, other
than a business combination, that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit
or loss, it is not accounted for. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been
enacted, or substantively enacted, by the reporting date and are expected to apply when the related deferred
income tax asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.

Deferred income tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be
available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are recognised where
deferred tax liabilities exist and are expected to reverse in the same period as the deferred tax asset or in
periods into which a loss arising from a deferred tax asset can be carried forward or back.

In the absence of sufficient deferred tax liabilities, deferred tax assets are recognised where it is probable
that there will be future taxable profits from other sources against which a loss arising from the deferred tax
asset can be offset. In assessing the availability of future profits, the company uses profit forecasts consistent
with those used for goodwill impairment testing. Profits forecast beyond the company’s five-year budget cycle
are risk-weighted to reflect commercial uncertainties.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax
assets and liabilities and where the deferred tax balances relate to the same taxation authority.

Registered number 02817838 Page 25

Babcock Training Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

2 Summary of material accounting policies (continued)
Taxation (continued)

(b) Deferred income tax (continued)
Tax is recognised in the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in
either other comprehensive income or in equity.

Intangible assets
Intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment. The intangible assets are
amortised on a straight line basis as follows:

a) Goodwill
Goodwill relating to acquisitions prior to transition date is maintained at its net book value on the date of
transition to FRS 101. Annual impairment reviews are performed as outlined in note 10.

The company does not amortise goodwill in accordance with the requirements of IFRS as applied under FRS
101. Instead, an annual impairment test is performed and any impairment that is identified is recognised in
the income statement. The non-amortisation of goodwill conflicts with paragraph 22 of Schedule 1 to ‘The
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (SI 2008/410),
which requires acquired goodwill to be written off over its useful economic life. As such, the non-amortisation
of goodwill is a departure, for the overriding purpose of giving a true and fair view, from the requirement of
paragraph 22 of Schedule 1 to the Regulations

b) Computer software .
Computer software includes software licences acquired plus the costs incurred in bringing the software into
use and is shown at cost less accumulated amortisation and is amortised over its expected useful lives of
between three and eight years.

Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment is shown at cost less subsequent depreciation and impairment, except for
land, which is shown at cost less impairment. Cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the
acquisition of the items. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write off the cost of property, plant
and equipment over the estimated useful lives to their estimated residual value (reassessed at each balance
sheet date) at the following annual rates:

Freehold land Not depreciated

Freehold buildings 2% to 8%

Assets under construction Not depreciated

Leasehold improvements Depreciation over duration of lease
Plant and equipment 6.6% to 33.3%

Property, plant and equipment is reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of the fixed asset may not be recoverable. An asset's carrying amount is
written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset's carrying amount exceeds the higher of an
asset's fair value less cost to sell or value in use.

Leases

(a) The company as lessee .

For all leases in which the company is a lessee (other than those meeting the criteria detailed below), the
company recognises a right of use asset and corresponding lease liability at commencement of the lease.
The lease liability is the present value of future lease payments discounted at the rate implicit in the lease, if
available, or the applicable incremental borrowing rate. The incremental borrowing rate is determined at lease
inception based on a number of factors including asset type, lease currency and lease term. Lease payments
include fixed payments and variable lease payments dependent on an index or rate, initially measured using
the index or rate at the commencement date. The lease term reflects any extension or termination options
that the company is reasonably certain to exercise.

Registered number 02817838 Page 26

Babcock Training Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
2 Summary of material accounting policies (continued)

Leases (continued)

(a) The company as lessee (continued)

The jease liability is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, with
interest on the lease liability being recognised as a finance expense in the income statement. The lease
liability is remeasured, with a corresponding adjustment to the right of use asset, if there is a change in future
lease payments, for example resulting from a rent review, change in a rate/index or change in the Company’s
assessment of whether it is reasonably certain to exercise an extension, termination or purchase option.

The right of use asset is initially recorded at cost, being equal to the lease liability, adjusted for any initial
direct costs, lease payments made prior to commencement date, lease incentives received and any
dilapidation costs. Depreciation of right of use assets is recognised as an expense in the income statement
on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the asset's useful life or expected term of the lease.

Right of use assets arising from sale and leaseback transactions are measured at the proportion of the
previous carrying amount of the asset that relates to the right of use retained by the company. Gains arising
on sale and leaseback transactions are recognised to the extent that they relate to the rights transferred to
the buyer-lessor whilst losses arising on sale and leaseback transactions are recognised in full.

Right of use assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying amount may not be recoverable, with the impairment expense being recognised in the income
statement. Where a lease is terminated early, any termination fees or gain or toss relating to the release of
right of use asset and lease obligation are recognised as a gain or loss through the income statement.

Payments in respect of short-term leases not exceeding 12 months in duration or low-value leases are
expensed straight line to the income statement as permitted by IFRS 16, ‘Leases’.

Investments
Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provision for impairment in value.

Impairment of non-current assets

Goodwill and indefinite life intangibles are reviewed for impairment at least annually. For all other non-
financial non-current assets (including acquired intangible assets, capitalised development costs, software
assets, property, plant and equipment and right of use assets) the company performs impairment testing
where indicators of impairment are identified. Impairment testing is performed at the individual asset level.
Where an asset does not generate cash flows that are separately identifiable from other assets, the company
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.

The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal, and value-in-use. When the
recoverable amount is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is recognised immediately in the
company income statement.

impairment of non-current assets (continued)

Where an impairment loss on other non-financial non-current assets subsequently reverses, the carrying
amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of the recoverable amount, but so that the increased
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined if no impairment
loss had been recognised in prior years. Goodwill impairments are not subsequently reversed.

Cash and cash equivalents

Company cash and cash equivalents consist of cash at bank and cash in hand, together with short-term
deposits with an original maturity of three months or less and money market funds.

Registered number 02817838 Page 27

Babcock Training Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
2 Summary of material accounting policies (continued)

Trade and other receivables

Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less provision for bad debts. A provision for bad debts is
established when there is objective evidence that the company will not be able to collect all amounts due
according to the original terms of the receivables.

The company writes off a trade receivable when there is objective evidence that the debtor is in significant
financial difficulty and there is no realistic prospect of recovery.

Trade and other receivables (including amounts due from group undertakings) are also stated at their cost
less expected credit losses. A provision for expected credit losses is established under IFRS 9 when there
is objective evidence that the company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original
terms of the receivables.

The Group measures the provision at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses, estimated by
reference to past experience and relevant forward-looking factors.

Forward-looking factors are applied to homogenous groups of receivables which share characteristics and
are based on an estimate of how corporate failure rates may change relative to historic levels given the
current economic environment.

Current intercompany trade receivables are expected to be settled in the company’s usual operating cycle of
412 months or less and relate to balances due in the normal course of business.

Amounts due from group undertakings in relation to intercompany loans are recorded on the statement of
financial position in line with settlement terms on underlying loan agreements. Inter- company loans
receivable at the balance sheet date that are settled within twelve months are recorded as current assets.

Trade and other payables
Trade and other payables are stated at actual cost, or estimated cost in respect of accruals.

Current intercompany trade payables are expected to be settled in the company’s usual operating cycle of
12 months or less and relate to balances due in the normal course of business.

Amounts due to group undertakings in relation to intercompany loans are recorded on the statement of
financial position in line with settlement terms on underlying loan agreements. inter-company loans payable
at the balance sheet date that are settled within twelve months are recorded as current liabilities.

Provisions

A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the Company has a present legal or
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be
required to settle the obligation and the amount can be reliably estimated. If the effect is material, provisions
are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at an appropriate discount rate.

A provision for restructuring is recognised when the Company has approved a detailed and formal
restructuring plan, and the restructuring has either commenced or has been publicly announced. Future
Operating costs are not provided for.

A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected benefits to be derived by the Company
from a contract are lower than the unavoidable cost of meeting its obligations under the contract. Onerous
contract provisions are recognised after impairment of any assets directly related to the onerous contract. A
provision for warranties is recognised on completed contracts and disposals when there is a realistic
expectation of the Group incurring further costs.

Provisions for onerous revenue contracts are recorded when it becomes probable that total remaining
contract fulfilment costs will exceed total remaining revenue not yet recognised. Provisions for losses on
contracts are recognised after impairment of any assets directly related to fulfilling the loss-making contract.
Losses are determined based on estimated results on completion of contracts and are updated regularly.

Registered number 02817838 Page 28

Babcock Training Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
2 Summary of material accounting policies (continued)

Provisions (continued)

A provision for the contractual maintenance, overhaul and repair requirements of right of use aircraft and
specific associated aircraft components arising from return condition obligations in aircraft lease contracts is
recognised as the obligation to perform contractual maintenance arises with each hour flown. Where lease
contracts contain contractual penalties in the event that the Company returns leased aircraft in a condition
that does not meet the contractual return condition obligation, the associated provision is measured at the
lower of the restoration cost and the detriment penalty in the lease. When maintenance of a leased aircraft
component is performed, if the component’s remaining flying hours are greater than the return condition
outlined in the lease contract then a leasehold improvement asset is recognised in proportion to the excess
flying hours above the contractual return condition. Maintenance provisions are not recognised in respect of
aircraft components which are maintained under Power-by-the-hour maintenance arrangements, instead the
associated payments to the maintenance provider are expensed as incurred. Any additional payments made
to or received from maintenance providers at the conclusion of Power-by-the-hour maintenance
arrangements are recognised as an expense or as income at the time at which they are incurred or received.

Contingent liabilities

A contingent liability is a possible obligation arising from past events whose existence will be confirmed only
on the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future events outside the Company’s control, or a present
obligation that is not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will occur or
the value of such outflow cannot be measured reliably. A provision is recognised for any amounts that the
Directors consider may become payable. See note 18 for details of contingent liabilities.

Financial-instruments
a) Financial assets and liabilities at amortised cost

Cash and cash equivalents, trade receivables, amounts due from related parties and other debtors are
classified as financial assets held at amortised cost as they are held within a business model to collect
contractual cash flows and these cash flows consist solely of payments of principal and interest on the
principal amount outstanding. Trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables include a provision
for expected credit losses. The company measures the provision at an amount equal to lifetime expected
credit losses, estimated by reference to past experience and relevant forward-looking factors. For all other
financial assets carried at amortised cost, including loans to joint ventures and associates and other debtors,
the company measures the provision at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses.

Trade and other payables, amounts due to related parties, other creditors, accruals and bank loans and
overdrafts are classified as financial liabilities held at amortised cost.

b) Derivative financial instruments
Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative is entered into and are subsequently
remeasured at fair value. The company designates certain of the derivative instruments within its portfolio to
be hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities or unrecognised firm commitments.

Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in
the income statement, together with changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are
attributable to the hedged risk.

For derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges, fair value gains or losses are deferred in equity until the
underlying transaction is recognised.

Registered number 02817838 Page 29

Babcock Training Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

2 Summary of material accounting policies (continued)

Fair value measurement

The fair value of an asset or liability is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a
liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the year-end date. Fair value measurements
are used on a recurring basis except where used in the acquisition of assets and liabilities through a business
combination.

The fair values of derivative financial instruments are determined by the use of valuation techniques based
on assumptions that are supported by observable market prices or rates. The fair values of non-financial
assets and liabilities are based on observable market prices or rates.

The carrying values of financial assets and liabilities which are not held at fair value in the company balance
sheet are assumed to approximate to fair value due to their short-term nature, with the exception of fixed rate
bonds.

There have been no changes to the valuation techniques used during the year.

Dividends
Dividends are recognised as a liability in the company’s financial statements in the period in which they are
approved. Interim dividends are recognised when paid.

Foreign currencies

a) Functional and presentation currency .
Items included in the financial statements of the company are measured using the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the entity operates (the functional currency). The financial statements are
presented in Sterling, which is the Company's functional and presentation currency.

b) Transactions and balances
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency of the company using the exchange
rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are translated into the functional currency at the year-end exchange rates. Foreign exchange
gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation at exchange
rates ruling at the reporting date of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
recognised in the income statement.

3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements

In the course of preparation of the financial statements judgements and estimates have been made in
applying the company’s accounting policies that have had a material effect on the amounts recognised in the
financial statements. The application of the company’s accounting policies requires the use of estimates and
the inherent uncertainty in certain forward-looking estimates may result in a material adjustment to the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the next financial year. Critical accounting estimates are subject
to continuing evaluation and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of
future events that are believed to be reasonable in light of known circumstances. Critical accounting
estimates and judgements in relation to these financial statements are considered below.

Critical accounting judgements
There are no critical accounting judgements.

Registered number 02817838 Page 30

Babcock Training Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

3 Critical accounting estimates and judgements (continued)

Key sources of estimation uncertainty

The key sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting period end that may result in significant risk of
material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are set out
below:

Revenue and profit recognition

The company’s revenue recognition policies require management to make an estimate of the cost to
complete for long-term contracts. Management estimates outturn costs on a contract-by-contract basis and
estimates are carried out by suitably qualified and experienced personnel. Estimates of cost to complete
include assessment of contract contingencies arising out of technical, commercial, operational and other
risks. The assessments of all significant contract outturns are subject to review and challenge, and
judgements and estimates are reviewed regularly throughout the contract life based on latest available
information and adjustments are made where necessary. As contracts near completion, often less judgement
is required to determine the expected outturn.

Defined benefit pension schemes obligations

The company's defined benefit pension schemes are assessed annually in accordance with IAS 19 and the
valuation of the defined benefit pension obligations is sensitive to the inflation and discount rate actuarial
assumptions used. There is a range of possible values for the assumptions and small changes to the
assumptions may have a significant impact on the valuation of the defined benefit pension obligations. In
addition to the inflation and discount rate estimates, management is required to make an accounting
judgement relating to the expected availability of future accounting surpluses under IFRIC 14. Further
information on the key assumptions and sensitivities is included in note 17.

Valuation of loan notes

Management is required to make an estimate of cashflow in order to fair value the loan notes on initial
recognition following the disposal of Babcock Skills Development and Training Limited to Inspirit Tulip Bidco
Limited. This valuation has been determined by considering the future cash flow of the disposed entity and
adjusting for potential risk.

4 Revenue

Revenue is wholly attributable to the principal activities of the company and arises as follows:

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
By area of activity:
Provision of services — transferred over time 59,728 75,150
All the revenue in the year ended 31 March 2024 originated in the United Kingdom.
§ Operating loss
Operating loss is stated after charging/ (crediting): eon cone
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 11) 561 584
Right-of-use assets depreciation (note 12) 1,119 920
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 10) 203 419
Loss allowance in trade receivables (16) 21
Reduction in carrying value of investments (note 13) 6,288 3,239
Loss on disposal of investment (note 13) - 12,678

Registered number 02817838 Page 31

Babcock Training Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

5 Operating (loss)/profit (continued)

The auditors’ remuneration for the current (£203,000) and prior year (£203,000) has been borne by a fellow
group company. Fees paid to the company’s auditors, Deloitte LLP and its associates are disclosed on a

consolidated basis in the financial statements of the ultimate parent undertaking, Babcock International
Group PLC.

6 Finance income and costs
2024 2023
£000 £'000
Finance income:
Loan interest receivable from group undertakings (note 14) 3,375 61
Movement in fair value of loan note 4,101 -
Exchange rate gain 5 -
Other finance income — pension (note 17) 50 -
7531S
Finance expenses:
Bank interest . (5)
Loan interest payable from group undertakings - (13)
Lease interest (531) (350)
Exchange rate loss - (3)
Other finance costs — pension (note 17) - (192)
(531) (563)
7 Staff costs

The average monthly number of employees (including directors) employed by the company during the year
was as follows:

2024 2023
Number Number

By activity:
Operations . 555 747
Management and administration 59 160
614 907

Their aggregate remuneration comprised:

2024 2023
£'000 £°000
Wages and salaries 20,455 29,761
Social security costs : 2,231 3,354
Other pension costs (note 17) 2,408 3,086
. 25,094 36,201

Included in other pension costs are £299,000 (2023: £403,000) in respect of the defined benefit schemes
and £2,108,928 (2023: £2,683,371) in respect of the defined contribution scheme.

The employment costs above include those of employees providing management services to other group

companies, as well as staff seconded to other group companies. These are recharged to those business
entities.

Registered number 02817838 . Page 32

Babcock Training Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

8 Directors’ emoluments

During this year and the prior year-none of the directors received any remuneration in respect of services to

this company, as their services were considered incidental to their other services in the Group.

During this year and the prior year all of the directors of the company were remunerated by other Babcock
Group companies. It is not possible to make an accurate apportionment of these directors’ emoluments
relating to services provided to the company and as such no disclosure of emoluments received by these

directors has been made in these financial statements.

No recharge is made for costs borne by the company in relation to services performed by the directors in

relation to other Babcock Group companies.
9 Tax

Income tax expense

Analysis of tax expense in the year
Deferred tax:

Origination and reversal of timing differences
Impact of change in UK tax rate

Total deferred tax expense
Tax expense included in other comprehensive income

Deferred tax:

Tax impact of actuarial gains on post-employment benefits
Impact of change in UK tax rate .
Tax expense included in other comprehensive income

The tax for the year is lower (2023: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. The

differences are explained below:

Profit before income tax

Loss before income tax multiplied by standard UK corporation tax rate

of 25% (2023: 19%)

Effects of:

Group Relief surrendered for nil consideration
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
Adjustments in respect of deferred tax for prior years
Impact of change in UK tax rate

Total tax for the year

Registered number 02817838

2024 2023

£000 £°000

446 276

- 16

446 292

2024 2023

£000 £000

465 4,314

. 486

465 1,800

2024 2023

£7000 £°000

2,977 5,877

744 1,117

(1,993) (2,243)

1,695 1,402

: 16

446 292
Page 33

Babcock Training Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

9 Tax (continued)

Deferred tax

The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during the year are shown below

Deferred tax (assets)/liability

At 1 April 2023:

Credited/(charged) to the income

statement

Credited to other comprehensive

income
At 31 March 2024:

At 1 April 2022

Credited/(charged) to the income

statement

Credited to other comprehensive

income
At 31 March 2023:

10 Intangible assets

Cost
At 1 April 2023
At 31 March 2024

Accumulated amortisation
At 1 April 2023
Amortisation

At 31 March 2024

Net book value

At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

Accelerated Retirement Other Total

capital Benefit £000 £'000
allowances Obligations
£000 £000

(466) 68 (338) (736)

106 390 (50) 446

- 465 . 465

(360) 923 (408) 175

(551) (1,958) (319) (2,828)

85 226 (19) 292

- 19800 . 1,800

(466) 68 (338) (736)

Software Goodwill Total

£7000 £000 £'000

1,589 14,316 15,905

1,589 14,316 15,905

(442) - (442)

(203) : (203)

(645) - (645)

944 14,316 15,260

1,147 14,316 15,463

Intangible assets amortisation relating to software is recorded in cost of sales in the income statement. The
amortisation period is between three and eight years.

Registered number 02817838

Page 34

Babcock Training Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

10 Intangible assets (continued)

The company does not amortise goodwill in accordance with the requirements of IFRS as applied under FRS
101. Instead, an annual impairment test is performed and any impairment that is identified is recognised in
the income statement. The non-amortisation of goodwill conflicts with paragraph 22 of Schedule 1 to ‘The
Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008 (SI 2008/410),
which requires acquired goodwill to be written off over its useful economic life. As such, the non-amortisation
of goodwill is a departure, for the overriding purpose of giving a true and fair view, from the requirement of
paragraph 22 of Schedule 1 to the Regulations.

Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually based on the latest forecast produced as part of our annual
planning process. We assess the appropriate growth rates and discount factor to apply at a Sector level.

1 ‘Property, plant and equipment

Freehold Motor Fixtures, Leasehold Total
land & Vehicles, Fittings and Improvemen
buildings Plant and Equipment ts
machinery
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 April 2023 13,785 80 1,082 271 15,218
Additions - - 190 - 190
Disposals > - (4) - (4)
At 31 March 2024 13,785 80 1,268 271 15,404
Accumulated
Depreciation
At 1 April 2023 (6,132) (50) (790) (266) (7,238)
Charge for the year (492) (7) (62) - (561)
Disposals - - 4 - 4
At 31 March 2024 (6,624) (57) (848) (266) (7,795)
Net book value
At 31 March 2024 7,161 23 420 5 7,609
At 31 March 2023 7,653 30 292 5 7,980

Contractual commitments for property, plant and equipment at year end is Enil (2023: Enil).

The principal assets relate to the London Fire Brigade Training facility at Park Royal which are depreciated

over the life of the contract.

Registered number 02817838

Page 35

Babcock Training Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

12 Leases

Right-of-use assets

The Company leases buildings and vehicles under non-cancellable lease arrangements.

Cost

At 1 April 2023
Additions
Terminations

At 31 March 2024

Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2023

Charge for the year
Terminations

At 31 March 2024

Net book value

At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

Cost and accumulated depreciation at 31 March 2023 have been adjusted by £102,000.

Lease liabilities

Set out below are the carrying amounts of lease liabilities and the movements during the period:

Opening value of liability
Additions

Disposals

Interest charged
Payments

Closing value of liability

Plant and

Property equipment Total
£000 £000 £000
11,746 1,024 12,770
4,983 78 2,061
: 992 992
13,729 110 13,839
(5,103) (854) (5,957)
(983) (136) (1,119)
- 959 959
(6,086) (31) (6,117)
7,643 79 7,722
6,643 170 6,813
2024 2023
£000 £7000
7,110 7,904
1,568 66
(36) (67)
531 350
(65) (1,143)
9,108 7,110

The entity leases various premises under non-cancellable lease agreements. The leases have various
terms, escalation clauses and renewal rights. The entity also leases plant and machinery under non-
cancellable leases. Discounted future minimum lease payments are as follows:

Within one year

In more than one year, but not more than five years

After five years
Carrying value of liability

Registered number 02817838

2024
£000

695
2,730
5,683
9,108

2023
£000

599
2,129
4,382
7,110

Page 36

Babcock Training Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

12 Leases (continued)

The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Expense relating to short-term leases 103 ' 92
Expense relating to leases of low-value assets 10 14
113 106
13 Investments
Shares in
group
undertaking
£'000
Cost

At 1 April 2023 19,566
At 31 March 2024 19,566

Accumulated impairment
At 1 April 2023 . 10,279
Charge for the year 6,288
At 31 March 2024 . 16,567
Carrying amount at 31 March 2024 2,999
Carrying amount at 31 March 2023 9,287

The impairment charged to the income statement (£6,288,000) relates to a reduction in the carrying value of
National Training Institute LLC. Details of the investments are outlined in note 21.

Key assumptions

The key assumptions to which the recoverable amount of the company’s investment in subsidiary
undertakings is most sensitive are future cash flows, long-term growth rates and discount rates. Further
details on how these inputs are determined are set out in note 10 of the Group financial statements for the
year ending 31 March 2024.

The discount rates used to determine the recoverable amount of the company’s investment in subsidiary
undertakings are 12.2% (2023: 13.1%). The long-term growth rates used to determine the recoverable
amount of the company’s investment in subsidiary undertakings are 2.2% (2023: 2.1%).

Sensitivity .
The directors carried out sensitivity analysis on the reasonably possible changes in key assumptions used
to determine the recoverable value of the company’s investment in subsidiary undertakings.

The company’s calculation of recoverable value presents an impairment charge of £6,288,000 in the year
ending 31 March 2024. Further detail around the impairment reversal is included in note 21. Accordingly,
reasonably possible changes in estimates could give rise to a material impairment in the following year. The
company carried out sensitivity analysis on the reasonably possible changes in the discount rate and long-
term growth rate used in the value-in-use models for the company's investment in subsidiary undertakings.

“Registered number 02817838 Page 37

Babcock Training Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

13 Investments (continued)

An increase to the pre-tax discount rate of 100 basis points would cause an increase to the impairment of
£0.2m. An increase to the long-term growth rate of 50 basis points would cause an increase to the impairment
of £0.1m.

The directors consider that key cash flow assumptions in the calculation of the recoverable value of the
company’s investment in subsidiary undertakings include short-term cash flows. If the year-on-year growth
is decreased by 15%, the value in use for the company's investment in subsidiary undertakings increases by
£0.1m.

14 Trade and other receivables
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade receivables 534 6,204
Amounts owed by group undertakings 49,107 35,092
Other receivables 1,141 270
Accrued income 7,741 5,463
Prepayments 101 214
Capitalised contract costs 530 530
59,154 47,773
Contract asset 3,193 5,639
62,347 53,412
Amounts falling due after one year:
Loan note : 3,011 1,464
Capitalised contract costs 1,942 2,473

4,953 3,937

Amounts due from Group undertakings are all due from fellow subsidiary companies of the ultimate parent,
Babcock International Group Plc and comprise the following:

Two loans totalling £48,948,000 (2023: £34,624,000) are repayable on demand, and are interest bearing.
Debtors totalling £159,000 (2023: £468,000) are repayable on demand, with no interest charge.

The loan notes have arisen following the disposal Babcock Skills Development and Training Limited to Inspirit
Tulip Bidco Limited the principal amount of loan notes are £12,829,000. The notes are repayable over a
period of 5 years to the extent the disposed business has cash in excess of £2,000,000. The notes are
interest bearing with an initial rate of 3.25% above the Bank of England base rate. The interest rate increases
by 1% each year up to a maximum of 7.25% in the fifth year. Upon initial recognition the loan notes were fair
valued at £1,464,000 and following a receipt of £2,554,381 in FY24 and consideration of the future cash
flows the loan notes have been fair valued at £3,011,000 at March 2024.

Other receivables have increased in the current year due to the rent-free period on one of the leased
properties.

Registered number 02817838 Page 38

Babcock Training Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

14 Trade and other receivables (continued)

Contract
Significant changes in contract assets during the year are as follows: asset
£°000
At 1 April 2023 5,639

Transfers from contract assets recognised at the beginning of the year to trade
receivables (5,639)
Increase due to work done not transferred from contract assets 3,193
At 31 March 2024 3,193

15 Trade and other payables
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Amounts falling due within one year:

Trade creditors 304 13
Amounts owed to group undertakings 292 1,622
Other taxation and social security 1,560 1,902
Other payables 73 77
Accruals 8,750 7,710
10,979 11,224
Contract liabilities 9,283 9,989

Amounts owed to parent and group undertakings are unsecured, interest free, and repayable on demand.
Amounts due to Group undertakings are all due to fellow subsidiary companies of the ultimate parent,

Babcock International Group Plc and comprise the following:

Two loans totalling £20,000 (2023: £20,000 one loan) are repayable on demand, with no interest charge.

Creditors totalling £272,000 (2023: £1,502,000).

The company has access to the Babcock International Group PLC overdraft facility. The company along with
fellow group undertakings has provided cross-guarantees in relation to this facility stated in note 18.

Contract

liabilities

£000

At 1 April 2023 9,989
Revenue recognised that was included in contract liabilities at the beginning of the year (8,114)
Increase due to cash advanced, excluding amounts recognised as revenue 7,408
At 31 March 2024 9,283

Registered number 02817838 Page 39

Babcock Training Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

16 Provisions for liabilities
Employee
Contract Dilapidation related Total
provisions — s provisions provisions
£000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 April 2023 679 522 1,451 2,652
Charged to the income statement 135 61 - 196
Utilised : 61 569 630
At 31 March 2023. 814 522 882 2,218
Charged to the income statement 1,213 122 484 1,819
Utilised : - (421) (421)
At 31 March 2024 2,027 644 945 3,616
Contract provisions

A contract provision has been recognised to provide against expected future losses on two long term
contracts. It has been determined based on the assessment of future costs compared to expected revenue
having made reference to past experience. The provisions are expected to be utilised over the next 7 financial
years.

Dilapidation provisions
Dilapidation provisions relate to the cost of dilapidations to leasehold properties. These provisions are
expected to be utilised in the next 15 years.

Employee related provisions

The balance relates principally to certain employee related exposures. The amount has been determined
based on the future anticipated costs which have been discounted to reflect the time value of money. The
balance is expected to be utilised over the next 20 years.

17 Post-employment benefits
The company accounts for pension costs in accordance with IAS 19.

Defined Contribution Schemes
The company contributes into the Babcock International Group Pension Scheme. The total cost of pension
contributions for employees of the company during the year was £2,109,000 (2023: £2,683,000).

Defined Benefit Schemes :
The company also participates in a number of defined benefit pension schemes for the benefit of its
employees. The full details of these schemes are disclosed below.

For all the defined benefit schemes outlined below, the IAS 19 valuation has been updated at 31 March 2024
by an independent qualified actuary using revised assumptions that are consistent with the requirements of
IAS 19.

Guidance Pension Scheme (GPS)

The “Guidance Pension Scheme” (GPS) was closed during 2011 for future accrual for all members. However,
it was re-opened for the month of February 2013 to enable the transfer in of one Babcock Training Limited
employee for one month to enact the apportionment of GPS into the company. The latest triennial review
was 5 April 2023. The company expects to contribute approximately £900,000 (2023: £900,000) in the next
financial year.

Registered number 02817838 Page 40

Babcock Training Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
17 Post-employment benefits (continued)

Citrus Pension Scheme (CPS)

The company participates in the superannuation agreements of the Citrus Pension Plan, which is a
centralised defined benefit scheme for certain employees, with assets held in separate trustee-administered
funds. The latest triennial review was 31 March 2021. The company expects to contribute approximately
£797,000 (2023: £797,000) in the next financial year.

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS)

The company also participates in the Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS), a centralised defined
benefits scheme with the assets held in separate trustee-administered funds. The company expects to
contribute approximately £114,000 (2023: £85,000) in the next financial year.

London Fire Brigade

A number of employees working on the London Fire Brigade contract continue to be members of the LGPS.
Under the terms and conditions of the original transfer, the associated pension fund assets and liabilities are
separately identifiable and segregated for funding purposes. The last formal valuation was carried out at 31
March 2022.

London Fire Brigade (continued)

In December 2018, the Court of Appeal handed down a judgement regarding two employment tribunal cases
(McCloud and Sargeant), which were brought against the Government in relation to possible discrimination
in the implementation of transitional protection following the introduction of the reformed 2015 public service
pension schemes from 1 April 2015. The judgement concluded that the transitional protection offered to some
members as part of scheme reforms amounted to unlawful discrimination. On 27 June 2019, the Supreme
Court denied the Government's request to appeal the judgement.

As a result, all the public sector pension schemes will need to amend benefits for those affected, including
the LGPS.

From 1 October 2023, the LGPS rules changed to remove the discrimination. Following the new legislation
pension funds must review all the pensions it is paying to work out which ones will increase. By 31 August
2028, all annua! benefit statements issued will include information about underpin protection for all qualifying
members.

The last formal valuation as at 31 March 2022 made an allowance for the impact of McCloud. As allowance

is made within future triennial funding valuations for McCloud, allowance will also be made within future
financial statements.

Registered number 02817838 Page 41

Babcock Training Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

17 Post-employment benefits (continued)
2024 2024 2024 2023 2023 2023
GPS CPS LGPS GPS CPS LGPS
Major assumptions
Rate of increase in pensionable salaries N/A N/A 2.90% N/A N/A 3.00%
Rate of increase in pensions 3.09% 2.72% 2.72% 3.27% 2.82% 2.82%
Discount rate 4.90% 480% 490% 4.80% 4.80% 4.80%
Inflation rate (RPI) 3.10% 3.2% 3.10% 3.30% 3.30% 3.20%
Inflation rate (CPI) 2.30% 2.7% 2.7% 2.50% 2.80% 2.80%
Weighted average duration of cash flows (years) 15 13 16 15 14 ; 18
Total life expectancy for current pensioners aged
65 (years) - male 21.6 20.5 20.8 21.7 20.6 20.9
Total life expectancy for current pensioners aged
65 (years) - female 24.1 23.9 22.4 22.6 24.0 22.5
Total life expectancy for future pensioners currently
aged 45 (years) - male 22.5 21.6 21.0 22.6 21.7 21.4
Total life expectancy for future pensioners currently
aged 45 (years) - female 25.2 24.9 24.6 25.4 25.1 24.8
The company’s cash contribution rates payable to the schemes are expected to be as follows:
GPS CPS LGPS
Future service contribution rate N/A N/A 19.2%
Future service cash contributions NIA N/A 125
Deficit contributions . 900 692 -
Expense contributions - 105 -
Additional longevity swap payments N/A N/A -
Expected employer cash costs for 2024/25 900 797 125
Expected salary sacrifice contributions NIA N/A Se
Expected total employer contributions 900 797 125

The changes to the company balance sheet at March 2024 and income statement for the year to March

2025, if the assumptions were sensitised by the amounts below, would be:

2024 = 2024 2024 2025 2025 2025
£'m GPS CPS _LGPS GPS CPS LGPS
Defined Benefit Income Statement
Initial assumptions 17.3 24.0 9.5 0.04 (0.04) 0.00
Discount rate assumptions increased by 0.5% 16.1 22.6 8.8 (0.02) (0.13) (0.07)
Discount rate assumptions decreased by 0.5% 18.4 25.6 10.2 0.09 0.04 0.06
Inflation rate assumptions increased by 0.5% 18.5 25.4 10.3 0.05 (0.02) 0.01
Inflation rate assumptions decreased by 0.5% 16.2 22.8 8.8 0.03 (0.06) (0.01)
Total life expectancy increased by half a year 17.5 24.4 9.6 0.10 0.03 0.06
Total life expectancy decreased by half a year 17.0 23.7 9.4 (0.01) (0.10) (0.05)
Salary increase assumptions increased by 0.5% N/A N/A 9.6 N/A NIA 00.1
Salary increase assumptions decreased by 0.5% N/A N/A 9.3 N/A N/A (0.01)

Registered number 02817838

Page 42

Babcock Training Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)
17 Post-employment benefits (continued)

The fair value of the assets, the present value of the liabilities and the expected rates of return of the
scheme at the balance sheet date of 31 March 2024 were:

Fair value of plan of assets
2024 2024 2024 2023 2023 2023

£°000 GPS CPS LGPS GPS CPS LGPS
Growth assets - - - - - -
Equities 5,142 3,943 7,188 4,978 2,373 6,309
Property funds - 1,943, 2,573 - 3,176 2,450
High yield bonds/emerging market debt 369 - - 444 - -
Absolute return and multi-strategy funds 6,690 4,827 - 7,525 4,925 -
Low-risk assets : - - - - - -
Bonds 9,348 12,725 2,186 751 12,961 2,85
Matching assets* (5,512) 2,939 133 2,222 1,979 244
Longevity swaps : - - - - -
Fair value of assets 16,037 26,377 12,080 15,592 25,414. 11,088
Percentage of assets quoted 71% 71% 71% 70% 70% 80%
Percentage of assets unquoted 29% 29% 29% 30% 30% 20%
Present value of defined benefit obligations:

Active members - - 3,747 - : 2,512
Deferred pensioners 9,372 12,495 2,692 12,665 12,315 2,939
Pensioners 7,897 11,544 3,054 5,541 12,150 4,029
Total defined benefit obligations 17,269 24,039 9,493 18,206 24,465 9,480
Net (liabilities)/assets recognised in the statement (1,232) 2,338 2,587 (2,286) 949 1,608

of financial position

The longevity swaps have been valued in line with assumptions that are consistent with the requirements of
IFRS 13 using Level 3 inputs. The key inputs to the valuation are the discount rate and mortality assumptions.

The amounts recognised in the company income statement are as follows:

2024 2024 2024 2024 2023 2023 2023 2023

£'000 GPS CPS LGPS Total GPS CPS LGPS Total
Current service cost - - 156 156 - - 200 200
Incurred expenses - 143 - 143 - 181 - 181
Past service cost - ‘ - - - - - -
Curtailment : : : - - - : -
pont included within operating . 143 156 299 . 181 200 381
Net interest cost/(credit) 89 (62) (77) (50) 145 100 61 306
Total included within income

statement 89 81 79 249 145 281 261 687

Registered number 02817838 , Page 43

Babcock Training Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

17 Post-employment benefits (continued)

Amounts recorded in the company statement of comprehensive income.

2024 2024 2024 2024 2023 2023 2023 2023
£'000 GPS CPS LGPS Total GPS CPS LGPS Total
Actual return less interest on
pension scheme assets 869 (391) (620) (142) 1,060 1,378 4,199 3,637
Experience gains/(losses)
arising on scheme liabilities (827) (377) ~—s (360) (1,564) 1,343 582 260 = -2,185
changes in asslimptions on (285) 94 36 (155) 1,347 1,960 1,027 4,334

(243) (674) (944) = (1,861) 3,750 3,920 2,486 10,156
Analysis of movement in the Group statement of financial position:

2024 2024 2024 2023 2023 2023
£'000 GPS CPS LGPS GPS CPS LGPS
Fair value of plan assets
At 1 Aprit 15,920 25,414 11,088 22425 31,593 10,981
Interest on assets 769 1,204 529 610 848 295
Actuarial gain on assets* (869) 391 620 (7,463) (6,575) (161)
Employer contributions 900 797 114 900 797 85
Employee contributions - - 43 - - 54
Benefits paid (683) (1,429) (314) (552) (1,249) (166)
Settlements - : - - - -
At31 March 16,037 26,377 12,080 15,920 25414 11,088

2024 2024 2024 2023 2023 2023
£'000 GPS CPS LGPS GPS CPS  LGPS
Present value of benefit obligations :

At 1 Aprit 18,206 24,465 9,480 24597 35,178 13,055
Service cost - - 156 : - 317
Incurred expenses - 143 - - 86 -
Interest cost 858 1,143 452 657 935 354
Employee contributions - - 43 - - 54
Experience (gain)/loss (285) 94 36 1,272 951 573
Actuarial loss/(gain) — demographics (733) (307) (328) (223) (251) (44)
Actuarial (gain)/loss — financial (94) (70) (32) (7,545) (11,185) (4,663)
Benefits paid (683) (1,429) (314) (552) (1,249) (166)
Past service costs - - - - - -
Curtailment - - - - - -
At 31 March 17,269 24,039 9,493 18,206 24,465 9,480
Net surplus/(deficit) at 31 March (1,232) 2,338 2,587 (2,286) 949 1,608
Registered number 02817838 Page 44

Babcock Training Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

18 Contingent liabilities

At the year-end date the company had guaranteed or had joint and several liability for drawn Babcock
International Group PLC bank facilities of £8.3m (2023: £21.0m) provided to certain Group companies. In
addition, the company had joint and several liabilities for the drawn bank overdraft facilities of other Group
companies of £nil (2023: Enil).

No securities have been provided by the company in relation to these contingent liabilities. There is no current
expectation that these contingent liabilities will crystalise. :

The company is a member of a wider Babcock VAT group, and as a result is jointly and severally liable with
the other members for the VAT liability of the Group. At 31 March 2024 the accrued VAT liability of the Group
was £960,572 (2023: £1,321,000).

19 Related party disclosures

The company has taken advantage of the exemptions within FRS 101 not to disclose transactions and
balances with Babcock International Group PLC and its wholly owned subsidiaries, on the grounds that the
company itself is a wholly owned subsidiary of Babcock International Group PLC, for which the consolidated
financial statements are publicly available.

20 Called up Share capital

2024 2023
£000 £000
Allotted and fully paid
17,051,110 ordinary shares of £1 each (2023: 17,051,110) 17,051 17,051
21 Subsidiary, and associate and joint venture undertakings
All related undertakings for the company are as listed below:
Company Name Country Address Interest Direct %
Direct;
Babcock Assessments Limited United 33 Wigmore Street, 166,000 ordinary 100.0%
Kingdom London, W1U 10X, — shares .
England
Skills2Learn Limited United 33 Wigmore Street, 100 ordinary shares 100.0%
Kingdom London, W1U 10X, :
England
National Training Institute LLC Sultanate of PO Box 267, Postal 350,000 shares _ 70.00%
Oman code 115, Madinat
Qaboos, Sultanate of
Oman

All subsidiary undertakings with the exception of National Training Institute LLC are incorporated and operate
in the United Kingdom. National Training Institute LLC is incorporated and operates in the Sultanate of Oman.

*Babcock Training Limited holds 70% shareholding in National Training Institute LLC which provides it with
99.9% of the economic performance rights

The company’s investments in all subsidiary undertakings take the form of a holding of Ordinary shares.

Registered number 02817838 — Page 45

Babcock Training Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
22 Post balance sheet events

On 11 November 2024 the Company sold its investment in National Training Institute LLC to Skills and
Development Company LLC for a total consideration of OMR 49,500.

23 Ultimate parent undertaking

The company's immediate parent company is Babcock Education and Training Holdings LLP, a limited
liability partnership registered in England and Wales. The company’s ultimate parent undertaking and
‘controlling party is Babcock International Group PLC, a company registered in England and Wales. The only
Group in which the results of the company are consolidated is that headed by Babcock International Group
PLC.

Copies of Babcock International Group PLC Financial Statements are available from the following address:

The Company Secretary
Babcock International Group PLC
33 Wigmore Street

London

W1U 1QX

Registered number 02817838 Page 46

