*ADI89S48*
A08 18/12/2024 #196
COMPANIES HOUSE

tl

2023520 |

| WEDNESDAY:p =

BARNARDAS

Changing childhoods*Changing lives®


CHANGING
CHILDHOODS.

CHANGING
LIVES.


- CONTENTS

Welcome from our Chair and Chief Executive
Report of the Board of Trustees

Strategic Report
Impact report: How we made a difference in 2023-2024
Financial review
Our principal risks and uncertainties
Plans for future periods

Our Structure, Governance and Management

Our Sustainability Report

How we meet section 172 of the Companies Act 2006
Statement of Trustees’ Responsibilities
Independent Auditor's Report

Financial Statements
Consolidated statement of financial activities
Balance sheets
Consolidated statement of cash flows
Consolidated summary income and expenditure account

Notes to the Accounts
Gifts and Grants Received

Board of Trustees and Officers

NN © BD

42
52
57

58
65
69
72
74

79
80
81
82
82

83
12
116

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 3

Chair’s —
foreword

| was delighted to join Barnardo's as the
charity's new Chair in August 2023.

Growing up, my parents were regular supporters
of the charity, because they believed it gave
hope to the children who needed it most.

Since | joined Barnardo’s, | have seen first-hand
how it continues to deliver on this selfsame
promise.

Whenever | visit services across the UK, | am
moved and humbled by the incredible dedication
of our frontline colleagues. Their knowledge

and expertise is deeply rooted in empathy for

children and families, and also in the specific
communities they serve.

This vital and precious work continues to take
place in a context that is extremely challenging,
both for those who need our services but also
far the charity itself.

In 2023-24, we achieved our highest ever

level of income, but we also faced significant
financial headwinds that tested our resilience
and adaptability. Economic instability, continued
funding pressures on our commissioning

partners, and difficulties in the retail environment
all posed challenges. I’m pleased to say we took
steps to mitigate much of the impact of these
factors, and with these actions continuing

we are in a good position as we enter a new
three-year budget period.

I feel extremely fortunate to join the charity
at such an exciting and important juncture in
Its long and proud history.

With our new Strategy, Barnardo's combines

a strong commitment to its core work delivering
vilal services, with a new drive to demonstrate
impact. We have a strong management team
under the leadership of Lynn Perry, a sense of
momentum across the whole of the organisation
and an impressive commitment to excellence in
everything we do. Barnardo's is demonstrating
day by day lat it Is the outstanding charity in
its sector.

We are also fortunate to have an impressive
Board of Trustees who bring different kinds of
expertise to bear and play a key role in helping
Barnardo’s aim for the highest standards in
every part of the charity.

With the new branding, we now have a unique
opportunity to reintroduce the charity to

a wider audience, attracting new generations
of supporters and partners who will stay with
us long into the future. That will ensure we can
continue a 150-year tradition of improving the
lives of the children, young people and families
who need that help the most.

Miwach

—

Mark Wood
Chair


CEO’s
foreword

This report covers an important year for
Barnardo's, culminating in the publication
of our new three-year Strategy and the
launch of our new brand.

During the months leading up to this landmark
moment, | had the opportunity to engage with
thousands of colleagues, young people and
external partners, as we worked together to
shape the future of our charity.

This work took place against a challenging
backdrop. Children and young people are
continuing to face huge and in some cases
growing challenges, which affect their
immediate well-being and also their
long-term health and opportunities.

In particular, child poverty and even destitution
remain stubbornly high, which is why in 2023-24
Barnardo's continued with a special fund to help
the families we support to access the basics,
otherwise beyond their reach. At the same

time, we focused on campaigning for change —
alongside young people - that will benefit not
just children today, but later generations too.

Child poverty has been central to our work
since our founding more than 150 years ago,
and our new Strategy makes clear that it
remains central to everything we do today.

Critical to our direction of travel is our
commitment to demonstrating our impact.
Each year we improve how we capture and
communicate the difference we are making
for children. I'm extremely proud that this year,
for the first time, we have started to analyse
our outcomes data in new ways so we can
show how, in line with our Purpose, we are
supporting children to be safer, happier,
healthier and more hopeful.

Overall, we are extremely proud that this year
we reached over 356,000 children, young
people, parents and carers, through our 760
services and partnerships. That's over 100,000
more than in 2015.

We did this in the face of difficult financial
circumstances, but | am confident that we are
in a strong position to mitigate these ongoing
challenges to maintain our future resilience.

In August 2023, we were delighted to welcome
our new Chair, Mark Wood, who brings a wealth
of knowledge and expertise that will assist
Barnardo's as we respond to the changing
external environment and continue to make
sure we are fit for the future.

| am so grateful to the whole Board, to my
colleagues who are united in their commitment
to driving excellence for children and young
people, and in their determination to deliver

on our ambitious new Strategy.

lam also extremely grateful to our partners
across different sectors, and to all the
supporters and members of the public who
continue to believe in the power of our charity
as a force for good. | know everyone in the
Barnardo’s community is committed to our
Purpose and to Changing Childhoods and
Changing Lives for the better.

Lynn Perry MBE
Chief Executive

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 5

REPORT OF
-THEBOARD
OFTRUSTEES


Strategic Report

Impact Report: How we
made a difference in
2023-2024

Throughout the year, Barnardo’s continued

to provide vital services for children, young
people and families, whilst also working to

drive longer-term change for future generations.

We reached

(356,200

children, young people,
parents and carers.

Service user count by year
OD oOveral! O 1-1Support

400,000

Understanding our reach

Last year, we reached 356,200 children,
young people, parents and carers,
through 760 services and partnerships.
This includes 95,800 who we helped
ona one-to-one basis.

This means, in 2023-24, we reached
more than 100,000 more children than
in 2015~16.

We reached slightly fewer people last
year than the year before - a decrease
of 5% or around 17,000 service users.
This was mainly driven by a reduction in
school-based programmes focused on
children’s mental health and wellbeing,
following a reduction in funding made
available during the Covid-19 pandemic.

382,900

358,800

373,200

356,200

350,000
301,100

357,000

300,000

294,300
250,000

200,000

150,000

100,000 84,500

75,400

71,400 67,000

50,000

81,000

81800 82,442 90,800 95,800

2015/16 = 2016/17, 2017/18 += 2018/19 2019/20 = 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
- 1 ——L 4 1

In March 2024, Barnardo’s published a new
three-year Strategy, along with a theory of
change, and we also updated our brand.

As the Strategy period began in April 2024,
this Annual Report will not report on progress
against our new Strategy.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 7

We supported

TEN

Ne
oN
2

95,800 222,300 38,100

One-to-one support Children’s Centres School-based programmes
This includes support for and Family Hubs This includes help
children with our foster carers This includes early support with mental health
and adoptive families, as well for families from pregnancy and wellbeing.
as care leavers. to age 19.

In 2023-24 Barnardo's reached

= children, young people,
Pp parents and carers through our
5 services and partnerships.

8 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

179

Scotland

@@
wa
1,184

Number of
Colleagues

a]

ee

17,300

Number of
Volunteers

291

Number of
Retail Shops

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 9


Understanding our impact

In line with our new Strategy, published
in March 2024, we are strongly focused
on measuring, understanding and
communicating the impact we achieve
for children and young people.

Specifically, we are looking to measure how we
deliver on our purpose — to Change Childhoods.
Change Lives, by working with children and
young people to be safer, happier, healthier
and more hopeful.

Over time, we will demonstrate our impact -
the positive difference we make for children
and young people - across every category of
our work.

For this year, we are able to do two things
in this area.

First, like last year, we can report that based
on our outcomes data, we can demonstrate
that we achieved a positive impact for 74%

of cases involving children, young people and
families we helped. This is the same percentage
as last year and this headline analysis is based on
15,567 cases across 43% of Barnardo's services,
between 1 April 2023 and 31 March 2024.

We are confident that we are making a positive
difference more widely, however, we are
limiting our reporting here to 74%, in line with
our commitment to high standards of data and
evidence.

Secondly, for the first time, we are now able to
demonstrate whether, in particular areas of work,
we could support children to be safer, happier,
healthier and more hopeful.

purpose. Changing Childhoods. Changing Li
Purpose anging Gniidnoods. Ghanging Lives
a My a
rt

Outcome SAFER - HEALTHIER MORE
domains Children, young : Children, young people. HOPEFUL

people and families at and familes experience

7 etter physical, menta .
ee etter eotented and emotional health Children, young
pe and wellbeing people and families are
feel positive and feel motivated and empowered
‘like they belong > . to achieve their goals with
: : “ hope and confidence

indicators * Practitioners record * Pracitioners record * Clinical improvement — * Access to employment

a reduction in family improved sense in anxiety. education or training.

conflict. of identity. . :

sures
* Children tell us they + Children tellus
* Children tell us * Children tell us they are less worried. they feel motivated

they feel safe from feel more satisfied. and inspired.

immediate harm.
Background/ Ethnicity, age, gender, socio-economic status, special education needs and disabilities,

circumstances English as a first language, care experience

10 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Demonstrating impact through our cost of living fund

In response to the cost-of-living crisis, in October 2022,
Barnardo's established a fund to provide immediate support to
children and families who were struggling to afford the basics.

Latest figures suggest that some 4.3m children —_ In 2023-24, we spent around £1m providing
(30% of all children in the UK) are living in poverty, this essential support (about the same amount
including some 1m in destitution, meaning this as in 2022-23), reaching 15,592 people,
intervention is vitally important for the families compared with 13,211 the previous year.

we support.

The support covered:
Category 2022-23 2023-24 Impact domain
Preventing hunger 35% 38% a Healthier
Suitable clothing 24% 24% 7 Healthier a
Access to warm spaces 21% 14% Heaithier -
Access to health related appointments 1% 2% Healthier _ i

Access to safe and working appliances 9% 11%

Helping children stay safe ; 9% 10% Safer
Access to employment 1% 1% More hopeful

4.3m

children (30% of all
children in the UK)
are living in poverty.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 11

=7 +p

In addition, we funded some more intense work North of England
with families in Northern Ireland and the North of
England, moving beyond the support needed to
meet their immediate needs. In Northern lreland
this was focused on improved quality of life and
in the North of England this took the form of a
keyworker service for those who were in crisis,  * 58% of participants (53 people) reported
at risk of admission to a mental health inpatient they were helped to access food.

unit, or who were in hospital.

« 90% of participants (149 people) who received
funding for specialist technology, travel or
equipment felt that the funding helped reduced
anxiety in the family.

« 57% of participants (94 people) who received

ae . as funds for activities, travel or equipment felt
Families provided positive feedback the award helped to develop more positive
Northern Ireland relationships with people in their lives.

« 53% of participants (785 people) felt the
funding helped to reduce stress levels linked to :
financial pressures. os

« 75% of participants (1,096 people) were able
to develop more positive relationships with

people in their life. . Ov
+ 66% of participants (968 people) felt the :
funding helped increase their access to healthy . 10
and nutritious food.

a!

¢ 82% of participants (1,206 people) reported of participants (1,096
they were helped to access food and/or save : people) were able to
their own money that would usually be spent ; develop more positive
on food. . relationships with

people in their life.

12 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

in poverty are making impossible choices between7*~
ip donthe t and heating their,ho :
jnothing at all left for anything else. :

3

ould provide
p ncreasingly :
easing costs of essentials such
or,fun and educational,“
ies for,the children...
shamé-she feels ‘being forced to‘make ~

uppor. rrormearriar dg ;

=


Demonstrating impact through our family centres

In 2023-24, we supported 223,867 children, « Family Hubs provide early help for families
young people, parents and carers through our from pre-birth to 19 to overcome a range
75 family centres ~ which includes family of challenges.

hubs and children’s centres. « Achildren’s centre is often more focused

The content of these services varies in line with on families from pre-birth to 5.
local needs, to make sure the offer is relevant Our family centres are inclusive and friendly,
and responsive to families, but in general: safe spaces for parents, parents-to-be, carers,

and children to learn, develop, and find the right
support at the right time.

Total service users
207,350 Family hub sites a

\ 16,157 Children’s Centres _/
Qe og

North:
602 service users
¢ 3 family hub sites

FO ae * 1 children’s centre site
\ Northern Ireland:

: 1,163 service users
, + 2 family hubs

Central:
62,065 service users
« 19 family hub sites

¢ 6children’s centre sites

Cymru & South West:
3,272 service users. ~

1 ee |
London: |

South East: | 5,803 service users |

138,705 service users

* 22 family hub sites

(Essex 127,387)

+ 1 family hub site

14 | Barnardo’s Annual Report 2023-24

We deliver a wide range of activities across We deliver these activities through a mix of

our family centres. Family Hubs offer a mixture open access universal services (for example

of focused and inclusive support designed to where a family doesn't need to be referred in
promote good outcomes for children, such as order to be able to access our support) and
parenting programmes, play services, infant through more targeted, specialist support which
feeding and nutrition advice and guidance. may be aimed at helping families overcome more
Barnardo's children’s centres help us provide complex problems. Depending on what children
services like health, social care and early and families need, this support can be provided
education, to improve social development in homes and communities as well as more

for children and families. formal health settings such as clinics.

Our Family Hub offer in England

Intensive Family

Activities for 0-5s Early Language Early Education Support

Special
Educational Needs
and Disabitities

Mental Health Parenting Reducing

_. Programmes Parental Conflict

and Wellbeing

Domestic Housing
Oral Health Abuse Support
Perinatal MH Substance Separated Youth Justice

Abuse Parents

Youth Services Infant Feeding

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 15

16 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Spotlight: Birmingham Forward Steps - understanding
our reach and impact

“Reach” or “engagement” can be used to help us understand and assess

our work. It can help to establish the extent to which people use our services,
and how they use them, and can help us understand how effective we are

at continuing to engage with children, young people and families.’

_* 3,531 parents and children participated in home safety workshops.
e 604 parents received support around domestic abuse.
« 128 parents attended domestic violence prevention programmes.

In addition, a range of support was provided to children in need and children
subject to child protection assessments and planning work.

6,274 children and parents/carers attended stay and play sessions. !

Parents received support for a range of health-related activities including:
|» Maternal mental health support (3,416)
_« Breastfeeding (1,861) and weening (467)
| ¢ Food and nutrition (1,316) and health activities (2,528)

Healthier Oral health (3,720)
' ‘» Health and healthy lifestyles (757)
; ‘ In addition a range of other support was provided to improve health outcomes
| such as vitamin distribution, midwife clinics, and Health Visitor contacts.
More « Number of parents and children attending a learning session.
hopeful ¢ 1,089 parents attended and completed basic skills courses or received

employment & training support.

People may have attended multiple sessions and will have been counted as receiving
multiple instances of support. The numbers here are not to be counted as ‘unique’ users,
but the number of people engaging across the offers is outlined above.

1 Noble, J. (2017) Five types of data for assessing your work: an explainer [Online] Available at https://www.thinknpc.org/
blog/5-types-of-data-for-assessing-your-work-an-explainer/. Accessed 20.06.2024

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 17

SEEN Programme

SEEN is a Barnardo’s initiative which exists to identify, understand and tackle
the structural inequalities which limit the opportunities of children and young
people of African, Asian and Caribbean heritage in the UK.

| Driving Healthy Futures |

Driving Healthy Futures, funded by Enterprise
Rent-A-Car, aims to educate young people and
families on how to eat healthily on a budget,
alongside addressing barriers to food equity

in the UK.

In 2023-24, SEEN co-ordinated seven
roadshows, reaching over 1,000 children,
young people and families and 51 organisations,
promoting healthy cooking, cooking ona
budget, and intergenerational cooking skills
and knowledge.

In 2024 Kowetha, a community group
based in Cornwall, in collaboration with
Barnardo’s produced a research document
into the lived experiences of children of
mixed or dual heritage.

(These are the terms used by individuals
involved in the project. Barnardo’s recognises
that people may identify in different ways.)

The immediate impact of this work has
been the introduction of guidelines and
recommendations for schools in Cornwall,
assisting progress along their anti-racist
journey towards structural change, to better
protect children and young people from the
trauma caused by racism in schools.

18 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Launched in January 2024, the MUMMA Hub
is a pilot to tackle the stark inequalities in
maternal health outcomes that exist for Black
and Asian women. The programme includes
‘Peer Connectors’, who help guide women
through the perinatal journey, connecting
them to services that can meet their needs

in a culturally sensitive way.

In the first two months of the pilot (which
continues into 2024-25), over 50 women
received support through both individual
and group settings, such as parenting
programmes, social drop-in sessions and
mental health support.

10,000 Voices

10,000 Voices is a writing project designed to
celebrate the heritage of British young people
of African, Asian, and Caribbean descent. It is

a response to feedback from young people of
African, Asian, and Caribbean heritage who told
us that exploring and celebrating their heritage
was missing from the school curriculum.

SEEN worked with seven schools and over 600
pupils to produce the 10,000 Voices anthology.
The anthology and a resource pack have been
made available to schools to promote diversity in
the literature curriculum and support important
conversations about pupils’ culture and heritage.

Pen’
H

| Black Hair and Skin Project |

The Black Hair and Skin Project exists to
address the long-standing concerns and
inequalities faced by children and young people
of African and Caribbean heritage by making
information, advice, guidance and resources on

hair and skin care freely available on and offline.

Progress in 2023-24 includes the creation and
roll out of a training package for professionals
working in fostering and adoption services to
ensure they are informed about the specific
needs of young people of African and
Caribbean heritage.

We have also received commitment from the
Youth Custody Service to work towards a
consistent approach across all youth custody
sites in meeting Black young people’s hair and
skin needs.

Life Through My Lens

Race, culture, ethnicity, and faith/belief are

a core part of a child’s identity. In the Life
Through My Lens programme we gave
disposable cameras to 68 children and

young people (aged 2-25) living in Northern
Ireland to support the development of cultural
literate practice within services and amongst
practitioners to improve outcomes for children,
young people, and families.

Using the medium of ethnography, children
and young people shaped learning about how
race, culture, economic status, language and
religious identity, and other socio-economic
factors including migration, intersect, and what
this means to a young person as they navigate
through society. The aim is to strengthen the
understanding of identity in the social work
system, so that assessments and interventions
are more inclusive.

The project produced a photobook, report,
toolkit and flashcards.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 19

Making children’s voices heard - and driving long-term change

across the UK

In 2023-24, we continued to focus sharply on child poverty, and bringing
the views and experiences of children and young people to the attention

of decision makers and the public.

Alongside this, we continued to raise
awareness of a range of other vital

issues affecting disadvantaged children.

Key reports include ‘No Crib for a Bed’,

which shone a new light on bed poverty

and ‘No bank of mum and dad’, which
explored the impact of high and rising
prices across many living costs on
care leavers.

In June, we marked Refugee Week
with a new report: ‘A Warm Welcome’

setting out the case for the Government

to provide support to all children
arriving in the UK without parents or
carers to support them. We also held

events in Parliament for MPs and Peers.

Meanwhile, we continued to work on
_ Strengthening legislation aimed at
keeping children safe online. Working

with others we succeeded in convincing

the Government to strengthen age

verification for online pornography and
ensure this applies to both social media

platforms and commercial sites.

Building on our long history of
championing change for children

in care and care leavers, we
published new research on ‘Double
Discrimination’, which explored the
compound challenges facing Black
care experienced young people in
the criminal justice system.

And with record number of children
and young people struggling with
their mental health, we published
new research on ‘social prescribing’
- setting out the case for community
based services that can boost
wellbeing and provide an alternative
(where appropriate) to clinical
interventions.

20 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

No crib for a bed:
the impact ofthe ~._

cost-ofliving *

No Bank of
Mum and Dad

2

The Missing Link
Sociat Prescribing for Children
and Young Peopie

as et
A Warm Weleome

ten tances Serie Poy saves oe
Bedares ono mito Csr, Brera
pees

Double
discrimi


Working in partnership
‘If you want to go far, go together’

In advance of the General Election, we
formed the ‘Children at the Table’ coalition
in partnership with NSPCC, Action for
Children, The Children’s Society, and

the National Children’s Bureau.

The coalition called on ail parties, and the
next Government, to put children and young
people at the heart of decision making.

As part of this work we brought children
and young people to an event in Parliament,
and we launched a public petition, as well as
publishing a policy report with our collective
calls for change.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 21

Influencing highlights from the devolved nations

Cymru

The Draft 2024-25 Welsh Government budget
initially included a reduction in funding for
children and young people's services. By
working closely with sector colleagues and
highlighting concerns across the Senedd, we
succeeded in mitigating the proposals and
maintaining £15m in investment for children.

Northern Ireland

We successfully campaigned for the reversal

of plans to reduce spending on early years

and youth services. Barnardo’s NI also led the
‘Reimagine’ coalition of nine children’s charities
in responding to the Independent Review of
Children’s Social Care Services, which attracted
strong cross-party support at Stormont.

22 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Scotland

We worked closely with the Scottish Government
to secure £50,000 of funding for the Barnardo's
Scotland Welcome (Ukraine) service - ensuring
it could continue for another year to support
children and families seeking sanctuary in the
UK. We also campaigned successfully alongside
partners for an increase in the Scottish Child
Payment - a devolved benefit paid to low-
income parents in Scotland for each child under
16 - which was raised to £26.70 per week in the
2024-25 Scottish Budget.

Listening and responding to children and young people

In 2023-24, we continued to develop our This commitment informs how we make
approach to working with children and young decisions internally as a charity, and also how
people to make sure their voices are heard, we drive change externally across the UK.

and their experiences are understood.

During the year:

children and young

92

178 children and young people shaped our
; people from 24 a new rights-based
young people contributed services across the Quality Standards.

1,427 hours of their time UK contributed to
through 107 opportunities to the design of our new
help make a strategic impact. three-year Strategy
and our new brand

impact.

679 L
; colleagues across our children’s services received training in a

nN. this work, and 91% of those said their knowledge ae
and confidence increased as a result. ae

The priority in all our influencing work

was to create opportunities for children
and young people to share their views

and experiences directly with decision
makers. A great example was when Becca,
a member of the Barnardo’s-Co-Op

Youth Advisory Board, gave evidence in
Parliament on the cost-of-living crisis.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 23

Strengthening the public’s connection to Barnardo’s

The launch of our new brand this year provided an exciting opportunity
for the charity to re-engage the public with the work we do and why.

Our new brand was co-created with young
people - with each of the letters in our new
logo representing a set of emotions.

We launched this new look and feel, along
with an updated tone of voice, in March 2024,
with an inspirational advert on tv and online,
which helped to bring our story to life.

Our first rebrand in over a decade (and our

first full rebrand in several decades — after
taking a ‘brand refresh’ approach previously),

is intended to inspire more members of

the public and partner organisations to

support Barnardo's. This includes raising
money, donating and shopping in our stores,
volunteering, raising awareness, and helping

to campaign for change — alongside children
and young people. We will start to report on the
impact of the rebrand in our next Annual Report.

SAFER verve been hanging
HAPPIER changing ives for over

150 years. We're here
to help you feel safer,
happier, healthier and
more hopeful from the
moment we meet.

MORE
HOPEFUL —

24 | Barnardo’s Annual Report 2023-24

DRS
BARNARDO}S

From 1900s

Barnardo’s logos 1900s~Present |

® Barnardo's

From 1970s-80s

Barnardos
From 1990s

From 2010s-2024

Believe in
children

Barnardo's

BARNARDOS

Changing childhoods. Changing lives.

Present

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 25

£

4 pro Q
SHANTRGEMT Ns, ;

BARNARDOS EEG

Dernardes.org-oh

y see
SSS

26 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Fundraising

A heartfelt THANK YOU to all our supporters, donors, and partners.
Every gift we receive helps us to change childhoods and change lives.

In 2023-24, our fundraising activity, including
legacies, raised £41.7m — an increase of £2.2m
from the previous year. This is despite the fact
that across the sector, the cost-of living crisis
meant supporters could not give as much as
in previous years.

We know the importance of investing in
fundraising and marketing — including to
communicate important information and

advice to children and parents; to recruit new
foster carers; to provide a fantastic supporter
experience; and to secure vital donations so we
can continue to deliver excellent and inclusive
services, and to achieve long-term change for
children in the future. In 2023-24 we spent
more money than in previous years to recruit
new supporters, in line with planned investment.
Ongoing investment in fundraising is critical to
drive sustainability and growth for the long term.

Gifts from wills

Supporters leaving a gift in their will is an
important source of income for Barnardo's,
raising £18.4m last year. This is a chance for
individuals to remember formative experiences
from their own childhoods, or from their time as
a parent or carer. It is also an opportunity to help
us drive positive change for children in the UK
today, tomorrow and long into the future.

A Lasting Legacy

Joan Redford left Barnardo’s an incredibly
generous gift of the whole of her residuary
estate in her will. Joan was a loyal supporter
of Barnardo’s work, having dedicated her
time to collecting house to house for years,
right up until she retired at the age of 80.

Support from individuals

Supporting Barnardo's on a regular basis is
incredibly valuable to Barnardo's as it enables
us to plan our crucial work with children and
young people with certainty.

In 2023-24, we received £12.3m in direct
donations from supporters, including over
£9m in donations via direct debit, for which
we are immensely grateful.

During this time, face-to-face fundraising
returned to pre-pandemic operating levels,
and we gained 28,000 new regular donors
across all channels who were kind enough to
sign up to direct debits to support our work.

With families across the UK continuing to
struggle with high prices, it was heartening that
our supporters raised £700k in response to our
cost-of-living appeal, so we could provide help
with food, fuel and other basics, for families in
need of additional support.

We are always impressed by the energy

and commitment of people across the UK who
choose to support us through undertaking runs,
hikes, treks, abseils, parachute jumps and a
hundred other wonderfully imaginative ways

of raising money to help change childhoods.

The London Marathon was a highlight yet again
in 2023 with 119 runners raising over £325,000
as part of Team Barnardo’s!

We also received almost £1m from individuals
who support our work through payroll giving,
which is also a tax efficient way of making
donations through salaries. Thank you.


Support from trusts, foundations
and philanthropic individuals

The Katherine Martin Charitable Trust
continued its steadfast support for Barnardo's,
donating a further £200k towards Barnardo's
children’s services in North Lincolnshire and East
Yorkshire. In addition, the Trust has made a very
significant donation of £135k towards our capital
programme of new build ‘Gap Homes’ (for young
people leaving the care system) in Lincoln, and

a substantial pledge for the Gap Homes cluster
in Stirling. In doing so, the Katherine Martin
Charitable Trust is spearheading a nation-wide
project that will play a crucial role in allowing
young people leaving the care system at the

age of 16 to learn to live independently in their
communities, with access to good quality
housing and wraparound support.

Barnardo's was delighted to receive a
generous £1m donation from Southampton
Hospitals Charity. This grant is funding a
two-year pilot scheme where Barnardo's
Mental Health Support Workers are providing
targeted support for children and young
people attending selected acute care
settings, such as Emergency Departments.
The pilot is running in St Helens and the
Black Country and was made possible with
proceeds from the auction of Banksy's
artwork, Game Changer.

We received a gift from the estate of
Dennis Granshaw last year, which was
kindly facilitated by his brother Stuart.
Dennis and Stuart both lived at the
Barnardo’s Home, Annesley Bank (near
Lyndhurst in Hampshire) in the 1960s and,
over 60 years later, we are truly humbled
and privileged to have been remembered
in this way by the family.

28 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Support from communities

In June 2023, over 29,000 under 5s took on
the Big Toddle. Little feet up and down the UK
enjoyed dressing up as animals for the safari-
themed fundraiser, and as well as having a lot
of fun they raised an outstanding £160,000.

Meanwhile, our loyal and dedicated Barnardo’s
Helper Groups enjoyed hosting a range of
fantastic events, raising almost £200,000.
Cowbridge Barnardo’s Helper Group in South
Wales raised the highest total, at £21.5k and
secured an additional and transformative
£100k donation from a member's legacy.

In Northern Ireland, manufacturing and
construction company Tobermore continued
their incredible support with a donation of £25k.

Improving and modernising
our supporter experience

We are passionate about improving our
supporter experience and aspire to provide
an excellent and inspiring experience for
our supporters in every interaction with
Barnardo's. During the year we took big
steps in using technology to speak to our
supporters about the things that matter
to them most. We are continuing to focus
on this in 2024-25 as we use data to

get to know more about understand our
supporters’ interests and how they want
to connect with us.

Thanks to Claire Gilligan's generosity,
Barnardo's Leaving Care service in Belfast

has been able to provide practical, financial,
and therapeutic support to care-experienced
young people, resulting in positive outcomes
such as preventing homelessness, supporting
aspirations, creating happy Christmas
memories, and enhancing wellbeing.
Additionally, Claire’s generosity has extended to
our Glasgow 16+ service, aiding over SO young
people with the cost of living through a food
bank and enabling participation in activities like
DJ lessons, art projects, and ice skating.

As a result of the generosity of the Mukul
Madhav Foundation towards Barnardo’s Cost-
of-Living fund, Barnardo's was able to provide
immediate relief to many families and children
who were grappling with the harsh realities

of poverty during the winter months. Support
included providing energy and supermarket
vouchers, ensuring people had food to eat
during the festive season, as well as a bed
and bedding for a good night’s sleep, warm
clothing and presents to open.

The Myristica Trust has been a long-time
supporter of Barnardo’s, and in 2023-24
awarded a fantastic £158,000 towards our
work with children and young people in
Wales. The projects funded include cost-of-
living support for children and families who
are struggling to cover the rising costs of
household essentials, respite activities for
young carers in Newport in need of a break
and time for themselves, and education
and employment support for young

people in Swansea.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 29

|

en:

a

Transformational corporate partnerships

We are proud to work in partnership with businesses across the UK
who share our passion, values and ambition to improve outcomes for
children, young people and families across the UK.

People’s Postcode Lottery
Barnardo's is immensely proud to be a

beneficiary of the Postcode Children Trust, > —— =
which awards funds raised by players of i tl
the People’s Postcode Lottery. In 2023-24 HPEOPLE’SH
we received £3m from this valued partner,

and since 2018, we’ve received more than POSTCODIE
£15.4m, which has supported Barnardo’s

to reach so many more children and young BLOTTERYS

people, to innovate and develop new services
and responses to meeting growing needs.

Co-op

In the first year of our special partnership, | ~The money raised will be used to

Co-op has raised an incredible £2 million support positive futures for 750,000 young
towards our £5million target to support people across the UK. We'll be delivering
positive futures for young people. This in-depth support in communities that need
has been achieved through member it the most, with over 1,400 young people
and customer donations, cause related involved in designing those services. We're
marketing, events and, most importantly, also working with young penple to design
the fundraising activities of dedicated social media activity to provide safe, reliable
and highly engaged Co-op colleaques and shareable online support directly to
across the business. young people — wherever they live.

Three ‘Go BIG for Barnardo's’ fundraising
weeks took place, with Co-op members,
colleagues and customers coming together
to raise tunds. Colleagues have additionally
undertaken many events and challenges,
including a memorable trek to the Sahara

in February.

30 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24


Arun Estates

In 2022-23, Arun Estate Agencies Ltd, which
is made up of Cubitt & West, Douglas Allen,
Pittis and Wards, generously donated £100
for every new property valuation, raising
£1,000,000. The scale of the donation has
meant children, young people and families,
especially those living in poverty and facing
additional challenges, continued to be
supported throughout 2023-24, including
in the critical lead up to Christmas. Their
generosity meant we were able to support

Amazon

In 2023-24, Amazon provided significant
support to Barnardo’s to lead the JOBS
(Journey Of Becoming Successful) Project.
The project supports young people aged
18-29 who are not in education, employment
or training, offering them a pathway to
success that can include a job offer with
Amazon upon completion of the programme.

Recognising the transformative impact of
this collaboration, we recently expanded
the project's reach, growing from seven to

Zurich Community Trust

Barnardo’s received a second annual £150k
grant from The Zurich Community Trust
{ZCT), which will continue to contribute
towards the running and development costs
of the Barnardo’s Education Community, an
Online facility that helps teachers and schools
support children and young people with their
mental health.

The Pokémon Company International

In 2022, The Pokémon Company
International unveiled a 5-year plan to
support organizations that improve both the
lives of children around the world and social
equity. Barnardo's is the largest UK based
charity recipient of this programme and this
year have seen a continuation of support
through financial contributions and gift
donations totalling over £500,000.

more than 16,000 families in a variety of
ways to help improve their social, emotional
and mental health.

10 locations across the UK. This means the
programme can now support and empower
an even greater number of young people,
equipping them with valuable skills and
opening doors to new opportunities.

amazon
A

2
ZURICH

Community Trust

The generous contributions have enabled
us to support families through the Cusl-ul-
Living crisls and bring Joy to chlidren Who
have received a range of exciting gifts.

iThe|Pokemon|Gompany;

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 31

Retail and Trading

In 2023-24, total sales across our retail estate grew 5.9% to £93.1m,
compared with £87.9m the previous year. This was despite a challenging

retail climate.

Overall sales growth year on year was 5.9%,
although the growth in the sales of donated
merchandise slowed year-on-year to 3%, as
consumers continued to face cost-of-living
pressures, which had a direct impact on the
mix of preloved goods donated to our stores.

Sales of new goods in stores grew by 20%

to £8.5m aided by new ranges, improved
replenishment of core lines and the larger
stores opening during the year. Increased costs,
due in part to the impact of inflation on salary
costs as well as the costs of extra storage to
allow the improved replenishment of core lines,
has reduced margins. We continue to sell new"
goods through Barnardo Trading Limited, and all
donated goods through the Barnardo's charity.

During the year, we opened a further three
superstores in Birkenhead, Durham and
Warrington, making a total of ten across the
UK. Superstores are located on Retail Parks
and have a sales area of at least 6,000 square
feet. This large footprint allows us to offer
extended ranges of both donated and new
goods products to our customers, including
furniture, as well as providing space for

sab druriraberartuen toned
aed fas fal abe Sap

32 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

collaborations where we can provide
specialist advice to families as well as
fundraising activities.

We opened a further thirteen standard stores
and refurbished another 10, as well as opening
11 large format stores, which have a sales

area between 3,000 and 6,000 square feet,
offering a different customer experience from
our standard stores and different again from
our superstores.

We regularly review the performance of our
stores and closed 15 locations during the
financial year. Where stores are not generating
a positive contribution that we can invest in
our vital work, and there is not a reasonable
expectation we can turn them around, they
are considered for closure.

Meanwhile, E-commerce sales continued to
grow strongly, up 42.9% to £4.9m, compared
with £3.4m the previous year. This was driven
by an expansion of our online operations
warehouse and the introduction of our own
listing tool for eBay.


Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 33

Our People & Culture

During this year, Barnardo’s worked towards becoming a culture where

everyone can belong, grow and thrive.

Pay, Reward and Recognition

In April 2023, we delivered on our commitment
to invest in our colleagues, with a new approach
to pay based on the core principles: Fair,
Attractive, and Progressive.

We introduced a new pay framework based

on an extensive benchmarking exercise, a
simpler grade and band architecture, and new
processes, which saw a significant investment
in pay, with the majority of colleagues receiving
an increase. For 2023-24, we continued our
ongoing commitment to pay all colleagues the
Real Living Wage. For some colleagues this
meant a pay increase of some 9-10%, whilst the
majority of colleagues received an Annual Pay
Award of 4%, reflecting the high cost-of-living
and other external factors.

We also piloted a new approach to performance
and growth with our management and leadership
cohort, which is being rolled out across the
charity in 2024-25, to help drive excellence

on behalf of children and young people.

We will continue our work to link performance
more closely with pay and reward in future and
this will be assisted by the changes included in
our new pay framework.

34 | Barnardo’s Annual Report 2023-24

During this period, we also made changes to
our reward offer, including:

« Enhanced our annual leave entitlement for
longer serving colleagues

« Increased Maternity, Paternity and
Adoption leave entitlements

« Widened our support for colleagues’
mental heaith and wellbeing

We have continued to recognise our colleagues’
contribution to Barnardo's throughout the
colleague lifecycle. Key moments include our
quarterly Values in Practice awards and our
annual Excellence Awards — an in-person event
that celebrates colleagues, volunteers and
young people who achieve outstanding impact
across the charity.

We also focused on colleague engagement,
holding a survey of all colleagues which
provided key insight and comparisons with
similar organisations. We received almost
3,500 responses which continue to inform
our offer to colleagues.

Respecting the
unique worth of
every person

Inclusive ©

Create a thriving,
inclusive environment
that celebrates
difference, to achieve
greater diversity.

Respond to each
other’s needs and
perspectives.

Explore and value
each other's
skills, experience,
knowledge and
strengths.

Raise concerns if you
witness behaviour
that is not inclusive.

Values and behaviours

Encouraging
people to fulfil
their potential

Make and take
opportunities to learn,
develop and grow.

Offer and ask for help
when needed.

Collaborate to achieve
gfeater impact.

Give and value honest
feedback; have open
conversations.

During the year we have continued to embed
our behaviours, which are based on Barnardo’s
values. Importantly, we have made clear in our
new Performance and Growth cycle that we
must concentrate on how we work, alongside

what we achieve.

Working
with hope

Set ambitious goals.

Be creative in
finding solutions.

Reflect on what
works, learn and
make changes
where needed.

Celebrate making
a difference.

Exercising
responsible
stewardship

Always act in
the interests of
Barnardo's.

Spend resources
(time, energy and
money) on the
important outcomes.

Make evidence-
informed decisians

Speak up when
something feels
wrong.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 35

Equality, diversity and inclusion

Building on our commitment to inclusive
behaviours, in 2023-24 we continued to make
progress against our Equality, Diversity and
Inclusion (EDI) Action Plan, which makes key
commitments to our colleagues, our culture
and our communities.

We were able to record

We have focused on enhancing our data, so
we have better visibility and understanding of
the characteristics of our colleagues volunteers
and service users. We are using this to inform
performance indicators and actions across

the charity, in line with our EDI objectives.
Specifically, this is key to help us work towards
delivering excellent, inclusive services.

Based on our internal systems, we were able
to record information for the following:

Whether a service user has a disability
Service users’ ethnicity

Service users’ sexual orientation*

*only including service users aged 14 or over (c.25k)

2092-274 2022-23 % ahange. (paints)
84.4% 89.4% -5.0%
90.6% 94.9% -4.3%
31.8% 35% “3.2%

36 | Barnardo’s Annual Report 2023-24

Barnardo's can choose the types of information
we record on our internal systems. However,

the way we deliver services alongside partners
such as local authorities, means that we also
record data on external systems. We are working
with partners to enhance our EDI recording on
external systems.

In April 2024 we published our latest Diversity
Pay Gap report, bringing together data and
analysis on our gender, ethnicity, and disability
pay gaps, and reporting for the first time

on the gap for colleagues who are LGB+. In
2023-24, as part of the significant investment
in our pay and reward framework, this included
interventions to remove inconsistencies in pay
and has helped to reduce pay gaps linked to
Protected Characteristics.

Our pay gaps for 2023-24 are based on
snapshot data from 1 April 2023. Our Gender
Pay gap analysis shows that with 84% of our
colleagues being female, Barnardo's overall
median gender pay gap was 7.7% in favour
of men. Whilst the median gender pay gap
increased by 2% compared with 2022-23, it
remains well below the national average of
14.3%. Our data shows that this pay gap has
been decreasing overall since reporting began
in 2017, excluding the years impacted by the
pandemic and furlough scheme.

Our Ethnicity Pay Gap shows a median positive
variance of -10.1%, towards Black and Minoritised
Ethnic colleagues, which has increased further
from our -6.37% position last year.

Our Disability Pay Gap shows a median
disability pay gap of -3.3% (in favour of
disabled colleagues), which is an improvement
on our pay gap position of 3% in 2021-22.

For the first year we reported our LGB+ pay gap
which was a median of -1.5%, in favour of our
LGB+ colleagues, compared with those who are
Heterosexual. Due to constraints in our trans
data capture to date, we are unable at this point

to report an LGBT+ pay gap, and therefore have
focused on our LGB+ position this year. However,
this is now part of our systems data collection so
that we may report a LGBT+ pay gap next year.
We are hopeful that our internal data disclosure
campaign will encourage our colleagues to feel
confident to update and share their data.

For our 2023-24 reporting period we were
going through two key changes internally:

one was a major change in our HR and Payroll
systems, and the other was our move to a new
Pay Framework. We believe this has caused
some distortion in the data, and therefore
undertook a secondary reporting based on our
pay on 1 October 2023, as we considered this to
offer a truer representation of our data.

We know this is a journey and our ambition
is to make progress every year.

Key activities this year included a specific
Emerging Leaders Programme tailored to
women and Black and Minoritised Ethnic
colleagues; continuation of our ‘License to
Recruit’ training programme for managers;

a focused EDI workstream to inform our
recruitment, onboarding and learning offer an
update or our EDI policy and code of conduct;
and new guidance on supporting disabled
colleagues and Trans colleagues.

We also launched a ‘This is Me’ campaign,

to encourage our colleagues to update or
disclose their diversity data, which includes the
opportunity to disclose if colleagues are Trans
and also if they have experience of having been
in local authority care. As a result, we are seeing
a reduction in ‘Unknown’ and ‘Prefer Not to Say’,
giving us more insight and improving our
2024-25 data.

In October 2023, we updated our Anti-Racism
Commitments and Action Plan following
engagement across the charity.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 37

In December 2023, we became Disability
Confident Level 3 Leaders and have developed
a disability equality action plan which will be
delivered over the next 3 years.

We held a number of EDI events linked to

our diversity calendar on issues such as
Islamophobia awareness, maternity rights,
menopause, neurodiversity, and anti-racism
as well as marking Black History Month,
LGBT+ History Month and Disability History
Month. Barnardo's also had a presence at key

community events including LGBT+ Pride events.

Learning

During 2023-24, we made progress in building
on our learning offer to colleagues.

In addition to our mandatory training, we
introduced a range of learning opportunities
focused on the development of new skills

38 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

in areas such as systems thinking, project
management and data literacy. We have also
continued to offer key skills development in
core areas such as safeguarding, first aid and
fire warden responsibilities.

Other highlights included cohort five of our
Emerging Leaders Programme for 36 colleagues
- including a new extension programme for
women.

We are in the process of evaluating data from
our 2023-24 courses in order to develop our
offer further for future years.

Whilst in previous years we have reported on
the number of new users enrolled on a particular
learning platform, we have found that this
provides limited insight. Instead, in 2024-25

we are focused on how we measure our impact
and effectiveness in this area.


Working with our volunteers

Our volunteers continue to bring a rich variety of skills and experiences
to Barnardo's. Last year 17,350 people gave 1.8 million hours of their time
across Children’s Services, Retail & Trading, Fundraising, and Business
Services to support Barnardo's to change childhoods and change lives.

% change
2023-24 since last year
Number of people volunteered 4
at least once for Barnardo's 16,917 17.350 2.6%
Hours contributed by volunteers
to the charities cause 1.8m | 1.8m a
Number of reyulat active

volunteers

12,067 13,342 10.6% |

The number of people who have volunteered
at least once with Barnardo's has increased by
433 (2.6%) on the last financial year, whilst the
total number of volunteers hours has remained
at the same level. For the second consecutive
year there has been an increase in the number
of people volunteering with Barnardo’s, but
this has not resulted in an increase in the total
hours given. This could partly be down to some
volunteer hours not being recorded. However,
it also reflects the wider sector trend and
wider environment and changing patterns

of volunteering.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 39

Volunteer Voice Survey

The Volunteer Voice Survey took place in May 2023 alongside the Colleague Voice Survey.
This was the first time the volunteer survey had been conducted by an independent partner.

Overall volunteer The lowest scoring
Responses to the survey satisfaction was high, question received an
increased by 78% with an average score average score of 8.1 out
on the previous year across responses to all of 10, with the highest
from 960 to 1,706. questions of 8.6 out of 10. scoring question at 9.1.
+ Volunteers scored particularly highly on Following the survey several actions have been
subjects such as clarity of the requirements taken based on the insights and feedback given

for their role; ability to manage their task load; — by volunteers including:
and ability for people from all backgrounds to

join and thrive at Barnardo's. « The Volunteer Induction, Training and

Development project was launched and is

+ Whilst all questions in the survey received a focusing on how to improve opportunities for
positive average score, the topics with less developing new skills while they volunteer
positive responses included: ability to progress_~—_and increase opportunities for progression.
in your volunteering role; awareness of the
Barnardo’s values; and how inspired volunteers
are by Barnardo's.

« New volunteering roles are in development to
provide more progression opportunities.

« Work has been done to increase awareness
of Barnardo’s values and behaviours,
including training and the introduction of new
recognition badges which can be awarded for
displaying the Barnardo’s behaviours.

¢ The 2024 Volunteer Voice Survey will take
place in October 2024 and will include
questions that will allow external benchmarking
with other charities.

40 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Highest scoring questions Average Score

To what extent do you feel people of all backgrounds can join and

thrive in Barnardo's? 9
How clear are you on the requirements of your role? 91
How able are you to manage your task load? 91 .
How much do you enjoy volunteering with your team? 9

‘ How committed are you to helping Barnardo's succeed? ‘ 9 ‘
How well do you get on with people at Barnardo's? 9
Lowest scoring questions Average Score
How satisfied are you with the opportunity to progress your 81
volunteering here?
How inspired are you by Barnardo's? 8.1
How well do you know the core values of Barnardo's? 81
How well do you know specific behaviours to live the values? 8.1
How satisfied are you with the amount of learning opportunities on offer? 8.2
How satisfied are you with the amount of challenge in your role? 8.2

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 41

Financial review

How our finances look

Despite a number of challenges during 2023-24,
our financial performance held up remarkably
well. We faced a difficult retail and trading
environment (particularly in the second half of
the year), a challenging financial situation for
our service delivery commissioners across local
government and health sectors, and continued
inflationary pressures, affecting our cost base.

However, through robust financial management
and strong cost control we mitigated much of
the financial headwinds and our financial result
for the year was only marginally below our
budgeted position.

Our new medium-term budget (which runs to
March 2027) developed towards the end of the
financial year, includes multiple actions to help

us to align our financial plans to our new Strategy
which started on 1 April 2024. We know this is a’
challenging time with multiple areas of unmet and
developing need for children, young people and
families, and we will continue to focus on meeting
their changing requirements and investing in our
current and future colleagues to enable us to
deliver excellent and inclusive services, as well
as driving longer-term, transformative change

for the future.

Results for 2023-24

In 2023-24, Barnardo’s generated a net deficit
of £3.6m, which compares to a net deficit of
£2.0m for 2022-23. This excludes any loss or
gain made from the annual actuarial valuation
of the Barnardo’s Staff Pension Scheme (see
further details below), but includes the gain

or loss on financial investments.

Our total income for the year was £326.1m,
compared with £315.3m in 2022-23, which
represents a 3% increase across all our
activities. Our income from charitable activities
increased to £187.3m, compared with £184.5m
in 2022-23, with the largest proportion from
direct family support work, which includes

42 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

children’s centres. We continued to secure

new contracts during the year, which has

helped us to grow our commissioned income
and demonstrates the strong position we
continue to hold in the children’s services sector.

Our retail and trading income continued to
grow, reaching £93.1m for the year, compared
with £87.9m in 2022-23, and we continued

to seek ways to diversify and expand our
income streams, including new store openings,
increasing our e-commerce turnover (to £4.9m)
and new goods sales (which totalled £8.5m).
However, our cost base also increased with
inflationary pressures on staff, energy and
Operating costs and so our net retail income
declined.

Income from donations and legacies was
£41.7m, £2.2m higher than the previous year,
total of £39.5m. This includes £18.4m from
legacies, compared with £19.2m in 2022-23.

Total expenditure increased by £23.3m this year
to £335.7m (£312.4m in 2022-23), with the most
significant increases in our delivery of front-line
services, including the introduction of a Cost of
Living Fund; our colleague pay review; increased
energy costs, and an increase in our digital
spend. Our most significant area of expenditure
is staff costs, which totalled £214.1m (£190.5m
in 2022-23).

Across fundraising and trading activities,
despite a reduced retail margin, we were still
able to contribute £35.3m (£42.3m in 2022-23),
after central allocation of support costs, to our
frontline charitable work.

Our total charitable expenditure grew by £8.9m,
to £235.9m (a 4% increase compared with a 2%
increase in our income).

A more positive investment market towards the
end of the financial year resulted in losses from
earlier in the year being recovered and a final
gain of £6.0m for this year.

Total
expenditure

£335.7m

([] £235.9m Charitable activities
O £88.0m Trading, including shops

(9 £11.4m Fundraising
HM £0.4m Other costs

Donations
income by source

£4A7m |
“

a

J £18.4m Legacies

1 £16.8m Donations and gifts
from the general public

Ei £6.5m Donations from
companies and trusts

Total
income

£326.1m

() £187.3m Fees and Grants
£93.1m Trading, including shops

0 £41.7m Donations, gifts in wills
and other fundraising

Hl £4.0m Investments, property
development and other

strategy area |

|

{| £107.0m Families needing support to give
their children the best possible life chances
0 £45.9m Children in care and care leavers
£16.8m Children and young people struggling
with their mental health and wellbeing
O £14.0m Children and young people
at risk of sexual abuse and exploitation
 £2.5m Children and young people
at greater risk of poor health

HE £1.1m Children and families seeking sanctuary
in the UK

Income has been allocated to the most relevant

strategic area, bul, lo note, our services may
cover more than one strategic area.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 43

44 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Our pension schemes

Barnardo's is the employer sponsor of the
Barnardo's Staff Pension Scheme (BSPS), which
is a defined benefit pension plan. It closed to
new members in 2007 and stopped the further
accrual of benefits to existing members in

April 2013. The Financial Reporting Standard
(FRS) 102 valuation position on 31 March 2024
shows a deficit of £57.6m, compared to £55.2m
(restated) in 2023. This increase in deficit was
caused by: a) a change in asset values, linked to
the current valuation method, after adjusting for
net contributions paid and scheme expenses;
and b) a change to the 2022-23 deficit, due to
an adjustment to the previous valuation method.
These factors together led to a £91m actuarial
loss in year, recognised in our statement of
financial activities.

The assumptions used for calculating these
FRS 102 pension disclosures are different from
those used for the last triennial valuation, which
is carried out separately by the Trustees of the
Barnardo's Staff Pension Scheme. On 31 March
2021, using the technical provisions valuation
basis for their last triennial valuation, the scheme
Trustees valued the deficit at £146m and the
funding level was 84%. The difference between
the last triennial actuarial valuation and the

FRS 102 valuation demonstrates the volatility

in calculating long-term pension liabilities.
Neither calculation is right or wrong. They are
both snapshots of the situation at particular
moments in time and are highly sensitive to
changes in the financial market. They also
highlight the difference between the more

conservative assumptions used for the triennial
valuation and the ‘best estimate’ assumptions
used for the FRS 102 calculations.

The FRS 102 valuation uses lower inflation and
higher interest and discount rate assumptions
and both of these lead to a lower calculation
of pension liabilities.

The ongoing triennial valuation is used

to calculate the payment of the pension
contributions. This is currently based on the
deficit reduction/recovery plan agreed between
the Board of Trustees of Barnardo’s and the
Trustees of the Barnardo's Staff Pension
Scheme following the 2021 triennial valuation
process. The next triennial valuation, based on
our assets and liabilities as at 31 March 2024,
is currently underway.

In the previous triennial valuation, Barnardo's
has agreed to pay £10.7m per annum for

13.5 years from 1 April 2021. This deficit
reduction plan, which is soon to be refreshed,
should ensure that the deficit reduces over

a number of years as additional pension
contributions are paid. The Trustees see the
pension scheme deficit as a long-term liability,
where the payments required by the pension
plan will need to be met from forecast future
cash flows. An agreed investment strategy is
being implemented with the Pension Scheme
Trustees, allowing for a lower risk asset
portfolio but one which still retains potential
for investment growth.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 45

Our position at the end of the year

Reserves are represented by the fund balances in the balance sheet

on page 81.

The target level of our reserves is determined
by balancing two objectives:

1. Maintaining sufficient free reserves to enable
us to continue our work when faced with
difficult financial circumstances; and

2. Making sure we maximise the resources
used for charitable purposes.

This means our reserves level needs to be
adequate to allow us to address potential
deficits that may arise from our charitable
activities, investments, trading and other
activities. It also needs to give us sufficient
time to adjust our approach to meet changing
circumstances without unnecessarily removing
funds from addressing our charitable purposes.
The Covid-19 crisis, recent geo-political events
and the resulting inflationary pressures are
perfect examples of the need for us to maintain
a healthy reserves balance. Our reserves have
made sure we were able to maintain stable
operations, whilst continuing to protect front
line services for children and young people
over the past few years.

46 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

The group balance sheet shows a net asset
position of £76.8m, compared with £89.5m
(restated) in 2022-23, after adjusting for the
pension liability. It also shows unrestricted
reserves (reserves that don’t carry any
restrictions on how they can be used) of
£88.7m (2022-23: £103.1m). Please refer

to note 32 for details of the prior period
adjustment and its impact on reserves and
net assets.

In carrying out our assessment of available
reserves, we exclude our pensions reserve

as it relates to a long-term liability and fixed
asset fund, because it relates to tangible and
intangible fixed assets that are used in service
delivery and fundraising. We also exclude any
funds that are designated for a specific purpose.
This gets us to our ‘free reserves’; the resources
we have available if we need them.

At end of 2023-24 we had free reserves of
£33.7m (2022-23: £49.3m), as explained below:

2023-24 2022-23

Unrestricted reserves
before pension
reserve adjustment
(per balance sheet on
page 81)

Less: fixed asset fund | (£35.2m)

Less: designated
funds set aside by
Trustees for specific
purposes

£88.7m £103.1m

{£30.9m)

(£19.8m) (£22.9m)

Total free reserves £33.7m £49.3m
Free reserves have reduced due to the
planned deficit that was run during the year.
Free reserves are planned to recover towards

£40m during 2024-25.

In the 2022 financial year, the Trustees approved
two designated funds which are excluded from
the free reserves calculations noted above:

1. A specific risk pension reserve of £16m
which will be used to cover deficit reduction
payments to the defined benefit pension
scheme for at least 18 months in times of
challenge. This will give the charity breathing
space to change its operations without having
to immediately cut the provision of vital
services. We are yet to make use of this fund.

N

. A £10m technology fund to invest in our
digital priorities over a three year period.
We utilised £3.1m of this fund in both 2022-23
and 2023-24 in completing the replacement
of several significant technology platforms.

We have a total of £19.8m remaining in these
two funds at 31 March 2024.

The Board of Trustees assesses the risks
Barnardo’s could be exposed to and the
appropriate level of reserves that we should
maintain. With the setting up of a specific risk
pension reserve, protecting us against the risk
of not being able to make additional deficit
reduction payments in time of crisis, we adjusted
our target reserves range in 2023-24 to between
£37.8m to £50.4m, with a specific target of
£42m. This means that we ended this financial
year below our target reserves range. This was
forecast from early in the year when it became
clear that there was a downturn in retail footfall
and consumption, and actions were taken to
mitigate the worsening performance without
impacting our front-line delivery during the year.

We have a medium term budget strategy in
place that sees us deliver actions that return
our free reserves to within the target range
during the next financial year.

This includes actions to improve our retail
margins, reduce overhead costs and refine
our children’s services delivery model.

Giving due consideration to the blend of risk,
including income reduction, falling investment
values, fluctuations in our pension liability, and

a continued challenging external economic
environment, we have decided to retain the
same reserves range and target for 2024-25; we
review this each year when setting the budget.

Our unrestricted reserves assessment also
excludes the £45.8m (2023: £41.7m) held in
restricted and endowment funds.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 47

Our investments

Barnardo's investment portfolio is managed by
three investment managers: Sarasin, CCLA and
Ruffer LLP. Investments are held in a range of
asset classes (a group of investments which
are subject to the same regulations) including
equities, fixed-income securities, commodities
and cash.

Barnardo's is committed to ethical investments.
In particular we are careful not to invest in
companies that are considered to exploit
children in the manufacture, production or
delivery of their products or services. The
equities funds we use do not invest in arms
manufacturers, or companies who receive
more than 10% of revenues from alcohol, arms
manufacturing, gambling related products
(which differ from lotteries), home-collected
credit, oil sands, tar sands, thermal coal,
pornography or tobacco, and businesses that.
do not meet minimum standards for responsible
marketing, as determined by and with the
investment manager (such as FTSE4 Good
Index criteria) on the marketing of breast milk
substitutes.

Our Investment Policy Statement targets a total
return of Consumer Price Index (CPI) + 3.5% over
a rolling five year period net of fees. We report
on performance each month to our Executive
Leadership and quarterly to Trustees. We also
meet regularly with our investment managers
and determine if any changes are required to

our portfolio or investment approach.

48 | Barnardo’s Annual Report 2023-24

Performance across our portfolio was as follows:

2023-24 2022-23

£’m £'m
At beginning of year 98.0 | 80.0
Net (disposals)/
additions (0.5) 22.8
Realised/unrealised
gain/(loss) on 6.0 (4.8)
investments

_Cash withdrawals (4.0) -

At end of year 995 ‘ 98.0

We withdrew cash totalling £4m during the
year to ensure resilience in our cash balances.
This withdrawal was part of a £6m addition we
made in 2022, so we are still holding slightly
more in our investment portfolio than we did
prior to entering the pandemic period. We also
generated £3.4m of income, which was a
small increase from the £3.1m received in the
prior year. Included in this income amount

is interest generated by placing cash not
immediately required for day-to-day running
costs on short term deposit.

The investment portfolio includes restricted
capital along with endowment funds, for which
Barnardo's has received an order, signed by

the Charity Commission which enables the
unapplied total return to be transferred to
unrestricted funds. This return is included in net
gains or losses on investments and is calculated
as the difference between the market value of
the funds and their indexed value (from 1 April
1976 or date of donation if later).

Barnardo’s also holds an investment property
which is included in the end of year investments
value of £99.5m.

Acting as a custodian Trustee on behalf
of others ©

Included in the restricted and endowment
funds are two charities that are independently
registered with the Charity Commission.
These are the ACW Edwards Charity
(registration number 247678) and Egerton .
Will Trust (registration number 272973), for
more information refer to page 106. A number
of constituent charities are also registered
with the Charity Commission. Funds are

held separately from Barnardo’s. The objects
are closely aligned to Barnardo’s so these
charities have been included as if they
represent restricted funds of Barnardo's
which is in accordance with the Charities
SORP (as custodian Trustees and with Charity
Commission consent).

Our grant making policy |

We award grants to young people from our
various trust funds. During 2023-24 we made
more than 800 grants totalling £0.3m. Any
person supported by Barnardo’s under the

age of 25 can apply, subject to completion of
our application process and basic due diligence
exercised on behalf of the charity. There are

a number of areas that can be funded, including
education and training, leaving care, poverty
and hardship, and disability.

Our commercial activities

We carry out commercial activities to raise
funds to achieve our charitable objectives.
During this year, our subsidiaries generated

a net income of £3.0m, compared with £3.6m
in 2022-23. The net income (profit) of each
subsidiary is given to Barnardo’s through

a qualifying charitable donation which is
reflected in these financial statements.

Barnardo Trading Limited generated a profit
of £2.6m, compared with £2.9m in 2022-23,
from its mail order, publishing and retail
activities during the year. Barnardo's total
retail and trading activities (including the sale
of donated goods in Barnardo's shops, which
is accounted for as part of the charity’s
activities) produced a surplus of £4.7m,
compared with £17.8m in 2023.

Barnardo Developments Limited’s principal
activity is the development and sale of
properties that are no longer required for
charitable use. The company generated a loss
of £0.1m during the year, this compared

with £0.5m profit in 2023 (profit in 2022-23
generated by releasing a provision of £0.5m
which was no longer considered necessary).
Activity was minimal this year as we focused on
other strategic priorities. One property remained
in the subsidiary for sale, albeit we are in the
process of completing the sale of this post year
end at the market value.

Barnardo Events Limited runs special events

to raise additional funds for Barnardo's. The
company generated a profit of £83k during the
year, compared with a profit of £27k in 2022-23.
This company ceased to trade on 30 June 2024
and all existing contracts have been transferred
to Barnardo Trading Limited.

Barnardo Services Limited provides a range
of services for children and young people

in conjunction with local authorities, health
authorities and similar bodies. The company
generated a profit of £0.5m during the year,
compared with £0.4m in 2022-23.

Adoptionplus offers adoption placement and
specialist therapy services. The company
generated a loss of £0.1m for the year, compared
with a loss of £0.3m in 2022-23.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 49

Going Concern

During 2023-24 we continued work from the
previous year and undertook to invest our
reserves in several high priority areas including
in our service delivery, workforce and essential
information systems, Whilst our underlying
financial performance was slightly worse than
we had budgeted we proactively managed the
reduction in our free reserves throughout the
year, mitigating impact, and have ended the
year with our free reserves being just below
our reserves strategy target range.

We carry out a robust medium term budget
setting strategy each year during the third and
fourth quarters of the year. This sets a three-
year budget process, including a detailed
operational budget for the coming 12 months.
Before 2023-24 had ended we were already
busy delivering on actions that are required to
deliver the charity's new strategy and to return
our free reserves to within the target range.
As noted above this will include focus on our
retail profitability, our overhead costs and our
children’s services operating model.

We have also prepared scenarios and
identified areas where we will take further
action if required.

As well as our free reserves, we also hold
cash and unrestricted investment holdings.
Whilst we did spend down some of our cash
balances during the year we ended the year
with £11.8m of cash, and £99.5m of long-term
investment assets.

We also hold designated reserves totalling
£19.8m that provide £3.8m additional resources
to be spent on optimising our use of technology
and data, as well as £16m that is held separately
for our ongoing obligations to our pension fund.

50 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Although the economic environment is
challenging, with our new Strategy coming

to life with a brand refresh and a focus on
simplification, we are taking the necessary steps
to ensure our continued financial resilience.

We will continue to closely monitor the impact
of Government decision-making on its funding
to the sector and specifically the services we
provide, along with assessing the state of the
economy.

Given the strength of our balance sheet (see
page 81) - and the availability and liquidity of
the charity’s free cash reserves and unrestricted
investments — the Trustees have not identified
any material uncertainty that would cast doubt
on the charity’s ability to continue. Looking
ahead for next three years, our cash flows .
supported by our unrestricted investments
remain strong and have been stress tested.

This includes a reverse stress test that considers
the extent that our revenues could fall and our
expenditure increase (with no other corrective
action being taken) before it would put more of
a strain on the charity as a going concern.

The challenges of the last few years have been a
good test of our resilience, and the way we have
responded as a charity gives a great deal of
confidence in our going concern assertion.

Barnardo's Annuai Report 2023-24 | 51

Our principal risks and uncertainties

The Board of Trustees has responsibility for
ensuring that there are adequate and effective
risk management protocols and systems of
internal controls in place to manage Barnardo’s
major risks and support the achievement of
our strategic objectives. This responsibility

is discharged by reviewing the strategic risks
at each meeting and a formal annual review
by the Board of Barnardo's risk management
and internal control framework. The Board is
supported in its assessment by the Risk and
the Audit & Finance Committees, which both
meet quarterly.

Barnardo's risk management framework is
designed to support informed decision-making
regarding the risks which may affect the
achievement of its objectives. It also provides

a consistent approach to identifying, assessing,
and dealing with the risks which Barnardo's
faces to ensure that they do not exceed the
level of risk Barnardo's is willing to accept. The
framework is designed to manage, rather than to
eliminate, the risks to objectives and to provide
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against
material misstatement or loss. Processes are in
place to manage the key risks that could affect
Barnardo’s ability to achieve its objectives,
including the following:

52 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

« Arisk escalation protocol, to identify risks
at department and regional level and ensure
that, where applicable, these are included in
the ‘Corporate Risk Register’, which is subject
to regular Corporate Leadership Team and
Trustee review.

The Risk Committee approves the annual
risk-based internal audit, inspection and
independent safeguarding plan, and reviews
regular audit reports on internal controls
and risk management across the charity and
its subsidiaries. In addition, the Committee
performs ‘deep dives’ (in-depth analysis) to
target and improve the management of key
strategic risks.

Regular ‘horizon scanning’ exercises by the
charity’s senior management team, identifying
risks and emerging trends to ensure we are
equipped to adapt.

A framework of delegated authority,

with detailed procedures setting out the
governance and decision-making process
for key corporate decisions.

A whistleblowing policy, which is
communicated to and accessible by all
Barnardo's colleagues including volunteers,
this includes an external, confidential
whistleblowing helpline. All whistleblowing
cases are subject to independent review, and
investigation by the Audit & Assurance team.

Information relating to the principal risks to
Barnardo's objectives and how these are
managed is set out opposite:

Principal risks How these risks are managed

Safeguarding children and
young people

" The Risk — Inadequate or ineffective

' safeguarding policy or practice

, that could result in, or contribute
to, serious harm or injury to a child
or a young person. This represents
Barnardo's most critical risk given
the nature of our work. Barnardo’s
gives its full attention to every child
and young person, and never turns

” away complex cases. By virtue of this
approach of working with some of the
most vulnerable children and young

_ people in society there are significant
challenges to making them safer and
this increases the level of inherent risk
we Carry in our day to-day operations.

1. A dedicated safeguarding team, led by the Head of

Corporate Safeguarding, reporting to our executive
Director for Children’s Services and links with a
dedicated safeguarding Trustee lead.

. Clear safeguarding reporting mechanisms as set out

in our safeguarding policy, including Safeguarding
Lead roles in all departments and regions.

. Formal governance and reporting structures

established, including named safeguarding leads
at Trustee and Executive level, with regular meetings
of Safeguarding Leads.

. Escalation protocol for all relevant incidents to the

Head of Corporate Safeguarding, executive-level
Safeguarding Lead and Risk Cammittee

. A safeguarding specific induction (including pre-
_employment checks), supplemented by mandatory

safeguarding training, for all paid and unpaid
colleagues (the depth of training required depending
on role).

. Reviews of serious cases and implementation

of lessons learned.

Regular independent reviews of safeguarding
practices across Barnardo's, performed by
safeguarding specialists, with implementation
of required improvements.

. Systematic quarterly consideration of serious incident

reports which require notification to the regulator.

. Safeguarding Universe and Annual Assurance

Slalemant processes and governance, this enables
comprehensive view ot Safeguarding risks and
assurance activity to allow effective mitigation.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 53

Principal risks

Financial Performance
and Sustainability

The Risk — A significant reduction
in available resources due to:

« External economic or environmental

factors (for example: high levels
of inflation effecting running costs).

« Government policy and/ or changes
in statutory funding environment
(e.g. reduced available funding
for children’s services given Local
Authority deficits.

« Reputational damage as a result
of any safeguarding issues.

« Other internal or external ‘crises’
leading to unexpected reduction in
income or increased expenditure
(for example global conflicts).
These risks undermining our ability
to meet the needs of service users
and to invest appropriately in order
to achieve our strategic objectives.

Pension Liabilities

The Risk — The defined benefit
pension scheme deficit increases
due to actuarial valuations and
Barnardo's is required to supplement
the increased deficit. This severely
impact the resources available for
strategic aims and to withstand any
future crises.

54 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

How these risks are managed

1.

2.

3.

4.

We have strict financial controls including:

Monthly cash flow forecasting.

Sensitivity analysis and stress-testing of

short-to-medium term scenario plans, including

periodic inflation risk reviews.

« Regular review and additional levels of approval
for payments, and expenditure.

Holding of a significant value of ‘free’ reserves, with

a monthly review to ensure they remain within the

target range set by the Audit & Finance Committee.

Annual budget setting and then quarterly full charity

re-forecasting processes, including review and

challenge from senior management and Trustees.

Regular engagement with external parties and

research to understand likely trajectory of political,

economic and environmental factors that could

materially impact our resources.

. Regular review and scrutiny of financial performance

(short and medium term) by senior management and
Trustees through the Audit & Finance Committee.

. Delegated approvals process, ensuring Trustee

review and scrutiny of material income and
expenditure contracts and transactions.

Focus on diversifying our contract portfolio

and income to spread risk. This includes growing
income outside of commissioned delivery.

. Agreement of an affordable long-term recovery

plan with the Scheme Trustees, including making
overpayments to reduce the scheme liability and
reduce future costs.

. Ongoing monitoring and review {including annual

desk-based valuations) of Scheme liabilities, review
of assumptions, and reporting to Trustees.

. Ongoing relationship with the Scheme Trustees.
. Review and monitoring of the Scheme investment

strategy and returns including attendance at the
Scheme’s quarterly Investment Finance Covenant
Cunirnittee.

. BSPS (defined benefit) scheme is now closed to

new colleagues and to further benefits accural.

-Principal-risks How these risks are managed

Change Management,
Systems and Technology

The Risk - Inability or lack of

_ Capacity to implement change and
complete priority projects, leading
to reliance on sub-optimal systems
and technology.

. Reputation Management

The Risk — A range of incidents
or events that may consequently
damage our reputation.

1. Significant investment in our Information Technology.
infrastructure and transition to cloud services.

2. Modernisation of our finance and HR systems.

3. Robust governance arrangements are in place
including oversight from Trustee, Corporate
Leadership Team, Corporate Programme Board,
and specific Boards for key projects.

4. Effective programme, project, change methodologies

are utilised throughout the lifecycle of change.
These include a comprehensive project management
toolkit, change readiness assessment, portfolio
approach to change, post project lesson learnt
reviews and independent internal audits on
specific projects.

5. Comprehensive wellbeing support in place for
colleagues affected by change.

1. Sign-off and review processes for content on our
external facing channels.

2. Reputational risk framework including Advocacy
Policy to assist in making decisions on speaking
out on controversial topics, and to act as a clear
statement of our thinking.

3. Escalation of any potential reputational risks to
Trustees.

4. Circulation of reputation management incident
forms to relevant stakeholders and a range of ‘crisis’
escalation measures.

5. Established reporting threshold to the Charity
Commission.

6. Proactive planning for potential reputational risks,
for example, clear Q&As in advance, support and
advice for operational communications colleagues.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 55

Principal risks How these risks are managed

Cyber Security 1. Mandatory and bespoke Data Protection and
Information Security training, awareness and
* The Risk — Inability to maintain simulation exercises.
‘ appropriate level of information 2. Information Security Policy Framework and
security or quality assurance to Compliance Reviews.
meet regulatory demands. 3. Investment in Tech Infrastructure, and the delivery

of the Data and Insight Strategy.

4. 1S02/001 accreditation.

5. Cyber Essentials Plus accreditation.

6. Regular audit reviews

7. IT security controls, including Muiti Factor
Authentication, anti-virus/malware software,
firewalls, security threat scanning, software
patching and data backups.

8. Incident response process in place including
lessons learned reviews.

9, Information Governance Framework.
People and Culture 1. People and Culture Strategy — Five core strategic
deliverables to achieve ‘belonging’.
The Risk — An organisational culture 2. Regular Happiness Index Colleague Survey and
that is not an enabler in the pursuit targeted actions following detailed analysis of results.
of our strategy and objectives. 3. Proactive and open internal comms, and trust in
leadership

4, Corporate-wide behavioural framework including
basis and values, traits and actions, management
actions and leadership traits.

5. Refreshed values and behaviours.

6. Specific action plans to improve Risk, Data and EDI
culture — EDI metrics objectives and measures agreed
by EDI sub-committee.

7. Specific action plans to improve Risk, Data and EDI
culture - EDI metrics objectives and measures agreed
by EDI sub-committee.

8. Relaunched Colleague Voice forums.
9. Dedicated Colleaque Experience team.

56 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Plans for future periods

In the 2024-25 financial year, we are sharply focused on operationalising
our new three-year Strategy, as well as our new brand. This includes
making progress against our new theory of change, and using our
resources as effectively and efficiently as we can to help change

childhoods and change lives.

In the 2024-25 financial year, we are sharply
focused on operationalising our new three-year
Strategy, as well as our new brand. This includes
making progress against our new theory of
change, and using our resources as effectively
and efficiently as we can to help change
childhoods and change lives.

Our work is focused on the key pillars of our
new Strategy:

« Delivering excellent and inclusive services
across the UK.

* Changing policy, practice and systems.
¢ Changing attitudes towards childhood.

Taken together, these pillars will enable us
to achieve tangible, demonstrable change
for children today, whilst also driving fonger-
term, transformative change that will benefit
generations of children to follow.

In everything we do, children and young
people’s voices and experiences remain at
the very heart of our evidence and actions.

Thematically, we will focus on the seven
populations of children, young people and
families described in our Strategy: (children and
young people in poverty; struggling with mental
health and wellbeing; at risk of poor health; at
tisk of sexual abuse and exploitation; children in
care and care leavers; and families needing help
to give their children the best life chances).

Alongside our commissioned work, we

will continue to use our charitable income

as Strategically as possible. This includes
responding to urgent and changing needs of
children and young people, through our Child
Poverty Fund.

To help achieve our strategic aims, we will
further develop and roll out our new Outcomes
Framework, which will help us to better
understand, describe and communicate the
positive difference we are making for children
and young people. It will also help us to
generate vital evidence to inform our work with
commissioners, support our fundraising and
enhance our ability to influence decision making

- — nationally and locally.

We will continue to build strong partnerships —
believing that we can achieve more when we
work together with others from all sectors who
share our values and ambition for children.

This includes optimising our new brand to re-
introduce the charity to a broad general public
audience, as well as building even deeper
relationships with our existing supporters.

Underpinning all our work, we remain committed
to supporting our colleagues, including with a
renewed focus on learning and development,
relaunching our EDI colleague networks, and
new ways to engage our people.

To ensure we can deliver on our Purpose and the
priorities in our new Strategy, we will continue

to focus on ensuring we are fit for the future
operationally. This means continuing to develop
our ways of working and optimising our efficiency.
Specifically, we are working to ensure that:

¢ Our cost base is appropriate to support our
long-term ambitions.

« We receive income from our commissioned work
that reflects the value of the services we deliver.

« We generate as much net income as possible
from our commercial activities (including retail)
and our fundraising.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 57

Our Structure, Governance
and Management

Barnardo’s is a company limited by guarantee (registered in England and
Wales, company number 61625). It operates throughout the UK and is a
charity registered in England and Wales (Charity Commission registration
number 216250) and in Scotland (Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator
registration number $CO37605).

Barnardo's is governed by its Articles of New Trustees are selected through an open
Association, last revised in 2018. The Articles recruitment process, which includes advertising,
of Association set out the charitable purposes a targeted recruitment search and a panel
for public benefit in the following terms: interview process that includes engagement
— with children and young people from Barnardo’s
1. To promote the care, safety and upbringing programmes. New appointees are given a
of children and young people by: personal induction programme, tailored to

their areas of expertise and governance
obligations. All Trustees have access to a range
of training opportunities to help them meet

* supporting and assisting those in need,
along with their families and carers;

* promoting their health; and their responsibilities. The balance of Trustees is
. . . kept under review to make sure there is a range
* advancing their education. of skills, diversity and geographical spread.

The Board of Trustees also places particular
emphasis on appointing individuals who bring
specific identified skills and experience.

2. The relief of those in need by reason of age,
ill-health, disability, financial hardship, or any
other disadvantage.

The Board of Trustees met five times for

The Board of Trustees, elected by the charity’s scheduled meetings in 2023-24.

Members at the Annual General Meeting, are

the charity’s trustees and the legal Directors A written schedule of matters is reserved

of the company. Members of the Board of for decision by the whole Board of Trustees.
Trustees serve a three-year term, after which This includes:

they are eligible for re-election for a maximum

of two further three-year terms in all but « the formulation and implementation of the
exceptional cases. organisational Strategy;

* overseeing the implementation of the Strategy
through annual operating plans and budgets;

« monitoring progress of the Strategy; and

* accepting ultimate responsibility for the sound
professional, legal an financial management of
the charity.

58 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Matters not reserved for decision by the Board
of Trustees are delegated either to one of the
Board sub committees or to the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive and members of the
Corporate Leadership Team are detailed on
page 117.

The charity’s governance arrangements are kept
under regular review to make sure the Board of
Trustees, its sub committees and its governance
structures and procedures are fit for purpose as
the charity and environment evolve.

f

1. Principle 4.5:
A comprehensive review and updates
to the schedule of Board reserved
matters ta align with best practice
aid to simplify content;

. Principle 5.5:
Trustee performance management —
the implementation of a new policy
and process for board, committee and
individual Trustee performance review;

The Board has adopted the Charity Governance
Code (the Code) for larger charities. The Code
provides an internal benchmark for the charity’s
governance arrangements and as recommended
by the Code the Board instructs an external
organisation to undertake an independent
review of its performance and effectiveness
every three years and the next review will take
place in 2025. In addition to the detailed work on
the new Strategy there have been four principal
areas of focus for charity governance during
2023-24 that relate to key Principles of the Code
as follows:

3. Principle 5.6-5.7:
Trustee recruitment — the implementation
of a new Trustee recruitment policy that
records key principles and inain stages
in the process (including a robust skills
and diversity audit, external search and
selection process that includes an interface
with children and young people);

. Principle 7:
A comprchenaive review ef memilsersliiy
governance arrangements in consultation
with existing members and in the context of
a wider review uf slakeliulder engagement
and accountability as part of the new
Strategy.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 59

The remit of the sub-committees, which generally meet quarterly, include:

Committee Remit

Number of
meetings

Chair

Audit and .
Finance
Committee

Children and .
Young People’s
Services

Committee

Equality Diversity +
Inclusion (EDI)
Committee

Income .
Generation
Committee

Risk Committee .

People .
Committee
(Nominations and
Remuneration)

Overseeing, monitoring and keeping under
review the financial position of the charity and
its subsidiaries to make sure there is long and
short-term viability.

Reviewing the charity's overall Strategy and risk
tolerance parameters to make sure published
financial information and related and supporting
narrative information has integrity, is balanced
and transparent.

Oversees the annual external audit, scrutinises
the external auditor’s report and makes
recommendations to the Board on the
appomtment/removal ot the auditors.

Making sure that Barnardo's safeguards and
meets the needs of children, young people, their
families and carers, now and in the future, by
delivering high performing, high-quality services

which achieve the best impact and outcomes

and are compliant with regulatory requirements.

Oversees and monitors the effectiveness of
the charity's approach to EDI and its aim of

embedding EDI fully in all its work and in its
culture.

Overseeing Barnardo's approach to generating
sufficient and sustainable income to meet its
needs today, and in the future.

Overseeing Barnardo's arrangements in relation
to fundraising compliance.

Making sure that Barnardo's has effective
internal control and risk management systems
and is operating within its agreed risk appetite,
approved polioics and the law.

Making sure appointments to the Board of
Trustees and the remuneration of members

of the Corporate Leadership Team and other
colleagues are responsibly managed, consistent
with the Barnardo's strategic objectives and its
Basis and Values.

Oversees Trustee governance arrangements in
the areas of conflicts of interest, induction and
training and performance review.

60 | Barnardo's Annuaf Report 2023-24

per year

Dennis
Hone
(Treasurer)

Penny
Thompson
(Deputy
Chair)

Briony
Ladbury

Meredith
Hunter/
Anne-
Cécile
Berthier

Neil
Crockett

Mark Wood
(Chair)

In September 2023 a new Trustee sub-group
was set up for the purpose of strengthening
the oversight of the Charity’s investments on
behalf of the Audit and Finance Committee.
It meets on a quarterly basis.

The National Advisory Boards (NABs) for
Scotland, Northern Ireland and Cymru/Wales
comprise volunteers whose local knowledge,
experience and networks maximise Barnardo's
ability to change children’s lives in those nations.
Barnardo’s remains a single UK charity, but
these NABs provide targeted strategic support
and advice to the delivery of Barnardo’s UK
Corporate Strategy in the relevant nation.
Following a review of the NAB model by
Trustees in consultation with the NABs, updates
were made to clarify respective roles and
responsibilities and strengthen engagement
with the Trustees.

Our Royal Patron

Our Patron, Her Majesty the Queen, continued
to support Barnardo’s in 2023-24. We are
extremely proud of our connection to the
Royal Family which dates back to 1902.

Board of Trustees
A list of Trustees is shown on page 117.

Barnardo's activities extend across all four UK
nations: England, Scotland, Northern Ireland and
Cymru/Wales. Our Children’s Services work is
managed in regions covering Central England,
Cymru and South West England, South-East
England and London, North England, Scotland
and Northern Ireland.

Responsibility for operational activities is
allocated to five directorates: Children’s
Services; Barnardo's Trading Companies;
Business Services; Fundraising and Marketing,
and the Chief Executive's Directorate (covering
People & Culture and Strategy & External Affairs.)

“Remuneration policy

Barnardo's has three sister charities: Barnardo's
Republic of treland, Barnardo's Australia and
Barnardo’s Aotearoa (formerly Barnardo's

New Zealand). Each is a locally registered
organisation with its own governing body.

These charities use the Barnardo's name under
licence from Barnardo's in the UK. Their financial
activities aren't included in the accompanying
accounts as they are wholly independent of
Barnardo's in the UK.

We made the following transactions with related
parties during the year, contributions to the
Barnardo’s pension scheme disclosed in note
28, payments to key management personnel
disclosed in note 12, payment of trustees
expenses disclosed in note 11 and transactions
with Barnardo’s subsidiaries.

To deliver our charitable aims and meet the
needs of children, young people, families and
other stakeholders, Barnardo’s employs a
significant number of colleagues alongside the
vital support from our volunteers. We recognise
and value the unique worth and contribution

of every colleague and are committed to
making sure we pay our colleagues a fair and

- appropriate salary, while always making sure we

can afford to do so. This is informed by the local
labour market.

In April 2023 Barnardo's was proud to

publish its second Diversity Pay Gap report,
bringing together data and analysis on our
gender, ethnicity, and disability pay gaps, and
introducing reporting on the gap for colleagues
who identify as LGB+. This is an important
step, in line with our charity’s values and our
commitment to creating an environment where
all colleagues can belong, grow, and thrive.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 61

In 2023-24 we made a significant investment
in our pay and reward framework, to help
make sure our offer was fair, attractive and
progressive. This included intervention

to remove inconsistencies in pay andhas _
helped to reduce pay gaps linked to Protected
Characteristics. Our Diversity Pay gap
reporting is available in full on our corporate
website.

Barnardo’s has a single UK wide trade union
recognition agreement with UNISON. In April
2023 we introduced a new Pay Framework with
a new approach to Pay, Reward and Recognition
as guided by our ‘Pay Philosophy’ of three
core principles: Fair, Attractive, and Progressive
and will be enabled by a new and simpler grade
. and band architecture, new processes and a
broader concept of reward. In addition to the
significant investment in pay through the new
pay framework, where the majority of our
colleagues received a salary increase, Barnardo's
also agreed an additional 4% pay award to all
colleagues, to reflect market conditions. This
went beyond the Living Wage Foundation and
Minimum Wage hourly rate increases. Ordinarily
our pay rates are informed primarily by charity
sector data. We recognise that charity pay is
often lower compared to similar roles in the
public or private sector. In the spirit of fighting
‘in work’ poverty and child poverty, we aim to
pay a decent wage to all, especially those in our
lowest earning pay ranges.

The People Committee makes recommendations
to the Board for approval. The Board ultimately
approves the annual pay settlement for all
eligible staff once we have reached a final
negotiation point with Unison. In accordance
with the Charities Statement of Recommended
Practice (SORP) we:

62 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

« disclose all payments to Trustees (no Trustees
are paid) and expenses reimbursed (detailed in
note 11 to the accounts);

« disclose the number of staff in receipt of £60k
and above (in bands of £10k) (note 12 to the
accounts);

+ disclose the aggregate remuneration of the
Corporate Leadership Team;

« disclose any payments made to CLT or
Trustees which are outside of the normal
employment contract;

« disclose pensions and other benefits (note 13
to the accounts).

The Board approves the annual pay settlement
for all paid colleagues. The People Committee
meets four times a year. Members of the
Committee include the Chair, Honorary
Treasurer and up to four more Trustees.

No members of the Executive are members

of the Committee. The Committee's main
responsibilities are set out on page 60. It’s

the Committee’s responsibility to consider

the remuneration of the Chief Executive and
members of the Corporate Leadership Team,
as well as to set the pay policy for all paid
colleagues and agree the basis for any annual
increases in pay. The Board and the People
Committee operate within the powers and
constitutional arrangements as set out in the
Articles of Association and Committee terms of
reference. When making recommendations, the
Committee will draw on relevant internal and
external information about staff remuneration
provided by Barnardo’s management team. Paid
colleague remuneration doesn’t include any
share options or long-term incentive schemes.
The Chief Executive and other members of

the Corporate Leadership Team all need to
give at least 26 weeks’ notice to terminate
their contracts of employment. The pension
provisions for the Corporate Leadership Team
are on the same terms as other colleagues.

Public benefit

In setting plans and priorities for areas of work,
our Trustees have followed guidance from the
Charity Commission on the provision of public
benefit, in accordance with Section 17 of the
Charities Act 2011.

In particular, the Trustees consider how
activities will contribute to meeting the
objectives they have set. They focus on the
services that will deliver the greatest impact to
the most vulnerable children and young people.
In delivering these services, we clearly identify
the benefits to children, young people and their
families. We then monitor progress to make sure
our services are having a positive impact on
children and young people, as planned, and to

" learn any lessons that can be used to improve
the services.

We have demonstrated how Barnardo's delivers
its principal charitable object — to promote the
care, safety and upbringing of children and
young people in the Impact Report section

of this Annual Report. This forms part of the
Trustees’ report and sets out Barnardo's
objectives, highlights our achievements and
examples of activities delivered in the year.

By providing services that support and empower
children, and by campaigning for changes to
Government policy that will improve children’s
lives, Barnardo's helps the children and young
people most in need of support to reach their
full potential. The wide-ranging and substantial
impact of our work is demonstrated on pages 7
to 23. Our work benefits the whole of society, as
well as those who use our services. In this way,
Barnardo's meets the public benefit requirement
as set out in Section 4 of the Charities Act 2011.

Activities in Scotland

Barnardo’s is registered with the Office of the
Scottish Charity Regulator (OSCR) and has a
National Advisory Board to provide advice and
guidance on all aspects of activities in Scotland.
During the year, Barnardo's provided 166
services throughout Scotland, with over 11,600
children, young people, parents and carers
accessing these in 2023-24.

Further detail about our activities in Scotland is
included throughout the report.

Serious incident reporting to charities
regulators

Barnardo’s operates strong procedures for the
reporting of serious incidents to its charities
regulators that include a robust internal process
for assessing and escalating incidents that

are potentially notifiable. The procedures are
reviewed every two years. This year we held

a meeting with representatives of the Charity
Commission, England & Wales (CCEW) as an
opportunity to share our approach to reporting
and make updates as a result. During the
financial period 2023-24 Barnardo's reported
four incidents to the CCEW. These included

one data breach incident, two safeguarding
incidents and a fundraising complaint. {n all
cases the CCEW was satisfied with the charity's
response to these incidents and there are no
outstanding actions.

Registered office

Our registered office of the charity and its
subsidiaries is Barnardo’s, Tanners Lane,
Barkingside, Ilford, Essex, IG6 1QG.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 63

64 | Barnardo’s Annual Report 2023-24

Our Sustainability Report

As acharity, we're committed to reducing our environmental
footprint to help preserve the planet for the children and young

people across the UK.

We know that climate change is one of the
most fundamental concerns for our young
beneficiaries, and they expect us to take
action and play our part.

In 2021, we set ourselves the goal of fostering
a culture that integrates sustainable practices
into every aspect of our operations. Our vision
is to drive significant and positive changes,
ultimately enabling us to reach our ambition
of becoming Net Zero by 2050 or earlier.

We have started our journey towards greater
sustainability by assessing our current
environmental impact and setting short, medium
and long-term action plans and clear targets

to measure our progress in five key areas:

« Energy: reduce Barnardo's overall carbon
emissions and energy consumption across
our property portfolio. co

¢ Transport: decrease overall carbon emissions
from Barnardo's commercial and fleet vehicles.

« Travel: reduce overall carbon emissions from
colleague travel.

« Procurement: increase Barnardo’s compliance
with responsible and sustainable procurement
standards.

« Recycling: increase Barnardo's waste
efficiency across its services and operations.

We understand that environmental change
disproportionately affects disadvantaged
communities. Last year we took part in external
research, working with over 40 social and
environmental charities to understand more
about the role we can play as a charity and the
specific relevance to children and young people.
We are now working with others to implement
some of these recommendations, including by
‘baking in’ sustainability considerations as we
look to develop new approaches to our direct
work. An early example is reducing the need to
update and reprint marketing materials through
the use of QR codes.

Key sustainability initiatives for 2023-24
are listed below.

Energy:
« We rolled out Energy Efficiency Training,

which was completed by 761 colleagues.
We have split our training into two courses:
core, and specialist.

— Core training is for everyone and focuses

on how individuals can affect climate change
both positively and negatively, and helps

to empower colleagues to reduce their
environmental impact.

— Specialist training is for colleagues who

have responsibility to drive change as part
of their role and seeks to equip them with
practical knowledge, tools and action plans.

We have also run awareness campaigns
across the charity to educate colleagues on
the importance of reducing our energy usage
throughout the charity, sharing easy to follow
hints and tips, for both work and home.

We maintain a central contract ensuring that ail
electricity we receive is sourced from Ofgem-
certified renewable providers. This contract
has enhanced the clarity and accuracy of our
data reporting and monitoring processes.

AS part of our ongoing commitment to
sustainability, energy efficiency, and regulatory
compliance, we have conducted a survey of
selected properties across our portfolio under
the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme.

The insights gained from this comprehensive
scheme will be instrumental in guiding our
future decisions, ensuring the implementation
of the most effective strategies to reduce
energy consumption and enhance our
environmental performance.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 65

Travel and Transport:

« We continue to review how our colleagues
travel to, for, and from work, promoting
sustainable travel through the ‘Travel hierarchy’
~ which shows which forms of transport are
most sustainable.

« Over the next 12 months our Transport and
Logistics team will be beginning to transition
our current fleet of internal combustion
engine (ICE) vehicles to either hybrid or full
electric. We will be looking at installing charge
points across the property portfolio for our
colleagues, customers, and visitors.

Procurement:

« Procurement training is now available to
all colleagues, which helps us embed more
sustainable procurement practices across
the charity.

¢ Inrecent years we have strengthened our
Supplier Code of Conduct to encourage
our suppliers to meet (or exceed) our
examples, and commitment to sustainability.
We will continue to evolve and develop
our procurement policies and procedures
where necessary.

66 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Reduce, Reuse, Recycle:

« We continue to champion sustainability
through our recycling practices. We have
recycled 446.49 tonnes across 92% of our
stores on our retail central waste contract.

By working with our consumable suppliers
for our retail practices, we have been able to
reduce our order frequency numbers across
retail, reducing emissions generated through
deliveries. We also, where possible highlight
more sustainable products across all areas
of ordering.

We have enabled The Works customers
to donate new and pre-loved goods to be
resold in Barnardo's Stores.

« We have recently launched our first
Re-Fashion Hub pop-up in our Bradford
Superstore, we have used items that are
unable to be sold in their current condition
and give them a new lease of life. The hub
is designed to be zero waste and generate
further income for the charity.

We have strengthened our Sustainability
Champions network, we have worked to
gain representation from across the charity
to help inform decisions, spread awareness,
and drive initiatives throughout the charity.

Our Sustainability Programme continues to
develop and evolve at pace, as we learn more
on our journey to Net Zero. With the utilisation
of technology throughout the charity, we able
to gather more data with increased accuracy,
enabling enhanced precision in measurement,
reporting and decision-making.

Our consumption

Barnardo’s has taken 2019-20 as our reporting baseline for carbon
emissions. Below is our consumption of Electric, Transport, Gas and other
fuels. These figures include all emissions required by the Streamlined

Energy Consumption Report (SECR).

All emissions required as part of our SECR reporting are included. These requirements do not
currently include energy consumption from home working, but we are hoping to capture this

in future.

Percentage difference between
2019-20 (baseline) and 2023-24

(tCo2e)

Percentage difference YOY
2022-23 & 2023-24 (tCo2e)

Following an extensive data review, Scope 1
and 2 consumption and the resulting emissions
for 2022-23 have been restated. Total
emissions for 2022-23 were 30,597,028 kWh,
6,158.80 tCO2e (previously stated 26,339,416
kWh, 5384 tCO2e). The overall intensity ratio
for 2022-23 is 0.85 tCO2e per FTE (previously
stated as 0.75 tCO2e per FTE). 2023-24 shows
a total of 5,550.19 tCO2e and 27,050,933 kwH
resulting in an intensity ratio of 0.80 tCO2e
per FTE.

All data and SECR reports have been developed
and calculated using the GHG Protocol -A
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard
(World Resources Institute and World Business

Council for Sustainable Development, 2004):
Greenhouse Gas Protocol - Scope 2 Guidance
(World Resources Institute, 2015); ISO 14064-
1 and ISO 14064-2 (ISO, 2018; ISO, 2019);
Environmental Reporting Guidelines: Including
Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting
Guidance (HM Government, 2019).

Government Emissions Factor Database 2023
version 1.1 has been used, utilising the published
kWh gross calorific value (CV) and kgCO2e
emissions factors relevant for the reporting
period 01/04/2023 - 31/03/2024.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 67

Year on Year Consumption data (KwH) Co2 Emission Year on Year (tCo2e)

Transport Ml Electricity [1 Gas & Other Fuels ! Transport MM Electricity [1 Gas & Other Fuels

2023-24 aaa! 2023-24 A
2022-23 a 2022-23
LS

|
2021-22 2021-22 es
LO Ls

21 |
2020-21} 2020-21
Ld

2019-20 | 2019-20
Ld
0 5,000,000 10,000,000 15,000,000 20,000,000

le) 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000

68 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

How we meet Section 172 of
the Companies Act 2006

Trustees must, in accordance with Section 172 of the Companies Act
2006, act in the way they consider, in good faith, would most likely
promote Barnardo's success and in doing so have regard (amongst other

matters) to the following:

The likely long-term consequences
of decisions

Trustees considered the likely long-term
consequences of key decisions taken throughout
the year, taking into account both the internal
and external operating environment and ©

the charity’s key stakeholder groups. Key
stakeholders include current service users,
supporters, donors, employees and volunteers,
children’s services commissioners, partner
organisations, regulators and the wider public.
Examples of key decisions taken this year that
demonstrated this approach included:

« The approval of a new three-year Strategy
following broad engagement with all key
stakeholders and informed by a detailed
analysis of trends and factors likely to have a
major impact on the lives of children, young
people and family for the next three years.

« The approval of a Medium-Term Budget
Strategy (MTBS) 2024-27 that coincides
with the period of our new Strategy provided
an opportunity to reevaluate all activity and
ensure alignment with our objectives. This
budget continued significant investment in
our services and reanalysed our allocation of
charitable funds against the priority areas of
our new strategy. In addition we have allocated
a total of £9.8m to a ‘strategic impact fund’
which will be spent on urgent support for
children and families living in poverty and
a small number of ‘signature programmes’
designed to drive long-term transformational
change for cohorts of children. The investment
in our colleagues as key stakeholders is
detailed further below.

The interests of employees

During the year, regular updates were provided
by the CEO and Executive Team to make sure
colleagues were kept up to date with the
charity’s performance, including the financial
and economic factors impacting this. Updates
were provided as written communications, video
messages and live question and answer sessions.

Equality, diversity and inclusion is another focus
for our engagement with colleagues. Barnardo’s
has a number of active networks — Disability
Network, LGBT+ Network, Race Equality Network
and Women’s Network. Representatives from
each network come together as part of our
Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Board, chaired
by the CEO. They meet quarterly to discuss
members’ interests and make sure that feedback
on relevant issues is given to senior management.

Our policy on the employment, training, career
development and promotion of disabled persons

Barnardo's recruitment policies ensure all applicants
who have a disability, impairment or mental health
condition, and who meet the essential criteria
for the role, are offered an interview. Once
appointed, an ‘accessibility passport’ is designed
to support discussions around removing any
barriers and maximising the potential of each
employee or volunteer in the workplace.

Trustees and the Corporate Leadership Team
have been actively involved in decisions
affecting colleagues, such as the decision to
give a Pay Award to paid colleagues in the year,
our new approach to Performance and Growth
and our wider support for colleagues.

The Board of Trustees, through its dedicated
committees, annually reviews the diversity pay
gap data and oversees the implementation of
the charity's Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
commitments. Our second Diversity Pay Gap
Report (covering gender, ethnicity disability and
for the first time LGB) was published in April
2024 (see details within our Remuneration Policy
on page 61).

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 69

Our business relationships with suppliers,
customers and others; maintaining high
standards of business conduct

During the year, Trustees and the Corporate
Leadership Team has overseen the work
we do with key suppliers to make sure our
procurement process builds positive and
effective relationships. This includes ongoing
due diligence and regular benchmarking of

~ services. We have a Supplier Code of Conduct
and due diligence processes in areas such as
modern slavery, sustainability and equality,
diversity and inclusion (EDI), proactively ensuring
that our suppliers meet the required standards
throughout the entire relationship. We use a
similar approach in managing our relationships
with our customers, based on transparency,
focus on delivery, and our values.

Fundraising

Barnardo's runs a wide range of fundraising
activities to raise voluntary donations for our
direct work with children and families. Our Board
of Trustees and Corporate Leadership Team are
deeply committed to building relationships and
trust with our supporters and to encourage more
people and partners to join the Barnardo’s family.

Our Income Generation Committee meets
regularly to provide oversight of this work and our
fundraising programmes, and to make sure we're
compliant and using best practice in these areas.

We're members of the Fundraising Regulator
and the Chartered Institute of Fundraising
and we engage widely within the sector to
support measures to increase public trust and
confidence.

In addition to our staff and volunteer-led
fundraising, we use agencies to help deliver
face-to-face, telephone and other direct
marketing activities (for example direct mail).
External agencies who act in this capacity on
our behalf are required to do so in a respectful
manner and in accordance with our standards
and sector regulation such as the Fundraising

70 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Code of Practice. We fundraise with corporate
partners who are required to comply with the
Fundraising Code of Practice and the terms set
out in our corporate fundraising/commercial
participator agreements.

We recognise the need to monitor the
performance and compliance of our agencies
and providers. We involve ourselves in their
training with regular briefing and refresher
sessions, also involving our colleagues. Our
quality assurance also includes regular reviews
of complaints and other feedback, as well

as regular audits, appropriate safeguarding
measures, mystery shopping and shadowing
of agency fundraisers.

We're particularly aware of the need to protect
vulnerable individuals in any fundraising we
undertake. Our ‘Vulnerable Persons Guidance’
sets out the high standards we commit to

meet and we work regularly with third party
agencies and fundraisers to review their policies,
procedures and performance.

We have received and responded to 179
fundraising complaints for financial year
2023-24, this is an increase of 88 complaints
from the previous year. The increase is linked

to arise in face-to-face fundraising activities.
Earlier this year we undertook a review of our
face-to-face fundraising arrangements to

ensure adherence to updated guidance from

the Fundraising Regulator following their market
inquiry into the use of subcontractors in this area.

We continue to address any expression of
dissatisfaction on the part of our supporters
and other members of the public, and to
examine ways to improve the quality of our
service to them. Our Supporter Care team
looks at each complaint we receive. We aim
to resolve complaints speedily and to the
satisfaction of our supporters. Our complaints
procedure is available on our website with all
relevant contact details.

Our impact on the community and the
environment

Trustees and the Executive are committed

to minimising any negative impact our work
has on our communities and the environment.
We regularly identify ways to reduce our
environmental impact and carbon footprint and
have put together a sustainability action plan,
which is set out in our sustainability report on
page 65.

Acting fairly between members of the charity

Barnardo's, as a charitable company limited

by guarantee, is run to deliver its charitable
objects rather than further the interests of its
members (guarantors). Barnardo’s has currently
39 members who are composed principally of
existing Trustees, former employees and former
Trustees, all of whom have equal status and
voting rights under the charity's constitution.
During the financial year Barnardo's undertook
a review of its membership arrangements to
consider alternative options going forward in the
light of wider engagement and accountability
mechanisms in place with other stakeholder
groups. The review also considered the Charity
Governance Code, external benchmarking in
the sector and best practice. The resulting
proposals are currently under consultation with
the membership ahead of the 2024 AGM. The
proposals include: (i) improved engagement
with members including invitations to Q&A
sessions with the CEO and in-person events;
and (ii) updating the charity’s articles to retire
independent members, leaving the Trustees as
the Charity’s sole legal members going forward.

Acknowledgements

The Trustees would like to thank the many
friends and supporters of Barnardo’s for their
donations and bequests. They would also like
to thank the thousands of volunteers who

give their time so generously. Barnardo’s has
also benefited from gifts in kind, free loans of
property, preferential rent and part-relief from
rates, which have been provided by companies,
legal firms, organisations, local authorities and
individuals. Particular gifts and grants and pro-
bono support are acknowledged in accordance
with their terms on pages 113 to 115.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 71

att

STATEMENT
OF TRUSTEES’
RESPONSIBILITIES


Statement of Responsibilities of the

Trustees of Barnardo’s

The Trustees are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which
incorporates the Strategic Report, and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Trustees to prepare
financial statements for each financial year in
accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom
Accounting Standards and applicable law).
Under company law, the Trustees must not
approve the financial statements unless they
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of the group and charity
and of the incoming resources and application
of resources, including the income and
expenditure, of the group and charity for

that period.

In preparing these financial statements, the
Trustees are required to:

¢ select suitable accounting policies and then
apply them consistently;

e make judgements and estimates that are
reasonable and prudent;

¢ state whether applicable accounting standards
have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements;

¢ prepare the financial statements on the
going concern basis unless it is inappropriate
to presume that the charity will continue in
business.

The Trustees are responsible for keeping
adequate accounting records that show and
explain the charity's transactions and disclose
with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the charity and enable them
to ensure that the financial statements comply
with the Companies Act 2006.

They are also responsible for safeguarding
the assets of the charity and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Financial statements are published on the
charity’s website, in accordance with United
Kingdom legislation that governs the preparation
and dissemination of financial statements. This
may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Trustees are responsible for the maintenance
and integrity of the Group's website. They are
also responsible for the ongoing integrity of the
published financial statements.

The Trustees confirm that, so far as they are
aware, there is no relevant audit information

of which the charity's auditor is unaware. They
have taken all the steps that they ought to have
taken as Trustees in order to make themselves
aware of any relevant audit information and to
establish that the charity’s auditor is aware of
that information.

This Annual Report is signed by the Chair on
behalf of the Board of Trustees. The Trustees
also approved the strategic report, which is
contained within this report, in their capacity
as company directors.

By order of the Board of Trustees.

Muweecl

—

Mark Wood, Chair of Trustees

The Annual Report was approved by the
Board of Trustees on 26 September 2024
and authorised for issue on 23 October 2024.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 73

INDEPENDENT
AUDITOR'S
REPORT


Independent Auditor's Report to the

Members and Trustees of Barnardo's

Opinion on the financial statements
In our opinion, the financial statements:

* give a true and fair view of the state of
the Group's and of the Parent Charitable
Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2024
and of the Group's incoming resources and
application of resources or the year then
ended;

have been properly prepared in accordance
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice; and

have been prepared in accordance with the
requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the
Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland)
Act 2005 and regulations 6 and 8 of the
Charities Accounts (Scotland) Regulations
2006, as amended.

We have audited the financial statements of
Barnardo's (“the Parent Charitable Company”)
and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) for the year
ended 31 March 2024 which comprise the
consolidated statement of financial activities,
the consolidated and charity balance sheets, the
consolidated cash flow statement and notes to
the financial statements, including a summary
of significant accounting policies. The financial
reporting framework that has been applied in
their preparation is applicable law and United
Kingdom Accounting Standards, including
Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and
Republic of Ireland (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice).

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with
International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs
(UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities
under those standards are further described in
the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements section of our report. We
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our opinion.

Independence

We remain independent of the Group and the
Parent Charitable Company in accordance with
the ethical requirements relevant to our audit of
the financial statements in the UK, including the
FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with
these requirements.

Conclusions retated to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have
concluded that the Trustees’ use of the going
concern basis of accounting in the preparation
of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we
have not identified any material uncertainties
relating to events or conditions that, individually
or collectively, may cast significant doubt on
the Group and the Parent Charitable Company’s
ability to continue as a going concern for a
period of at least twelve months from when the
financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of
the Trustees with respect to going concern are
described in the relevant sections of this report.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 75

Other information

The Trustees are responsible for the other
information. The other information comprises
the information included in the Annual Report,
other than the financial statements and our
auditor's report thereon. Our opinion on the
financial statements does not cover the other
information and, except to the extent otherwise
explicitly stated in our report, we do not express
any form of assurance conclusion thereon. Our
responsibility is to read the other information
and, in doing so, consider whether the other
information is materially inconsistent with

the financial statements or our knowledge
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to
be materially misstated. If we identify such
material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine
whether there is a material misstatement in the
financial statements or a material misstatement
of the other information. If, based on the work
we have performed, we conclude that there is a
material misstatement of this other.information,
we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Other Companies Act 2006 reporting

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in
the course of the audit:

« the information given in the Trustees’ Report,
which includes the Directors’ Report and the
Strategic report prepared for the purposes
of Company Law, for the financial year for
which the financial statements are prepared is
consistent with the financial statements; and

« the Strategic report and the Directors’ Report,
which are included in the Trustees’ Report,
have been prepared in accordance with
applicable legal requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding
of the Group and the Parent Charitable
Company and its environment obtained in the
course of the audit, we have not identified
material misstatement in the Strategic report

or the Trustees’ report.

76 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

We have nothing to report in respect of the
following matters in relation to which the
Companies Act 2006 and the Charities
Accounts (Scotland) Regulations 2006 requires
us to report to you if, in our opinion:

* proper and adequate accounting records
have not been kept by the Parent Charitable
Company, or returns adequate for our audit
have not been received from branches not
visited by us; or

« the Parent Charitable Company financial
statements are not in agreement with the
accounting records and returns; or

« certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration
specified by law are not made; or

« we have not received all the information and
explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of Trustees

As explained more fully in the Trustees’
responsibilities statement, the Trustees (who are
also the directors of the charitable company for
the purposes of company law) are responsible
for the preparation of the financial statements
and for being satisfied that they give a true and
fair view, and for such internat control as the
Trustees determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the
Trustees are responsible for assessing the
Group’s and the Parent Charitable Company’s
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing,
as applicable, matters related to going concern
and using the going concern basis of accounting
unless the Trustees either intend to liquidate the
Group or the Parent Charitable Company or to
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative
but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of
the financial statements

We have been appointed as auditor under
section 44(1)(c) of the Charities and Trustee
Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 and under the
Companies Act 2006 and report in accordance
with the Acts and relevant regulations made or
having effect thereunder.

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial
statements as a whole are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,
and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit
conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will
always detect a material misstatement when it
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or
error and are considered material if, individually
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions
of users taken on the basis of these financial
statements. ,

Extent to which the audit was capable of
detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances

of non-compliance with laws and regulations.
We design procedures in line with our
responsibilities, outlined above, to detect
material misstatements in respect of
irregularities, including fraud. The extent to
which our procedures are capable of detecting
irregularities, including fraud is detailed below:

Non-compliance with laws and regulations
Based on:

« Our understanding of the Group and the
sector in which it operates;

« Discussion with management and those
charged with governance;

« Obtaining and understanding of the Group’s
policies and procedures regarding compliance
with laws and regulations;

we considered the significant laws and
regulations to be FRS 102 and the Charities
SORP 2019, UK tax legislation, Fundraising
Regulations, Charities Act 2011 and the
Companies Act 2006.

The Group is also subject to laws and
regulations where the consequence of non-
compliance could have a material effect on

the amount or disclosures in the financial
statements, for example through the imposition
of fines or litigations. We identified such laws
and regulations to be the health and safety
legislation, Ofsted, Children Acts 1989 & 2004,
the Children and Young Person Act 2014 and
the Social Services and Well Being Act.

Our procedures in respect of the above
included:

« Review of minutes of meetings of those
charged with governance for any instances
of non-compliance with laws and regulations;

» Review of correspondence with regulatory
and tax authorities for any instances of
non-compliance with laws and regulations;

« Review of financial statement disclosures and
agreeing to supporting documentation; and

« Review of serious incident reports raised in
the year.

Fraud

We assessed the susceptibility of the financial
statements to material misstatement, including
fraud. Our risk assessment procedures included:

¢ Enquiry with management and the Audit and
Finance Committee regarding any known or
suspected instances of fraud;

Obtaining an understanding of the Group’s
policies and procedures relating to:

¢ Detecting and responding to the risks of
fraud; and

* Internal controls established to mitigate risks
related to fraud.

Review of minutes of meeting of those charged
with governance for any known or suspected
instances of fraud;

Discussion amongst the engagement team
as to how and where fraud might occur in the
financial statements;

Performing analytical procedures to identify
any unusual or unexpected relationships that
may indicate risks of material misstatement
due to fraud;

Barnardo’s Annual Report 2023-24 | 77

Based on our risk assessment, we considered
the areas most susceptible to fraud to be
management override of journals posted into
the financial system, management override of
the judgements and estimates within the Group
and the recognition of income.

Our procedures in respect of the above
included:

« Testing a sample of journal entries throughout
the year, which met a defined risk criteria, by
agreeing to supporting documentation;

Involvement of forensic specialists in the
audit to assist in determining the most likely
areas fraud would occur in the group;

Assessing significant estimates made by
management for bias, in particular the
assumptions used to value the defined
benefit pension scheme; and

Incorporating unpredictability into our testing
approach through amending the nature and
extent of audit procedures. °

We also communicated relevant identified laws
and regulations and potential fraud risks to all
engagement team members and remained alert
to any indications of fraud or non-compliance
with laws and regulations throughout the audit.

Our audit procedures were designed to
respond to risks of material misstatement in

the financial statements, recognising that the
risk of not detecting a material misstatement
due to fraud is higher than the risk of not
detecting one resulting from error, as fraud

may involve deliberate concealment by, for
example, forgery, misrepresentations or
through collusion. There are inherent limitations
in the audit procedures performed and the
further removed non- compliance with laws and
regulations is from the events and transactions
reflected in the financial statements, the less
likely we are to become aware of it.

78 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

A further description of our responsibilities

for the audit of the financial statements is
located at the Financial Reporting Council's
("FRC's”) website at: https://www.fre.org.uk/
auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms
part of our auditor's report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the Charitable
Company’s members, as a body, in accordance

‘with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act

2006, and to the Charitable Company's trustees,
as a body, in accordance with the Charities
and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that
we might state to the Charitable Company's
members and trustees those matters we

are required to state to them in an auditor’s
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or
assume responsibility to anyone other than the
Charitable Company, the Charitable Company’s
members as a body and the Charitable
Company’s trustees as a body, for our audit
work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.

Fiona Condron
(Senior Statutory Auditor)
25 October 2024

For and on behalf of BDO LLP, statutory auditor,
Gatwick, UK.

BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership
registered in England and Wales
(with registered number OC305127).

- FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS


Consolidated Statement of Financial Activities

Unrestricted Restricted Endowment

Note funds funds funds Totai2024 Total 2023
‘ £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
a wee a, (AS restated) |
Income from: :
Charitable activities i 4 182,892 4,420 - 187,312 184,490
Donations and legacies 5 32,677 9,005 - 41,682 39,511
Other trading activities { 6 93,071 - - 93,071 87,887
Development and sale of properties - 8 40 -
Investments ; 9 2,512 890
Other 1 10 627
Total Income i ; 31819 14315 =
Expenditure on: |
Raising donations and legacies ' 9,639 4,722 - 71,361 13,889
Other trading activities 7 88,116 - - 88,116 71A75
Investment management costs 320 = 63 383 245 |
g . en ne Set 2 Sei

Raising Funds _ 98,075 1722, 63 __99,860_ 85. 309. .

Expenditure on: ; - an : .

“Service provision . 1 7 216,856 11,427 ~ 228,283 220,350
Informing the public about the need for our work | 6,027 - - 6,027 5,706

Childcare research and education

Charitable Activities

—— = + a en
Total expenditure ‘ _ 3225 508 _ 13149 _312, 350 :
Net (expenditure) /income before investment | (10,689) 1,166 (63) (9,586) , 2,902
gains and (losses)

Net gains/(losses) on investments i 15 2,981 - 3,019 6,000 (4,869)
Net (expenditure)/income before other | 14 (7, 708) 1,166 (3,586) “a, 967)
realised losses . to oo. - ee em
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme_|_13 (9,100) Se (9100, (17,000)
Net movement in funds me (96,808) 1,166 2,956 _ (12,686) (18,967)
Total funds brought forward $ w=. A784 8247 _ 32,437 | 89,531 108.498
Total funds carried forward 1 26 31,039 10,413 35,393  76,845_ 89,531

All of the above results relate to continuing activities. The notes on pages 84 to 111 form part of these
financial statements. The prior year consolidated statement of financial activities is shown as note 31.

80 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Balance Sheets

Group Charity
2024 2024 2023
I £000 £000 £000 £000,
t : _(As reatated) (As restated)
Fixed Assets ‘ {
Intangible assets i 16 1,603 - 1,603 -
Tangible assets + 17 33,751 31,045 33,740 31,026 |
Investments 97,959 - 98,810 97,3041
= SS
129,004 . 134,153 128,330 °
Current Assets ! |
Stocks 4 19 4,556 3,134 - -
Debtors ' 20 50,629 43,898 47,801 39,543
Current asset investments ‘ 21 9,005 24173 9,005 21,074
Cash at bank and in hand : 22 2,753 10,237 12,897
—_ =:
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year i 23 (58,239)
Net current assets : 23,203 24,829 |
————_------- wOmwknwrvxKeeee—_ca ST SS Se ee = S roa)
Provisions i 24 ; )____—*7,396) = (6,408) ~— (7,396)
—_- : a (So epee Sd
Net assets excluding pension reserve _ 144811 13 145,763
Pension liability 1 13 (57,680) (55,280) (57,680) (55,280) j
1
eae a ee SS Ss Se
Net assets including pension reserve ‘ 76,845 89,531 77,730 90,483 |
Fund balances : t
Endowment funds ! 26(a) & (b) 35,393 32,437 35,393 32,437
Restricted funds L ee, 10,413 9,247 10,413 _ 9,247
Fixed assets fund ' 26(c) & (e) 35,180 30,872 35,169 30,852
Designated fund t 19,849 22,949 19,849 22,949 |
General reserve : 26(d) & (e) 24,351 48,037 25,247 49,009 |
Revaluation reserve i 9,339 1,269 9,339 1,269
i
Unrestricted funds excluding pension reserve , 88,719 103,127 89,604 104,079 {
cr ee ee I
Pension reserve +13 ___ (57,680) (55,280) (57,680) __—_—(55,280)
Total unrestricted funds including pension reserve ae 31,039 __ 47,847 | (31,924 48,799 ,
Total funds 126 (d) & (e) 76,845 89,531 77,730 90,483

Approved by the Board of Trustees on 26 September 2024 and authorised for issue on 23 October 2024 and
signed on its behalf by:

Nuits Que

Mark Wood Dennis Hone, CBE
Chair of Trustees Honorary Treasurer

23 October 2024
The notes on pages 84 to 111 form part of these financial statements.
Company Number 61625

In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, a separate income and expenditure account dealing
with the results of the charity only has not been presented. Gross income of the charity of £264.6 million and net
expenditure of £10.7 million (2023: net income £15.5 million) has been dealt with in the accounts of the charity.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 81

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

Note 4 023
£000 __ _ £000 £000 000}

Cash flows from operating activities: ‘ i
Net cash used in operating activities
ee

Cash flows from investing activities: : \

investment income and interest 9g 3,402 3,113
Purchase of intangible fixed assets ; 16 (1,663) - :
Purchase of tangible fixed assets 17 (6,595) (5,112) i

Purchase of investments - (21,142)
Sale of investments ‘18 4,469 - 1
Sale of tangible fixed assets t 676 560 .
se A -= Eee Se
Net cash generated from/(used by) investing activities . 28 (22,581) ‘
" a ee te

Decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the year (22,652) __ £28,803) |

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year
Held as current asset investments , 24,173
Held as bank and cash

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year
Held as current asset investments
Held as bank and cash

Please refer to the analysis of changes in net debt (note 28).

Consolidated Summary Income
and Expenditure Account

The summary income and expenditure account is presented in order to ensure compliance with the
Companies Act 2006. The major difference in the figures presented from those in the consolidated
statement of financial activites is that endowment funds are not recognised.

Note 2024 2023
‘ £000. _——_—s« £000!
Gross income ! 1
Gross income of continuing operations ' 265,486 256,036 :
Income of non-charitable trading subsidiaries 3 60,648 59,216 }
Realised gains/unrealised (iosses) on investment assets t 15 2,981 (2,403)
‘ 329,115 . 312,849 :

Total expenditure of continuing operations 4 278,066 256,618 ‘
Expenditure of non-charitable trading subsidiaries 3 57,591 55,694
A ae .S- FSSs

226,667 - 312,312

Reconciliation to statement of financial activities: :
Net (expenditure)/income for the year ‘ (6,542)
1

Less: Realised gains/unrealised (losses) on investment assets 15 (2,981)
Movement on restricted capital and endowment funds 1 25 (a) (63)
ne me
—— et =
Net (expenditure)/income before investments ! (9,586) 2,902

82 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

~ NOTES TO THE
ACCOUNTS


1. Accounting policies

Basis of preparation

Barnardo's is a private company limited by
guarantee (registered in England, company
number 61625). It operates throughout the

UK and is a charity registered in England

and Wales (Charity Commission registration
number 216250) and in Scotland (Office of the
Scottish Charity Regulator registration number
$C037605). It is governed by its Articles of
Association, last revised in 2018.

The accounts have been prepared in accordance
with applicable accounting standards in the
United Kingdom, Accounting and Reporting by
Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice
applicable to charities preparing their accounts
in accordance with the Financial Reporting
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of
Ireland (FRS102) (Charities SORP (FRS102) 2019)
and the Financial Reporting Standard applicable
in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS102),
together with the reporting requirements of the
Companies Act 2006, the Charities Act 2011,

the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland)
Act 2005 and the Charities Accounts (Scotland)
Regulations 2006.

Barnardo’s meets the definition of public benefit
entity under FRS102. Monetary values are
calculated under the historical cost convention,
as modified by the revaluation of investments.

Presentation currency

The functional currency of Barnardo’s and its
subsidiaries is considered to be in pounds
sterling as this is the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the organisation
operates. The consolidated financial statements
are also presented in pounds sterling.

Going concern

The Trustees have considered their obligations
to prepare these financial statements on an
appropriate basis, having specific regard to the
charity’s net asset position and looking ahead at
future plans and cashflows for at least 12 months
from the date of approval.

Given the strength of the balance sheet (see
page 81) and the availability and liquidity of the
charity's unrestricted investments and cash held
in the General Reserve, the Trustees have not
identified any material uncertainty that would
cast doubt on the charity's ability to continue as
a going concern. The last few years have been

a good a test of resilience, and the way we have

84 | Barnardo’s Annual Report 2023-24

responded as an organisation gives a great deal
of confidence in this assertion.

The charity ended the financial year in a good
position to withstand any further shocks and
continues to monitor its anticipated cash flows
over the next 2-3 years, carrying out reverse
stress tests and considering the impact of
government and economic changes closely.
The Trustees, therefore, as a result, consider it
appropriate for accounts to be prepared ona
going concern basis.

Basis of consolidation

The consolidated accounts of the group
incorporate the accounts of the charity and
its subsidiary undertakings, all of which were
prepared to 31 March 2024. Subsidiaries are
consolidated from the date when control
passes. The trading results of the subsidiary
undertakings as shown in note 3 are
consolidated on a line-by-line basis within the
consolidated statement of financial activities
(SOFA). Intercompany transaction and balances
between group companies are therefore
eliminated in full.

A separate SOFA for the charity is not presented
as permitted by the SORP and the Companies
Act 2006.

Parent charity disclosure exemptions

In preparing the separate financial statements of
the parent charity, advantage has been taken of
the following disclosure exemptions available in
FRS102:

1. The statement of financial activities and cash
flow of the charity have not been presented,
as disclosure has been provided in respect of
the group as a whole; and

2. No disclosure has been given for the
aggregate remuneration of the key
management personnel of the parent charity
as their remuneration is included in the totals
for the group as a whole.

Subordinate charities

Included in restricted and endowment funds

are assets held on behalf of trusts that are
constituted as separately registered charities.
These have purposes that are consistent with
the objects of Barnardo's and are under common
control. As such, their results have been included
in the consolidated statements presented.

Income

1. Fees, grants for service provision, statutory
and related funding are recognised where
there is evidence of entitlement, receipt is
probable, and the amount can be measured
reliably. Any amounts due at the year-end
are included as debtors within statutory
related funders.

2. Fee or performance-related grant income
which is invoiced or received that relates to
subsequent periods, or when other conditions
have not yet been met, is treated as deferred
income in note 23 to the accounts.

3. Donations (except in relation to legacies) are
accounted for when receivable.

4.Lottery income is recognised when receivable.

5. Income from pecuniary legacies is recognised
where grant of probate has been received, and
income from residuary legacies is recognised
where estate accounts have been finalised.
Income from wills or reversionary trusts of
property is not recognised until the life interest
has passed away and the property sale is at
an advanced stage. Income from ali other
legacies is only recognised where there is clear
entitlement, the amount can be accurately
measured and there is reasonable probability
of receipt. The receipt of legacies is considered
probable when probate has been granted, it
has been established that there are sufficient
net assets to pay the legacy and any conditions
attached to the legacy have been met or are
under the control of Barnardo's.

6. The value for gifts in kind, donated services
and donated facilities are recognised as
income when the charity has control over the
item or received the service, any conditions
associated with the donation has been met, the
receipt of economic benefit from the use by the
Charity is probable and that economic benefit
can be measured reliably. In accordance with
the Charities SORP (FRS102), general volunteer
time is not'recognised. More information about
our volunteer contribution is explained in the
Trustees’ Annual Report.

7. Income raised through the operation of shops
and related trading activity under the charity's
management is accounted for at the point at
which ownership of the goods transfers to
the customers. Estimated associated Gift Aid
is accrued at the point of sale. The income
claimed from HM Revenue & Customs is
recognised, and the accrual reversed, once
consent is obtained. Stocks of unsold donated
goods are not valued for balance sheet
purposes as it is not considered practical to
estimate the fair value due to the high volume
of low value inventory and the absence of
management information systems.

8. Income from the sale and development of
properties is recognised based on Barnardo's
share of profit on practical completion of
each sale.

9. Investment income is the amount receivable for
the year.

Expenditure

1. All expenditure is accounted for on an accruals
basis and irrecoverable VAT is included in
the relevant cost category. Support costs
incurred centrally are allocated to expenditure
categories listed below on the basis of their
use of corporate functions. Such allocations of
support costs are made on a basis consistent
with the use of resources. Further details
regarding support costs are disclosed in note 7.

2.Costs of raising voluntary funds are incurred
in relation to staff members who are engaged
in fundraising activities and the provision of
fundraising activities on Barnardo's behalf.

3. Expenditure on trading activities represent
expenditure incurred in the operation and
management of the Barnardo’s chain of shops
and other activities undertaken by Barnardo
Trading Limited.

4.Costs of developing and selling properties
represent expenditure undertaken by Barnardo
Developments Limited.

5. Direct service provision costs represent the
operational costs of service delivery.

6. Grants made include those that Barnardo's
makes to other organisations and grants to
young people through Barnardo's trust funds.
Grant expenditure is recognised once the offer
is communicated to the recipient.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 85

7. Informing the public about our work includes
the costs incurred in raising awareness of
childcare issues and Barnardo's activities in
relation to them.

8. Childcare research and education includes
policy reviews and activities to help educate
wider groups about relevant childcare issues.

9. All costs involved in terminating employee
contracts are accounted for on an accruals
basis and disclosed in aggregate in note 12.
Termination benefits are measured as the best
estimate of the expenditure required to settle
the obligation as at the reporting date.

Tangible Assets

Fixed assets are stated in the balance sheet at
their cost less depreciation. Expenditure of a
capital nature over £1,000 is capitalised. Profits
and losses on the disposal of properties are
recognised in the SOFA in the year of disposal.

Reviews are carried out when events and
changes in circumstances indicate that an
impairment may have occurred. If any asset is
found to have a carrying value materially higher
than its recoverable amount, it is written down
accordingly.

Intangible Assets

All intangible assets have finite useful lives.
Intangible assets comprise both purchased
and internally generated software and are
stated at amortised cost. Costs to develop
software internally are capitalised when it has
been established that the project is technically
feasible, there is the ability to reliably measure
the expenditure attributable to the intangible
asset during its development and Barnardo's
has both the intention and ability to use the
completed asset. The costs of internally
generated software relate to external contractor
and internal staffing costs in the development
phase and are stated at amortised cost.

Depreciation and Amortisation

Depreciation and amortisation are charged to
write off the cost or valuation of the assets,
other than land, over their estimated useful lives
and assume nil residual values. The estimated
useful lives and depreciation or amortisation
method are reviewed by class of asset at

each year end, with any changes in estimate
accounted for in current and future years.

86 | Barnardo’s Annual Report 2023-24

1. Depreciation of freehold and long-leasehold
properties is provided at the rate of between
two and four per cent per annum on their
cost or value. Short-leasehold properties are
amortised over the period of the lease. Major
components are treated as a separate asset
where they have significantly different patterns
of consumption of economic benefits and are
depreciated separately over its useful life.

2. Equipment and vehicles are depreciated
over their expected useful lives, which varies
between one and five years.

3.Intangible assets are amortised on a straight-
line basis over the estimated useful life of
the software, which varies between three
and five years.

Investments

Investments in subsidiaries are held at cost and
are assessed for impairment at each reporting
date. Investments, and those held as fixed
assets and current assets, are stated at their
market value as at the balance sheet date. Cash
held by investment managers is not considered
to be part of cash and cash equivalents. All
movements in value arising from investment
changes or revaluation (“unrealised gains”) are
recognised in the SOFA.

Realised gains or losses on investments are
calculated as the difference between the
disposal proceeds and the carrying value.

Revaluation of investment properties are
carried out each year by an external qualified
RICS registered valuer who has appropriate
knowledge, skills and experience to undertake
the valuation completely.

Stocks

Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and
net realisable value. At each reporting date,
inventories are assessed for impairment. If
inventory is impaired, the carrying amount is
reduced to the selling price less any costs to
complete and sell or put to nil if considered
unlikely will sell. The impairment loss is
recognised immediately in the statement

of financial activities.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash at
bank and in hand and short term highly liquid
investments with a short maturity of three
months or less from the date of acquisition or
opening of the deposit or similar account. This
includes investments disclosed in the balance
sheet as current asset investments. Current
asset investments include interest bearing
deposit accounts.

Debtors and creditors

Trade debtors and other debtors are recognised
at their transaction price less any allowance

for doubtful debts. Trade creditors and other
creditors are included at their nominal value
when there is a contractual obligation to settle.

Provisions

Provisions are liabilities of uncertain amount or
timing. They are recognised when the charity
has a present Jegal or constructive obligation
because of a past event, it is probable that an
outflow of a resources will be required to settle
the obligation, and the amount can be reliably
estimated.

Corporation tax

The subsidiary companies make qualifying
donations of all taxable profits to Barnardo's.
The company is a charity within the meaning of
the Finance Act 2010 (schedule 6, paragraph
1). Accordingly, the company is potentially
exempt from taxation in respect of income or
capital gains within categories covered by the
Corporation Tax Act 2010 (part 11, chapter 3)
or the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992
(section 256), to the extent that such income
or gains are applied exclusively to charitable
purposes. No tax charge arose in the period.

Capital grants

In accordance with the Charities SORP, grants
receivable are recognised immediately in

the SOFA unless they are restricted to future
accounting periods and, in which case, they
are recognised as a liability.

Operating leases

Rentals payable/receivable under operating
leases are charged/received on a straight-line
basis over the term of the lease.

Financial instruments

The group only has financial assets and financial
liabilities of a kind that qualify as basic financial
instruments. Financial assets, other than
investments, and financial liabilities are initially
measured at transaction price (after including/
deducting transaction costs) and subsequently
held at amortised cost, less any impairment.

Pension costs

For defined benefit schemes, in accordance with
FRS 102 section 28, the SOFA includes:

« the cost of benefits accruing during the year in
respect of current and past service (charged
against net income);

the actual return on plan assets less interest
on plan assets is included in actuarial gains
and losses within the movement in funds;

the increase in the present value of the
scheme'’s liabilities arising from the passage
of time (charged against net income);

interest on plan assets is credited to net
income/expenditure);

actuarial gain/(loss) recognised in the pension
scheme (shown within net movement in funds);
and

the pension finance charge, including pension
administration expenses, is directly allocated
to the various expenditure categories.

In accordance with FRS 102, the balance

sheet includes the deficit in the scheme taking
assets at their year-end market values and
liabilities at their actuarially calculated values
discounted using year-end AA corporate bond
yields. Further details regarding the scheme are
disclosed in note 13.

For defined contribution pension schemes,
pension costs are charged to the SOFA for the
period in which they are payable.

Fund accounting

Barnardo's has various types of funds for which
it is responsible, and which require separate
disclosure as set out below.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 87

Restricted income funds

Donations or legacies received, or income arising
from such, which are earmarked by the donor for
specific purposes. Such purposes are within the
overall aims of the organisation.

Restricted capital and endowment funds

Funds given to the charity where only the
income may be used for the charity's purposes.
In accordance with the Order signed by the
Charity Commission in 2003, the charity may
convert a proportion of the capital gain on
monies held by way of endowment into income
as long as the current indexed value of the
original endowment is maintained.

Unrestricted funds

Funds that are expendable at the discretion of
the Trustees in furtherance of the objects of the
charity, consisting of four specific types:

1. Fixed assets fund

This fund represents amounts invested in
unrestricted fixed assets for use by the charity.

2. Designated fund

This fund represents amounts set aside by.the
Trustees for a specific purpose.

3. Revaluation Reserve

This reserve represents unrestricted funds
held in an investment portfolio and investment
properties.

4. General Reserve

The working capital fund has now been
amalgamated into this fund.

5. Pension Reserve

This reserve represents the net pension liability
of the Barnardo Staff Pension Scheme, and

in accordance with FRS 102, is shown as a
reduction of total funds.

Critical accounting estimates and judgements

To be able to prepare financial statements in
accordance with FRS102, Barnardo’s must make .
certain estimates and judgements that have an
impact on the policies and the amount reported
in the annual accounts. The estimates and
judgments are based on historical experiences
and other factors including expectations of future
events that are believed to be reasonable at the
time such estimates and judgements are made.

88 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Significant judgements and estimates
* Legacy income recognition (note 5)

The receipt of legacies is considered probable
when probate has been granted, it has been
established that there is sufficient net assets
to pay the legacy and any conditions attached
to the legacy have been met or are under the
control of Barnardo's.

When the amount due is not stipulated, the
estimated amount due is calculated using a
set of criteria applied in a consistent way to
all legacies leaving a percentage or residual
amount to Barnardo's.

¢ Retirement benefit liability - defined benefit
scheme (note 13)

Year-end recognition of the liabilities under this
scheme and the valuation of assets held to fund
these liabilities require a number of significant
assumptions to be made, relating to levels of
scheme membership, rates of mortality, key
financial market indicators such as inflation

and expectations on future asset returns.
These assumptions are made by the charity

in conjunction with the scheme's actuaries.

¢ Provisions (note 7)

All provisions are estimated from a review of
expected costs based on historical data and
expected future likelihood of spend.

The most significant provision is for
dilapidations.

2. Subsidiaries

Adoptionplus is wholly owned by the Charity and Barnardo's owns the whole of the issued capital
amounting to £20,000 (20,000 ordinary shares of £1 each) of Barnardo Holdings Limited which in
turn owns the whole of the issued capital of the following subsidiaries:

Subsidiary Undertaking Company Reg No: Principal Activities

Barnardo Trading Limited 886425 Mail order and retailing
Barnardo Developments Limited 964920 Property development
Barnardo Events Limited 2270706 Sponsorship & special events
Barnardo Services Limited 1227919 Childcare services

Barnardo Garden Village Management 8652230 Property management
Company Limited

Subsidiary Undertaking Company/Charity Reg No: Principal Activities
Adoptionplus 6900397/1204419 Adoption agency

During the year there was no activity in Barnardo Holdings Limited. The net assets of Barnardo
Holdings Limited are £20,000.

Adoptionplus was registered as a charity on 21 August 2023, number 1204419 (England & Wales).

The subsidiary companies make qualifying donations of all taxable profits to Barnardo’s. No
corporation tax liability on the subsidiaries arises in the accounts.

Barnardo Garden Village Management Company Limited is not consolidated in the group accounts
as it is not material to the group accounts.

The registered address of all subsidiaries listed above is Barnardo House, Tanners Lane,
Barkingside, Ilford, Essex, IG6 1QG.

3. Trading subsidiaries’ results

Sarnardo Barnardo Barnardo Barnardo
Trading Developments Events Services Total Total
Limited Limited Limited Limited Adoptionplus 2024 2023
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
“Turnover ” _ = 9,578 40 124 50,393 027 G1,072 58,745
Cost of sales ~ _ (5,102) - - (50,393) (900) (56,405) (54,293)
“Gross profit/(deficit) - 4,476 40 134 - (63) 4,587 4,452
‘Gain. on revaluation oT _ - 25 - - - 25 35
Admin/other costs {1,879) (117) (51) (49) - (2,096) (1,401)
Trading profity(deficity ~~ 2,597 (52) 83 (49) (63) 2,516 3,086
“Other income - - - 503 - 503 47
“Net profit/(deficit) __ 2,597 (52) 83 454 (63) 3,019 3,557
“Amount payable by qualifying / (2,597) - (83) {454) - (3,134) (3,705)
charitable donation to Barnardo's
Retained loss foryear - (52) - - (63) (115) (148)
“Total assets 7 : , 4,452 1,19 104 7,468 289 13,430 12,836
“Total liabilities _ (4,442) aa (104) (7,465) (1,081) (14,263) (13,554)
, 10 - - - (728) (718) (570)

brought forward

Retained profit/loss carried 10 (52) - - {791) (833) (718)
forward and net assets

These results have been consolidated on a line by line basis in the SOFA, after consolidation adjustments.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 89

Barnardo Barnardo Barnardo — Barnardo
Trading Developments Events Services Adoptionpius Total
Limited Limited Limited Limited Limited

Turnover

Cost of sales (49,995)

Grocs profit
as

Gain on revaluation
‘Admin/other costs (1,401)
Trading profit/(loss) “3,086
Other income ram
Taxation i ee - ot
Net income ‘ t 492 (331) 3,557
Amount payable by qualifying charitable a (3,705).
donation to Barnardo's . we
Retained profit/(loss) for year 7 _ (331) . i (148)
Total assets 7 273 12,836

Total liabilities

Retained profit/(loss) brought forward

Retained profit/{loss) carried forward {728) (718)

and net assets i

These results have been consolidated on a line by line basis in the SOFA, after consolidation adjustments.

4. Income from charitable activities

2024 2023

Unrestricted Restricted Total restricted Restricted Total

_ £000 £000 £000 £000 £000. ~— enn
Family support & placement 1 : 291 97; ; 85,464 8 86,365
Education 31,583 a W 32,6 26,937 "679 27,616
Disability support 7427 "152 _ 8,538 — 140. “B,678
Government grants 12,483 2.6 2 12,483 2632 “15,118
Other services - 33,908 - ‘21 34, 127 : "46,284 a 6

182,892 4,420 187312 «179706

90 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

5. Income from donations and legacies

: - £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Legacies 16,507 1,943 18,450 17,960 1,253 19,213

: Donations and gifts from the general public 13,044 3,723 16,767 11,999 658 12,657
. Donations from companies and trusts 3.126 3,339 6,465 3,638 4,003 7,641
7 32,677 9,005 41,682 33,597 5,914 39,511

Legacies notified but not accrued at 31 March 2024, due to probability or measurable criteria not
being met, were £6.9m (2023: £5.8m).

6. Other trading income

Income from trading is £93.1m (2023:£87.9m). All income relates to unrestricted activities.

Trading income can be analysed into the following categories:

2024 2023

: £000 £000
Donated Income ; 70,407 68,112
Fundraising income 2,320 2,033
Gift Aid 6,807 6,921

, Gifts in Kind 7 ; 3,176 2,756
New Goods 7 . 8,880 7,334
Other income , 1,472 m1
Total 93,071 87,887

7. Expenditure

Grant funding Apportioned
Direct costs of activities support costs 2024 2023

: £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Raising donations and legacies 8,315 - 3,046 11,361 13,889
Other trading activities . 78,296 - 9,R20 88,116 FAAFS
Investment management Costs _ 383 - = 383 245
Total Raising Funds | 86,994 - 12,866 98,860 85,309
Service provision 205,149 309 22,825 228,283 220,350
Informing the public about the need 6,027 - - 6.027 5,796
for our work -
Childcare research and education 1,550 - - 1,550 985
Total Charitable Activities 212,726 309 22,825 235,860 227,041
Total Expenditure ; ; 299,720 309 35,691 335,720 312,350

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 91

£000
A SR
Raising donations and legacies 6,604
Other trading activities 67,290
Investment management costs . 245 = - 245
Total Raising Funds 74139 85,309
Service provision t 192,818 . 220,350
Informing the public about the need 5,706 - - 5,706
for our work ro ae ee
Childcare research and education 985 . > = 985
ed 2. See
Total Charitable Activities ' 199,509 264 27,268 227,041
eee eee eee ee et =
Total Expenditure 273,648 264 38,438 312,350

i IN

Total expenditure of £335.7m (£2023: £312.4m) included restricted expenditure of £13.2m (2023:
12.4m), of which £1.7m related to the cost of raising funds (2023: £1.0m) and £11.4m to service
provision (2023: £11.4m). Other trading activities expenditure of £88.1m (2023: £71.2m) included
£81.1m (2023: £66.2m) representing the costs of operating our 591 retail shops and £7.0m (2023:
£5.0m) for expenditure of Barnardo Trading Limited on costs of goods sold and other costs. Enil
(2023: £nil) has been incurred in developing and selling land surplus to the group’s requirements.

Support costs relating to the corporate functions have been allocated to the various categories

ona basis consistent with the use of resources as follows:

« Property — total sq/m occupied

« Information systems — % of technology spend

+ Human Resources — number of staff

« Finance, other corporate costs and governance - % share of resources

Where they could not be be allocated directly, they have been allocated based on a percentage

share of other costs.

92 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Raising donations Other trading Service

& legacies activities provision

£000 coou _ _ EUUO
Property ; - a - 3,560 oe 2.475
Information Systems _ : 650° - 3.118 _ ; 9,225
Human Resources —_ 7 144 ; 1910 — 7 5.022

—— a :o<- pane
Finance 866 289 _ 3,463
Other Corporate a 219° 107 - 514
Governance _ 4470 836 : | 2,126
oe 3,046 9,820° 22,825

Total 2024

Service
provision

Other trading
activities

Property
Information Systems
Human Resources

Finance

Other Corporate
Governance
Total 2023

8. Income from development and sale of properties

2024 2023

Turnover of Barnardo Developments Limited

Income relates to unrestricted activities.

£000 £000
40 40

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 93

9. Income from investments

Listed investments - United Kingdom rl _ 2189 2157"

Short term deposits

Rents and ground rents 390,
Other interest eee 24
- a ak CE me

H 3,402 3,113
[ne

The income from investments was £3.4m (2023: £3.1m) of which £2.5m is unrestricted income
(2023: £2.0m) and £0.9m (2023: £1.1m) restricted income.

10. Other income

Gain/{loss) on disposal of non property fixed assets . :

Gain on disposal of properties

’ 627 211

Allincome relates to unrestricted activities.

11. Members & Trustees

Barnardo's is a company limited by guarantee having no share capital and in accordance with clause
6 of the Articles of Association every member is liable to contribute a sum of £1.05 in the event of the
company being wound up. At 31 March 2024 there were 39 members (31 March 2023: 88).

Barnardo's trustees are all unpaid volunteers who give freely of their time and expertise to the Charity.
The time that they give to Barnardo’s ranges from around 15 to over 40 days per year depending on
their role on the board and on committees. These days cover preparation and attendance at board,
committee and planning meetings, Barnardo's service visits, special working groups, governance
groups required for regulatory reasons, briefings and training. During the year no Trustee received
any remuneration or benefits from the charity. Trustees often cover all their costs of travel and
accommodation incurred whilst on Barnardo's business. Actual expenses incurred amounted to
£3,034 (2023: £7,696) and included travel, subsistence and other related costs. The number of
Trustees claiming expenses was 3 (2023: 7).

Charities have to disclose where trustees or their related parties have made their donations to charity
with conditions attached. No such disclosable donations have been made to Barnardo's in the year
to 31 March 2024 (2023: £nil). Donations made without conditions attached were £1,119 in the year
to 31 March 2024 (2023: £100). The charity purchased insurance for Trustees and officers of the
company during the year to indemnify them against possible liabilities incurred by them in relation

to their duties. The cost of this insurance was £5,600 (2023: £5,600).

94 | Barnardo’s Annual Report 2023-24

12. Employees

The average number of employees during the year was:
Children’s Services

es -
Fundraisers, shop managers, Clerical staff and fundraising management ' 2.143 7 1.919

Central support services

Number of full time equivalent employees at the year end : 5,452 5,412
Fei A SR ES nn

i NO
a

The number of staff whose emoluments fell within each of the following bands was: +

£60,000 to £69,999 t 73 45
£70,000 to £79,999 1 30 22
£80,000 to £89,999 ’ 16 12
£90,000 to £99,999 au 10
£100,000 to £109,999 i 4 1
£110,000 to £119,999 2

£120,000 to £129,999 : 1 1
£130,000 to £139,999 5 1 1
£140,000 to £149,999 } - 1
£150,000 to £159,999 H 1 -
£160,000 to £169,999 - -
£170,000 to £179,999 1 1

The highest paid employee is the chief executive.

Emoluments in respect of the bandings above include gross salary and all benefits in kind (excluding
pension contributions, social security costs and expenses). Systems are in place for
the management of expenses.

The number of employees paid more than £60,000 has been impacted by pay reviews during a
period of high inflation.

The aggregate emoluments to employees in the year were:
Wages and salaries

Social security costs

nn NNN NN ETE ote:

Employer's pension contributions to defined contributionscheme ss S 12,851
Employer's pension contributions to defined benefit schemes ' : 822
Other benefits oo oe - ; 673
_Benefits in kind (as calculated for taxation purposes) i 447 oO 412

214,110 "190,48
Included in wages and salaries is an amount of £1.0m relating to redundancy, compromise and
termination costs (2023: £0.4m) following the completion of children services contracts.

134 staff earning over £60,000 (2023: 92) receive benefits accruing under the Barnardo's
Retirement Savings Plan. Employer contributions to the pension funds of these 134 employees
were a combined total of £1.1m during the year (2023: £732k).

The total employee emoluments of the Corporate Leadership Team, who are deemed to be key

management personnel and are listed on page 117, was £1.2m in 2024 (2023: £1.0m), including
pension and social security costs.

Barnardo’s Annual Report 2023-24 | 95

13. Retirement benefits

The group operates a funded defined benefit scheme, the Barnardo Staff Pension Scheme,

the assets of which are held in a specific trust separately from those of the group. Contributions
are paid to the scheme as agreed with the scheme’s trustees, having taken independent
actuarial advice.

The scheme was closed to further accrual of defined benefits from 30 April 2013, with active
members of the scheme on that date becoming members of the Barnardo's Retirement Savings
Plan, which is a defined contribution arrangement for future service. Benefits for members of the
defined benefit scheme will continue to increase broadly in line with inflation.

New employees are offered membership of the Barnardo's Retirement Savings Plan. The total
employer contributions and costs relating to the defined contribution arrangement for the year
amount to £15.1m (2023: £12.9m).

The funding plan for the defined benefit scheme is to hold assets equal to the value of the
benefits earned by employees, where that value is calculated using a set of assumptions
appropriate for funding the scheme. The funding assumptions differ from the assumptions used
to calculate the figures for these accounts, and therefore produce different results. If there is a
shortfall against this funding plan, Barnardo’s and the pension scheme trustees agree on deficit
contributions to meet this deficit over a period. A deficit recovery plan was agreed with the
pension scheme trustees following the actuarial valuation as at March 2021.

Over the year to 31 March 2024, £10.7m of deficit contributions were paid into the scheme. On the
current plan (agreed.following the actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2021), deficit contributions of
£10.7m per annum are expected to be paid each year from 1 April 2021 to 30 November 2034.

Details of the defined benefit scheme, produced in accordance with section 28 of FRS102, are set
out below. Calculations based on membership data as at 31 March 2021 were updated to 31 March
2024 by an independent qualified actuary, allowing for changes in financial conditions, actual
benefit payments made over the period, and the impact of pension scheme increases granted.
The defined benefit liabilities have been measured using the projected unit method.

Following an update from the pension scheme actuary on the impact of the deferred revaluation
cap on the defined benefit obligation, it was identified that an adjustment was required to prior
year actuarial gains/(losses) and pension reserves of the defined benefit pension scheme to
reflect the updated understanding of how the deferred revaluation cap should be applied.

Please refer to note 32 for further detail.

Assumptions per annum
RPI inflation 31%
CPI inflation 2.7%
Discount rate oe. . LL 4.056
_Revaluation of deferred pensions (non-GMP) a a 3.0) ; ; 31%
Pension increases:
Pre 88 GMP : nil . nil
Post 88 GMP . 22% —— “2.3%
Pre 07 XS _ 7 : AN ; ; 3.1%
Post 07 pension . ny ee 2.2%

Life expectancies (in years)

For a male aged 60 in 2022 84.8 _ 84.7
For a female aged 60 in 2022 _— 88.3
At age 60 for a male aged 40 in 2024 a 26.0
At age 60 for a female aged 40 in 2024 89.4

96 | Barnardo’s Annual Report 2023-24

The amounts included in the balance sheet arising from Barnardo's obligations in respect of the
defined benefit scheme for the current and previous year are as follows:

Farr value of assets

Present value of liabilities

Net liability recognised in the balance sheet (57.6)
These figures exclude additional voluntary contributions.

Sensitivity Analysis

The sensitivity of the liabilities (in both percentage and £ terms) to changes in the key assumptions
used to measure the Pension Fund’s liabilities is shown in the table below:

Change in Impact on
Assumption _ assumption liabilities
Discount rate ! +l- 0.1% £7.5m/+7.9m (=1 2%/+1,.3%) .
RPI and CPt Inflation ie Ae +£4.6m/- £6.4m (+0.8%/-10%)

Assumed life expectancy i +i-Tycar  — +£18.6m/- £19.1m (+3.1%/- }

The following amounts have been included within net (expenditure)/income in relation to the defined
benefit scheme:

Employer's part of current service cost

Past service cost

Interest expense . 1.6

. eS ee 2
Administrative expenses a 2.4
Tota! expense ; 4.0

ihc lc a
The pension finance charge of £4.0m has been directly allocated to the various expenditure
categories.

The current allocation of the Scheme'’s assets is as follows:

Bonds

Property

Swap contracts (Liability Driven Investments}

Private credit 1 8, 89
Cash/other | on eS

Over the year to 31 March 2024, the value of the Scheme’s assets decreased from £566.0m
to £548.7m. There was no material investment activity over the Scheme year. The Scheme’s
asset allocation was broadly unchanged and there were no changes to the Scheme’s
investment managers.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 97

Changes in the present value of the scheme liabilities over the year are as follows:

2024 2023

Opening value of scheme liabilities

Interest cost

Actuarial loss
Benefits paid

Closing value of scheme liabilities

an wie

Changes in the fair value of the scheme assets over the year are as follows:

2024 2023

Opening fair value of Scheme assets

H
Interest on plan assets —
Actual return on plan assets less interest on plan assets 1
"Contributions by the employer t

Administrative expenses I

Benefits paid

Closing fair value of Scheme assets . H

The actual return on the scheme’s assets over the year was a gain of £1.6m (2022-23: loss of
£212.9m).

14. Net expenditure

Net expenditure is stated after charging/(crediting):

_Depreciation of tangible fixed assets ae _ : 4,055
“Amortisation of intangible fixed assets a - -
Auditors’ remuneration - statutory 7 ee 187 190
_Operating lease rentals ~ ' 14734 : os : 45,098
Operating lease income ; ‘ (40) a (40)

98 | Barnardo’s Annual Report 2023-24

15. Gains on revaluation and on investment asset disposals

; f . £000 £000
mem errr aa
Realised losses (249)
Unrealised gains/{losses) a 6249

. { Le 6,000 ° (4,869) |

Gains and losses on revaluation and on investment asset disposals is a £6.0m gain for the year
(2023: £4.9m loss) of which £3.0m is unrestricted (2023: £2.4m loss), and £3.0m endowment
fund gains (2023: £2.5m loss).

16. Intangible assets

2024
Group and Charity: i £000
Cost '
At beginning of year | -
Additions 1,663 |
Disposals i -!
At end of year , —_ ; - : ; [ 1,663
Amortisation | 4
At beginning of year - {
Provided during year 60 '
On disposals ; -
$$ ” ied eT . ¥ =
At end of year ___ 60
Net book value i t
At beginning of year i a4
rrr mama mom rrr mal
At end of year 1,603

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 99

17. Tangible assets

(a) Group and Charity:

>

Cost |
At beginning of year 97,912
Additions ~ AAA
Dicposals (3,137)
At end of year _ __ 101,430
Depreciation
At beginning of year 50,929 66,867
Provided during year 2,646 3,906 {
On disposals 3 (3,094)
aaa
At end of year ___ 14,538 67,679
Net book value
At beginning of year ————— 31,045
At end of year 33,751

Group & Charity
2024 2023

£000

(b) Analysis of freehold and leasehold properties:
Freeholds °

Long leaseholds (over 50 years)

Short leaseholds (50 years and under)

(c) Use of properties:

Service delivery 10,417
Other (including shops and offices) | .

100 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24


18. Investments

Group Charity

2024

£000

Investments at market value 7 99,490

Investments at market value: _ a 7
At beginning of year ~ _ - “07,060
Additions — 7 —_ "31,019
Disposals oe (35,4
Realised/unrealised gains/(losses) a _ 6,000
“atend of year 7 : 7 7 99,480
Comprising: OO
Equities - 58,769
Fixed income 19,865
Global Pooled Funds — _ 1,983
Cash held for reinvestment . _ _ 3127,
Property - : a 2,290
_Other investments _ __. - 13,456
29,490

Cost of Investments 90,151

2024 2023
£000 c000 8=———=«a
97,959 9RR10 97,304
00,090 - a -aT304 /9,441
108,246 30,994 108,248
(95,514) (36,488) (05,514)
(4869) AND (4,869)
97,959 oo 98,810 97,304
58.572 5R,769 58,572
18,184 19,865 18,184
2702 1,9 2,702
4952t*« AD. 1,952
2285 t*~*«*«S 1,690
14.284 «13,476 14,304
97,959 aRR10 7,204
96,490 89,751 96,200

There were no investments in individual companies in excess of 5% of the total portfolio value.

Investments of the charity include £20,000 subsidiary undertakings (note 2). Property investment
of £700k (2023: £675k) is held by Barnardo Developments Limited and the charity. All other

investments are held in the charity.

19. Stocks

Retail finished goods

Property

No stocks were held by the charity.

2024 2023
£000 £000

4aR3 2,761

373 373
4.556 3134

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 101

20. Debtors

2024
i £000
Trade debtors 235 __ 298 J...  e
Statutory and related funders _ ! ~ 26,935 "25,898 a 21,603. __ * "20,200 '

Taxation | 2,722 0

Other debtors 1503) si
Prepayments and accrued income 19,234

Amounts owing from subsidiaries

Amounts due from subsidiaries represent:

i) Loans from the charity to Barnardo Trading Limited, Barnardo Developments Limited and
Adoptionplus. These loans are repayable on demand, and are secured by fixed and floating
charges over the assets of the subsidiaries. Interest is chargeable at rates of 1.5% to 2% above
base rate.

ii) Temporary current account balances between the charity and Barnardo Services Limited and
Barnardo Events Limited.

21. Current asset investments

2023
: Fann
Interest bearing deposit accounts \ 9005 |. 24173. 9,005 . 24172

22. Analysis of bank and cash
P2024 20232028 2023

2023 2024 2023

; mene £000, 2000 £000, £000
Cash in hand i 2,753 10,237 2.552 9,799

102 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

23. Creditors - amounts falling due within one year

“2024

nT TY

Pension contributions

rere in nce

Other taxes and social security costs

Accruals a 19 955 a
Trade creditors L _ 28S
Deferred income L —

ee ——

Deterred income relatés to fees and grants invoiced in advance from statutory and related funders.
An amount of £21.4m (2023: £23.5m) was released from prior year. An amount of £20.1m (2023:
£21.4m) was deferred in the year.

24. Provisions for liabilities

Group & Charity

£000 £000

Provision 1 April

New provisions = 962
Provisions released ' (1350) (600) 1 a
Provisions for Liabilities at end of year 3,208 3,200 6,408

The dilapidations provision relates to property leases with various termination dates. The other
provisions balance is made up of a number of provisions which are individually immaterial to both
the group and charity, it includes provisions for repairs and maintenance and the Scottish Redress
Scheme. The timing of when these will fall due is uncertain.

Barnardo’s Annual Report 2023-24 | 103

25. Commitments

(a) Capital Expenditure
There are no capital commitments.

(b) Land & Other Buildings
Total future mininum lease commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: . .

Operating leases payable which are due: iL

Within one year { 12,455 ; .

In the second to fifth years inclusive

Over five years

Operating leases receivable which are due: | va ti ee

Within one year

In the second to fifth years inclusive

104 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

26. Fund balances

Group & Charity

Restricted Restricted
income Endowment income Endowment
funds funds Total funds funds Total
fa) Analysis of restricted & endowment funds £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
income .
fundraising income 9,005 - 9,005 40,6498 - 1M, AAR
Children services income 4,420 - 4,420 - - -
Net income from investments and other ~ 7 890 - B90 1,060 - 1,060
14,315 - 14,315 11,758 - 11,758
Expenditure 7 7 7 a OO
Child care and community work in the UK 7 ie - 11,118 11,099 : : = 11,099
Cost of fundraising income , 1,722 - 4,722 959 . - 959
“Grants to young people in need 309 - 309 264 = 264
Investment management costs - 63 63 - 38 38
: / _ ; 13,149 63 13,212 12,322 38 12,360
Net income/{expenditure) before investments 1166 (63) 1,103 (564) (38) (602)
Net unrealised/realised gains and (losses) - 3,019 3,019 - (2,466) (2,466)
Transfers between funds Z : 7 - - - 1,900 “(1,900) -
Net movement in funds ; , : : 1,166 2,956 4122 1,336 (4,404) (3,068)
Fund balances brought forward ~ __ 9,247 32,437 41,684 7,911 36,841 44,752
Fund balances carried forward 10,413. . 35,393 45,806 . 9,247 — 32,437, _ 41,684 .

All endowment funds are permanent endowments. Fundraising income is made up of 15 funds,
none of which are individually material and are therefore disclosed in aggregate.

They have been classed as restricted due to the nature of the fundraising income. The transfer
in the prior year of £1.9m related to a re-classifcation of income from endowments into our
restricted funds.

The restricted capital and endowment fund balances carried forward at 31 March 2024 include
endowment funds for which Barnardo's has received an Order signed by the Charity Commission
enabling the unapplied total return to be transferred to unrestricted funds. The initial value of the
unapplied return was established in 2002. It is the value of funds donated at 1 April 1976 or at the
date of donation if later, indexed to 2002. Indexation has then been applied to this 2002 value to
give the 2024 value. The unapplied return is the difference between the 2024 value and the market
value of funds as at 31 March 2024.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 105

Trust for investment Unapplied return Total
eet

; eon £000

Brought forward at 1.4.23

Originat gift component (indexed to 31 March 2002}
Further indexation to 31 March 2023

Unapplied return

Total

Movements in period

Increase/(decrease) from indexation } 1,338 (1,338) - |
Investment return: Realised and unrealised gains - 3,019 3,019 |
Less: Investment management costs -— (63) (63) !
Total i 133800 1,618 2.956

——— . —<—— = ni iennemmarners |
Income funds transterred to restricted = (74) (74)
Net movements in the reporting period | 1,338

Carried forward at 31.3.24
Original Gift component (indexed to 31 March 2002) 4 14,785 - 14,785!
Further indexation to 31 March 2024 17,665 |

Unapplied total return 2,274 2.274 5
Total 2,274 34,7241

{b) Categorisation of restricted & endowment funds 5

ee

Educational purposes

Project buildings

Sea training _

Other purposes
41,684

Included in the restricted and endowment funds are two charities that are independently registered
with the Charity Commission, along with a number of constituent charities, also registered with the
Charity Commission. The independent charities are ACW Edwards (registration number 247678 with
total funds of £29k (2023:£28k)) whose objects are for the income to be distributed to recognised
local or national charities that the trustees shall in their absolute discretion select, and Egerton Will
Trust (registration number 272973,with total funds of £27k (2023:£26k)), whose objects are such
charitable purposes as the trustees shall in their absolute discretion determine. Funds are held
separately from Barnardo's. The objects are closely aligned to Barnardo's so in accordance with

the Charities SORP (FRS 102), as custodian Trustees, and with Charity Commission consent, these
charities have been included as if they represent restricted funds of Barnardo's.

106 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

Group & Charity

Net
gains on
investments
At 1 April and pension At 31 March
2023 Income Expenditure revaluation Transfers 2024

(c) Analysis of Designated (including Fixed ! £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Asset fund) & other unrestricted funds { . ee
Technology fund 1 6,899 - (390) - a7 798.
Pension risk {16051 - oy 16,051,
Designated Funds ' 22,950 i (3,101) _ _- - 19,849
Fixed Assets fund (net book value of ' 30,871 - - - 4,309 35,180
unrestricted fixed assets) | oo ; . : = —
Total funds designated for purpose 53,821 . =. - 4,309 _ 55,029
Unrestricted ‘free reserves’ \ 49,306 311,819 (319 07

# 103,127 311,8

Pension reserve [ 28¢
i i i 47; 847 3m, 819 (322, 508)

Total unrestricted funds including
pension reserve

(69) “> 31039

ee Saeaneny one See

The unrestricted “free reserves” of the charity comprise the general fund (now incorporating the
working capital fund) of £25.3m (2023: £49.0m) and the revaluation reserve of £9.3m (2023: £1.3m).

The fixed assets fund, which comprises the net book value of unrestricted fixed assets is excluded
because these assets cannot be quickly realised.

During 2021-22 the Trustees approved the creation of two new designated funds, the technology
fund to enable the charity to invest in its digital strategy and a specific risk pension fund. To protect
and de-risk future payments to the pension scheme. It was expected that the technology fund
would be committed in the next 3 years.

The pension risk fund has been set up for extra resilience to ensure the charity is able to meet its
pension commitments should future unprecedented events like Covid-19 occur, or the charity face a
significant economic downturn and/or a significant reduction in its income. The specific risk pension
fund will allow pension deficit reduction payments to continue for at least 18 months whilst the
charity reshapes its operations, preventing the need to immediately stop vital services.

As restated

estricted Restricted Endowments al nrestricted Restricted Endowments al

£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000

(d) Analysis of
fund balances

between qroup
net assets

Fixed assets

_Investments p 64,431 64,431 |

Pension liability . (57,680)

{note 13) :

Net currentassets

Provisions ' _ . = z
Net assets y 31039 —«*10,413 35,393 76,845 47,847 9, 247" 32,437 89,531 |

a p

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 107

As restated
Unrestricted Restricted Endowments Total restricted Restricted Endowments Totai

{e) Analysis of £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
fund balances
between charity

. net assets
Fixed assets 35,169 174 - 35,343 30,852 174 - 31,026
“Investments 63,752 - 35,088 ~—98,810 65,169 - 37,135 97,304
Pension liabitity (57,680) - - (57680) (55,280) - - (55,280)
{note 13)
Net current assets (2,910) 10,239 336 7,665 15,455 9,073 302 24,830
Provisions (6,408) - - (6,408) (7,396) - - (7396)
Netassets 31,923 10,413 -35,384 77,730 48,800 9.247 32,437 an,aRa

The restricted funds are held in appropriate asset forms to enable the restrictions to be satisfied.

The amount of revaluation reserve included within the general reserve is £9.3m (2023: £1.3m).

27. Reconciliation of net expenditure to net cash outflow
from operating activities

. : £m Fm

Net expenditure _ ~ (3,586) (1,987)
Depreciation charge : | 3,906 4,055
Gains on investments - - (6,000) 4,869
“Profit on the sale of fixed assets (633) (294)
Legacy investment property : - (1,590)
Net pension charges - (6,700) (7,800)
(Increase)/Decrease in debtors (6,731) 2,796
Increase/(Decrease) in creditors : 1,627 (1,855)
Investment income and interest - (3,402) (3,113)
Increase in stock ; (1.422) (1,223)
Net cash used by operating activities (22.941) (8,222)

108 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

28. Analysis of changes in net debt

At start of year At end of year

Current asset investments ee. 24173 : 7 7 a (15,168) — . 9,005
Total i 34,410 a (22,652) 11,758 {

29. Related parties

The following amounts are due to/(from) the charity:

Debtor/ Debtor/

Income Expenditure (creditor) . incame Fypenditure — (rraditar)
: £000 £000 _ £000 £000. = e000 F000
Barnardo Services Limited is 454 7 __ ___ (391) 4 6
_Barnardo Developments Limited ' =. _ . (
Barnardo Events Limited 1 66 a . iy a
_Barnardo Trading Limited 2597 (128) ,

Adoptionplus

ee nn a re

Commission amounting to £0.5m was paid by the Charity to Barnardo Services Limited (2023: £0.5m).

Payments made to the pension scheme by the Charity amounted to £10.7m (2023: £10.7m) of which
£0.9m is outstanding as at 31 March 2024 (2023: £0.9m).

30. Contingent liabilities

Barnardo's has operated a large number of residential and non-residential services over a long
period of time caring for significant numbers of vulnerable children and young people. Rigorous
procedures have been and continue to be in place for ensuring the safeguarding of children and
internal and external inspections evidence the high standard of services delivered. The nature
of this work could give rise to potential claims against Barnardo's. The Trustees have considered
this likelihood and potential materiality of any such claims and do not consider a provision in the
accounts is warranted in this regard.

There is a contingent liability in respect of the unexpired term of leases assigned to other tenants.
The Trustees consider that the possibility of a material cost accruing to the charity is remote and
consequently no provision has been included in the accounts.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 109

31. Consolidated statement of financial activities for prior year

Unrestricted

funds Restricted Endowment Total 2023
as restated funds funds as restated

: £000 £000 £000 nna
litume fru
Charitable activities 179,706 4,784 - 184,490
Donations and legacies 33,597 5,914 - 39,511
Other trading activities 87,887 - - 87,887
Development and sale of properties 40 - - 40
Investments 2,053 1,060 - 3,113
Other 2 - - 211
Total income - 303,494 11,758 - 315,252
Expenditure on: :
Raising donations and legacies 12,930 959 - 13,889
Other trading activities 71175 - - 7175
Investment management costs 207 - 38 245
Raising funds 7 84,312 959 38 85,309
Expenditure on:
Service provision 208,987 11,363 - 220,350
(nforming the public about our work 5,706 - - 5,706
Childcare research and education 985 - - 985
Charitable Activities 215,678 11,363 - 227,041
Total Expenditure : 299,990 12,322 38 317,350
Net income/(expenditure) before investment losses 3,504 (564) (38) 2,902
Net losses on investments (2,403) - (7,468) (4,869)
Net income/{expenditure) 1,101 {564) (2,504) {1,967)
Transfers between funds - 1,900 (1,900) -
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme (17,000) - - (17,000)
Net movement in funds (15,899) 1,336 {4,404) (18,967)
Total funds brought forward 63,746 7,911 36,841 108,498

Total funds carried forward : 47,847 9.247 32,427 89,531

110 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

32. Prior period adjustment

Unrestricted Reserves :

'
Prior year opening unrestricted reserves as previously reported } 57,646 ‘
Adjustment to prior year opening reserves - correction of error } 6,100 ‘
Prior year opening reserves as restated | 63,746 ;
‘
Prior period closing unrestricted reserves as previously reported : 23,247 ‘
Adjustment to prior year opening reserves — correction of error . 6,100 |
Prior period adjustment — correction of error i 18,500 4
Prior period closing reserves as restated , 47,847 ,
a
Pension Reserve | :
Prior year opening pension reserve as previously reported : (52,180) ,
Adjustment to prior year pension reserve - correction of error ' 6,100 :
Prior year opening pension reserve as restated ' (46,080) |
Prior period closing pension reserves as previously reported ' (79,880) !
Adjustment to prior year opening reserves - correction of error H 6,100 |
Prior period adjustment — correction of error 18,500 {
As restated ' (55,280) |
ee
Actuarial loss on pension scheme year ended 31 March 2023 ' {
As previously reported : (35,500) ,
Prior period adjustment ' 18,500 ,
As restated . (17,000) |

The pension scheme actuary has advised Barnardo's they misunderstood the deferred revaluation
cap in the scheme rules when calculating the present value of the scheme liabilities as at 31 March
2022 and 31 March 2023 reported in the financial statements for the prior year, overstating them
by £6.1m and £24.6m, respectively. Consequently, an adjustment was required to the prior year

_ actuarial loss and pension reserve previously reported to reflect the pension scheme actuary’s
corrected calculations.

These changes resulted in a decrease of £18.5m in the actuarial loss recognised in the SOFA for
the year 2022-23, reducing from £(35.5)m to £(17.0)m. The pension reserve in the balance sheet
at 31 March 2023 decreased by £24.6m from £(79.9)m to £(55.3)m, with a corresponding increase
in unrestricted reserves at 31 March 2023 from £23.3m to £47.8m. Funds at 1 April 2022 brought
forward in the SOFA for the year 2022-23 increased by £6.1m. Notes 13, 26 and 31 have been
restated accordingly.

33. Post balance sheet events

Barnardo Holdings Limited

Barnardo Holdings Limited is expected to be struck off, with an effective date of 31 December
2024. All issued share capital held by Barnardo Holdings Limited in other subsidiary companies
will be transferred to Barnardo's charity.

Barnardo Events Limited

Barnardo Events Limited is expected to be struck off, with an effective date of 31 December 2024.
All assets and liabilities have been transferred to Barnardo Trading Limited.

All Barnardo Events contracts have been transferred to Barnardo Trading Limited from 1 July 2024,
and all invoices will be raised from Barnardo Trading Limited from that date.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 111

GIFTS AND
GRANTS
RECEIVED


Funding

Funding from donations

Corporate Partnerships

Amazon, Arriva, The Bannatyne Group, The Co-operative Group, Hallmark Cards, IKEA, The
People’s Postcode Lottery/The Postcode Children’s Trust, The Pokémon Company International,

Royal Mail, Simmons & Simmons, Sky, Zurich Community Trust.

Public Fundraising
Barnardo's Helper Groups

Charitable Trusts, Grants and Foundations
National Lotteries Fund (Make Trax)

New Philanthropy Capital (Voice & Influence)
Indigo Trust (CSA Centre)

Funding from statutory authorities

England
_Home Office

Department for Education

Department of Health and Social Care

Department for Levelling up, Housing & Communities
NHS England

MO\J via the Office of the Police and Crime Commissioner
Bristol City Council (Vanguard MH Grant)

North Somerset Council (Vanguard MH Grant)

West Mercia Police (TIP)

Household Support Fund

Peterborough City Council (HSF Grant)

Birmingham City Council and BVSC Centre

Scotland

Aberdeen City Council
Aberdeenshire Council
Angus Council
Dundee Council
Edinburgh Council
Falkirk Council

Fife Council

£198,691

£69,211
£565
£108,000

£7,942,807
£55,000
£90,274
£685,711
£479,357
£80,000
£89,583
£26,691
£47,976
£49,851
£22,500
£262,231

£106,553
£369,266
£5,292
£224,661
£340,832
£450,000
£1,190,696

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 113

Glasgow City Council Communities Fund £157,162

Highland Council £1,133,949
Midlothian Council £43,467
North Ayrshire Council £116,980
Perth&Kinross Council = sn £7,577
Renfrewshire Council _. £175,284
Scottish Government £60,525
Scottish Government (Discovering Your Potential & Head to Work) £1,138,482
Scottish Government (Equally Safe) £185,548
Scottish Government via SACRO , £186,149
Scottish Prison Service £103,987
Shared Care Scotland £18,692
Heritage Lottery — B-Wild £59,059
The Corra Foundation £315,000

Northern Ireland

Belfast Health & Social Care Trust £1,707,514
Victims & Survivors Service £124,277
Department of Health (SPPG) a £2,718,453
DE (Through HSCB) £920,273
Northern lreland Housing Executive £74,536
Supporting People £239,354
Public Health Agency £1,232,643
Southern Health & Social Care Trust £1,397,180
Western Health & Social Care Trust £201,419
Northern Ireland Prison Service £153,837
South Belfast Partnership Board £34,391
Belfast City Council £68,500
National Lottery - Transition & Inclusion Service £112,731
Cymru

Welsh Government (Bays FMS) £45,580
Welsh Government (Compass) £101,705
Cwm Taf Morganinwg UHB £46,115
Ministry of Justice (HMPPS Berwyn) £226,356
National Lottery — Mind Our Future £237,886

114 | Barnardo’s Annual Report 2023-24

Donations from Charitable Trusts and Individuals

Brian Amey

Awards international

BBC Children in Need

B&CE Charitable Trust

John James Bristol Foundation
Bill Brown's Charitable Settlement of 1989
EM Chapman Discretionary Will Trust
Jane and Jonathan Clarke

R J & AH Daniels Charitable Trust
Firstpoint Equity

David Gibson

Claire Gilligan

Dennis and Stuart Granshaw
William Grant Foundation

Greggs Foundation

Neil Kitchener QC

Sir James Knott Trust

LandAid Charitable Trust

Leach Family Charitable Trust
Sally Lykiardopulo

Mukul Madhav Foundation
Angela McEwan

Howard Meredith

Moondance Foundation

Banking on Barnardo's Committee

Andrew Bailey, Governor of the Bank
of England kh ON Sage
" Nathan Bostock, Head of Investment

Platforms, Grupo Santander

William Chalmers, Financial Officer, Lloyds
Banking Group

David Duffy, Group Chief Executive, °
Virginmoney UK plc

Alison Rose DBE, Chief Executive,
NatWest Group

a

Northwood Charitable Trust
Mo Nurmohamed

Peak Scientific

Peacock Charitable Trust

Chris Pointon

Julia and Hans Rausing Trust
Sandra Charitable Trust
ShareGift

J Siddall Charitable Trust
Simon Taylor

The 29th May 1961 Charitable Trust
The AJS Charitable Trust

The JH Bartlett Charity Trust
The Firecracker Ball

The Eveson Trust

The Hasluck Charitable Trust
The Hemraj Goyal Foundation
The Alan Edward Higgs Charity

The Hobson Fund through the Community
Foundation Northern Ireland

The Indigo Trust

The Loomba Foundation

The RS Macdonald Charitable Trust
The Katherine Martin Charitable Trust
The Myristica Trust

The P F Charitable Trust

The John & Sally Reeve Charitable Trust
The Scotch Whisky Action Fund

The Jolin Scoll Trust

The Joseph & Lilian Sully Foundation
The Waterloo Foundation

The Grantham Yorke Trust

The Zochonis Charitable Trust

Giles and Caroline Wilkes

Graham Williams

Where individuals’ professional roles are listed, they relate to their position at the

relevant time.

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 115

id

BOARD OF
TRUSTEES
AND OFFICERS


Our trustees and officers

Patron
Her Majesty the Queen

Trustees

Magdalene Bayim-Adomako
Anne-Cécile Berthier

Neil Crockett

Avis Darzins — Senior Independent Trustee
Dennis Hone CBE — Honorary Treasurer
Meredith Pierce Hunter

Briony Ladbury

Breid O’Brien

Henry Odogwu

Penny Thompson CBE - Deputy Chair
Rajinder Verma

Mark Wood - Chair

Koulla Yiasouma

Chief Executive*
Lynn Perry, MBE

Chief Operating Officer -
Children’s Services *

Michelle Lee-Izu_

Executive Director, Children’s
Services — Delivery*

Steve Oversby

Corporate Director of Business
Services*

Richard Moore

Director of People & Culture*
Sarah Eglin

*member of Corporate Leadership Team

President
Natasha Kaplinsky, OBE

Vice Presidents

Salman Ahmed

Surinder Arora

Dr David Barnardo, OBE
Susan Bernerd, MBE
Baroness Benjamin, OBE, DL
Cherie Booth QC (Honorary)
David Cathie

William Chalmers

Anita Goyal MBE

Rosemary Jones

Lord Loomba, CBE

Bruce Oldfield, OBE

Director of Fundraising & Marketing*
Rebecca Mauger :

Managing Director of Barnardo's

Trading Companies*
Mark Gregory

Director of Strategy and External
Affairs*
Debbie Moss

Company Secretary
Nicholas Williams

Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24 | 117

Contact details

Registered office

Barnardo House, Tanners Lane, Barkingside,
Ilford, Essex 1G6 1QG

Auditors

BDO LLP, 2 City Place, Beehive Ring Road,
Gatwick, West Sussex RH6 OPA

Bankers

Barclays Bank plc, Level 28, 1 Churchill Place,
London E14 5HP

Investment managers
Ruffer LLP, 80 Victoria Street, London SW1E 5JL

Sarasin & Partners LLP, Juxon House, 100 St
Paul’s Churchyard, London, EC4M 8BU

CCLA, One Angel Lane, London, EC4R 3AB

Principal solicitors

Bates Wells LLP, 10 Queen Street Place, London
EC4R 1BE

118 | Barnardo's Annual Report 2023-24

AboutBarnardo;s

Wifetcantmakerchildrentgrowing]upyinthe,U ky
Rey feed thay donk bstons, Know)

FAtlBarnardo'ssourgpurposejis\cleargichanging}
Giisihoes ene) changing fives. Weva bach

Helping young}peoplesandfamilies|to)
ibe] ect ep pe Nealthiergand|morejnopeful}
Ce GEey 180 Rea LADO NEID ES COND
fasiwe'remneeded!

Wasthyecardwejprovidediessential[SupPOnt{to)
Sea ato otic Iparents\and)carers|
P60]senvices\and)/partnershipsiactossitne)
gLhis\vitallworkjislonlyjoossibleythanks}tolouy
eS Cl uP POR lng Gis
Whopdonatefand{shoppwithtusteuthwe relnot
stopping therey

jlogetherawe'rebringing}lovexcareland|hope,
into chithents ivesso Guany chill cam fac Re
ithey[oelong)

lolBarnardost20247Allirightsiresenved]

Nospartiof, ae pe ie re ay ee
reproducedionstoredi[onfanfauthorised|retrieval
Gets ordeals transmitted|inganygformfonbyzany]

fAlllimagestare posed|by;modelsy
[Namesihave beenychangedjtoprotectlidentities§

barnardos:org:uk
iBarnardojHouseylanners ee
liford¥Essex{IG6QG)|irel1020)8550.8822

Barnardo's Registered Charity Nos.216250 and SC037605 25278AM24

BaARNARDES


