4 Bishop
. Grosseteste |
1 University |

Companies House

ANNUAL REPORT 2024

BISHOP GROSSETESTE UNIVERSITY
- LONGDALES ROAD _

LINCOLN

_LN1 3DY

[can

COMPANY NUMBER: 11963500

Contents

List of Abbreviations «0.0.0.0... ccccceeccsseeseeceenessaeessseaercnreesseeecesessesseescecsesaasesesescseeeeenesneeeeees 3
FOPOWOKG ........cccessesseseesacecenensennenenetsneceessensenesaeesecesenesesseneeseeeeeeeseeesseseeeecneeeesesesusnsenssneneeenes 5
1. Section 172 Statement ...........:::csecccececsssersssnseesececesessseaeeeeceseseeceeceseneseereeneseresenenausauanseanens 6
2. Charitable Purpose and Public Benefit Statement ............::::ccccssscccseecececeecereeeeeetenseseeestenneees 8
3. Progress against Bishop Grosseteste University Strategy (2019-2025) .............cscsseesseeeees 10
3.1 Strategy SUMIMASY............ cc ceeeeeseectesseeenseseceressuscereucneuaeseenuscsseeeseeeesserecsensuecosssecaseneeeoes 10
3.2 Learning, Teaching and Students’ Experiences ..............:..c:eessccesesssccecessessaeeceseseeereseeseeee 14
3.3 Research and Knowledge Exchange...............::ssssscscessssseeeesessnenesenenanseeeees sesetseeseneeeeenes 16
3.4 Collaboration and Partnerships ..............ccccceessssseceecessssnseeaansneeenssecsseeeesascesecesersveseseeeeeees 17
3.5 Infrastructure .........ccccccesssccesscssecesseeesecsseceeecsusessecseseeseeessecseeaescsessenseeseceesenseeeseeeaeseesaees 18
4. Key Performance indicators (KPIS) ..............:s:ccssssssecsssebersneeeceresseeeeceeerseseeeseesaeeesnseneeseenes 20
5. Financial Review ............:cccccsssssssssssecesesssnsnenseceeseecescnnseneeeseceeeeseesseeseeseseeeeeseesenseaeauaeaeaeaes 21
OAL Se ODEO O ODP STSLSSTOSPOOETEOLSOSSLOSEOSTOTOSLSSvESOSESFOSSONOSOTOOSSONS 25
6.1 Risk Register ................cccccccccseccccccaeeassseeseecesceeceneaceeceecseesaueseesceseneneeeeseneesesaanssneseeneeeeoee 27
7. Corporate Governance’ ...............ccscccceeccceeeceneeseesneneseesesseesecereeeeeneseseeeeeseeaneaeeeeeeseceteeeeeees 28
8. Statement of University Council’s Responsibilities ....................:cccceccscccesssneeeecseseeeseesseneees 33

9. Statement of Internal Control ...

11. Financial Statements ..

12. Administering Trustees ...............cccccccccseessesssesseescscececesvesseceesseseerseeensunssecerseenseeereeeseeeees 73

Page 2 of 74

List of Abbreviations

Al

BGU

BGUSSS

CUC

CUG

DfE

ERCF

FE

HE

HE-BCI

HEI

HEIF

HESA

HA

IPPF

ITE

Jcc

JISC

KEF

KPI

KTP

LGPS

LGR

LiNCHigher |

LORIC

LPFT

Artificial Intelligence

Bishop Grosseteste University

Bishop Grosseteste University Student Satisfaction Survey
Committee of University Chairs

The Complete University Guide

Department for Education ,

Enhancing Research Culture Fund

Further Education

Higher Education

HE Business and.Community Interaction
Higher Education Institution

Higher Education Innovation Fund

Higher Education Statistics Agency

Institute of Internal Auditors

International Professional Practices Framework
Initial Teacher Education

Joint Consultative Committee

Joint Information Systems Committee
Knowledge Exchange Framework

Key Performance Indicator

Knowledge Transfer Partnership

Local Government Pension Scheme

Local Growth and Regeneration

The UniConnect Consortium for Lincolnshire
Lincolnshire Open Research and Innovation Centre

Lincolnshire Partnership NHS Foundation Trust

Page 3 of 74

NSS

ofs

OKRs

RDAPs

REF

RKE

RPF

SLC

SU

TEF

TLG

UCAS

UCEA

UCU

UEG

UKRI

UKSPF

USP

UUK

VLS

National Student Survey

Office for Students

Objectives and Key Results

Research Degree Awarding Powers
Research Excellence Framework

Research and Knowledge Exchange
Research Participation Fund

Student Loans Company

Students’ Union

Teaching Excellence Framework

The Language Gallery

University and Colleges Admissions Service
University and Colleges Employers Association
University and College Union

University Executive Group

United Kingdom Research and Innovation
UK Shared Prosperity Fund

Unique Selling Point

Universities UK

Voluntary Leavers Scheme

Page 4 of 74

Foreword

This annual report covers the academic session and financial year 2023/24, a 12-month period which
has seen much progress at the University. Led by our interim Vice-Chancellor, Professor Karen
Stanton this has, nevertheless, been achieved through the hard work and commitment of the whole
BGU community. Working together we have put the institution in a more sustainable position for the
future, whilst providing an excellent education and experience for our current students.

The direction of travel and the momentum created this year has come from the successful
implementation of our Critical Path. This has resulted in change and positive impacts in all seven of
its workstreams. This includes financial sustainability, student recruitment and a refreshed mission
and purpose for the University. We are immensely proud of these achievements that have been
delivered through teamwork, a focus on the future and setting aspirational and achievable targets.

Whilst much has been done, much remains to be achieved. As has been widely reported in the
media the Higher Education (HE) sector is under enormous financial pressure. That is why
immediately upon completing our first Critical Path we have launched and begun the
implementation of our second pathway. This includes workstreams to deliver integrated student
services, better utilisation of our campus and a refreshed portfolio of programmes, with social
purpose at the heart of our curriculum delivery.

Professor Stanton’s role completed at the end of the academic year, and we thank her for all she has
done for BGU. Over the last year the University has shown that it has what it takes to change and
embrace new ways of working whilst staying true to its Foundation. Building on this new platform,
we look forward to the future with renewed confidence and pride in our recent achievements.

Anne Frost
Chair of University Council

Tom Dannatt
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Operations) & University Secretary

Page 5 of 74

1. Section 172 Statement

Over the last 12 months decisions have been made and actions taken to ensure the long-term
sustainability of the University and to create a platform on which it can grow. Central to this work
has been the completion of the Critical Path Programme which comprised seven workstreams:

Financial Plan

Recruitment and Admissions Plan
Portfolio review

Organisational Structure
Marketing and Brand Plan

Estate Asset Plan

University Purpose and Mission

NOWBWNPH

Evidence of the positive impact of the Critical Path includes the delivery of a firmer financial
foundation, a revised mission and purpose, and an uplift in student recruitment, reversing the
downward trend of the last eight years. To grow student numbers several actions have been taken,
for example, the development of pathways from local School and Colleges for admission to a BGU
programme of study, and the development of validation and franchise partners based in London,
Nottingham and Birmingham offering BGU qualifications. Recruitment targets have been set linked
directly to the financial forecast and have been built ‘bottom up’ by the Faculty, based on their
knowledge of the student market.

The achievements reported here are the result of teamwork and the hard work of colleagues across
the University. To ensure that everyone was kept informed of the changes being made and to
enhance staff morale a focus of the year has been honest and transparent communication. To that
end, a communications base room was established, monthly staff forums were held, alongside the
introduction of a monthly Colleague Newsletter. In addition, a staff survey was conducted, and
consultations held on, for example, the mission and purpose of the University to define its Unique
Selling Point (USP) and to determine its core values and characteristics. Staff were also consulted on
the proposal to change the University’s name to Lincoln Bishop University. This proposal is currently
subject to review by our regulator, the Office for Students (OfS). To support staff during a period of
transformational change the university introduced Mental Health Advisors and granted additional
‘stand down’ leave at Christmas and in July to thank the staff community for all their efforts during
the year.

The University continues to value and enhance its relationships with a range of stakeholders. Central
to these is our relationship with our students who we listen to through a range of channels including
regular dialogue with our Students’ Union (SU). Evidence of the strength of this relationship comes
from this year’s National Student Survey (NSS). These survey results were outstanding, placing BGU
at the top of the Times Higher League Table for the most satisfied students in the UK.

“89.4 % per cent of students’ responses across all subjects at Bishop Grosseteste University in Lincoln
were positive — the highest rate of all 149 universities in the analysis." - Times Higher Education.

We received the top scores in the UK for 5 out of the 10 themes covered by the survey:

1. Learning Opportunities
Assessment and Feedback
Learning Resources
Academic Support
Student Voice

WPwn

The University has a very positive relationship with its local community. We work closely with our
business partners to deliver the skills required for the local economy. During the year we successfully
bid for funds from the OfS to expand our apprenticeship portfolio to include degree level ,

Page 6 of 74

apprenticeships in Project Management and Youth Work, alongside a master’s level qualification in
Specialist Archaeology. We now have over 100 students studying on our Chartered Manager, Senior
Leaders and Career Development Professional apprenticeship programmes.

Our knowledge transfer work has expanded through the work of our theology and education teams
who have received Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP) funding to work with Liverpool Cathedral
to support its work with marginalised groups.

BGU is proud of its outreach programmes. These include i) student and staff volunteering, ii)
providing access to venues for local groups, e.g. the Lincoln Film Society and iii) the provision of gym
facilities and our sports pitches for use by local schools. A major success includes our support for the
Ermine Library, a local library currently managed by the University on behalf of the local community,
supported by funding from the City Council.

During the year the University has hosted a number of Conferences and Events that have increased

our academic reputation and esteem, including an International Conference on World Religions, led
by our World Religions and Education Research Group; the Play for Autistic Children Conference and
the Human Scale Education Conference, both delivered by our Teacher Education Team.

The University is committed to supporting and sustaining our environment and during the year has
created eight mini meadows on campus to increase biodiversity. A member of the Executive now
leads on work to improve our environmental sustainability.

To ensure the highest standards of university conduct the institution follows the regulations for
registration of a university, as set out by the Ofs. In addition, it operates its own internal ethics and
academic standards committees. Evidence of the quality of the Universities provision comes from
several sources including two in-year Ofsted Inspections covering our Apprenticeship and Initial
Teacher Education provision. The University was pleased to receive a GOOD rating for both
inspections.

As detailed in the rest of this report whilst delivering an excellent education to its current students
the University has taken a long-term view to ensure its sustainability. This has included balancing the
needs of a range of stakeholders and valuing its staff, the community and the environment.

Page 7 of 74

2. Charitable Purpose and Public Benefit Statement

The University meets the Objects of the company by advancing education by creating, applying and
sharing knowledge and skills from its base in uphill Lincoln. Students, potential students and the
general public are the principal beneficiaries. In recent years BGU has also developed a range of
collaborative partnerships with other educational providers, knowledge exchange with small- and
medium-sized enterprises, and international research projects.

As a university with a Church of England foundation, BGU is committed to welcoming and hosting a
diverse community and lives by the values of respect, integrity, courage, excellence, resilience and
inclusion. .

As part of the Critical Path plan for 2023/24, one of the seven workstreams focused on the vision and
mission of the University including social purpose. There have been many initiatives throughout the
year across the University that have benefitted staff, students and the local community including:

¢ Ahost of trips, chapel services, debate clubs and free food provided in The Snug by the
Chaplaincy team.

¢ ~The community larder organised and managed by the Students’ Union.

e Areach to the local community through cinema screenings in The Venue to disadvantaged
families, GCSE screenings of films to local schools and the use of the pitch for sports day
events to local primary schools.

e The Ermine Library continues to be used for community groups such as toddler and parent
groups, charity events and craft fayres.

e Acollaborative project with the Lincolnshire Football Association for the use of green space
located on campus for focal football teams.

There is an enduring commitment to encouraging applications from ail potential learners, particularly
those currently under-represented in HE, and at the University especially. This is underpinned by a
strong track record in widening access and improving participation, but there are continuing
challenges with respect to:

® recruitment of learners from under-represented ethnic groups (compared to sector
benchmarks);

® recruitment of male learners, including those from disadvantaged backgrounds;

® recruitment of mature learners; and

e improvement of outcomes for learners with access needs.

Since 2006, BGU has delivered its own successful outreach programme to secondary schools and

remains committed to maintaining core activities and expanding the scope to maximise participation ~

from target groups. The outreach programme includes:

e First Steps 2 Study — Years 9, 10 and 11; and
e Next Steps 4 Study — Years 12 and 13.

Additional input is provided to help individual learners from under-represented groups (e.g., care
leavers, estranged students) as well as supporting engagement with the admissions procedure
(e.g., UCAS applications, finance, accommodation). There are also support services for all learners
including counselling, financial advice, academic and study skills, careers advice, placement and
volunteering services, health services, and specialist dyslexia and disability assessment.’

Page 8 of 74

The University’s Access and Participation Plan outlines the widening participation activities as well
as the financial mechanisms in place that help to ensure that the opportunity to benefit from HE is
not restricted by the ability to afford fees or living costs. These arrangements are intended to
complement the government’s provision of loans and maintenance grants and are targeted at
those identified as being most in need. During 2023/24, £543,533 of bursaries and learning-fund
awards were paid out to learners from low-income backgrounds as well as those experiencing
financial hardship during their studies, disabled learners and learners from care.

The University continues to host LiNCHigher, one of the 29 Uni Connect partnerships in England
funded by the OfS that offer activities, advice and information on the benefits and realities of going
to university or college. Specifically, through the pan-Lincolnshire consortium of providers, the
project seeks to reduce the gap in HE participation between the most and least represented
groups, equip young and adult learners from under-represented groups to make an informed choice
about their options, and contribute to a stronger evidence base around ‘what works’ in HE outreach.
With an annual budget of over £600k, the project delivered over 410 events involving over 5,500
students. .

Page 9 of 74

3. Progress against Bishop Grosseteste University Strategy (2019-2025)
3.1 Strategy Summary

For the academic year 2023/24 University Council adopted a Critical Path approach to inform the
future direction of the institution and the development of its next strategy. The Critical Path was
developed and implemented in order to:

e stabilise the University (evaluating the current position, taking immediate financial action,
planning for growth);

realign the University’s purpose and vision, with a targeted operational model and
consideration of the academic portfolio; and

e develop growth to build capacity and capability to deliver.

The key strategic priorities for the University were underpinned by three core themes of:

e Our Academic Endeavours
e Our Future Sustainability
© Our Ways of Working

Within these core themes, seven Key Workstreams were created, which in turn housed 29 objectives
and key metrics of success (see tables 1 and 2).

A goal setting and monitoring methodology was taken called Objective Key Result (OKR), which
through the utilisation of Viva Goals, monitored the accountability and progress of each objective
and Key Performance Indicator (KPI) from November 2023 to July 2024, providing monthly reports
and University wide transparency to University Executive Group (UEG), Staff Forums and University
Council.

As communicated to University Council in July 2024 via the Vice-Chancellor’s Monthly Report, the
Critical Path was delivered and highly effective in concentrating the resources and efforts of the
University on delivering against some challenging and complex key outcomes which were required.
Overall, a completion score of 0.96 was achieved, with only a few objectives unfulfilled due to
external factors and changes in the market.

Of the seven Workstreams, four were completed and closed. Those which were not finalised
included:

e Financial Plan. Completed 95% against its target.
e = Recruitment/Admissions. Completed 86% against its target.
e Estate Asset Strategy & Utilisation. Completed 70% against it target.

A review of unfilled objectives has been completed to understand the barriers to achieving, and a
decision made as to whether they roll forward into 2024/25, become business as usual, or closed as
a consequence of market/business need changes.

This methodology has been utilised in the development of our approach to 2024/25. Critical Path 2
focuses around three core themes:

e The Foundation: Doing the foundational processes exceptionally well.
© The Core: Completing the unfinished work strands of the Critical Path 1.
© The Apex: Implementing new transformative projects.

Critical Path 2 is an ambitious plan of change and growth, consisting of 26 objectives and sub-
objectives (see table 3).

Page 10 of 74

:

Marketing/brand and
name

Financial Framework

Organisational Structure
to deliver our purpose
and key functions

Portfolio based on our
purpose

University Purpose/
Vision induding

Social Purpose

Page 11 of 74

Recruitment/Admissions
Plan

Estate Asset Strategy and
utilisation

Table 2 — Bishop Grosseteste University Strategic Priorities — Key Objectives Critical Path 1 2023/24

Our Critical Path Plan

Our Future Sustainability Our Ways of Working,

for emsatmen

Reise
validation

thetitons

ave theright

porttotlo with
excellent
meties

a Financial
Framework
‘nasad on
investment,
recruitment

tor23/28 and
‘finonclal

» framework tor

next Syears

Page 12 of 74

process
tocreate

 sreamtined

end age
commiter


Strategic Priorities - Seven Key Workstreams & Objectives Critical Path 2 2024/2:

Critical Path 2

Academic Year 2024/25

Table 3 — Bishop Grosseteste Universi

Student Support
environment

Enhance the
‘Student expertence
‘by optimising the
‘Student Journey

Design and
implemen: on
Organizational

Development (OD)
Pion

Develop Statt
‘Skills, Knowledge &
behaviours to create

‘a high performing
culture

Core
Our Portfolio =
Tannersnipe

ceunure, capacity and

Nepereneeyle ‘copabifity in support

FAMAEMUIS ol the Strategy for
roe REF 2029

Page 13 of 74

Foundations

Our rane
Sorking

Enhonce our

Our Furure
Campus
kanance Camper Canine mance ou Emanc ate
Facilities and Implement ‘Strategie Business rf oat Recruitment and
uillsation of our the portato. Gomme sass Engagement cargets,
infrastructure: review project Engagement, initiatives and
recommendations i Boost Research, processes
Knowledge
Exchange and our
doin capebities
propens onesies Secreto Swengihen our a. ° + tenprove our eaah
Susteinooty acer gr Partnership improve our Data ——-‘alance and liquidity
“aitutives pelea evelopment, ‘Quality and Ris position over the
ana Monagerment ig next 2 month
- approach pescnaald
otc
Aetanea the eee Enhance our
: ; Brereiat-ieiene riversity process
wana = watery eceaes
advance ovr estote ‘nd coaboron
‘and services. rons of
taxaarch, community
celia engagement and
socmwceonw partnerships
sete,
Dovetop resnarch

7

3.2 Learning, Teaching and Students’ Experiences

The 2024 NSS gathers the views of undergraduate students from across the sector in the final year of either
an honours degree or a foundation degree during 2023/24. In 2022/23 there were changes to the themes _
and questions, and the removal of the ‘overall satisfaction’ question for English providers. More questions
‘measuring positivity’ and additional questions on awareness of mental health support and on freedom of ©
expression were added at that time. The 2023/24 survey mirrors that of 2022/23, enabling analysis of trends
in the results. The 2023/24 NSS outcomes show that BGU has been ranked 1‘ for:

e Learning Opportunities

« Assessment and Feedback
« Learning Resources

e Academic Support

e Student Voice

Initial key findings are shown in the table below:

" Sector Variance
(%) (%) *
Teaching on my course 92.09 85.43 +6.66
Learning opportunities 91.82 82.39 +9.43
Assessment and feedback 90.59 78.27 412.32
Academic support
Organisation and management
Learning resources
Student voice

The students’ union (association or guild) effectively represents students’
academic interests

Positivity measure ““BGU (%)

Mental wellbeing services
Freedom of Expression

Source of sector* data: National Student Survey data - Office for Students

[Data analysed and prepared by Andrew Wright: Data Team]

At an institutional level, BGU’s positivity scores exceeds sector averages in all seven themes (Teaching,
Learning Opportunities, Assessment and Feedback, Academic Support, Organisation and Management,
Learning Resources and Student Voice). This trend continues at an individual question level where BGU
scored higher than the sector average across the board. For the second year in a row the question with the
biggest variance between BGU and sector positivity scores is ‘How often have you received assessment
feedback on time?’ BGU’s positivity score is 98.98% compared to a sector average of 79.85%. The question
with the smallest difference between BGU and sector scores is ‘How well have the library resources (e.g.
books, online services and learning spaces) supported your learning?’ with BGU scoring 92.18% compared to
a sector average of 89.80% (a positive variance of 2.38%).

BGU’s successes in the NSS 2024, have culminated in league table recognition. The Times Higher Education
has named BGU as the UK university with 'the most satisfied students’. "89.4 per cent of students’
responses across all subjects at Bishop Grosseteste University in Lincoln were positive — the highest rate of all
149 universities in the analysis."(Times Higher Education). The Complete University Guide (CUG) has ranked
BGU 3% in the UK for Student Satisfaction. BGU also came second nationally in the annual What Uni? Student
Choice Awards for Student Support and 7th place nationally and 2nd in the East Midlands for Lecturers and
Teaching Quality. The What Uni? Student Choice Awards, are compiled from students who leave their
reviews with What Uni. :

The Bishop Grosseteste University Student Satisfaction Survey (BGUSSS) which covers broadly similar themes
to the NSS, as well as more BGU-focused areas, was open to students of all programmes at all levels who are
taught by BGU. The BGUSSS shows high levels of student satisfaction with programmes and the broader BGU

Page 14 of 74

experience provided by support services. When asked, 90.5% (an increase of 3.5%) of BGU students would
recommend the University to family, friends or colleagues. Due to the changes in the questions, as well as
the scoring method, the results are not directly comparable to previous years’ data.

The Graduate Outcomes 2024 survey indicates the activity of the graduating cohort of 2021/22 during
September 2023, 15 months after they finish their studies. Key Findings show:

* over 92.1% of graduates responding to the Graduate Outcomes Survey were in employment or
further study (this is up 1.1% on the previous year and higher than the Sector average of 87.9%.

e Ranked Sth for graduates in employment or further study, up from 9th the previous year, and 88th
the year before. [Excluding small and specialist higher education providers].

e The percentage of the university's graduates in employment or further study has increased from
91.5% for the 2020/21 cohort, against the wider sector trend where the sector average has decreased
from 88.8% to 87.9% over the same period. .

e 91% of graduates stated that their current activity is meaningful (up from 89%)

e 82% state that they are using what they learnt during their studies in their current activity (up from
77%)

¢ 84% state that their current activity fits in with their future plans (up from 80%)

e tducation continues to dominate the industrial classification of BGU’s graduates with 77.8% of
working respondents finding employment within the industry sector.

During 2023/24, there were two significant learning and teaching and portfolio related activities. Firstly in
November 2023, BGU underwent a full Ofsted inspection of our apprenticeship provision. The inspection
focused on four areas of judgement, namely Quality of Education, Behaviours and Attitudes, Personal
Development and Leadership and Management in relation to our Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship,
Senior Leader Apprenticeship and Career Development Professional Apprenticeship. The apprenticeship
provision achieved the overall grade ‘GOOD’, and the report highlighted the positive relationships tutors and
Apprenticeship Support Officers have with apprentices, with learners able to gain the knowledge, skills, and
confidence they need to succeed in their job roles and progress in the workplace. The report further notes
that the University has developed strong, strategic partnerships with a range of regional employers, and they
understand their needs and priorities effectively. Tutors plan the curriculum well and think carefully about
the content of the curriculum and how this builds apprentices’ knowledge and competence. The
apprenticeship portfolio is set to expand with new qualifications for 2024/25.

Secondly, our Initial Teacher Education (ITE) provision was inspected by Ofsted in March 2024. Some 13
inspectors worked across BGU’s Primary, Secondary and Further Education (FE) programmes, meeting staff,
current and past students, scrutinising documentation, evidence portfolios and visiting our partner schools
and colleges talking to the students on placement and their mentors. The resulting outcomes were ‘GOOD’
judgements across all phases and categories. The Ofsted Report is fulsome in its praise and highlighted ‘the
support that trainees receive as an absolute strength of this provision’ (Ofsted Report). This outcome is
critical to BGU’s reputation and portfolio developments and complements the successful Department for
Education (Df) sign-off of our re-accredited ITE curriculum.

The Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) 2023 results were published in September 2023 and BGU was rated
as ‘Silver’ overall and for the two underpinning categories of Student Experience (teaching, learning,
academic support, learning resources and student engagement) and Student Outcomes (continuation,
completion, graduate employment / further study and educational gain), with ‘typically very high quality’
provision achieved in both areas. The rating met the KPI set by the University for this area and lasts for four
years.

Page 15 of 74

3.3 Research and Knowledge Exchange

BGU Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy

The University has adopted an outline Research and Knowledge Exchange (RKE) Strategy timeline, 2025-30. The
document sets out the external policy context: Research Degree Award Powers (RDAP), Research Excellence
Framework (REF) 2029, Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF), Knowledge Exchange Concordat, and Higher
Education Innovation Fund (HEIF). The timeline integrates primary institutional ambitions, especially an
enhanced submission to REF and application for RDAP up to 2030. It also charts the timing of increased internal
investment in research through workload allocation model time, teaching and research staff numbers, research
leadership and administrative roles, and promotions rounds.

Research Excellence Framework 2029

BGU has established its REF Strategy and Implementation plan for the cycle up to submission at the end of
2028. The document outlines the emerging external policy background, internal planning structures and
processes, institutional aims, objectives, and targets, and the implementation timeline. The University and its
History team have been selected to participate in the REF 2029 pilot exercise for the new ‘People, Culture, and
Environment’ element of the exercise.

Doctoral programmes

BGU’s doctoral programmes continue to recruit and develop sustainably, commensurate with the institution’s
ambition to apply for RDAP. The University completed a mid-point review with its validating partner, the
University of Leicester, including approval of updates to primary regulatory documents. BGU has also enhanced
its relationship with Leicester’s School of Education.

Knowledge Exchange Framework
The University will continue to opt for full participation and representation in KEF. This will be reflected in the

ongoing publication of our existing narrative-template summaries relating to institutional overview, local
growth and regeneration (LGR), and public and community engagement; and three-year averaged Knowledge
Exchange data derived from our annual HE Business and Community Interaction (HE-BCI) returns. The next
opportunity to update our narrative templates is scheduled to be in semester one, 2025-26. While full
representation in KEF is not mandatory for institutions below the threshold for receiving HEIF allocations, it
remains a valuable opportunity to reflect the significance of BGU’s contribution to Knowledge Exchange, given
its size. It will continue to highlight conspicuous strengths in LGR and working with business.

Knowledge Exchange Concordat

BGU has reviewed its 3-year Knowledge Exchange Concordat Action Plan. A revised and updated Plan, 2024-27,
has been approved, reflecting the University’s commitment to the national Concordat (Universities UK, now
Praxis Aural}. The plan also articulates the institution’s sustained engagement in Knowledge Exchange activities
and its emphasis on social purpose.

Central UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) funding allocations

The University’s investment in research was supported by its recurrent UKRI Quality-Related funding allocation.
Additional allocations were received under the central Research Council’s Policy Support Fund, Enhancing
Research Culture Fund (ERCF), Research Participation Fund (RPF), and Research Capital Investment Fund (RCIF).
The support received aided a range of BG Futures, Lincolnshire Open Research & Innovation Centre (LORIC),
central Faculty, and Research-Office staff projects. Funding supported, for example, the University’s annual
Research Conference. This showcased the work of a large number of staff from across the institution, reflecting
the quality, diversity, impact, and interdisciplinary nature of its research.

Page 16 of 74

3.4 Collaboration and Partnerships

The University continues to work closely with its collaborative partners for the delivery of validated and
franchised programmes of study: .

e Grantham College — Health and Social Care; Special Educational Needs and Disability; Early
Childhood/Education in Practice

¢ Kingdom Academy (formerly Dutton Fisher Associates) — Business, Leadership and Management within
a Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship

e Lincoln College Group — Sports Coaching; Sports Therapy; Digital Learning Design

© Inspire Education Group, University Centre at Peterborough and Stamford College — Education, training

~ and skills

e ICON College of Technology and Management, London — Foundation Year; Business Studies; Health and

Social Care; International Business; Education Studies.

A quality review of the partnership with ICON College took place in March 2024. Resulting actions are being
put into place.

Following a detailed business case and robust institutional and programme approval events (utilising the OfS
regulatory criteria), BGU established a new educational partnership during 2023/24 with The Language
Gallery (TLG), for delivery of the Level 4 Cert HE in Leadership and Management at the partner's Nottingham
and Birmingham sites. This course opened for the first time in June 2024. There is an aspiration to expand
this provision to TLG’s sites in Leeds and Manchester.

Engagement with partner organisations is discussed via the Joint Board of Studies and annual strategic
meetings. The monitoring of the partnerships is undertaken by UEG and quality assured through a range of
processes including deliberative committees.

During 2023/24 the LORIC successfully bid for two UK Shared Prosperity Fund (UKSPF) funded projects — one
with North East Lincolnshire Council, and one with the South East Lincolnshire Councils Partnership. Both
projects enable LORIC to deliver fully funded data-driven innovation, advice and consultancy solutions to
businesses in these focalities until March 2025. LORIC has also been involved in a number of externally funded
contracts, including a community consultation and feasibility study of the Ermine community assets funded by
City of Lincoln Council via the UKSPF, an evaluation of the Bridge Community Mental Health Hub, funded by
the Lincolnshire Partnership NHS Foundation Trust (LPFT) Mental Health Transformation Team, and a report
detailing the results of the Census 2021 on a regional, local and ward level for Lincoln city, commissioned by
the City of Lincoln Council. The team is currently working on external contracts with Shine for an ongoing
evaluation of their pilot Hoarding Support Project on the East coast, and with Acts Trust to complete a gap
analysis of the existing provision aimed at tackling poverty in the city of Lincoln. :

LORIC took on responsibility for KTPs in May 2024 and has been working to develop new partnerships which
align with the expertise of academics at BGU, alongside supporting the existing KTPs which are in place with
Lincolnshire CVS and Liverpool Cathedral. Some promising collaborations so far include work with LIVES, and
with the City of Lincoln Foundation. .

The University has appointed a Head of Social Purpose to oversee and drive the social purpose agenda. The
Ermine Library and Community Hub is the flagship social purpose project, based within a five-minute walk of
the campus. The project received UKSPF funding of £125k in June 2024 to pay for BGU staffing for the facility,
development of a bank of PCs for community use and the development of a community garden, led by
consultation with the local community.

A significant number of student volunteering hours have been undertaken within the Ermine Library and
Community Hub as well as paid part time student work opportunities. Other notable activity includes the use
of university assets for the benefit of the community. Examples include funded film screenings for
disadvantaged families. This project offers paid student work as well as student volunteering opportunities.

Page 17 of 74

3.5 Infrastructure

During 2023/24, BGU remained committed to providing a high-quality environment for students, staff and
visitors. There has been no capital investment into the building element of the estate to support the
University’s financial plan with the exception of the Riseholme Student Village Development. The
establishment has continued to install sub-metering to individual buildings to improve data collection and
accurate utility use assessments across the campus. The annual program to deliver the full estate wide fire risk
assessment reviews has been completed and work to address the identified upgrade work and housekeeping
has commenced.

Estates & Facilities have procured condition surveys for all the buildings within the estate to enable the
prioritisation of investment towards the maintenance. The final reports were received at the end of August.
This will generate our maintenance program for future years. A campus wide review of space occupancy and
utilisation will be conducted with the objective of rationalising and reorganising the accommodation.

Several key strategic projects also continued to make satisfactory progress during the year. The Student Village
project was completed on schedule and opened officially on the 23 August 2024, our first students moved
into the accommodation at the start of September. The University has collaborated closely with the contractor
throughout the process to ensure the specification and build provides our students with a modern and state of
the art student accommodation to support the student experience at BGU.

Software Consolidation and Modernisation

An activity to discover and document the University’s known software has identified opportunities for
consolidation, optimisation, and modernisation of the digital software capability and contracts that underpin
the delivery of 50+ compliant business services with a secure technical infrastructure and annual spend of £1.4
million+ covering 115+ individually managed products.

Artificial Intelligence (Al) Integration and Innovation
Al is transforming business productivity. In March, BGU launched an approved Al solution, Microsoft Copilot, a
powerful productivity too! with commercial data protection for all staff to experiment with.

Cyber Security Achievements

BGU achieved Cyber Essentials Accreditation in March 2024, a testament to our dedication in maintaining the
highest standards of Cyber Security for the whole organisation. BGU has engaged a Cyber Security audit with
UNIAC, facilitating a control risk self-assessment against the National Cyber Security Centre’s 10 steps to Cyber
Resilience, providing a health check on the current management of cyber risk and informing future cyber risk
assurance work.

Technical Infrastructure Enhancements

Riseholme Road Student Village, which opened in September 2024 with provision of managed Wi-Fi and
internet connectivity for students, staff, visitors, and building management services. In readiness for
enrolment 2024/25, BGU has configured two new ID card printers to produce a more durable ID card, with any
design using more secure card technology. Based on feedback from conference delegates, BGU has launched a
new and improved guest Wi-Fi service for visitors to the University.

Sustainability

The Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting Regulations are designed to increase awareness of energy costs
and to provide reliable data to inform how BGU adopts energy efficiency measures, which helps to reduce the
impact on the environment. Table 4 shows the University’s energy consumption and emissions for the 2023/24
reporting period.

Estates & Facilities will be procuring consultants services to generate a full-scope Net Zero Carbon Roadmap &

Heat Decarbonisation Plan Proposal. This will deliver a detailed baseline for scopes 1, 2 and 3 (shown on table
4), to ensure that BGU has a well-defined and quantified understanding of the University’s direct and indirect

Page 18 of 74

emissions. This will then allow BGU an opportunity to identify thermal improvements, general energy
efficiency improvements to plant, fabric, and operation (‘Be Lean’) the potential for electric based heating (‘Be
Clean’) and the opportunities for on-site renewable energy production (‘Be Green’).

Sustainability Initiatives
A comprehensive review of user printing has reduced the number of multifunction printers BGU need by 60%+

whilst meeting our usage, delivering cost savings and reducing our carbon footprint. BGU are at the ‘proof of
concept’ stage with Joint Information Systems Committee (JISC) to deliver a ‘smarter’ university campus.
Utilising a building management platform and ‘Internet of Things’ related technology to deliver sustainability
improvements in energy consumption, resource use, space utilisation, and user comfort. To give some of our
old technology a new lease on life rather than recycling, BGU ran an anonymous bid auction for staff and
students, raising £1.5k.

Table 4 — UK Greenhouse gas emissions and energy use (01 August 2023 — 31 July 2024)

UK greenhouse gas emissions and energy-use data for the period 1 August 2023 to 31 July 2024

Energy consumption used to calculate emissions (kWh) / - , 3,834,530

Scope 1 Emissions (kgCO2e)
Gas consumption 456,408

Scope 2 Emissions (kgCO2e)

Purchased electricity. 277,266

Scope 3 Emissions (kgCO2e) i

Fleet vehicles: 1

Petrol 5,201
Diesel 8,025
Total 13,226
Total gross emissions (kgCO2e) 746,900
Business travel in employee-owned vehicles (miles} Est 72,500
Intensity ratio (kgCO2e per FTE student) 356
Quantification and Reporting Methodology '

We have followed the 2019 HM Government Environmental Reporting Guidelines and i
the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, and have used the ;
2024 UK government conversion factors for company reporting of greenhouse gas

emissions

Intensity measurement
In line with regulations, intensity per student ‘

Measures taken to improve energy efficiency
Bishop Grosseteste University has recognised the importance of work regarding sustainability
and the environmental agenda of sector recognition through the ISO standard. |
The Estates and Facilities Department will ensure that strategic and operational targets will :
be delivered as we work towards achieving Net Zero Carbon.

Page 19 of 74

oe

4. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)

The Critical Path was developed following the appointment of the Interim Vice-Chancellor in August 2023. The
Critical Path, and its seven core workstreams, was agreed with University Council in October 2023.

The Critical Path is being monitored through a balanced scorecard utilising OKRs embedded within a tracking
system, Viva Goals. This system provides transparency and oversight in real-time by UEG and a clear evidence-
based monitoring system to inform reporting to University Council.

The core OKRs for 2023/24 were

options and delivery of plan to raise capital and resource for investment;

create new recruitment pathways through colleges and schools;

design and implement a new marketing and admissions strategy;

design and implement a new organisational restructure;

deliver a portfolio review and implement outcomes;

define the purpose and vision of the University including its social purpose; and
implement a planning framework to agree investment, recruitment and savings targets.

Nou PWN Pp

Of these seven core OKRs, four were achieved in their entirety. Two were not achieved.

1. options and delivery of plan to raise capital and resource for investment;

This objective completed at 77% but was impacted by external factors and timing, however fulfilled a
significant number of underlining metrics and KPIs relating to financial stability. Those KPis impacted included

a) Secure Revolving Credit Facility of £3m.

Proactive engagement with banking and financial institutions has been ongoing, providing information which
will provide assurance of the institution’s financial viability. The unmodified audited opinion issued on the
financial statements for the year ended 31 July 2023 was a positive step. Externally, banking institutions have
retracted funding and financial support for universities given the increasing risks institutions face financially,
and the prospect of insolvency across the sector over the next 12 months. The OfS recent tender of £4m to
engage a professional services company to provide support to universities who are insolvent, indicates the
level of concern faced by the regulator, and the high probability. In turn, this has frozen banks interest in
supporting the sector.

Engagement will continue through Critical Path 2 to secure a Revolving Credit Facility for the institution.

b) Dispose of Estate Assets Will

As presented to University Council, three opportunities were identified to create financial liquidity for BGU.
These included the sale of the residential property, a sale/leaseback of Wickham Hall and the disposal of part
of the sports fields.

The residential property and Wickham Hall have progressed, however due to the process and complexity of
these transactions, they are to be achieved in Qi 2024. As such, they are complete for the most part, but did
not achieve the 31 July 2024 target initially implemented.

2. create new recruitment pathways through colleges and schools;

This KP! formed part of a wider set of metrics under an extensive and wide-ranging objective, which achieved
90% of its expected target. Pathways through colleges and schools was the only KPI to not be achieved. This
has been rolled forward to be delivered by the end of Q2 in Critical Path 2, as implementation has taken longer
than first initially thought, however progress of the new recruitment strategy overall is creating an impact for
the University.

Page 20 of 74

5. Financial Review

The Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024 consolidate the results of the University and its
subsidiary company BG (Lincoln) Limited. The accounts have been prepared in accordance with Financial
Reporting Standard 102 (FRS102) and the Statement of Recommended Practice on Accounting for Higher and
Further Education 2019.

Within 2023/24, there were exceptional one-off costs associated with the Critical Path which resulted in the
launch of a Voluntary Leavers Scheme (VLS) and restructure of the leadership team. The University incurred
exceptional restructuring costs and a shortfall in tuition fee income. The full year saving for the restructure will
be recognised in 2024/25. Below is the narrative for the final income, pay and non-pay expenditure positions.
The overall deficit for 2023/24 was £3.1m compared with a deficit of £2.8m for 2022/23.

Financial Results for the Year

The consolidated income and expenditure results for the University Group are summarised in the table as
follows:

Consolidated Income and Expenditure Results

2023/24 2022/23
Consolidated University Consolidated University

£’000 £’000
Income 20,480 21,248 21,107

(Loss)/Gain for the year (3,155) | __——_—(3,155) | . (2,803)

Actuarial (Loss)/Gain (4,483) 3,091
Release of reserves (10)
Total Comprehensive
Income for the year

Expenditure 23,635 23,397 24,051 23,910

Income

The University Group (inclusive of BG Lincoln Ltd) received total income of £20.3m for 2023/24, which is a
reduction of £0.9m compared to 2022/23. As in previous years, tuition fees are the primary source of income,
representing 74% of total income (2022/23: 74%). The £0.9m corresponds to the loss of tuition fee income of
£700k and partnership income of £297k with an upside on apprenticeships of £117k.

Page 21 of 74

Total income, £'000

2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24

Tuition Income Funding Body Grants
G Research Income . D Residences and catering Income

6 Other income

Expenditure

The University has managed to retain staffing costs to a level similar to 2022/23 given the exceptional
restructuring costs of £800k. In the year 2023/24, the total staff costs were £14.7m which is an overall increase
of £100k compared to 2022/23. The staff costs remain the University’s largest area of expenditure at 73% of
total income (71% in 2022/23). The University has made significant savings on staffing costs as per the
following breakdown:

Phase 1 staff restructure organisation | 768 |

768

The University committed to a cost of the above savings of £800k which comprises of exceptional restructuring
costs.

The cost of Other Operating Expenses has decreased from £8.1m to £7.6m from 2022/23 to 2023/24 through

driven efficiency savings across the departments of the University. The University yielded savings of 10% across
non-pay expenditure for the year 2023/24.

Page 22 of 74

3
a

The charge for depreciation and amortisation remains level with the charge in 2022/23 at £1.2m.

Below is the breakdown of total expenditure across pay, non-pay expenditure and depreciation;

Total Expenditure £'000

2019/20 2020/21 2024/22 2022/23 2023/24

m Staff costs m Other operating expenses oo Depreciation

Further to the above, included below is a breakdown of the expenditure by category.

Expenditure by Category £'000
‘7000000
6000000 —-
5000000
4900000 — ———
3000000 :
2000000
= | Aa
° . a. —
= Academic Departments = Adminisration = Other expenses
» Academic Services = Premises = General education expenditure
= Residences & Catering = Research grants and contracts» Staff and student facilities

Page 23 of 74

Balance Sheet

The University held cash at the year-end of £1.8m and as a result of the historic reporting of deficits has been
ona decline since 2016. The balance held at year-end 2022/23 was £4.7m.

Year end cash balances- £'000

2019/20 2020/21 2021/22. 2022/23 2023/24

As part of the Critical Path Asset Strategy, the University has completed a sale and leaseback of student
accommodation block Wickham Hall which concluded post year end and resulted in a £7.1m cash receipt in
September 2024 and as a further result BGU has assurances that it is a going concern from 12 months at point
of sign off. The increase in cash reserves post year end has given the University the continuity to perform its
operational activities as well as Critical Path 2 which is largely aimed at making further efficiencies across the
different workstreams.

The University has performed reconciliation work on the recruitment cycle into enrolments for 2024/25
including the student numbers received through partnership work and has assurances it has met the target in
the budget set at £16.1m.

Page 24 of 74

6. Risk

As part of the Critical Path project a key objective in 2023/24 was the development of a Risk Management
Framework, including a Board Assurance Framework.

The development of this objective would ensure professionalisation of risk management at the institution,
incorporating aspects of best practice in relation to risk management from across the sector. Above all, the new
framework was designed to embed risk management far greater into the decision making, strategic planning,
governance and oversight of the institution.

A proposed framework approach was agreed with the Audit Committee in April 2024, following a review of the
University’s current approach to Risk Management, which was reactive rather than proactive in nature. The
new framework can be seen in Table 5.

The new Risk Management Framework incorporates a more robust and modern approach to risk management,
incorporating the familiar aspects such as the institutional or corporate risk register, the audit tracker and Risk
Policy, but also includes new elements never previously utilised by BGU. These include:

e Risk Appetite Statement.

© Risk Tolerances & Acceptance Levels; developed with University Council and Senior Management at
BGU.

e Opportunity Register.

e Issues Register.

e Strategic Objective Risk Registers.

e PESTLE Analysis (which stands for political, economic, social, technological, legal and environmental).

e Board Assurance Framework.

As a consequence, a revised Risk Policy has been created, including new processes for the identification,
collection, classification and monitoring of risk at an institutional level, strategic objective level and individual
project level. The implementation of this new framework was aligned with the planning and monitoring cycle
of the Critical Path 2 for 2024/25. Risk Management is now aligned with key strategic objectives, ensuring an
effective and robust process of monitoring is implemented, and that the various elements of risk are analysed
through a closed loop framework, Table 6. ,

Page 25 of 74

Table 5: The Bishop Grosseteste University revised Risk Management Framework (Core Components)

Risk Tolerances & Acceptance University Institutional Risk
Levels (At a strategic jevel) & Opportunity Register

PESTLE Risk Register

Risk Appetite : - University Issues Register

University Objective Risk
Register (Strategic)

Risk Monitoring, Updating & Reporting

Table 6: The Bishop Grosseteste University revised Risk Management Framework (Inter-relations)

Risk Monitoring, Updating & Reporting

Project Risk
Registers

University
Issue
Register

PESTLE
Analysis

University
Institutional Risk
& Opportunity
Register

Audit
Tracker

Risk Register

Assurance Framework

Page 26 of 74

6.1 Risk Register

At the end of Quarter Four, the University Risk Register recorded three major risks, associated with a) Legacy IT
systems and financial risks associated with end of life software and hardware b) Failure to ensure financial
sustainability and c) achievement of student numbers and the affect on financial outturn.

These risks, their score and corresponding mitigation actions for the end of 2024 academic year are outlined
below: .

Windows 10, the default
operating system in use

across BGU's desktops and
laptops is end-of-life on.14th |
October 2025.

Failure to ensure the financial
sustainability of the
University

Achievement of student
numbers not line with
business plan projections

To remain compliant we need to

modernise our endpoint hardware.
Step 1: Identify Endpoint requirements ’
in-line with business strategy to target
upgrades in a priority order
(Teaching/Meeting resources first,
Student resources next, and staff

f resources).

Step 2: Target upgrades

3 Step 3 Extend security update package

on the gap (if required).

Page 27 of 74

§ Development of and utilisation of new

Mitigation through regular monitoring of
accounts. Cash flow forecasting updated
and monitored daily and reported to

H management colleagues. Improved

bottom up/top down budget
management approach. Development of
and utilisation of programme financial
viability model to support financially
underperforming programmes.

student forecasting models, linked to

a budget setting and target setting,

incorporating a joined up planning and
monitoring approach, not previously
done.

I Critical path One portfolio review started

aiming to impact on 2025/26, but if any
quick wins are identified for 2024/25
then they will be actioned accordingly.


7. Corporate Governance

The University is committed to exhibiting best practice in all aspects of corporate governance. In August 2019,
the University became a private limited company by guarantee without share capital, and with the use of
‘Limited’ exemption. Broadly speaking, University Council is responsible for overseeing the running of the
University and specifically for the effective, efficient and economic use of resources, for the approval of annual
budgets and for senior appointments. The Vice-Chancellor is responsible for the organisation and management
of the University and for making recommendations to University Council on the matters for which it is
responsible. The Members of University Council are Directors under the Companies Act 2006.

The arrangements for 2023/24 are set out in:

e the University’s Articles of Association;

e the terms of reference for committees of University Council;

e the University’s Schedule of Delegation;

e =the University’s financial regulations; and

e such regulations as University Council may from time to time adopt, including by-laws.

Following a General Meeting of University Council in March 2024, approval was given to submit an application
to the Privy Council to request an Order to convert BGU to an exempt charity. BGU was granted the Exempt
Charities Order in October 2024 from the Privy Council, which would come into force from 31 October 2024.

Following a Governance Effectiveness Review, which commenced in 2022/23, an action plan was monitored by
the Governance and Nominations (G&N) Committee throughout 2023, which reported in turn to the University
Council. The resulting action plan focused on:

e the skills and capacity of University Council;
e its strategic focus;

e = decision making and structure; and

® engagement and voice.

The Governance Effectiveness Review action plan was completed and officially closed at the G&N Committee in
May 2024 and noted that the University’s governance arrangements were and continue to be consistent with
good practice and the Committee of University Chairs (CUC) Higher Education Code of Governance.

Roles and Responsibilities:

The Articles of Association (2019), and revised 24 Apri! 2023, empower University Council to delegate certain
elements of its functions to committees of University Council or to the Vice-Chancellor. University Council may
not delegate responsibility for:

a) the pursuit of the charitable objects and the determination of the educational character and mission of
the University;

b) the approval of the annual estimates of income and expenditure;

c) ensuring the solvency of the University and the safeguarding of its assets;

d) the process of appointment or dismissal of the Vice-Chancellor; or

e) the recommendation to the University in general meeting for the varying or revoking of these Articles.

University Executive Group (UEG):

UEG has responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the University.

Page 28 of 74

University Council Constitution:

When complete, University Council has 16 to 22 members, appointed for four years and eligible for one
reappointment for consecutive service, with the exception of the Vice-Chancellor, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor
(Operations) and University Secretary, the President of the Students’ Union, the elected Student Member of
University Council and the Bishop of Lincoln. The composition of University Council is as follows:

a) the Bishop;

b) the Vice-Chancellor;

c) four people appointed by the Bishop’s Council of Diocesan Trustees, or any successor body, after
consideration of the skills required by University Council;

d) one member of the academic staff of the University elected by the academic staff in accordance with
rules established from time to time by University Council;

e) one member of the support staff of the University elected by the support staff in accordance with rules
established from time to time by University Council;

f) two representatives of the students elected by the students in accordance with rules established from
time to time by University Council;

g) five to 11 members appointed by University Council in accordance with rules made by University
Council; and

h) the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Operations) and University Secretary.

The Chair’s term of office as an appointed position is for three years with a possible renewal period of three
years. Ms Anne Frost was appointed as Chair of Council from 1 August 2022.

Professor Karen Stanton was appointed as Interim Vice-Chancellor and Accountable Officer from 1 August 2023
and stepped down on 31 August 2024. Mr Tom Dannatt, Deputy Vice Chancellor (Operations) and University
Secretary has been appointed interim Accountable Officer from 1 September 2024 until a new Vice-Chancellor
has been appointed. The recruitment process for the new Vice-Chancellor commenced in September 2024 and
concluded at the end of October 2024 with an appointment being offered. The new Vice-Chancellor will
commence their role from 22 April 2025.

The Bishop, by notice in writing to University Council, may appoint a representative to act as an alternative
Director in their absence from meetings of University Council.

Dr Stephanie Gilluly remained as Registrar and University Secretary to University Council until 26 March 2024,
ensuring that appropriate procedures were followed to support the governance processes in line with best
practice. From 26 March 2024, Mr Tom Dannatt became the new University Secretary. The Vice-Chancellor was {and
remains) the Accountable Officer in respect of reporting to the OfS.

The Governance Office maintains a register of financial and personal interests of University Council. The register
for 2023/24 is available for inspection at the University address. .

In addition to University Council, BGU has a number of Committees with delegated responsibilities. A brief

description of the responsibilities of each committee is outlined below. During 2023/24 (and up to the date of
the signing of this Report), University Council and its committees met as follows:

Page 29 of 74

University Council

28 September 2023 (Extraordinary)
16 October 2023 (Strategy Day)

28 November 2023

15 December 2023

26 February 2024 (Extraordinary)
26 March 2024

3 July 2024

26 July 2024 (Extraordinary)

28 October 2024 (Extraordinary)
22 November 2024

General Meeting

26 March 2024

Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for advising and
assisting University Council in respect of the entire

17 October 2023 assurance and control environment of the institution.

13 November 2023 Included within the scope of the Committee is the

11 April 2024 review of the audit aspects of the draft annual
financial statements and assurance to University

13 June 2024 Council on the adequacy and effectiveness of risk

21 October 2024 management, control and governance; sustainability

11 November 2024

and the promotion of economy, efficiency and
effectiveness (value for money); and the
management and quality assurance of data.

Finance, Employment and General Purposes

Committee

The Finances, Employment and General Purposes

13 September 2023 Committee considers and advises University Council

13 November 2023 on the approval of the annual and interim financial
20 November 2023 statements, and the annual budgets and financial
forecasts. The Committee also advises University
: 27 February 2024 Council on strategic developments and policy in
112 June 2024 respect of tuition fees, technology, estates and

- 26 July 2024 (Extraordinary) staffing matters (excluding the pay of senior officers).

' 18 September 2024
13 November 2024

Page 30 of 74

Remuneration Committee The Remuncration Committee has a specific

. 30 October 2023 responsibility with respect to the senior posts of
12 February 2024 : : the University. Taking into account comparator
-10 October 2024 . information, the Committee makes 7

12 November 2024 : recommendations to University Council in
respect of the salary of the Vice-Chancellor and
determines the salary of other senior posts. It
also recommends to University Council any
proposal for significant change to terms and
conditions of employment of senior staff,
including the Vice-Chancellor.

Governance and Nominations Committee The Governance and Nominations Committee
advises University Council on the appointment
of Members to the University Council, seeking
nominations and participating in selection

22 May 2024 processes as required. The Committee is

4 November 2024 responsible for ensuring University Council is
advised on matters of good governance.

1 November 2023

19 February 2024

Academic Assurance Committee

1 November 2023 This Committee is to act as an advisory group to
Council to facilitate Council’s role in respect of
13 March 2024 academic assurance and to increase engagement
5 June 2024 between Council and Senate around academic
19 September 2024 (Extraordinary) affairs.

6 November 2024

Page 31 of 74

University Council Member
Attendance 2023/24

3 &
e&
22
ze
—=— w
eS
wm

Governance &
Nominations
Remuneration
Academic
Assurance

Ms Alison Brown
Ms Julia Chippendale :
Bishop Stephen Conway (from 1 September 2024)
Mr Russ Coulter

Dr Stephen Critchley

Mrs Rebecca Crooks

Mr Tom Dannatt (from 15 December 2023)
Professor Scott Fleming (to 11 December 2023)

Ms Anne Frost

Mr Steven Galjaard (from 15 December 2023)

Mr Max Gordon (from 1 July 2024)

Mr Richard Halisworth (to 28 June 2024)

Professor Marianne Howarth

Reverend Canon Dr Sarah Lawrence

Mr Walter Leschenko

Dr Sacha Mason

Miss Elyse Olsen (to 30 June 2024)

The Right Reverend Dr Nigel Peyton (to 31 August 2024)
Mr Jaidip Sen (from 15 December 2023)

Mr Connor Short (to 29 April 2024) -

Ms Lisa Smith (Co-opt Member to Audit Committee)
Professor Karen Stanton (to 31 August 2024)

Mrs Elise Temple

Reverend Marian Toyne (to 18 July 2024)

Mrs Kate Truscott

The statement of corporate governance covers the financial year and up to the date of approval of these
financial statements by University Council on 22 November 2024.

Page 32 of 74

8. Statement of University Council’s Responsibilities

University Council is the Governing Body of the Institution. Subject to the powers of Senate as provided for in
the Instruments and Articles, it has ultimate responsibility for the affairs of the University. In accordance with
the University’s Articles of Association, University Council is responsible for the administration and
management of the University’s affairs, including ensuring an effective system of internal control, and is
required to present audited financial statements for each financial year to Companies House and the Charity
Commission.

The Council is responsible for ensuring that the University has appropriate systems of controls, financial and
otherwise. The Council is also responsible for keeping accounting records that disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the University and enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006, the Charities Act 2011 and regulations made thereunder. The
Council is responsible for safeguarding the assets of the University and ensuring their proper application under
law, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

In addition, in accordance with the requirements of the OfS, University Council, through its designated office
holder, is required to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the University and of the income and expenditure, surplus or deficit, changes in reserves and
cash flows for that year.

In preparing the financial statements, University Council is required to:

e select the most suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

e observe the methods and principles in the Statement of Recommended Practice (SORP): Accounting for
Further and Higher Education 2019, and of the OfS Accounts direction;

© make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and

© prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that
University Council will continue in business.

On 1 August 2019, the University incorporated as a company limited by guarantee (company number
11963500) and a registered charity (charity number 1184682). :

In March 2024, the University submitted an application to the Privy Council to request an Order to convert BGU

to an exempt charity and was granted the Exempt Charities Order in October 2024 from the Privy Council,
which would come into force from 31 October 2024.

Page 33 of 74

9. Statement of Internal Control

University Council has a responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal control that supports the
achievement of policies, aims and objectives, whilst safeguarding the public and other funds and assets for
which it is responsible. This control is exercised in accordance with the University’s Articles of Association
incorporating the Instrument and Articles of Government of the University, the OfS Terms and Conditions of
Funding for HEls, other funding bodies’ conditions, the CUC Higher Education Code of Governance and the
Charity Commission.

The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
policies, aims and objectives; it can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance of
effectiveness.

The system of internal control is based on an ongoing process designed to identify the principal risks to the
achievement of policies, aims and objectives; to evaluate the nature and extent of those risks; and to manage
them efficiently, effectively and economically. This process has been in place for the year ended 31 July 2024
and up to the date of approval of the financial statements on 22 November 2024 and accords with the OfS
guidance.

University Council has responsibility for reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal
control and arrangements for the management and quality assurance of data submitted to the Higher
Education Statistics Agency (HESA), Student Loans Company (SLC), OfS and other bodies. The following
processes have been established and maintained:

« regular meetings (at least termly) are held to consider the plans and strategic direction of the
University;

¢ the Audit Committee oversees risk management and receives regular reports from the Head of Internal
Audit, which include the Head of Internal Audit’s independent opinion on the adequacy and
effectiveness of the University’s system of internal control, together with recommendations for
improvement;

e the University’s Risk Register is actively reviewed by UEG, the Audit Committee and University Council,
and is informed by robust internal and external audits;

¢ regular updates are received from the Chair of the Audit Committee concerning internal control, and
BGU requires regular reports from the Vice-Chancellor on the steps being taken to manage risks,
including progress on key projects; and

e aligned with the new CUC Higher Education Code of Governance, an effectiveness review of Council and
all sub-committees was undertaken during 2021/22. The University commissioned an independent
appraisal of the effectiveness of the implementation of the subsequent actions commenced in
November 2022. The action plan agreed by University Council has been monitored at regular meetings
throughout 2023 and 2024

The University-continues to use Uniac as the acting internal auditors for the year 2023/24. The annual report
can confirm that the internal auditors work aligns to the Institute of Internal Auditors (IIA) International
Professional Practices Framework (IPPF). The audit programme for 2023/24 conforms to the CUC Audit
Committee Code of Practice and provides assurances on the University’s system of internal control, with
recommendations for improvement.

The review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control is also informed by the work of UEG, which has
responsibility for the development and maintenance of the internal control framework, and by comments
made by the external auditors in the management letter and other reports.

Principal Risks

BGU’s approach to risk management is outlined in Section 6 of this report, together with the principal risks

Page 34 of 74

managed during 2023/24. The risk register for 2023/24 was aligned to BGU’s Strategy, Critical Path plans and
revised KPIs and OKRs. The risks monitored in 2023/24 are outlined in Section 6 of this report. Mitigation
actions are linked to the revised KPIs and OKRs and are monitored by UEG and the Audit Committee, with
subsequent reports to University Council.

Employee Engagement
University Council — and, therefore, the Board of Directors — includes:

¢ one member of the academic staff of the University elected by the academic staff in accordance with
rules established from time to time by University Council; and

@ one member of the support staff of the University elected by the support staff in accordance with rules
established from time to time by University Council.

The academic staff member of University Council regularly reports to Senate — the highest academic committee
in the University — on matters discussed at University Council.

Staff Forums are held throughout the year to discuss key strategic items and ensure a common understanding
of the financial and business planning activities of the University. Topics for discussion at these meetings in
2023/24 included:

e the University’s response to sector challenges;
© re-engaging the University Community;

e = University finances;

e = ~=marketing and recruitment; and

e external engagement activity and key projects.

in Autumn 2023, the Interim Vice-Chancellor held a staff forum to outline the five-year financial plan for the
University, the Critical Path and its core objectives. New communication channels have been opened for staff to
contact the Interim Vice-Chancellor and a Communications Room has been developed. The Critical Path plans
have been a key focus of the staff forums and the Interim Vice-Chancellors communications throughout the
year.

The University is a recognised union environment; University and College Union (UCU) and Unison are regularly
consulted through the Joint Consultative Committee (JCC). The Director of Corporate Services meets with BGU
union representatives on a weekly basis. They also cascade information to union members.

BGU is a member of the Universities and Colleges Employers Association (UCEA), which represents the
University’s interests during pay negotiations at the Joint Negotiating Committee for Higher Education Staff
alongside the unions. Council minutes and the University’s finances are made publicly available on the
University’s website.

‘

University Council has taken reasonable steps to:

« ensure that funds from the OfS and the DfE are used only as permitted by the relevant agreements and
any other conditions that the funding bodies may from time to time prescribe;

e ensure that there are appropriate financial and management controls in place to safeguard public
funds and funds from other sources;

e safeguard assets of the University and prevent and detect fraud;

© secure the economical, efficient and effective management of the University’s resources and
expenditure; and

Page 35 of 74

e ensure that UEG has established an adequate system of internal control designed to manage rather
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, providing only reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss and that it regularly monitors and reviews
the effectiveness of that system.

Any system of internal financial control can, however, only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance
against material misstatement or loss.

Disclosure of Information to Auditors

University Council members who held office at the date of approval of this report confirm that so far as they
-are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the University’s auditors are unaware; and each
Council member has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken to be aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the University’s auditors are aware of that information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of 418 of the
Companies Act 2006.

Tom Dannatt

Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Operations)
& University Secretary

DATE: 22 November 2024 _—

Anne Frost
Chair of University Council
DATE: 22 November 2024

Page 36 of 74

10. Independent Auditor’s Report to the Council Members of Bishop
Grosseteste University

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Bishop Grosseteste University (the ‘University’} and its subsidiary
(the ‘group’) for the year ended 31 July 2024 which comprise the consolidated statements of comprehensive
income, the consolidated and University statement of changes in reserves, the consolidated and University
balance sheet, the consolidated statement of cash flows, the principal accounting policies, and the notes to the
financial statements. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable
law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:

e give a true and fair view of the state of the grqup’s and University’s affairs as at 31 July 2024 and of the
group’s and University’s deficit, comprehensive income and expenditure and changes in reserves and of
the group’s cash flows for the year then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and the Statement of Recommended Practice: Accounting for Further and Higher Education;

e the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act
2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor's responsibilities for the
audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the University in accordance with
the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s
Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the University Council’s use of the going
concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the groups or University’s ability to
continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are
authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the members of the Council with respect to going concern are
described in the relevant sections of this report.

Page 37 of 74

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report other than the financial
statements and our auditor's report thereon. The members of the Council are responsible for the other
information contained within the annual report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the
other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form
of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is
materially inconsistent with the financial statements, or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial
statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Office for Students
In-our opinion, in all material aspects
«  inall material respects, funds from whatever source administered by the University for specific purposes
have been properly applied only for those purposes for which they were received, and managed in
accordance with relevant legislation;

e in all material respects, funds provided by the OfS, UK Research and Innovation (including Research
England), the Education and Skills Funding Agency and the Department for Education have been applied
in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions; and

e the requirements of Of$’s accounts direction have been met.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Office for Students requires us to
report to you where:

e the group and University’s grant and fee income, as disclosed in note 1 to these financial statements has
been materially misstated; and

e the group and University’s expenditure on access and participation activities for the financial year has
been materially misstated.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

e the information given in the members of the Council’s report, which is also the directors’ report for the
purposes of company law and includes the strategic report, for the financial year for which the financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

e the members of the Council’s report, which is also the directors’ report for the purposes of company law
and includes the strategic report, has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

Page 38 of 74

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the University and its environment obtained in the course of
the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the members of the Council’s report including the
strategic report. We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

e the statement of internal control includes as part of the Corporate Governance Statement is inconsistent
with our knowledge of the University;

e adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or

e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
e certain disclosures of members’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

ewe have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of the University Council

As explained more fully in the statement of responsibilities of members of the Council, the members of the
Council are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a
true and fair view, and for such internal control as the members of the Council determine is necessary to enable
the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the members of the Council are responsible for assessing the University’s
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
going concern basis of accounting unless the members of the Council either intend to liquidate the University or
to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations

We design procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in
respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting
irregularities, including fraud is detailed below:

Our approach to identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities,
including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, was as follows:

e the engagement partner ensured that the engagement team collectively had the appropriate
competence, capabilities and skills to identify or recognise non-compliance with applicable laws and
regulations;

* we identified the laws and regulations applicable to the University through discussions with
management, and from our knowledge and experience of the sector;

- we focused on specific laws and regulations which we considered may have a direct material effect on

Page 39 of 74

the financial statements or the operations of the University, including the Further and Higher Education
Act 1992, Companies Act 2006, funding agreements with the OfS and associated funding rules, Ofs |
regulations, data protection legislation, safeguarding and employment legislation;

e we assessed the extent of compliance with the laws and regulations identified above through making
enquiries of management and inspecting legal correspondence; and

e Identified laws and regulations were communicated within the audit team regularly and the team
remained alert to instance of non-compliance throughout the audit.

We assessed the susceptibility of the University’s financial statements to material misstatement,
including obtaining an understanding of how fraud might occur, by:

e making enquiries of management as to where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud, their
knowledge of actual, suspected and alleged fraud; and

¢ considering the internal controls in place to mitigate risks of fraud and non-compliance with laws and
regulations.

To address the risk of fraud through management bias and override of controls, we:

e performed analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships;
e tested journal entries to identify unusual transactions; and

® assessed whether judgements and assumptions made in determining the accounting estimates set out
in the accounting policies were indicative of potential bias.

In response to the risk of irregularities and non-compliance with laws and regulations, we designed procedures
which included, but were not limited to:

© agreeing financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation;

e reading the minutes of University Council meetings;

© enquiring of management as to actual and potential litigation and claims; and

e reviewing any available correspondence with HMRC and the University’s legal advisors.

There are inherent limitations in our audit procedures described above. The more removed that laws and
regulations are from financia! transactions, the less likely it is that we would become aware of non- compliance.
Auditing standards also limit the audit procedures required to identify non-compliance with laws and regulations
to enquiry of the members of the Council and other management and the inspection of regulatory and legal
correspondence, if any.

Material misstatements that arise due to fraud can be harder to detect than those that arise from error as they
may involve deliberate concealment or collusion.

A further description of our responsibilities is available on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the University’s members, as a body, in accordance with the University’s Articles of

Page 40 of 74

Governance and Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that
we might state to the University’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to
anyone other than the University and the University’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or
for the opinions we have formed.

Bue2vedbl tof

Hugh Swainson (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of Buzzacott LLP
Statutory Auditor

130 Wood Street

London

EC2V 6DL

27 November 2024

Page 41 of 74

11. Financial Statements
Company Number: 11963500

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure

Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
Notes Consolidated University Consolidated University
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
income
Tuition fees and education contracts 1&2 15,043 15,043 15,812 15,812
Funding body grants 1 1,499 1,499 1,670 1,670
Research grants and contracts 1&3 328 328 269 269
Other income 4 3,372 3,134 3,450 ~ 3,309
Investment income . 5 238 238 47 47
Total income 20,480 20,242 21,248 21,107
Expenditure
Staff costs 6 14,753 14,753 14,644 14,644
Other operating expenses 7 7,666 7,428 8,135 7,994
Depreciation / amortisation 11&12 1,216 4,216 1,244 1,244
interest and other finance costs 8 - - 28 28
Total expenditure , 9 23,635 23,397 24,051 23,910
Loss before other gains (3,155) (3,155) (2,803) (2,803)
Taxation . - -
Loss for the year (3,155) (3,155) (2,803) (2,803)
Actuarial (loss)/gain in respect of pension schemes 24 (4,483) (4,483) 3,091 3,091
Transfers between revaluation and income and
expenditure reserve 36 36 36 36
Total comprehensive income for the year (7,602) (7,602) 324 324
Represented by:
Unrestricted comprehensive expenditure for the year (7,638) (7,638) 288 288
Revaluation reserve comprehensive income for the
year 36 36 36 36

Allitems of income and expenditure relate to continuing activities in the current and prior years.

All recognised gains and losses are included in the above statement of comprehensive income and expenditure.

Page 42 of 74

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Reserves
Year ended 31 July 2024

Income and expenditure , Revaluation
Consolidated account reserve Total
Restricted Unrestricted
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Balance at 1 August 2022 844 23,849 3,333 28,026
Deficit from the income and expenditure statement - (2,803) - (2,803)
~ Other comprehensive income - 3,091 - 3,091
Transfers between revaluation and income and expenditure - .
reserve 36 (36) -
Transfer between restricted and unrestricted (697) 697 - -
Release of reserves spent in year - (12) - (12)
Total comprehensive income for the year (697) 1,009 (36) 276
Balance at 1 August 2023 . 147 24,858 3,297 28,302
Deficit from the income and expenditure statement - (3,155) - (3,155)
Other comprehensive income - - ot ~ (4,483) - moe (4,483)
Transfers between revaluation and income and expenditure
reserve - 36 (36) -
Release of reserves spent in year - (10) - (10)
Total comprehensive income for the year - . (7,612) (36) (7,648)
Balance at 31 July 2024 147 _—__17,246_ ___3,262_ 20,655
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Reserves
Year ended 31 July 2024
Income and expenditure Revaluation
University account reserve Total
Restricted Unrestricted
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 ‘
Balance at 1 August 2022 844 23,849 3,333 28,026
Deficit from the income and expenditure statement - (2,803) - (2,803)
Other comprehensive income - 3,091 - 3,091
Transfers between revaluation and income and expenditure -
reserve 36 (36) -
Transfer between restricted and unrestricted (697) 697 - -
Release of reserves spent in year . - (12) - (12)
Total comprehensive income for the year (697) 1,009 (36) 276
Balance at 1 August 2023 : 147 24,858 3,297 28,302
Deficit from the income and expenditure statement - (3,155) - (3,155)
Other comprehensive income - (4,483) . (4,483)
Transfers between revaluation and income and expenditure
reserve - 36 (36) -
Release of reserves spent in year - (10) - (10)
Total comprehensive income for the year - (7,612) (36) (7,648)
Balance at 31 July 2024 147 17,246 3,262 20,655

Page 43 of 74

Non-current assets

Intangible assets
Fixed assets

Current assets

Stock

Trade and other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents

Less: Creditors: amounts falling
due within one year

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due after more
than one year

Provisions

Pension provisions
Total net assets

Restricted Reserves

Income and expenditure reserve - restricted
reserve

Unrestricted Reserves

Income and expenditure reserve -
unrestricted

Revaluation reserve -

Total Reserves

Consolidated Balance Sheets

Notes

1
12

13
14
15

16

17

19

20

As at 31 July 2024

Consolidated
£°000

25,478
25,478

“16
2,043
1,815

3,874 |

(4,229)

(355)

25,123

(4,146)

(322)

20,655

147

17,246

3,262

20,655

University
£'000

25,478
25,478

16
1,972
1,778
3,766

(4,121)
(355)

25,123

(4,146)

(322)

20,655

147

17,246

3,262

20,655

As at 31 July 2023

* Consolidated - University
£'000 £'000
8 8
26,170 26,170
26,178 26,178
21 21
1,752 1,682
4,676 4,673
6,449 6,376
(3,089) (3,016)
3,360 3,360
29,538 — 29,538
(4,525) (4,525)
3,289 3,289
28,302 28,302
147 147
24,858 24,858
3,297 3,297
28,302 28,302

The financial statements were approved by the Governing Body on 22 November 2024 and were signed on its behalf on that date by:

Tom Dannatt

Deputy Vice- ~T. TD. ‘Dace

Chancellor
(Operations)

Anne Frost
Chair of
University
Council

Page 44 of 74

ne Ot

Consolidated Statement of Cash flows

Cash flow from operating activities

Loss for the year

Adjustment for non-cash items

Depreciation and amortisation

Decrease (increase) in stock

(Increase) in debtors

Increase in creditors

(Decrease) in pension provision

Defined pension costs less contributions payable
Defined benefit pension finance costs
Adjustment for investing or financing activities
Investment income

Movement in Salix loan

Capital grant income .

Net cash (outflow) from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities
Capital grants receipts

Investment income

Payments made to acquire fixed assets

Fixed asset write off

Decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the year

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year

Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year

Analysis of change in net debt

Cash

Loans falling due within one year
Loans falling due after more than one
year

Notes Year ended 31 July 2024
£'000
(3,155)
11&12 1,216
13 5
14 (291)
16 1,043
19 (189)
(487)
- (196)
5 (238)
17 (23)
18 (324)
(2,639)
65
13 238
11&12 (516)
12 (9)
(222)
(2,861)
15 4,676
15 1,815
Other non-cash
At1 August 2023 Cash flows changes
£'000 £'000 £'000
4,676 (2,861)
(23) -
(23) -
4,630 (2,861)

Total

Page 45 of 74

Year ended 31 July 2023
£'000

(2,803)

1,244
(6)

(989)

1,083

(32)

391

oo, 28

(47)
(23)
(308)
(1,462)

527
47
(794)

(220)
(1,682)

6,358
4,676

At 31 July 2024
£'000

- 1,815

23 -

23 :
46 1,815


Statement of accounting policies

The following accounting policies have been applied consistently in dealing with items which are
considered material in relation to the financial statements.

Basis of preparation

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Statement of Recommended
Practice: Accounting for Further and Higher Education 2019 (the 2019 FE HE SORP) and in accordance
with Financial Reporting Standards 102 — “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and
Republic of Ireland (FRS 102)”. The University is a public benefit entity and therefore has applied the
relevant public benefit requirement of FRS 102.

The preparation of financial statements in compliance with FRS 102 requires the use of certain critical
accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise judgement in applying the University’s
- accounting policies.

Basis of accounting

The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention modified by the revaluation
of certain fixed assets, and are presented in £000s.

Basis of consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the University and its subsidiary undertaking, BG
(Lincoln) Limited. intra-group sales and profits are eliminated fully on consolidation. No separate
statement of comprehensive income has been presented for Bishop Grosseteste University alone, as
permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.

The consolidated financial statements do not include the income and expenditure of the Students‘
Union as the University does not exert control or dominant influence over policy decisions.

All financial statements are made up to 31 July 2024.
Recognition of income

Income from the sale of goods or services is credited to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive
Income and Expenditure when the goods or services are supplied to the external customers or the terms
of the contract have been satisfied.

Fee income is stated gross of any expenditure which is not a discount and credited to the Consolidated
Statement of Income and Comprehensive Expenditure over the period in which students are studying.
Where the amount of the tuition fee is reduced by a discount for prompt payment, income receivable is
shown net of the discount. Bursaries and scholarships are accounted for gross as expenditure and not
deducted from income.

Investment income is credited to the statement of income and expenditure on a receivable basis.

Funds the University receives and disburses as paying agent on behalf of a funding body are excluded
from the income and expenditure of the University where the University is exposed to minimal risk or
enjoys minimal economic benefit related to the transaction.

Grant funding:

Government revenue grants including funding council block grant and research grants are recognised in
income over the periods in which the University recognises the related costs for which the grant is

Page 46 of 74

intended to compensate. Where part of a government grant is deferred it is recognised as deferred
income within creditors and allocated between creditors due within one year and due after more than
one year as appropriate.

Grants (including research grants) from non-government sources are recognised in income when the
University is entitled to the income and performance related conditions have been met. Income received
in advance of performance related conditions being met is recognised as deferred income within
creditors on the balance sheet and released to income as the conditions are met.

Capital grants:

Government capital grants are recognised in income over the expected useful life of the asset. Other
capital grants are recognised in income when the University is entitled to the funds subject to any
performance related conditions being met.

Maintenance of premises

The University has produced a long-term maintenance plan. The plan includes all recurring work, the
number of years necessary to complete a full maintenance cycle, and the likely annual cost. The cost of
long-term and routine corrective maintenance is charged to the income and expenditure account as
incurred.

Foreign currency translation

Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the dates
of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into
sterling either at year-end rates or, where there are related forward foreign exchange contracts, at
contract rates. The resulting exchange differences are dealt with in the determination of income and
expenditure for the financial year.

Pension schemes

Retirement benefits for most employees of the University are provided by the Teachers' Pension Scheme
(TPS) and the Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS). These are defined benefit schemes which are
independently administered schemes, funded by contributions from the University and the employees.
Contributions to the TPS are charged to the income and expenditure so as to spread the cost of pensions
over employees’ working lives with the University in such a way that the pension cost is a substantially
level percentage of current and future pensionable payroll. The contributions are determined by
qualified actuaries on the basis of quadrennial valuations using a prospective benefit method. As stated
in note 24, the TPS is a multi-employer scheme and the University is unable to identify its share of the
underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme ona consistent and reasonable basis. The TPS is therefore
treated as a defined contribution scheme and the contributions recognised as they are paid each year.

The assets of the LGPS are measured using closing market values. LGPS liabilities are measured using the
projected unit method and discounted at the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of
equivalent term and currency to the liability. The increase in the present value of the liabilities of the
scheme expected to arise from employee service in the period is charged to the operating surplus. The
expected return on the scheme’s assets and the increase during the period in the present value of the
scheme’s liabilities, arising from the passage of time, are included in pension finance costs. Actuarial
gains and losses are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure.

Should the present value of the LGPS at the reporting date be less than the fair value of its plan assets at
that date, the plan would be in surplus. Surpluses can only be recognised as an asset to the extent that
the University is able to recover the surplus, either through reduced contributions in the future or
through refunds from the plan. Otherwise, the liability is capped at zero.

Page 47 of 74

10.

The institution participates in Universities Superannuation Scheme. The assets of the scheme are held in
a separate trustee-administered fund. Because ofthe mutual nature of the scheme, the assets are not
attributed to individual institutions and a scheme-wide contribution rate is set. The institution is
therefore exposed to actuarial risks associated with other institutions’ employees and is unable to
identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and reasonable
basis. As required by Section 28 of FRS 102 “Employee benefits”, the institution therefore accounts for
the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the profit
and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme and the deficit recovery
contributions payable under the scheme’s Recovery Plan.

The USS funding deficit provision at 1 August 2023 had been estimated based on a mode! devised by USS
and the British Universities Finance Directors Group. The model required estimates to be made on pay
increases, scheme membership and discount rates. The institution was no longer required to make deficit
recovery contributions from 1 January 2024 and accordingly released the outstanding provision to the
profit and loss account

Bishop Grosseteste University also participates in the Church of England Funded Pension Scheme which
is a defined benefit scheme but the University is unable to determine its share of the underlying assets
and liabilities on a consistent and reasonable basis. The Scheme is therefore treated as a defined
contribution scheme and the contributions recognised as they are paid each year.

The University operates a defined contributions pension scheme, the Bishop Grosseteste University
Flexible Retirement Account. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the University
in an independently administered fund.

Enhanced pensions

The actual cost of any enhanced on-going pension to a former member of staff is paid by the University
annually. An estimate of the expected future cost of any enhancement to the on-going pension of a
former member of staff is charged in full to the University’s income and expenditure account in the year
that the member of staff retires. In subsequent years a charge is made to provisions in the balance sheet
using guidance prepared for the Higher Education Funding Council for England by Deloitte & Touche
Actuarial & Benefit Services in 1998. At 31 July 2024 the enhanced early retirements relating to Local
Government Pension Scheme unfunded liabilities have been included as part of the main FRS 102
pension disclosure at Note 24 to these accounts. Unfunded enhanced pension liabilities that relate to
the Teachers’ Pension Scheme remain as part of the Enhanced Pensions Provision at 31 July 2024.

Tangible fixed assets

Where significant expenditure is incurred on tangible fixed assets it is charged to the income and
expenditure account in the period it is incurred, unless it meets one of the following criteria, in which
case it is capitalised and depreciated on the relevant basis:

¢ market value of the fixed asset has subsequently improved;

e asset capacity increases;

e substantial improvement in the quality of output or reduction in operating costs; and

e — significant extension of the assets life beyond that conferred by repairs and maintenance.

Tangible fixed assets are depreciated over their useful lives considering residual values, where
appropriate. The actual lives of the assets and residual values are assessed annually and may vary
depending on a number of factors. In re-assessing asset lives, factors such as technological innovation
and maintenance programmes are considered. Residual value assessments consider issues such as future
market conditions, the remaining life of the asset and projected disposal values.

Page 48 of 74

11.

12.

13.

14,

a. Land and buildings

Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Certain items of fixed assets that had been revalued to fair value on or prior to the date of transition to
the 2015 FE HE SORP, are measured on the basis of deemed cost, being the revalued amount at the date
of that revaluation.

The basis of valuation is open market value for existing use or, where such a valuation is not practicable,
depreciated replacement cost. A full valuation of the land was carried out by Hodgson Elkington
Chartered Surveyors on transition to FRS 102.

Land is held freehold and is not depreciated. Buildings are depreciated over their expected useful lives
of 50 years from 1 August 1993 or from the date of acquisition. Subsequent capital improvements to
existing buildings are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the building to which the expenditure
relates.

No depreciation is charged on assets in the course of construction.

b. Equipment

All equipment, including computers and software costing more than £1,000 per individual item and
having an expected life of more than one year is capitalised. Equipment, including motor vehicles, is
stated at cost and depreciated over its expected useful life of 5 years.

Intangible assets

Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any recognised impairment loss.
Externally acquired computer software and software licences are capitalised and amortised on a straight-
line basis over their useful lives of five years. Amounts capitalised include the total cost of any external
products or services and labour costs directly attributable to development. The amortisation period is
five years.

Stocks

The stocks are catering provisions and shop items. Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net
realisable value. Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective stocks.

Taxation

The University is an exempt charity within the meaning of Part 3 of the Charity Act 2011. It is considered
to pass the tests set out in paragraph 1 schedule 6 of the Finance Act 2010 and accordingly the University
is potentially exempt from taxation in respect of income or capital gains received within categories
covered by sections 478-488 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 or section 256 of the Taxation of Chargeable
Gains Act 1992 to the extent that such income is applied to exclusively charitable purposes.

The University receives no similar exemption in respect of value added tax (VAT). For this reason, the
University is generally unable to recover input VAT it suffers on goods and services purchased. Non-pay
expenditure is therefore shown inclusive of VAT with any partial recovery netted off against these figures.

The University’s subsidiary company, BG (Lincoln) Ltd, is subject to corporation tax and VAT in the same
way as any commercial organisation.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash flows comprise increases or decreases in cash. Cash includes cash in hand, deposits repayable on
demand and overdrafts. Deposits are repayable on demand if they are in practice available within 24
hours without penalty. No investments, however liquid, are included in cash.

Page 49 of 74

15.

16.

17.

18.

Cash equivalents are short term, highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts
of cash with insignificant risk of change in value.

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the University has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result
of a past event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation
and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.

Employment benefits

Short term employment benefits such as salaries and compensated absences are recognised as an
expense in the year in which the employees render service to the University. Any unused benefits are
accrued and measured as the additional amount the University expects to pay as a result of the unused
entitlement.

Operating leases

Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Any lease
premiums or incentives are spread over the minimum lease term.

Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In preparing these financial statements, The Members of the Council has made the following
judgements:

Assessment of going concern

The Members of the Council assess whether the use of going concern is appropriate i.e., whether there
are any material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the
ability of the University to continue as a going concern.

In making their assessment of going concern the Members of Council have considered the forecast
financial position for 2024/25, including a cash flow forecast to 31 July 2025. In addition, Members of
Council have considered the university’s financial forecasts for the period to July 2029 which included
information on student numbers, changes in student accommodation, levels of staff pay awards,
proceeds from the sale of assets and the impact of general inflationary pressures.

The Members of the Council make this going concern assessment in respect of a period of at least one
year from the date of authorisation for issue of the financial statements. The Members of the Council in
their capacity as directors have concluded that the University has adequate resources to continue in
Operational existence for the foreseeable future and there are no material uncertainties about the
University’s ability to continue as a going concern, thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis
of accounting in preparing the financial statements.

Local Government Pension Scheme

The present value of the Local Government Pension Scheme defined benefit liability depends on a
number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a variety of assumptions. The
assumptions used in determining the net cost (income) for pensions include the discount rate. Any
changes in these assumptions, which are disclosed in note 24, will impact the carrying amount of the
pension liability. Furthermore, a roll forward approach which projects results from the latest full actuarial
valuation performed at 31 March 2022 has been used by the actuary in valuing the pensions liability at
31 July 2024. Any differences between the figures derived from the roll forward approach and a full
actuarial valuation would impact on the carrying amount of the pension liability.

Page 50 of 74

Universities Superannuation Scheme :

FRS 102 makes the distinction between a group plan and a multi-employer scheme. A group plan consists
of a collection of entities under common control typically with a sponsoring employer. A multi-employer
scheme is a scheme for entities not under common control and represents (typically) an industry-wide
scheme such as Universities Superannuation Scheme. The accounting for a multi-employer scheme
where the employer has entered into an agreement with the scheme that determines how the employer
will fund a deficit results in the recognition of a liability for the contributions payable that arise from the
agreement (to the extent that they relate to the deficit) and the resulting expense in the Statement of
Comprehensive Income and Expenditure in accordance with section 28 of FRS 102. The Members of the
Council are satisfied that Universities Superannuation Scheme meets the definition of a multi-employer
scheme and has therefore recognised the discounted fair value of the contractual contributions under
the funding plan in existence at the date of approving the financial statements.

Bad debt provision :

Provision is made for debts that are not considered to be collectable — referred to as a bad debt provision.
This provision is calculated based on experience of previous years’ collectability of differing type of debt
and applied to the amount of outstanding debt.

Page S1of74 a ee

1 Grant and fee income

Grant income from the OfS

Grant income from other bodies

Fee income for taught awards (see Note 2)
Fee income from research awards (see Note 3)
Total grant and fee income

Deferred capital grants released in year

_ Office for Students

nN

Tuition fees and education contracts

UK Higher Education Students

Research grants and contracts

Research councils

Research charities

Non public research Income
Public research Income

Other income

Residences, catering and conferences
Non-Funding Council capital grants released
Long Term Hire of Facilities

Project Income

Other income

Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
Consolidated University Consolidated —_ University
£'000 - £'000 £'000 £'000
1,032 1,032 1,103 1,103
357 357 466 466
15,043 15,043 15,812 15,812
328 328 269 269
16,760 16,760 17,650 17,650
110 110 101 101
16,870 16,370 17,751 17,751
Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
Consolidated University | Consolidated University
£’000 £7000 £’000 £7000
15,043 15,043 15,812 15,812
Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
Consolidated _—_ University Consolidated —_ University
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
117 117 196 196
133 133 47 47
27 27 21 21
51 $1 5 5
328° 328 269 269
Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
Consolidated University Consolidated University
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
1,981 1,743 1,659 1,518
214 214 207 207
31 31 40 40
21 21 396 396
1,125 1,125 1,148 1,148
3,372 3,134 3,450 3,309

Page 52 of 74

5 Investment income Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
Consolidated _ University Consolidated University

£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Investment income from short-term deposits 47 47 47 47
Net return on pension scheme 191 191 - -
: 238 238 47 47
Year ended 31 July
6 Staff costs 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
Consolidate Universit Consolidate
d y d University
£'000 £'000 ' £'000 £'000
Statt costs:
Salaries 11,835 11,835 10,932 10,932
Social security costs 1,135 1,135 1,089 1,089
Movement on USS provision (235) (235) (43) (43)
Other pension costs - FRS102
adjustment (487) (487) 393 393
Other pension costs 2,505 2,505 2,273 2,273
Total 14,753 14,753 14,644 14,644
2024 2023
Emoluments of the Vice-Chancellor: £ £
Basic Salary 230,000 204,241
Benefits - 8,091
230,000 212,332
Payments made in lieu of pension contributions - 35,533
Compensation for loss of office - 139,433
Pension contributions as part of compensation for loss of office - 22,207
Non-taxable benefit — Living accommodation - 14,400
/ 230,000 423,905

The Vice Chancellor has received no non-taxable benefits of on site accommodation in'2023-24
(2022-23: £14,400) , .

The Remuneration Committee determines the base salary and other benefits of the Vice-Chancellor.
The Vice-Chancellor is in attendance of Remuneration Committee, but is not involved in, or present
at, any discussions or decisions of the Committee in relation to their own salary or benefits.

The remuneration of the Vice-Chancellor is set by the University’s Remuneration Committee (see

Section 7). In determining the remuneration of the Vice-Chancellor consideration will be given to
established independent sources of benchmark reward data for roles in comparable organisations.

Page 53 of 74

Sources include the annual UCEA Senior Staff Remuneration Survey and the Annual Survey of Vice-
Chancellors Remuneration from the Committee of University Chairs (CUC).

The Chair of the Council will present an assessment of performance against objectives together with
recommendations to the Remuneration Committee for consideration. Formal minutes will provide a
written record of the assessment.

To enable the Remuneration Committee to assess the value and performance of the Vice-Chancellor
the following information is provided to the Committee:

1. A summary of discussions at the Vice-Chancellor’s personal development review (PDR)
meeting with the Chair and Deputy Chair of the University Council.

An assessment of achievement against the Vice-Chancellor’s personal objectives for the year.
A summary of the salary and benefits received by the Vice-Chancellor.

Details of the remuneration received by the Vice-Chancellor in previous years.

Guidance and advice provided by the Committee of University Chairs on the setting of senior
staff remuneration.

Benchmarking data gathered by the Universities and Colleges Employers Association with a
particular focus on, post-92 by income up to £70 million, institutions within the membership
of the Cathedrals Group of Universities and Rest of England income.
7. Lowest paid staff members pay ratio and median pay rate ratio data for the University.

WPWwn

a

Remuneration of other higher paid staff, excluding employer's pension
contributions:

2024 2023

No. No.

£125,000 - £129,999 - 1
£130,000 - £134,999 1 -

Reporting bodies are required to disclose the relationship between the remuneration of the highest
paid director in their organisation and the median remuneration of the organisation’s workforce. Total
remuneration includes salary, non-consolidated performance-related pay and benefits in kind. It does
not include severance payments, employer pension contributions and the cash equivalent transfer
value of pensions.

Pay Multiples (as at 31 July) 2024 2023
Vice-Chancellor basic salary (£) 230,000 204,241
Median basic remuneration (£) 28,759 25,948
Ratio 8.00 7.87
Pay Multiples {as at 31 July) 2024 2023
Vice-Chancellor total remuneration 230,000 409,506
Median total remuneration ; 33,000 31,720
Ratio 6.97 12.91

The Vice-Chancellor’s basic salary is 8 (2023: 7.9) times the median pay of staff, where the median
pay is calculated on a full time equivalent basis for the salaries paid by the provider to its staff.

Page 54 of 74

The Vice-Chancellor’s total remuneration is 7 (2023: 12.9) times the median total remuneration of
staff, where the median total remuneration is calculated on a full time equivalent basis for the total
remuneration by the provider of its staff.

. 2024 2023

Average staff numbers by major category: No. No.
Academic 111 = 103
Management & Administrative 112 122
Other . 43 41

. 266 266

Key management personnel ,

Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning,
directing and controlling the activities of the University and include members of the University
Executive Group. Staff costs paid to key management personnel, inclusive of both employers’
pension and NI contributions are as follows:

Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
£'000 £'000
Key management personnel 879 : 761

Year ended Year ended
31 July 2024 31 July 2023

No. £'000 No. £'000

Compensation for loss of office:

Compensation payable recorded within staff costs 17 317 6 137

When considering severance payments the University gives regard to the Committee of University
Chairs’ (CUC) guidance on decisions taken about severance payments in HEls.

Council Members

University Council members are the trustees for charitable law purposes. Due to the nature of the
University's operations and the composition of the Council, being drawn from local public and private
sector organisations, it is inevitable that transactions will take place with organisations in which a
member of the Council may have an interest. All transactions involving organisations in which a
member of Council may have an interest, including those identified below, are conducted at arm’s
length and in accordance with the University's Financial Regulations and usual procurement
procedures.

No University Council member has received any remuneration from the group during the year (2023:
none). The total expenses paid to or on behalf of council members was £1,220 (2023: £1,568). This
represents travel and subsistence expenses incurred in attending Council, Committee meetings and
Charity events in their official capacity.

Page 55 of 74

Other operating expenses

Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
Consolidated University Consolidated University
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Residences, Catering & Conferences 543 310 458 321
Repairs & Maintenance 242 242 404 404
Professional fees/External Consultancy 173 173 242 242
Subscriptions & Memberships 340 340 294 294
Books and Periodicals 127 127 143 143
Heat, Light, Water & Power 906 906 726 726
Marketing & Student Recruitment 692 692 668 668
IT expenditure 548 548 1,029 1,029
Grants to BG Students’ Union 159 159 167 167
External Auditors’ Remuneration
Financial Statements Audit 33 31 34 30
Other services 5 2 5 5
Internal Auditors' Remuneration 58 58 67 67
Bursary Payments to Students 544 544 551 551
Other Expenses 3,296 3,296 3,347 3,347
7,666 7,428 8,135 7,994
Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
Note Consolidated —_ University Consolidated University
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Interest and other finance
Net charge on pension 24 - : 28 28
- - 28 28

Page 56 of 74

”

9 Analysis of total expenditure by
activity :

Academic departments

Academic services

General education expenditure
Administration and central services
Staff and student facilities
Premises

Residences and catering

Research grants and contracts
Other expenses

10 Access and participation

Access investment
Financial support

Year ended 31 July 2024

Consolidated
£'000

7,132
2,461
1,481
5,887
295
1,994
1,097
380
2,908
23,635

University
£'000

7,132
2,461
1,481
5,887

295
1,994
1,097

380
2,670

23,397

Disability support (excluding expenditure included in the two categories above)

Research and evaluation
Total

Year ended 31 July 2023

Consolidated University
£'000 £'000
6,108 6,108
3,121 3,121
1,743 1,743
5,618 5,618
1,172 1,172
2,459 2,459
1,142 1,001
433 433
2,255 2,255
24,051 23,910.

Yearended Year ended

31 July 31 July

2024 2023

£000 - £7000

1,371 1,347

523 545

289 275

157 143

2,340 2,310

Of the above balance, £1,685,377 (2023: £1,634,041) relates to staff costs already included within the

accounts.

Access and Participation Plan (2020/21 to 2024/25)

Page 57 of 74

11 Intangible assets
Consolidated

and

Software University

£'000
Cost
At 1 August 2023 1,674
Disposal (1,637)
At 31 July 2024 37
Amortisation
At 1 August 2023 ; 1,667
Charge for the year 7
Disposal (1,637)
At 31 July 2024 37
Net book value :
At 31 July 2024 -
At 31 July 2023 8

Page 58 of 74

12 Fixed assets

Fixtures, Assets
Freehold Leasehold fittings and under
Consolidated land land Buildings equipment construction Total
: £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Cost or valuation
At 1 August 2023" 2,700 8 32,508 4,699 283 40,198
Additions - - - 176 340 516
Disposals - - : (9) (9)
At 31 July 2024 2,700 8 32,508 4,866 623 40,705
At valuation 2,700 - 2,500 - - 5,200
At cost - 8 30,008 4,866 623 35,505
/ 2,700 8 32,508 4,866 623 40,705
Depreciation
At 1 August 2023 yo 1 10,185 3,841 - 14,027
Charge for the year - - 847 362 - 1,209
Disposals - - - : (9) . (9)
At 31 July 2024 : 1 11,032 4,194 - 15,227
Net book value
At 31 July 2024 2,700 7 21,476 672 623 (25,478
At 31 July 2023 2,700 7 22,323 857 283 26,170

The amount of £623k recorded as Assets under Construction relate to the construction of student
accommodation which is due to be leased by the University from September 2024.

Certain buildings have been partially funded from external sources. Should these buildings be sold, the
University may either have to surrender the proceeds to the external party or use them in accordance
with the financial memorandum agreement made with that particular external party. A full valuation
of the land was carried out by Hodgson Elkington Chartered Surveyors on transition to FRS102.

Page 59 of 74

13

14

15

Stock

General consumables

Trade and other receivables

Amounts falling due within one year:

Other trade receivables

Prepayments and accrued income

Cash and cash equivalents

At 1 August 2023
Cash flows
At 31 July 2024

31 July 2024 31 July 2023
Consolidated University Consolidated University
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
16 16 21 21
16 16 21 21
31 July 2024 31 July 2023
Consolidated University Consolidated University
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
849 793 270 200
1,194 1,179 1,482 1,482
2,043 1,972 1,752 1,682
31 July 2024 31 July 2023
Consolidated University Consolidated University
£'000 £'000 £'000 £°000
4,676 4,673 6,358 6,358
(2,861) (2,895) (1,682) (1,685)
1,815 1,778 4,676 4,673

Page 60 of 74

16 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

31 July 2024 31 July 2023
Consolidated University Consolidated - University
£000 _ £'000 £'000 £'000
Trade payables 978 907 803 764
Social security and other taxation payable . . 303 298 384 376
Pension contributions payable 281 281 130 130
Accruals 855 849 800 786
Payments received in advance ‘ 1,295 1,269 679 667
Deferred capital grants (see Note 18) 331 331 234 234
Salix Loan 23 23 23 . 23
Amounts owed to funding councils 163 163 36 36
; 4,229 4,121 3,089 3,016

17 Creditors: amount falling due after one year . Consolidated and University

31 July 2024 31 July 2023
£7000 £000
Unsecured loan - . 23
Deferred capital grants (see note 18) 4,146 4,502
4,146 . 4,525

18 Deferred capital grants

Consolidated and University

Office for Year ended 31

Students Other July 2024

£7000 £000 £'000

At 1 August 2023 1,840 2,896 4,736

Cash received/receivable 50 15 65

. Released to income and expenditure account in respect of (110) (214) (324)
At 31 July 2024 ~~ "1780.~«2,697—~=*«<“‘<CS*««*T

Of which:
Due to be released within one year (note 16) . 116 215 331
Que to be released after more than one year (note 17) 1,664 2,482 4,146

Page 61 of 74


19

Pension provisions

Consolidated

At 1 August 2023
Utilised in year
Additions in the year
At 31 July 2024

USS deficit

Defi

Obligation to Pension en
fund deficit on enhancements _

USS pension on termination obligations

° (Note 24)

£'000 £'000 £'000

235 225 (3,749)

(235) - 3,800

~ 46 -

- 271 BL

Total

£'000

(3,289)
3,565
46

322

A deficit recovery plan was put in place as part of the 2020 valuation, which required payment of
6.2% of salaries over the period 1 April 2022 until 31 March 2024, at which point the rate would
increase to 6.3%. As set out in Note 24, no deficit recovery plan was required under the 2023
valuation because the scheme was in surplus on a technical provisions basis. The institution was
no longer required to make deficit recovery contributions from 1 January 2024 and accordingly
released the outstanding provision to the profit and loss account.

Enhanced pension provision

The actual cost of any enhanced on-going pension to a former member of staff is paid by the
University annually. An estimate of the expected future cost of any enhancement to the on-going
pension of a former member of staff is charged in full to the University’s income and expenditure
account in the year that the member of staff retires. In subsequent years, a charge is made to
provisions in the balance sheet using guidance prepared for the Higher Education Funding Council
for England by Deloitte & Touche Actuarial & Benefit Services in 1998.

Defined benefit obligations
Details can be found at note 24.

20 Restricted reserves (Group and University)

21

Other restricted reserves

At 1 August 2023 and at 31 July 2024
Total restricted reserves at 31 July 2024

Year ended 31 July 2024
£’000 £’000
147 147
147 147

During 2006, the University sold a property with proceeds of £147,000. The proceeds from the
sale were to be reinvested within 3 years from the sale date. The funds were used to assist with
the building of a new administration office at the University.

Capital and other commitments

Page 62 of 74

Provision has not been made for the following capital commitments at 31 July 2024:

31 July 2024 31 July 2023
Consolidated University Consolidated ~ University
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Commitments contracted
Equipment ; 18 18 36 36
Assets under Construction - . - 385 ; 385
1 8=©|)CtiaB ( tst‘“‘Sé‘éSNCC*;*;*‘«CSW

22 Lease obligations
Consolidated and University

Total rentals payable under operating leases:

Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
aura & Plant & Total ne & ene & Total
uilding Machinery £000 Building Machinery £000
£’000 . £7000 £'000 £000
Payable during the year 205 71 276 305 79 384
Future minimum lease payments due: ;
Not later than 1 year 205 65 270 205 - 71° 276
Later than 1 year and not later 410 109 519 615 109 724
Total lease payments due 615 174 789 820 180 =: 1,000
23 Training bursaries Consolidated and University
Year ended 31 July Year ended 31
2024 July 2023
£000 * £000
Balance brought forward as 1 August 2023 36 31
NCTL grants 1,339 478
Disbursed to students (1,212) (473)
Balance unspent at 31 July 2024 163 36

NCTL grants are available solely for students; the University acts only as a paying agent. The grants

. and related disbursements are therefore excluded from the Statement of Consolidated Income and

Expenditure Account.

24 Pension and similar obligations (Group and University)

Page 63 of 74

The University’s employees belong to five principal pension schemes, the Church of England Funded
Pensions Scheme, the Teachers' Pensions Scheme (TPS), the Local Government Pension Scheme
(LGPS), the University Superannuation Scheme (USS) and the Bishop Grosseteste University Flexible
Retirement Account provided by Friends Life. Four of these schemes are defined benefit schemes
with the Bishop Grosseteste University Flexible Retirement Account being a defined contribution
scheme.

Total pension cost for the year

The pension contributions for the year were £2,505,000 (2023: £2,274,000) excluding the FRS 102
adjustment.

Year ended 31 Year ended 31. July
July 2024 2023
£'000 £'000

Teacher's Pension Scheme: contributions
payable 1,222 1,122
Local Government Pension Scheme: charge to
the Consolidated Statement of Income and
Expenditure 1,132 1,036
Universities Superannuation Scheme:
contributions payable 40 65
Church of England Funded Pensions Scheme 7 8
Bishop Grosseteste University Flexible
Retirement Account 104 43
Total Pension Cost for the Year (excluding FRS
102 adjustment) 2,505 2,274

Page 64 of 74

Church of England Funded Pensions Scheme

Bishop Grosseteste University participates in the Church of England Funded Pensions Scheme and
employs one member of the Scheme out of a total membership within the Scheme of approximately
7,100 active members. This scheme is administered by the Church of England Pensions Board, which
holds the assets of the scheme separately from those of the employer and the other participating
employers.

The Church of England Funded Pensions Scheme is a defined benefit scheme, but Bishop Grosseteste
University is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities.

For schemes such as the Church of England Funded Pensions Scheme, paragraph 28.11 of FRS 102
requires Bishop Grosseteste University to account for pension costs based on contributions payable
to the scheme in the year.

The most recent scheme valuation completed was carried out at 31 December 2021. The valuation
reported a surplus of £560m, based on assets of £2,720m and a funding target of £2,160m, assessed
using the following assumptions:

. Discount rate 2.7%
. Retail Price Inflation 3.6%
° Pension increases:

Increasing in line with RPI (capped at 5%) 3.4%
Increasing in line with RP! (capped at 3.5%) 2.9%

The Bishop Grosseteste University contribution rate during the financial year was 28.0% of
pensionable stipends.

Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS) is a statutory, contributory, defined benefit scheme, governed
by the Teachers’ Pension Scheme Regulations 2014. These regulations apply to teachers in schools,
colleges and other educational establishments. Membership is automatic for teachers and lecturers
at eligible institutions. Teachers and lecturers are able to opt out of the TPS.

The TPS is an unfunded scheme and members contribute on a ‘pay as you go’ basis ~ these
contributions, along with those made by employers, are credited to the Exchequer under
arrangements governed by the above Regulations. Retirement and other pension benefits are paid
by public funds provided by Parliament.

Under the definitions set out in FRS 102 (28.11), the TPS is a multi-employer pension plan. The
University is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the plan.

Accordingly, the University has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 102 and has accounted for
its contributions to the scheme as if it were a defined contribution plan.

The Government Actuary, using normal actuarial principles, conducts a formal actuarial review of
the TPS in accordance with the Public Service Pensions (Valuations and Employer Cost Cap)
Directions 2014 published by HM Treasury every 4 years. The aim of the review is to ensure scheme
costs are recognised and managed appropriately and the review specifies the level of future
contributions.

Page 65 of 74

Actuarial scheme valuations are dependent on assumptions about the value of future costs, design
of benefits and many other factors. The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS was carried out as, at 31
March 2020. The valuation report was published by the Department for Education on 27 October
2023, with the SCAPE rate, set by HMT, applying a notional investment return based on 1.7% above
the rate of CPI. The key elements of the valuation outcome are:

e¢ Employer contribution rates set at 28.68% of pensionable pay (including a 0.08%
administration levy). This is an increase of 5% in employer contributions and the cost control
result is such that no change in member benefits is needed.

e Total scheme liabilities (pensions currently in payment and the estimated cost of future
benefits) for service to the effective date of £262,000 million and notional assets (estimated
future contributions together with the notional investments held at the valuation date) of
£222,200 million, giving a notional past service deficit of £39,800 million.

The result of this valuation was implemented from 1 April 2024. The next valuation result is due to
be implemented from 1 April 2028.

A full copy of the valuation report and supporting documentation can be found on the Teachers’
Pension Scheme website. :

The employer’s pension costs paid to TPS in the period amounted to £1,222,000 (2023 - £1,122,000).
Universities Superannuation Scheme

The University participates in the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS). The Scheme is a hybrid
“pension scheme, providing defined benefits (for all members), as well as defined contribution
benefits. The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee-administered fund.

USS is a multi-employer scheme and is accounted for as set out in the accounting policies.

The cost charged to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income was £40,000 (2023:
£65,000), but excluding the impact of the change in the deficit recovery plan, as shown in note 19.
Deficit recovery contributions due within one year for the institution are £10,000 (2023: £19,000)
and the total credit released to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive income was £235,000.

The latest available complete actuarial valuation of the Retirement Income Builder is as of 31 March
2023 (the valuation date), which was carried out using the projected unit method.

Since the institution cannot identify its share of USS Retirement Income Builder (defined benefit)
assets and liabilities, the following disclosures reflect those relevant for those assets and liabilities as
a whole.

The 2023 valuation was the seventh valuation for the scheme under the scheme-specific funding
regime introduced by the Pensions Act 2004, which requires schemes to have sufficient and
appropriate assets to cover their technical provisions (the statutory funding objective). At the
valuation date, the value of the assets of the scheme was £73.1 billion and the value of the scheme’s
technical provisions was £65.7 billion indicating a surplus of £7.4 billion and a funding ratio of 111%.

The key financial assumptions used in the 2023 valuation are described below. More detail is set out
in the Statement of Funding Principles.

Page 66 of 74

CPI assumption Term dependent rates in line with the difference between
the Fixed interest and Index Linked yield curves less:

1.0% p.a. to 2030, reducing linearly by 0.1% p.a. from 2030

Pension increases (subject to a floor of 0%) Benefits with no cap:

CPI assumption plus 3bps

Benefits subject to a “soft cap” of 5% (providing

inflationary increases up to 5%, and half of any excess
inflation over 5% up to a maximum of 10%):

CPI assumption minus 3bps
Discount rate (forward rates) . Fixed interest gilt yield curve plus:
Pre-retirement: 2.5% p.a.

Post retirement: 0.9% p.a.

The main demographic assumption used relates to the mortality assumptions. These assumptions
are based on analysis of the scheme's experience carried out as part of the 2023 actuarial valuation.
The mortality assumptions used in these figures are as follows:

Mortality base table 101% of S2PMA "light" for males and 95% of S3PFA for
females. ,

Future improvements to mortality CMI 2021 with a smoothing parameter of 7.5, an initial
addition of 0.4% pa, 10% w2020 and w2021 parameters,
and a long term improvement rate of 1.8% pa for males

and 1.6% pa for females.

Page 67 of 74

The current life expectancies on retirement at age 65 are:

5.4
2

Males currently aged 45 (years) 2 26.0
Females currently aged 45 (years) 27 27.4

Bishop Grosseteste University Flexible Retirement Account

The University operates a defined contributions pension scheme. The assets of the scheme are held
separately from those of the University in an independently administered fund. The pension cost
charge represents contributions payable by the University to the fund and amounted to £104,000
(2023 - £43,000).

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS)

The LGPS is a funded defined benefit scheme, with the assets held in separate trustee administered
funds. The total contribution made for the year ended 31 July 2024 was £1,421,000 (2023 -
£1,319,000), of which employer’s contributions totalled £1,132,000 (2023 - £1,036,000) and
employees’ contributions totalled £289,000 (2023 - £283,000). From 1 April 2023, the agreed
employer contribution rate for the University was 26.9%. Contributions are between 5.5% and 12.5%
for employees, depending upon salary and other pensionable earnings.

Page 68 of 74

Assumptions
The financial assumptions used to calculate scheme liabilities under FRS 102 are:

At 31 July 2024

% per year
Pension increases , 2.85%
Rate of increase in salaries : 3.85%
Discount rate 5.10%
RPI inflation : 3.10%

At 31 July 2023

% per year
2.85%
3.85%
5.10%

3.15%

“The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed level of longevity. The table below
shows the life expectancy assumptions used in the accounting assessments based on the life

expectancy of male and female members at age 65.

Males Females

Non-pensioner

Non-pensioner

Pensioner (retiring in 20 years) Pensioner (retiring in 20 years)
At 31 July 2023 19.5 years 20.7 years 22.6 years 24.0 years
At 31 July 2024 19.5 years 20.7 years 22.6 years 24.1 years
Analysis of plan assets
At 31 July 2024 At 31 July 2023
Equities 49% 55%
Bonds , 14% 13%
Property 7% 7%
Cash , 3% 3%
Infrastructure 4% 4%
Absolute return fund 23% 18%

Page 69 of 74

Analysis of the amount shown in the
balance sheet

Scheme assets

Impact of asset ceiling

Scheme liabilities _

(Deficit) surplus in the scheme —net
pension (liability) (asset) recorded
within pension provisions (Note 19)

Current service cost
Past service cost
Total operating (credit) cost

Analysis of the amount charged to
interest payable/credited to other
finance income

Interest cost
Expected return on assets
Net charge to other finance income

Total profit and loss charge before
deduction for tax

Analysis of other comprehensive
income:

Gain on assets

Other actuarial gains/(losses) on assets -

Experience (loss) gain on liabilities
Changes in financial assumptions
Changes in demographic assumptions
Changes in effect of asset ceiling
Total other comprehensive income
before deduction for tax

Year ended 31 July.2024

Consolidated

£’000

37,662
(12,422)
(25,291)

(51)

(676)
(360)
(1,036)

(1,482)
1,704
222

1,441
120

2

58
(6,104)

(4,483)

Page 70 of 74:

Year ended 31 July 2023
University Consolidated University

£’000 £'000 £000
37,662 32,321 32,321
(12,422) (6,011) (6,011)
(25,291) (22,561) (22,561)
(51) 3,749 3,749
(676) 1,436 1,436
(360) - -
(1,036) 1,436 1,436
(1,482) (1,059) (1,059)
1,704 1,040 1,040
222 (19) (19)
1,441 (296) (296)
~ 514 514
120. (3,286) (3,286)
2 10,900 10,900
58 1,270 1,270
(6,104) (6,011) (6,011)
(4,483) 3,091 3,091

Year ended 31 July 2024
Consolidated University
£000 £000

Analysis of movement in the fair value of scheme obligations

* Scheme obligations at beginning of :
year 22,561 22,561

Employee contributions ; 278 278
Benefits paid 421 421
Current service cost 676 676
Past service cost : 360 360
Other finance charge 1,175 1,175
(Gain) recognised in other comprehensive
income - oe . (180) . (180)
Scheme obligations at end of year 25,291 25,291
Year ended 31 July 2024
Consolidated University
£’000 £000

Analysis of movement in the fair value of scheme assets

Fair value of assets at the start of the year 32,321 32,321
Expected return on assets 1,704 1,704
Actuarial gain on assets 1,441 1,441
Actual contributions paid by University 1,523 1,523
Actual member contributions 278 278
Actual benefit payments including admin 395 395

Fair value of scheme assets at the end of year 37,662 37,662

Page 71 of 74

4

Year ended 31 July 2023

Consolidated University
£000 £7000
28,990 28,990
287 287
(327) (327)
1,436 1,436
1,059 1,059
(8,884) (8,884)
22,561 22,561
Year ended 31 July 2023
Consolidated University
£’000 £’000
30,076 30,076
1,040 1,040
(296) (296)
1,043° 1,043
287 287
171 171
32,321 32,321

Sensitivity analysis

The sensitivities for the University regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the
scheme liabilities are set out below: .

Change in assumptions at 31 July Approximate increase to Approximate monetary
2024: defined benefit amount
obligation £000

Decrease in real discount rate:

0.1% 2.0% 509

0.5% 10.7% 2,701
Increase in long term salary increase rate:

0.1% 0.1% 33

0.5% . 0.7% 170
Increase in the pension increases and deferred revaluation:

0.1% 1.9% 486

0.5% 10.2% 2,580
One year increase in life 3.4% 848

expectancy
25 Related party transactions

Due to the nature of the University’s operations and the composition of University Council (being
drawn from public and private sector organisations), it is inevitable that transactions will take place
with organisations in which a member of University Council may have an interest. All transactions
involving organisations in which a member of University Council may have an interest are
conducted at arm's length and in accordance with the University’s financial regulations and normal
procurement procedures. No transactions were identified which should be disclosed under the
provisions of FRS 102. In the opinion of University Council, there is no controlling party.

26 Investments

The University holds all issued ordinary share capital of BG (Lincoln) Limited, a company
registered in England and Wales (Company number 2467793) the principal activity of which is
the organisation of functions and conferences. The University’s interest in the company at 31
July 2024, comprised share capital of £2 (2023: £2).

27 Post balance sheet events

Following the financial year end, the University engaged in two significant property transactions.
Firstly, entering into a 40-year lease on a new accommodation block, known as the Student Village,
taking possession in August 2024.

Secondly, in September 2024, a sale and leaseback agreement on a student accommodation block
which was sold to a local investor for £7.1m with a lease term of 20 years.

Page 72 of 74

12. Administering Trustees

Constitution

The University is a Private Company limited by guarantee without share capital use of ‘Limited’
exemption and a Registered Charity (Charity Number: 1184682). It is governed by the Articles of
Association of the Company incorporating the Instruments and Articles of Governance of the
University dated 1 August 2019 (updated on 24 April 2023).

Council and Administering Trustees
The Council members who served in the year and up to the date of the signature of the financial
statements were:

2023/24 Chair
Ms Anne Frost

Ex-Officio Council Members

Bishop Stephen Conway (from 1 September 2024)

Bishop’s Nominee: Rt Rev’d Dr Nigel Peyton (until 31 August 2024)
Professor Karen Stanton (until 31 August 2024) :
Professor Scott Fleming (until 11 December 2023)

Mr Tom Dannatt (from 15 December 2023)

Diocesan Representative Council Members
Rev'd Canon Dr Sarah Lawrence

Rev'd Marian Toyne (until 18 July 2024)
Mr Russ Coulter

Council Members

Ms Alison Brown

Ms Julia Chippendale

Dr Stephen Critchley

Mr Steven Galjaard (from 15 December 2023)
Mr Richard Hallsworth (until 28 June 2024)
Professor Marianne Howarth

Mr Walter Leschenko

Mr Jaidip Sen (from 15 December 2023)
Mrs Elise Temple

Mrs Kate Truscott

Elected Staff Representatives
Mrs Rebecca Crooks
Dr Sacha Mason

_ Student Representatives
Mr Max Gordon (from 1 July 2024)
Miss Elyse Olsen (until 30 June 2024)
Mr Connor Short (until 29 April 2024)

Page 73 of 74

Registrar and University Secretary
Dr Stephanie Gilluly (until 26 March 2024)

University Secretary
Mr Tom Dannatt (from 26 March 2024)

Bankers
National Westminster Bank plc

Principal Solicitors
Shakespeare Martineau, Waterfront House, Waterfront Plaza, Nottingham, NG2 3DQ

External Auditors
Buzzacott LLP, 130 Wood Street, London, ECV2 6DL

Internal Auditors
UNIAC, Simon Building, Oxford Road, Manchester, M13 9PL

Bishop Grosseteste University is a company limited by guarantee and a registered charity.

Registered in England and Wales.
Company Number: 11963500

Page 74 of 74

