Limited Liability Partnership registration number 0C310031 (England and Wales)

BMS Progress LLP
Annual report and unaudited financial statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024


BMS Progress LLP

Contents

Page

Statement of financial position 1

Notes to the financial statements 2-5


BMS Progress LLP

Statement of financial position
As at 31 March 2024

2024 2023

Notes £ £ £ £
Current assets
Debtors 3 109,429 98,397
Cash at bank and in hand 15,665 66,447

125,094 164,844

Creditors: amounts falling due within
one year 4 (59,361) (87,745)
Net current assets and net assets attributable to
members 65,733 77,099
Represented by:
Loans and other debts due to members
within one year
Amounts due in respect of profits 65,733 77,099

For the financial year ended 31 March 2024 the limited liability partnership was entitled to exemption from audit
under section 477 of the Companies Act 2006 as applied by the Limited Liability Partnerships (Accounts and Audit)
(Application of Companies Act 2006) Regulations 2008 relating to small limited liability partnerships.

The members acknowledge their responsibilities for complying with the requirements of the Act as applied to
limited liability partnerships with respect to accounting records and the preparation of accounts.

These financial statements have been prepared and delivered in accordance with the provisions applicable to
limited liability partnerships subject to the small limited liability partnerships regime.

The members of the limited liability partnership have elected not to include a copy of the income statement within
the financial statements.

The financial statements were approved by the members and authorised for issue on 24 September 2024 and are
signed on their behalf by:

Mr D R Bill Mr G J Halewood
Designated member Designated Member

Limited Liability Partnership registration number 0C310031 (England and Wales)


BMS Progress LLP

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024

11

1.2

1.3

1.4

Accounting policies

Limited liability partnership information
BMS Progress LLP is a limited liability partnership incorporated in England and Wales. The registered office is
Europa House, Gemini Business Park, Europa Boulevard, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom, WAS 7XR.

The limited liability partnership's principal activities are disclosed in the Members' Report.

Accounting convention

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice
“Accounting by Limited Liability Partnerships" issued in December 2021, together with FRS 102 “The Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland” (“FRS 102”) and the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006 as applicable to companies subject to the small companies regime. The disclosure
requirements of section 1A of FRS 102 have been applied other than where additional disclosure is required
to show a true and fair view.

The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the limited liability
partnership. Monetary amounts in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest £.

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention. The principal accounting
policies adopted are set out below.

Turnover
Turnover represents the amounts recoverable for the services provided to clients, excluding value added tax,
under contractual obligations which are performed gradually over time.

If, at the balance sheet date, completion of contractual obligations is dependent on external factors (and thus
outside the control of the Limited Liability Partnership), then revenue is recognised only when the event
occurs. In such cases, costs incurred up to the balance sheet date are carried forward as work in progress.

Members' participating interests

Members' participation rights are the rights of a member against the LLP that arise under the members’
agreement (for example, in respect of amounts subscribed or otherwise contributed remuneration and
profits).

Members' participation rights in the earnings or assets of the LLP are analysed between those that are, from
the LLP's perspective, either a financial liability or equity, in accordance with section 22 of FRS 102. A
member's participation rights including amounts subscribed or otherwise contributed by members, for
example members' capital, are classed as liabilities unless the LLP has an unconditional right to refuse
payment to members, in which case they are classified as equity.

All amounts due to members that are classified as liabilities are presented within ‘Loans and other debts due
to members’ and, where such an amount relates to current year profits, they are recognised within ‘Members’
remuneration charged as an expense’ in arriving at the relevant year’s result. Undivided amounts that are
classified as equity are shown within ‘Members’ other interests’. Amounts recoverable from members are
presented as debtors and shown as amounts due from members within members’ interests.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents are basic financial assets and include cash in hand, deposits held at call with
banks, other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank
overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.


BMS Progress LLP

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

15

Accounting policies {Continued}

Financial instruments
The limited liability partnership has elected to apply the provisions of Section 11 ‘Basic Financial Instruments’
and Section 12 ‘Other Financial Instruments Issues’ of FRS 102 to all of its financial instruments.

Financial instruments are recognised in the limited liability partnership's statement of financial position when
the limited liability partnership becomes party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amounts presented in the financial statements when
there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a
net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

Basic financial assets

Basic financial assets, which include debtors and cash and bank balances, are initially measured at
transaction price including transaction costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the
ettective interest method unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the transaction is
measured at the present value of the future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest. Financial assets
classified as receivable within one year are not amortised.

Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets, other than those held at fair value through profit and loss, are assessed for indicators of
impairment at each reporting end date.

Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that
occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows have been
affected. If an asset is impaired, the impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and the
present value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the asset’s original effective interest rate, The
impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.

Derecognition of financial assets

Financial assets are derecognised only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or
are settled, or when the limited liability partnership transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks
and rewards of ownership to another entity, or if some significant risks and rewards of ownership are
retained but control of the asset has transferred to another party that is able to sell the asset in its entirety
to an unrelated third party.

Classification of financial liabilities

Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual
arrangements entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the
assets of the limited liability partnership after deducting all of its liabilities.

Basic financial liabilities

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of
business from suppliers. Amounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one
year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Trade creditors are recognised initially at
transaction price and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.


BMS Progress LLP

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

1.6

1.7

Accounting policies {Continued}

Other financial liabilities

Derivatives, including interest rate swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts, are 10t basic financial
instruments. Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into
and are subsequently re-measured at their fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recognised
in profit or loss in finance costs or finance income as appropriate, unless hedge accounting is app ied and the
hedge is a cash flow hedge.

Debt instruments that do not meet the conditions in FRS 102 paragraph 11.9 are subsequently measured at
fair value through profit or loss. Debt instruments may be designated as fair value through profit or loss to
eliminate or reduce an accounting mismatch or if the instruments are measured and their performance
evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with a documented risk management or investment strategy.

Derecognition of financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the limited liability partnership's obligations expire or are
discharged or cancelled.

Employee benefits
The costs of short-term employee benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense, unless those costs.

are required to be recognised as part of the cost of stock or fixed assets.

The cost of any unused holiday entitlement is recognised in the period in which the employee’s services are
received.

Termination benefits are recognised immediately as an expense when the limited liability partnership is
demonstrably committed to terminate the employment of an employee or to provide termination benefits.

Retirement benefits and post retirement payments to members
Payments to defined contribution recirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.

Employees

The average number of persons (excluding members) employed by the partnership during the year was:

2024 2023

Number Number

Total 20 22
Debtors

2024 2023

Amounts falling due within one year: £ Fs

Other debtors 109,429 98,397


BMS Progress LLP

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

4 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

Trade creditors
Taxation and sccial security
Other creditors

2024

26,644
20,767
11,950

59,361

2023

43,255
23,457
21,033

87,745


This document was delivered using electronic communications and authenticated in accordance with the
registrar's rules relating to electronic form, authentication and manner of delivery under section 1072 of
the Companies Act 2006.

