BPIF Training Limited

Directors’ Report and Audited Financial Statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024

a :
me i
wo
Ww
2 *ADISGEMAT
A05 17/12/2024

#105
COMPANIES HOUSE

Company Registration No. 06875770 (England and Wales)


BPIF Training Limited

Company Information

Directors

Secretary
Company number

Registered office

Auditor

C Jarrold
P Allen
K Lattimore

S$ Oldham
06875770

Unit 2 Villiers Court
Meriden Business Park
Copse Drive
Warwickshire

CV5 SRN

Luckmans Duckett Parker Limited
Chartered Accountants

Statutory Auditors

1110 Elliott Court

Herald Avenue

Coventry Business Park
Coventry

West Midlands

CV5 6UB


BPIF Training Limited

Contents

Directors’ report

Independent auditor's report

Statement of Income and Retained Earnings

Balance sheet

Notes to the financial statements

Page
1-2
3-6
7

8
9-14


BPIF Training Limited

Directors’ Report
For the year ended 31 March 2024

The directors present their annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024.

Principal activities
The principal activity of the company continued to be that of supplying training programs to the print and
packaging industry.

Directors
The directors who heid office during the year and up to the date of signature of the financial statements were

as follows:

C Jarrold
P Allen
K Lattimore

Results and dividends
The profit for the financial year after tax amounted to £244,846 (2023: £206,286). Dividends of £180,000 have

been declared during the financial year (2023: £300,000).

Auditor
The auditor, Luckmans Duckett Parker Limited were re-appointed at the last Annual General Meeting, and they
will be proposed for re-appointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.

Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ Réport and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 102, ‘The Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102)’. Under company law the directors must not approve the
financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the
directors are required to:

« select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

« make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

* prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that
the company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Statement of disclosure to auditor
Each of the directors in office at the date of approval of this annuai report confirms that:

* so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information (as defined by Section 418 of the
Companies Act 2006) of which the company’s auditor is unaware, and

« the director has taken all the steps that he / she ought to have taken as a director in order to make
himself / herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the company's auditor is
aware of that information.

Page 1


BPIF Training Limited

Directors' Report (Continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006 relating
to small companies.

By order of the board

S$ Oldham
Secretary

18 June 2024

Page 2


BPIF Training Limited

Independent Auditor's Report
To the Members of BPIF Training Limited

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of BPIF Training Limited (the ‘company’) for the year ended 31 March
2024 which comprise the Statement of Income and Retained Earnings, Balance Sheet and notes to the financial
statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS
102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard Applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland’ (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice).

(n our opinion the financial statements:

«give a true and fair view of the state of the company's affairs as at 31 March 2024 and of its profit for
the year then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice;

« have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's Responsibilities for the
audit of financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the company in accordance with the
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s
Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

{n auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a
going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included
in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditor's report thereon. Our opinion on the
financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in
our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

in connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and,
in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. if we identify such material
inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material
misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are
required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Page 3


BPIF Training Limited

Independent Auditor's Report (Continued)
To the Members of BPIF Training Limited

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

* the information given in the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
« the directors’ report has been prepared in accordance with applicabie legal requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of
the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to
report to you if, in our opinion:

* adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or

the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

the directors were not entitled to take advantage’ of the small companies’ exemption from the
requirement to prepare a strategic report or in preparing the Report of the Directors.

eee

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 1, the directors are
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair
view, and for such internal contro! as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

in preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company's ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the gaing
concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations,
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements, can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures

in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities,
including fraud.

Page 4


BPIF Training Limited

Independent Auditor's Report (Continued)
To the Members of BPIF Training Limited

The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed
below:

Our approach to designing audit procedures by tailoring and directing testing to aid and support the determined
level of risk. in response, the procedures we perform to determine the level of risk include:

¢ reference to past history and experience of the Entity,
¢ enquiry of management, including obtaining and reviewing supporting documentation concerning the
Entity's procedures relating to:
o identifying and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances
of non-compliance;
© detection and response to risk of fraud and whether they were aware of any actual or suspected
instances of fraud.
© assessment of the controls and processes that the Entity has in place to mitigate risk

Our assessments included the identification of the following potential areas for fraud:

« Management override of control;
* Revenue recognition

We design audit procedures by tailored and directed testing to aid and support the determined level of risk. In
response to the assessed risk we pian audit tests and procedures that target specific areas where misstatement
may occur. These procedures and the extent to which they are capable of detecting irregularities, including
fraud, are detailed below:

« We critically assessed the appropriateness and tested the application of the revenue and cost recognition
policies

« We tested the appropriateness of accounting journals and other adjustments made in the preparation of the
financial statements

«© We reviewed the Entity's accounting policies for non-compliance with relevant standards.

° We made enquiries of management and reviewed correspondence with the relevant authorities to identify
any irregularities or instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations

In performing an audit in accordance with UK GAAP, we exercise professional judgement and maintain
professional skepticism throughout the audit process.

The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from
error, as fraud may involve collusion or override of internal controls. There are inherent limitations in the audit
procedures performed.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial
Reporting Council's website at www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our
Report of the Auditor

Page 5


BPIF Training Limited

Independent Auditor’s Report (Continued)
To the Members of BPIF Training Limited

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of
the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken for no purpose other than to draw to the attention
of the company’s members those matters which we are required to include in an auditor's report addressed to
them. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to any party other than
the company and company's members as a body, for our work, for this report, or for the opinions we have
formed.

Mark Spafford FCA FCCA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Luckmans Duckett Parker Limited
Chartered Accountants

Statutory Auditors

4110 Elliott Court

Herald Avenue

Coventry Business Park

Coventry

West Midlands

CV5 6UB

Date Leta “UAT. Ror

Page 6


BPIF Training Limited

Statement of Income and Retained Earnings
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Notes
Turnover 2
Cost of sales
Gross profit
Administrative expenses

Profit on ordinary activities before 3
taxation :

Taxation

Profit for the financial year after
taxation

Retained earnings at beginning of year

Dividends

Retained earnings at end of year

2024
£

1,570,265
(850,340)
719,925
(472,832)

247,093

(2,247)

244,846

134,926

(180,000)

199,772

—_

2023
£

1,393,784
(797,385)

596,399
(390,113)

206,286

206,286

228,640
(300,000)

134,926

The Statement of Income and Retained Earnings has been prepared on the basis that all operations are

continuing operations.

Page 7


BPIF Training Limited

Balance Sheet
As at 31 March 2024

2024 2023
Notes £ , £ £ £
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 5 : -
Current assets . .
Debtors 6 278,231 117,032
Cash at bank 114,705 140,352
392,936 257,384
Creditors: amounts falling due 7
one year (193,162) (122,456)
- Net current assets 199,774 134,928
Net assets 199,774 134,928
—- —=
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 9 2 2
Profit and loss reserves 199,772 134,926
Total equity 199,774 134,928

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the provisions applicable to companies
subject to the small companies’ regime.

The financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on 18" June 2024
and are signed on its behalf by:

A

Peter Allen
Director

Company Registration No. 06875770

Page 8


BPIF Training Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024

1 Accounting policies

Company information

BPIF Training Limited is a private company limited by shares domiciled and incorporated in England and
Wales. The registered office is Unit 2 Villiers Court, Meriden Business Park, Copse Drive, Warwickshire,
CV5 9RN.

1.1 Accounting convention
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Section 1A of FRS 102 “The Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of ireland” ("FRS 102") and the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006.

The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the company. Monetary
amounts in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest pound.

The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost convention. The principal accounting
policies adopted are set out below.

1.2 Going concern
In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the financial statements, the directors are required to
consider whether the company can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being a
minimum period of 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.

Management have prepared forecasts and cash flow projections to 31 March 2026 and are confident that
the company has sufficient resources to enable it to meet its liabilities as they fall due and to continue to
operate for at least twelve months from the date of approval of these financial statements. Consequently
the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.

1.3 Revenue Recognition
Turnover is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents amounts
receivable for services provided in the normal course of business, net of VAT. The business income stream
is primarily training services.

Training revenue is recognised at the point at which the training takes place and has been evidenced. Any
amounts received in the current financial year that relate to the following year are treated as deferred income
at the balance sheet date.

Page 9


BPIF Training Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

1.4 Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost or valuation, net
of depreciation and any impairment losses.

Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets less their residual values over
their useful lives on the following bases:

Computer equipment 3 years Straight line

The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale
proceeds and the carrying value of the asset, and is recognised in the profit and loss account.

1.5 Cash and cash equivalents .
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown
within borrowings in current liabilities.

1.6 Financial instruments
Basic financial instruments are measured at amortised cost. The company has no other financial
instruments or basic financial instruments measured at fair value.

1.7 Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Dividends payable on equity instruments are recognised as liabilities once they are no longer at the
discretion of the company.

1.8 Related party exemption
The company has taken advantage of the exemption, under the terms of Financial Reparting
Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland’ not
to disclose related party transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries within the group.

Page 10


BPIF Training Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2023

1

Accounting policies (Continued)

1.9 Taxation

4.10

1.11

The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.

Current tax

The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as
reported in the profit and loss account because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or
deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The company's
liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
reporting end date.

Deferred tax

Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all timing differences and deferred tax assets are
recognised to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered against the reversa! of deferred tax
liabilities or other future taxable profits. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the timing difference
arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects
neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting end date and reduced to the
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or. part of the
asset to be recovered. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period
when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the profit and loss
account, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred
tax is also dealt with in equity. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the company has a legaily
enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate
to taxes levied by the same tax authority.

Employee benefits

The costs of short-term employee benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense.

The cost of any unused holiday entitlement is recognised in the period in which the employee’s services
are received.

Termination benefits are recognised immediately as an expense when the company is demonstrably
committed to terminate the employment of an employee or to provide termination benefits.

Retirement benefits

The company operates a defined contribution plan for its employees. A defined contribution plan is a
pension pian under which the company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The assets of the
plan are held separately from the company in independently administered funds.

Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall
due.

Page 11


BPIF Training Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

2. Turnover and other revenue

An analysis of the company's turnover is as follows:

2024 2023
£ £
Turnover
Apprentices income 1,489,279 1,325,944
Events income 15,417 27,881
NVO only income 10,716 10,458
Non-Levy employer contributions 38,894 27,553
Project income 12,063 -
Miscellaneous Income 3,896 1,588
Kickstarter income - 360
1,570,265 1,393,784 ~
3 Profit on ordinary activities
2024 2023
Profit on ordinary activities for the year is stated after charging: £ £
Fees payable to the company's auditor for the audit of the company's
financial statements 4,725 4,500

4 Employees

The average number of persons (including directors) employed by the company during the year was 20
(2023: 20).

Page 12


BPIF Training Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

5 Tangible fixed assets Computer
. Equipment
£

Cost
At 1 April 2023 5,030
Disposals (5,030)

At 31 March 2024 -

Amortisation and impairment
At 1 April 2023 5,030

Eliminated on Disposal (5,030)

At31 March 2024 -

Carrying amount
At 31 March 2024 -

——
At31 March 2023 -
6 Debtors
2024 2023
Amounts falling due within one year: £ £
Trade debtors . 14,797 8,658
Amounts owed by group undertakings 126,363 :
Other debtors 137,071 108,374
278,231 117,032
7 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2024 2023
£ £
Trade creditors : 48,221 22,251
Other taxation and social security 26,458 25,123
Other creditors 9,820 19,667
Accruals and deferred income 108,663 54,794
Amounts owed to group undertakings - 621

193,162 122,456

Page 13


BPIF Training Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (Continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

8 Retirement benefit schemes

Defined contribution schemes
The company operates a defined contribution pension scheme for all qualifying employees. The assets
of the scheme are held separately from those of the company in an independently administered fund.

The charge to profit and toss in respect of defined contribution schemes was £53,965 (2023: £52,272)

There were unpaid contributions of £6,201 at the year end (2023: £5,828).

9  Catled up share capital

2024 2023
£ £
Ordinary share capital ‘
issued and fully paid
Ordinary shares of £1 each 2 2
2 2

10 Related Party Transactions

On 21 October 2022 a floating charge over present and future assets of the company was created in favour
of BPIF Pension Trustees Limited as corporate trustee of The British Printing Industries Federation Pension
and Life Assurance Scheme. The charge is security for the liabilities, past, present and future, of the
company’s immediate parent undertaking, British Printing Industries Federation Limited, to make payments
to the defined benefit pension scheme. BPIF Pension Trustees Limited is a subsidiary of the immediate
parent undertaking.

11 Ultimate Parent company

The company's immediate and ultimate parent undertaking is British Printing Industries Federation Limited
(company registration number 04340242), a company limited by guarantee. The financial results of the
company are included in the consolidated financial statements of British Printing Industries Federation
Limited which are available to the public and can be obtained from the registered office. The registered office
and principal place of business of the British Printing Industries Federation Limited is Unit 2 Villiers Court,
Meriden Business Park, Copse Drive, Coventry, CVS 9RN.

Page 14


