Company registration no. 02609100 (England and Wales)

BPP University Limited
Annua! report and financial statements
for the year ended 31 August 2024

TUESDAY

*ADYLWZ55*
A12

18/03/2025 #122
COMPANIES HOUSE

BPP University Limited

Contents

Company information

Strategic report

Directors’ report

Independent auditor's report to the members of BPP University Limited
Statement of comprehensive income

Balance sheet

Statement of changes in equity

Statement of cash flows

Notes to the financial statements

Page (s)

2-10

11-14

15-18

19

20

21

22

23- 45

BPP University Limited

Company information

Directors

Registered number

Registered office

Independent auditor

Bankers

Solicitors

lan Miller Creagh -

Gary James Dart

Richard John Simmons
Graham Stuart Mark Gaddes
Martyn Jones

Sarah Mcllroy

Aaron Ross Porter

Timothy Stewart

02609100

BPP House

Aldine Place

142-144 Uxbridge Road
Shepherds Bush
London

W12 8AA

Deloitte LLP
Statutory Auditor

Barclays Bank Pie
27 Soho Square
London

W1D 3QR

Eversheds LLP
1 Wood Street
London

EC2V 7WS

Page 1

BPP University Limited
Strategic report

For the year ended 31 August 2024

The directors present the Strategic report of BPP University Limited ("BPP" or "the University") for the year ended
31 August 2024.

Results and dividends

The trading results for the year ended 31 August 2024, and the University's financial position at the end of the
year, are shown in the attached financial statements. During the year the directors recommended and paid an
interim dividend of £20 million (2023: £10 million).

The directors have not recommended payment of a final dividend for 2024.
Principal activity of the business

The University's approach is education that is academically rigourous but also grounded in practical application
that is highly relevant to our students, stakeholders and industry.

The University consists of four main schools. The principal activities of the four main schools are as follows:
Law School

One of the UK's leading Law Schools, with over 30 years' experience delivering professional legal qualifications.
We are trusted by many of the most influential law firms and we train aspiring lawyers from over 150
organisations. At the forefront of innovation in legal training, we look forward not back. We build and shape legal
careers for the future. By focusing on employability and developing skills as lawyers, we give students the edge to
secure training contracts and pupillage. The University's employability statistics are testament to this.

The University's Law School provides legal education in a variety of programme areas, mostly across the post
graduate course spectrum with multiple start dates each year. Programmes are offered online and at a number of
BPP locations. BPP University Law Schoo! is based in two centres in London (in the heart of ‘legal’ London in
Holborn and on the Southbank at Waterloo) and centres in Birmingham, Bristo!, Cambridge, Leeds and
Manchester.

Business School

The Business School provides higher education for aspiring accountants, bankers and managers. This innovative
school does not just create courses for today, but ensures that graduates are fit for the future. The programmes
are tailored for the needs of today's business climate taught by industry experts who deliver programmes at a
range of levels. The Business School provides a range of undergraduate, postgraduate and professional
programmes in a variety of programme areas, including data programmes, digital marketing, and engineering
management programmes. Programmes are offered online and at a number of BPP locations, including
Birmingham, London and Manchester.

School of Healthcare and Nursing

The School of Healthcare is committed to delivering practical nursing and healthcare education, while striking the
right balance between academic theory and practical learning. BPP believes the best way to become a nurse is to
experience it, which is why the courses support professional and academic development.

Working in collaboration with key partners in the NHS and private healthcare sectors, BPP University School of
Healthcare aims to produce healthcare professionals who meet the needs and emotional demands of key patient
groups - in fields such as Mental Health, Learning Disability, and Children and Young People. Brilliant staff are the
lifeblood of the healthcare profession and BPP helps to create them. Programmes are offered online and at a
number of BPP locations. BPP University School of Healthcare operates from our London Waterloo and Charlotte
Place, Southampton and from a number of NHS Trust locations.

Page 2

BPP University Limited
Strategic report (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Principal activity of the business (continued)
School of Technology

Recognising the impact of technology on our client partners, we established a dedicated School of Technology to
support our clients with their ‘digital transformation’.

We bring together our expertise in technology, analytics and financial modelling to provide high quality training
programmes. :

We offer data and technology qualifications at every level, ranging from one-day short courses to levy-fundable
apprenticeships and degree apprenticeships, through to Masters level qualifications.

Strategic review

2024 2023 %Change
Turnover £'000's 242,665 186,322 30.24%
Total enrolments (1) . No. 37,587 30,365 23.78%
Operating profit £'000's 68,551 45,252 51.49%
Operating profit margin (2) % 28.25% 24.29%

(1) All enrolment numbers are in line with what was submitted to the Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA)
and are aligned to the HESA definition of enrolments.

(2) Operating profit margin% is the operating profit divided by turnover.

The turnover for the year increased by £56.34 million (30.24%) compared to the prior year, which is due to an
increase in student enrolments in the School of Business and School of Healthcare.

Operating profit for year increased by £23.30 million (51.49%). Operating profit margin has increased following
the benefit from prior year investment in property and continued focus on managing the cost base in a financially
sustainable manner.

At 31 August 2024, the University's net assets increased by £42.04 million (34.00%). Cash at bank and in hand,
excluding restricted cash, decreased by £8.89 million to £33.94 million (21.00%) following a dividend paid in the
year of £20.00 million.

Total student enrolments have increased by 24.00% across Business, Healthcare and Technology post graduate
programmes as the University continues to succeed in implementing growth plans which is driving the revenue
increase of 30.00% in the year. Student enrolments continue to be robust year on year and deliver steady cash
flows to the University.

Key performance indictors

The key performance indicators have been identified as total enrolments, turnover and operating profit, which are
discussed in the strategic review above, and regulatory compliance.

Page 3

BPP University Limited
Strategic report (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Regulatory compliance

A key metric of the University performance is holding the appropriate regulatory certification and approvals
required to deliver its education courses. As at the date of this report, the University continues to meet the
ongoing requirements for the relevant regulatory bodies. Further discussion on risk management of regulatory
compliance can be found under the key risks and uncertainties section of the report with examples of activity in
the year.

Statement of corporate governance
BPP University Limited's corporate governance arrangements are set out below:
University Board of Directors

The University Board of Directors is responsible for determining the educational character and mission of the
University, for overseeing its activities, and considering its financial solvency and sustainability.

The roles and responsibilities of the University Board of Directors are set out in the Articles of Association and
give the University Board of Directors the power to exercise all such rights as are usually prescribed to directors
of acompany, save for those directly allocated to the Academic Council.

In determining its procedures, the University Board of Directors has drawn on the Corporate Governance
Guidance and Principles for Unlisted Companies in the UK (2010 Edition), as well as being mindful of the
Committee of University Chairs (CUC) and Institute of Directors codes and the specific directions from the Office
for Students (OfS).

The University Board of Directors is made up of eight members, including three non-executive directors, one of
whom is Chair. The roles of Chair of the University Board and Vice-Chancellor are therefore separated. The
Independent Chair of the Academic Council is invited to sit on the University Board of Directors as a
non-executive director to ensure alignment between the University Board and the Academic Council. The
Secretary, who is the Director of Academic Governance, is appointed by the Vice-Chancellor and manages the
agenda for each termly meeting, including the standing items, which are reviewed annually. The Secretary also
acts as the Secretary of the Academic Council, which in addition to the Chair creates a key link between the
business of the two entities, and who has oversight and management responsibility for the University's entire
governance system, ensuring that the University's governance framework functions effectively throughout.

The University Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for the success of BPP University, including the
retention of University title and degree awarding powers. The University Board delegates some detailed oversight
to a series of sub-committees which are described below, both of which report their work regularly into the
University Board of Directors who maintain oversight of their activity.

Audit Committee

The Audit Committee supports the overarching work of the University Board of Directors with regard to the
monitoring of financial matters, the effectiveness of internal and external controls, and internal and external audit,
and is made up of three non-executive director members and invites representatives from the external auditor to
attend meetings on a regular basis. The Audit Committee meets four times per year and may request the Vice
Chancellor and any relevant senior management of the University to attend meetings of the Committee, either
regularly or by invitation.

The Committee in particular:

e Monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the University, and any formal announcements relating to
the University's financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them;

e Reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the University's internal controls (recognising that the
responsibility for Risk Management sits with the University Board of Directors); and

e Reviews the work of internal and external audit and ‘considers their reports together with recommendations
for the improvement of the systems of internal control in conjunction with the management response and
implementation plans.

Page 4

BPP University Limited
Strategic report (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Statement of corporate governance (continued)
Nomination and Remuneration Committee

At BPP University, the remuneration of the Vice-Chancellor is determined by BPP Holdings Limited. The
Nominations and Remuneration Committee (NRC) advises BPP Holdings Limited as to the appropriate level of
the Vice-Chancellor's remuneration which comprises an annual salary and a bonus based on the financial
performance of the Group as a whole.

The NRC is made up of four members, including three non-executive directors and the Executive Chairman. The
NCR is chaired by a Non-Executive Director other than the Chair of the University Board, which means that the
person with responsibility for appraising the performance of the Vice-Chancellor does not chair the Committee.
The Vice-Chancellor is not a member of the Committee.

The Nominations & Remuneration Committee (NRC) supports the University Board of Directors in discharging its
responsibilities for:

e the composition and effectiveness of the University Board and its Committee; and
e the principles and policy relating to remuneration of the Vice-Chancellor and other senior appointments.

Academic Council

The Academic Council is established in the Articles of Association and is governed by the terms of reference in
the General Academic Regulations (GARs). The Academic Council is appointed by the University Board of
Directors to act as the academic authority of BPP University and is tasked to take such measures and act in such
a manner to best promote the academic and professional work of the University and safeguard the integrity and
standards of its awards. As outlined previously, the Independent Chair of the Academic Council sits on the
University Board of Directors as a Non-Executive Director to provide a clear link of correspondence between the
two entities. Furthermore, regular reporting on the activities of the Academic Council and its sub-committees are
provided at each meeting of the University Board to provide assurance on the governance and management of
the educational and academic character of the University.

A Memorandum of Understanding has been signed on behalf of the BPP Education Group to protect the status of
BPP University Limited as an independent and self-governing degree awarding body.

The Academic Council is independently chaired and has four further independent members who hold eminent
positions in academia. The Academic Council, additionally, includes the Vice-Chancellor, the Deputy
Vice-Chancellor, the Pro Vice-Chancellor (Education Services), the Dean of Academic Quality & Policy, the Deans
of the Schools, the President of the Students' Association, and two elected student representatives.

The Academic Council is supported in its work by three principal sub-committees: the Academic Regulations and
Awards Committee; the Programme Approval Scrutiny Panel; and the Education and Standards Committee, to
which it delegates responsibility for particular matters relating to the management of academic quality and
standards.

Statement of Internal Controls

As the governing body of the BPP University, the University Board has responsibility for maintaining a sound
system of internal control that supports the achievement of policies, aims and objectives, while safeguarding the
funds and assets for which the University is responsible.

The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve policies,
aims and objectives. The system of internal control is based on an ongoing process designed to identify the
principal risks to the achievement of policies, aims and objectives, to evaluate the nature and extent of those risks
and to manage them efficiently, effectively and economically.

There were no significant internal control weaknesses identified. However, any weaknesses identified by internal
or external audit are reported to the University Board and remediation plans are put in place and monitored by the
Audit Committee.

Page 5

BPP University Limited
Strategic report (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Statement of corporate governance (continued)
The following internal control processes have been established:

e The University Board of Directors and the Academic Council manage risks through a Strategic and Academic
Risk Register, which is reviewed regularly throughout the year and is updated by the University Risk Panel.
The process covers business, operational and compliance as well as financial risk.

e A tisk prioritisation methodology based on risk ranking has been established.

e The performance plans and strategic direction of the institution are specifically considered at regular meetings
of the University Board. ,

e Key performance indicators and management accounts are considered at each meeting of the University
Board.

¢ The University Board receives periodic reports from the Chair of the Audit Committee concerning internal
control.

¢ The Audit Committee receives regular reports from both External and Internal Audit including any key control
considerations, together with recommendations for improvement. The Audit Committee may also request
additional reports to gain assurance from other parties on areas of concern.

The review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control is informed by the work of the Audit Committee
and by senior officers within the institution, wno have responsibility for the development and maintenance of the
internal control framework, and by comments made by the external auditor in their management letter and other
reports.

Key risks and uncertainties

Outlined below is a description of the principal risk factors that management considers to affect the University's
business. Not all the factors are within management's control and other factors besides those listed below could
also affect the University.

Economy

There is a lot of uncertainty over how the UK economy might deal with current global and national market forces
and the directors are monitoring the situation closely to ensure they are able to respond on a timely basis.
Changes in the broader economic market can have an impact on the University's business. Inflation creates
pressure on costs which puts pressure on the University's profit. With that in mind BPP continues to maintain a
flexible resourcing model and to monitor property spend. An example of a change impacting the University is the
UK cost of living crisis.

Such risks could have a negative impact on student enrolment, delivery costs and turnover. The University
therefore seeks to mitigate risks by closely monitoring the economic outlook caused -by local and global economic
events and maintaining a flexible resourcing model so that the University is able to respond to changes in
economic and political conditions. There is also regular review and consideration of most appropriate operating
models to strike the correct balance between efficiency and customer experience.

Competition
The University faces strong competition from third parties in its key markets with well-established competition in
law and continued growth in the number of business schools.

The University seeks to address these risks by maintaining its high standard of education in order to be the
provider of choice for most students. The University has diversified into products in healthcare and technology as
a way of managing both economic and competitive risk, ensuring that the University continues to deliver products
that are relevant to customers and bridge the gap between academia and employability.

Page 6

BPP University Limited
Strategic report (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Statement of corporate governance (continued)
Compliance and regulatory risk

The University operates in highly regulated markets where changes to Government policy, such as changes to
immigration, student fees or the availability of student funding, can have an impact on our business.

The University continues to provide all relevant information to the Office for Students (OfS) and the Higher
Education Statistics Agency (HESA). As the business continues to expand into the apprenticeship training market
there is further exposure to regulatory risk with the requirement for regular Office for Standards in Education
(Ofsted) and Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) reviews.

Management has strived to implement an infrastructure with a view to managing this regulatory risk and will
evolve as required. Additionally, management reviews and updates the control processes in place relating to

compliance with the relevant regulators on a regular basis.

The University has a documented governance structure, policies and procedures in place, and these are regularly
reviewed against the Quality Assurance Agency (QAA) criteria and the OfS conditions of registration to ensure
compliance. The University was successfully registered with the OfS in October 2018 and as with all other
non-publicly funded providers, itis subject to OfS monitoring. In 2020, the University was granted indefinite taught
degree awarding powers (iTDAP) under the OfS new regulatory framework. The award of iTDAP, which came into
force on 1 September 2020 acknowledges the University's academic integrity as a mature higher education
institution with rigourous standards and academic governance.

Reputation risk

BPP'’s brand is one of the most successful and best established brands in the European training and professional
education market and represents a key element of the University's overall marketing and positioning. To prevent
brand and reputational damage we have quality assurance mechanisms to ensure that our teaching and course
materials remain of the highest standard.

Financial risk management
Credit risk

Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on any type of debt by failing to make payments in
accordance with agreed terms. We have a mix of individual students and corporate clients. Corporate clients
undergo credit checks to ensure they are creditworthy and individuals are required to pay a percentage of their
course fees in advance of registration in order to reduce credit risk. The University has mechanisms in place to
monitor and control potential defaulters.

The University has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of
counterparties.

Liquidity and cash flow risks

The University's banking facilities is managed by BPP Services Limited via a robust process of monitoring and
review to ensure that the facility members have adequate cash available. There is a cash pooling arrangement
across the majority of Bright Topco Limited subsidiary companies (including BPP University Limited), meaning
that they can lend and borrow funds between them where required.

Cash flow (actual and forecast) is reviewed at a BPP Education Group level on a weekly basis and reported on a
monthly basis. Cash flow actuals are tracked daily at a BPP Education Group level. This facilitates the monitoring
of cash and future cash as good practice to highlight any potential risks. The focus is on 14-week cash flow
forecasts and updates are made to key stakeholders when required.

Page 7

BPP University Limited
Strategic report (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Section 172 (1) Statement

The directors, in line with their duties under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006, act in a way they consider, in
good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the University for the benefit of its members as a
whole. In doing so, the directors have regard, amongst other matters, to the:

Likely consequences of any decisions in the long-term;

Interests of the Company's employees;

Need to foster the Company's business relationships with suppliers, customers and others;
Impact of the Company's operations on the community and environment;

Desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct; and
Need to act fairly as between members of the Company.

In discharging the section 172 duties, the directors have regard to the factors set out above. The directors also
have regard to other factors they consider relevant to the decision being made. Those factors, for example,
include the interests and views of the University's controlling parties. The directors acknowledge that every
decision that is made will not necessarily result in a positive outcome for all of the University's stakeholders.
However, by considering the University's purpose, vision and values together with its strategic priorities and
having a process in-place for decision-making, the directors aim to make sure their decisions are consistent and
predictable.

Strategic reviews

As described earlier in this Strategic report, the University's strategy is to deliver world-class experiences and
outcomes for students and employers, accelerate organic growth of the University and improve the University's
operating efficiency and effectiveness in order to maximise the value of the University's educational institutions.
The directors are responsible for establishing and monitoring the implementation of the University's strategy,
oversight of performance and risk management and setting a strong cultural foundation built around ethicat
values. The directors include both executive management and non-executive members. The directors delegate
authority for day-to-day management of the University to executive management and to senior management in
overseeing execution of the business strategy and related policies. Regular meetings are held between senior
executives and directors where performance, key developments and future strategy are discussed. The approach
allows the University to be more efficient and effective in responding to local economic, political, regulatory and
other market changes that impact the University. Further, this approach ultimately supports the University in
achieving its strategy to maximise the value of its educational institutions for the University's investors.

Financial and operational performance

During the year, the directors review matters relating to a variety of areas, including, but not limited to, financial
and operational performance, business strategy, key risks, governance, compliance and legal and regulatory
matters. This is done through regular meetings and dialogue with senior management, and the consideration of
reports and other supporting information. As part of this review process and through discussions with senior
management, the Directors contributed to the key activities carried out by the University during the year, including
the continuous development of the successful approach to moving to online course delivery.

Page 8

BPP University Limited
Strategic report (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Section 172 (1) Statement (continued)

Stakeholder engagement

The University's key stakeholders include its investors, customers, employees and regulators, the communities in
which the University operates and the partners and suppliers that the University works with. The University's
success is impacted by the way it conducts itself with these key stakeholders. As such, the views and impact of
the University's activities on its stakeholders are an important consideration for the directors when making
relevant decisions. For example, the directors regularly engage with employees through employee surveys to
ascertain how involved and satisfied employees feel in their position. As a result, action is taken by senior
management to make improvements, for example continuous improvement to the employee appraisal system and
roll out of a new internal training platform to enhance employee personal development. While there are cases
where the directors determine that they should engage directly with certain stakeholder groups or on certain
issues, the size of its stakeholders means that generally, the University's stakeholder engagement best takes
place at an operational level. The University finds that this is a more efficient and effective approach, and also
helps it achieve a greater positive impact on environmental, social and other issues. For example various forums
are in place (such as business continuity) to consider whether teaching should be hybrid, face to face or online in
face of train strikes or any health issues. Directors meet regularly at University board meetings to review and
discuss the University's performance and outlook, key developments, controls, student data and surveys and
regulatory compliance. For example, the directors regularly engage with employees through employee surveys to
ascertain how involved and satisfied employees feel in their position. As a result, action is taken by senior
management to make improvements, for example continuous improvement to the internal training platform to
enhance employee personal development. More detail about regulatory compliance for the University is provided
in the Strategic report under key risks and uncertainties.

The University strives to create a culture of collaboration and inclusion, and create an environment that ensures
its employees have the requisite skills and resources needed to effectively complete their job and deliver value to
the University's customers. The University is culturally diverse and recognises the importance of engaging
employees to help make their fullest contribution to the University, which is fundamental to achieving the
University's strategy. The University, as part of the Bright Topco Limited group, leverages a number of different
initiatives and tools in engaging with its employees, including offering learning, development and training courses,
health and wellness programs, such as an ever evolving benefits platform.

The University engages with ultimate parent company investors through its immediate parent (BPP Holdings
Limited), where all Bright Topco Limited Group results and operational matters are communicated from during a

monthly investor meeting.

The University engages local communities to its geographical centres through the volunteer policy enabling staff
to spend time engaging with communities and also the pro bono team engaging with the local legal sectors.

Customer and supplier relationships

The University's customers are an integral component to achieving the University's strategic goals. The University
strives to ensure that its customers are treated fairly and that customer feedback about the educational and
student support services provided by the University is taken into consideration. The University engages with its
customers in a variety of ways, including, for example, through student groups and student surveys, such as daily
satisfaction scores. A result of this engagement with its customers was the creation of a customer experience
department whose work is dedicated to the customer experience and wellbeing, focusing on both corporate
customers and individual student groups. For example, this department has created student support hubs at their
main locations, with customer experience managers available on site. Another example of how the University
considers its customers is by making hardship funds accessible to students to fulfil vital and immediate needs.
Specific teams are also in place in the University to work collaboratively with corporate customers and understand
how the University can improve any elements of the product offerings or customer experience. The University's
customer base was also considered when the wider BPP Education Group made acquisitions of other
subsidiaries. Management have considered how these acquisitions would help improve the groups customer base
by providing more services and products in the education sector.

Page 9

BPP University Limited
Strategic report (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Section 172 (1) Statement (continued)
Environmental

Finally, the University also recognises its responsibility to reducing its environmental impact. The Bright Topco
Limited group reports environmental usage annually to its investors. The Bright Topco Limited group closely
analyses its energy performance to understand usage trends, identify opportunities for reduction and recognise
the impacts of its energy saving projects.

The directors reflect the deSirability of the Company to maintain a reputation for high standards of business
conduct through all of the points noted above regarding section 172.
Future developments

The directors will continue to monitor the risks disclosed in the Strategic report. The directors will continue to look
for ways to maximise the student experience, enhance student curriculum and review Strategic alternatives that
result in creating and maximising value.

The current outlook for the University is positive, especially given the increased revenue and operating profit for
the year. The University continues to invest in and launch new products to help strengthen its position in the
markets in which it operates. The University believes the challenging economic conditions will further increase the
demand for career focused education and the University plans to use their core competencies and experience to
capitalise on these opportunities and is optimistic that it will continue to grow enrolments in the future due to
programme development and delivery of targeted growth in the international geographies, technology: and
healthcare.

The Strategic report was approved by the board of directors, and signed on its behalf by:

“Fr Spu ppt

Timothy Stewart and Aaron Ross Porter
Directors (Vice Chancellor and Chair)

Date:..6 February 2025

Page 10

BPP University Limited
Directors' report

For the year ended 31 August 2024

The directors present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 August 2024.

Principal activities
The University consists of four main schools, the Law School; Business School; School of Healthcare and
Nursing; and School of Technology. The principal activities of each school, along with the University's

performance, proposed dividends, outlook, future developments, statement of corporate governance, statement of
internal control, section 172 statement and risk uncertainties can be found in the Strategic report.

Directors

The directors who held office during the year and up to the date of signature of the financial statements were as
follows: :
lan Miller Creagh

Gary James Dart

Graham Stuart Mark Gaddes

Martyn Jones

Sarah Mellroy

Aaron Ross Porter

Richard John Simmons

Timothy Stewart

Alison Carol Wells (resigned on 6 March 2024)

Results and dividends

The results for the year are set out on page 19.
Ordinary dividends were paid amounting to £20 million (2023: £10 million).

Energy and carbon reporting

The University's sources of greenhouse gas emissions and energy usage are reported on as part of the Bright
Topco Limited group financial statements, which are available from BPP House, Aldine Place, 142-144 Uxbridge
Road, Shepherds Bush, London, W12 8AA.

Research and development

During the year, the University's project to develop new course content across all schools.

Disabled persons

Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the
applicant concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their
employment within the University continues and that the appropriate training is arranged. it is the policy of the
University that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be
identical to that of other employees.

Events after the balance sheet date
Information relating to subsequent events are given in note 25 of the financial statements.

Page 11

BPP University Limited
Directors’ report (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Employee involvement

The University's policy is to consult and discuss with employees, staff councils and at meetings, matters likely to
affect employees’ interests.

Information about matters of concern to employees is given through information bulletins and reports which seek
to achieve a common awareness on the part of all employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the
University's performance.

There is no employee share scheme at present.

Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions

The University has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its directors which were in
place throughout the year and remain in force at the date of this report.

Going concern

The Company's business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance
and position are set out in the Strategic and Directors' Report. The financial position of the Company is described
in the Strategic report.

In assessing the Company's going concern the directors give consideration to the impact of macroeconomic
challenges such as the cost of living crisis.

The Company benefits from a diversified portfolio of customers and products, with strong growth potential in
various segments, which the Company has continued to deliver in spite of any macroeconomic challenges.

The Company participates in BPP Services Limited treasury arrangements and so shares banking arrangements
with its parent company, BPP Holdings Limited and a number of fellow subsidiaries. Bright Topco Limited has
committed through a letter of support that it will lend as is necessary to this entity to pay the debts of the
Company as they become due.

Cash flow (actual and forecast) is reviewed at a BPP Education Group level on a weekly basis and reported on a
monthly basis. Cash flow actuals are tracked daily at a BPP Education Group level. This facilitates the monitoring
of cash and future cash as good practice to highlight any potential risks. The focus is on 14-week cash flow
forecasts and updates are made to key stakeholders when required.

After careful consideration of the above, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence and operate within the level of their facilities for the
foreseeable future being at least 12 months from the date of this report and they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.

Re-appointment of auditor

Pursuant to Section 487 of the Companies Act 2006, the auditor will be deemed to be reappointed and Deloitte
LLP will therefore continue in office.

Page 12

BPP University Limited
Directors’ report (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024 .

Statement of directors’ responsibilities

The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
directors have elected to prepdre the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable jaw), including FRS 102 "The
Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland". Under company law the directors
must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state
of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that year. In preparing these financial
statements, the directors are required to:

« select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
« make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

e state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

¢ prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at anytime the financial position of the Company
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Strategic report

The Company has chosen in accordance with Companies Act 2006, s414((11) to set out in the Company's
Strategic report information required by Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
Regulations 2008, Sch 7 to be contained in the Directors’ report. It has done so in respect of the Company's
performance, outlook, strategy, polices and future developments.

Statement of disclosure to auditor

So far as each person who was a director at the date of approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit
information of which the University's auditor is unaware. Additionally, the directors individually have taken all the
necessary steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of all relevant audit
information and to establish that the University's auditor is aware of that information. The confirmation is given
and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of S418 of the Companies Act 2006.

Page 13

BPP University Limited
Directors' report (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Corporate governance

The University’s Board of directors (the Board) follows the "Corporate Governance Guide and Principles for
Unlisted Companies in the UK" (an initiative of the Institute of Directors and ecoDA). The relevant principles that
apply to the University are the phase 1 principles and the Board is satisfied that it complies with all relevant
principles. The Board is also satisfied that it complies with the phase 2 principles of the "Corporate Governance
Guide and Principles for Unlisted Companies in the UK". However, the Board recognises that the University as a
University falls under wider public duties and obligations. Consequently, and where applicable, the Board
references the Committee of University Chairs Higher Education Code of Governance (CUC) to assure and
demonstrate it is operating within the principles and expectation of its regulators and the higher education sector
more broadly.

A corporate governance statement is also provided in the Strategic report as per Office for Students (OfS)
requirements.

The Directors’ report was approved by the board of directors, and signed on its behalf by:

Aaron Ross Porter Timothy Stewart
Director Director

Date: § February 2025

Page 14

BPP University Limited
Independent auditor's report

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Opinion

In our opinion the financial statements of BPP University Limited (the ‘company’):

° give a true and fair view of the state of the company's affairs as at 31%t August 2024 and of its profit for the
year then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,
including Financial Reporting Standard 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and
Republic of Ireland”; and

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements which comprise:
the profit and loss account;

the statement of comprehensive income

the balance sheet;

the statement of changes in equity;

the statement of cash flows; and

the related notes 1 to 28.

eoreee

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable
in the UK and Republic of Ireland” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor's responsibilities for the audit
of the financial statements section of our report.

We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of
the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s') Ethical Standard, and
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a
going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Page 15

BPP University Limited
Independent auditor's report (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements
and our auditor's report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the
annual report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the
extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial
statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such
internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis
of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no
realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC's website
at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Page 16

BPP University Limited
Independent auditor's report (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures
in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities,
including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is
detailed below.

We considered the nature of the company’s industry and its control environment, and reviewed the company’s
documentation of their policies and procedures relating to fraud and compliance with laws and regulations. We
also enquired of management and the directors about their own identification and assessment of the risks of
irregularities, including those that are specific to the company’s business sector.

We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the company operates in, and
identified the key laws and regulations that:

e had a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
These included UK Companies Act, HMRC Legislation, Consumer Contract Regulations, UK Visa and
Immigration Regulations, Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Regulations, Higher Education and Research Act
2017; and

e do not have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental to the
company's ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty. These included various higher education bodies'
regulations, including Office for Standards in Education (Ofsted) regulations.

We discussed among the audit engagement team including relevant internal specialists such as tax and IT
specialists regarding the opportunities and incentives that may exist within the organisation for fraud and how and
where fraud might occur in the financial statements.

As a result of performing the above, we identified the greatest potential for fraud in the following area, and our
procedures performed to address it are described below:

We have identified a significant fraud risk in relation to deferred revenue recognition, specifically pinpointed to the
completeness of deferred income on non-apprenticeship revenue.

In order to assess the completeness of deferred revenue, we tested the primary input of courses and course
weeks by obtaining the course registers and tracing a sample back to the deferred revenue schedule. In addition,
we compared the course weeks per the learning programme with the course weeks per the deferred revenue
schedule and assessed the monetary value which should be deferred based on the tutor schedule.

In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also required to perform specific procedures to respond to the
risk of management override. In addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, we tested
the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments; assessed whether the judgements made in making
accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and evaluated the business rationale of any significant
transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.

tn addition to the above, our procedures to respond to the risks identified included the following:

e reviewing financial statement disclosures by testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with
provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct effect on the financial statements;

« performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of
material misstatement due to fraud;

« enquiring of management and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims,
and instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations; and

e reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance.

Page 17

BPP University Limited
Independent auditor's report (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

e the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

e the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the

audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors' report.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Office for Students (OfS) "Regulatory Advice 9: Accounts
Direction”

In our opinion, in alt material respects the requirements of the OfS Regulatory Advice 9: Accounts Direction have
been met.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report in respect of the following matters if, in our opinion:

e adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or

e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

e certain disclosures of directors' remuneration specified by law are not made; or

e we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

Under the OfS Regulatory Advice 9: Accounts Direction, we are required to report in respect of the following

matters if, in our opinion:

e the provider's grant and fee income, as disclosed in the note 3 to the accounts, has been materially
misstated.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

Use of our report .

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a‘body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the
company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Michelle Hopton, FCA (Senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Statutory Auditor

Bristol, United Kingdom
6th February 2025

Page 18

BPP University Limited
Statement of comprehensive income

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Turnover
Cost of sales

Gross profit
Administrative expenses
Operating profit

Interest receivable and similar income
Interest payable and similar expense

Profit before taxation
Tax on profit

Profit for the financial year

Notes

on

2024
£'000

242,665

(128,226)

114,439

(45,888)

68,551

16,028
(50)

84,529

(22,490)

62,039

2023
£000

186,322

(102,213)

84,109

(38,857)

45,252
9,944

55,196

(10,537)

44,659

The statement of comprehensive income has been prepared on the basis that all operations are continuing

operations.

There are no other comprehensive expenses or income for the current or previous financial period other than

those included in the statement of comprehensive income above.

The accompanying notes on pages 23 to 45 form an integral part of these financial statements.

Page 19

BPP University Limited
Balance sheet

As at 31 August 2024

Fixed assets
Intangible assets
Tangible assets

Current assets

Stocks

Debtors due after more than one year
Debtors falling due within one year
Restricted cash

Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities
Provisions for liabilities

Net assets

Capital and reserves

Called up share capital *

Profit and loss account

Shareholders’ funds

* = amount less than £1,000 due to rounding.

Notes

1
12

13
14
14
15

17

20
20

2024
£000

187
21,114
229,022
89
33,937

284,349

(125,199)

2023
£'000 £'000
5,794

17
5,811

129

21,129

192,401

211

42,823

256,693

(139,805)

159,150
164,961
164,961
164,964

164,961

The accompanying notes on pages 23 to 45 form an integral part of these financial statements.

The financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on

and are signed on its behalf by:

ho-

Gary James Dart
Director

Company registration no. 02609100

Page 20

£000
5,969
83

6,052

116,888

122,940

(18)

122,922

122,922

» 122,922

6 February 2025

BPP University Limited
Statement of changes in equity

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Note
Balance at 1 September 2022
Year ended 31 August 2023:

Total comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the year

Transactions with owners, recorded directly in
equity
Dividends 10

Balance at 31 August 2023

Balance at 1 September 2023:
Year ended 31 August 2024:

Total comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the year

Transactions with owners, recorded directly in
equity
Dividends : 10

Balance at 31 August 2024

*=amount less than £1,000, due to rounding.

Called up
share
capital*
£'000

Profit and Shareholders’

loss
account
£'000

88,263

44,659

(10,000)

122,922

122,922

62,039

(20,000)

164,961

funds
£'000

88,263

44,659

(10.000)

122,922

122,922

62,039

(20,000)

164,961

The accompanying notes on pages 23 to 45 form an integral part of these financial statements.

Page 21

BPP University Limited
Statement of cash flows

For the year ended 31 August 2024

Note
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash (used in)/generated from operations 26
Net cash flow (used in)/generated from
operating activities
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of intangibles assets 11
Purchase of tangible assets 12
Interest received 7
Interest paid 8
Net cash flow from investing activities
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid 10

Net cash used in financing activities
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash
equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of
year .

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

Relating to:
Cash at bank and in hand

2024
£°000

(4,105)
(3)
16,028
(50)

(20,000)

£°000

(3,755)

(3,755)

14,870

(20,000)

(8,885)

42,823

33,937

33,937

2023
£'000 £'000
11,287
11,287
(1,520)
(7)
9,944
8,417
(10,000)
(10,000)
9,704
33,119
42,823

42,823

The accompanying notes on pages 23 to 45 form an integral part of these financial statements.

Page 22

BPP University Limited

Notes to the financial statements

For the year ended 31 August 2024

4

1.1

Accounting policies

Company information

BPP University Limited ("BPP" or "the University") is a private company limited by shares incorporated in
the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales. The registered office is BPP House, Aldine
Place, 142-144 Uxbridge Road, Shepherds Bush, London, W12 8AA. The University's registration number
is 02609100.

Accounting convention

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 102 "The Financial Reporting
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland" ("FRS 102") and the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006.

The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the University.
Monetary amounts in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest £1,000.

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention. The principal
accounting policies adopted are set out below.

This University is a qualifying entity for the purposes of FRS 102, being a member of a group where the
parent of that group prepares publicly available consolidated financial statements, including this company,
which are intended to give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of
the group. The University has therefore taken advantage of exemptions from the following disclosure
requirements:

« Section 11 ‘Basic Financial Instruments’ and Section 12 ‘Other Financial Instrument Issues': Interest
income/expense and net gains/losses for each category of financial instrument; basis of determining
fair values; details of collateral, loan defaults or breaches, changes recognised in profit or loss and in
other comprehensive income;

« Section 26 ‘Share based Payments: Share-based payment expense charged to profit or loss,
reconciliation of opening and closing number and weighted average exercise price of share options,
how the fair value of options granted was measured, measurement and carrying amount of liabilities for
cash-settled share-based payments, explanation of modifications to arrangements; and

e Section 33 'Related Party Disclosures’: Compensation for key management personnel.

The results of the University are included in the consolidated financial statements of Bright Topco Limited,
which are available from BPP House, Aldine Place, 142-144 Uxbridge Road, Shepherds Bush, London,
W12 BAA.

The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all
periods presented in these financial statements.

Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these accounting policies that have significant

effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next
year are discussed in note 2.

Page 23

BPP University Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

1.2

1.3

Accounting policies (continued)
Going concern

The Company's business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development,
performance and position are set out in the Strategic and Directors’ Report. The financial position of the
Company is described in the Strategic report.

In assessing the Company's going concern the directors give consideration to the impact of
macroeconomic challenges such as the cost of living crisis.

The Company benefits from a diversified portfolio of customers and products, with strong growth potential
in various segments, which the Company has continued to deliver in spite of any macroeconomic
challenges.

The Company participates in BPP Services Limited treasury arrangements and so shares banking
arrangements with its parent company, BPP Holdings Limited and a number of fellow subsidiaries. Bright
Topco Limited has committed through a letter of support that it will lend as is necessary to this entity to pay
the debts of the Company as they become due.

Cash flow (actual and forecast) is reviewed at a BPP Education Group level on a weekly basis and
reported on a monthly basis. Cash flow actuals are tracked daily at a BPP Education Group level. This
facilitates the monitoring of cash and future cash as good practice to highlight any potential risks. The
focus is on 14-week cash flow forecasts and updates are made to key stakeholders when required.

After careful consideration of the above, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence and operate within the level of their facilities
for the foreseeable future being at least 12 months from the date of this report and they continue to adopt
the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.

Turnover

All revenue is generated in the United Kingdom and relates to goods and educational services.
Tuition fees

Tuition fees are recognised in profit and loss over the length of the course. Tuition fees received in advance
are accounted for in liabilities and released over the period of the course. For tuition fees invoiced in
advance but where cash is yet to be received, a current liability and corresponding current asset is raised.

Sales of educational materials

Sales of educational materials are recognised when the University has delivered goods to the student; the
student has accepted the goods; and collectability of the related receivable is reasonable assured.

Page 24

BPP University Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

1.4

1.5

Accounting policies (continued)

Intangible fixed assets other than goodwill

Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are recognised at cost and are subsequently
measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses:

Intangible assets acquired on business combinations are recognised separately from goodwill at the
acquisition date where it is probable that the expected future economic benefits that are attributable to the
asset will flow to the entity and the fair value of the asset can be measured reliably; the intangible asset
arises from contractual or other legal rights; and the intangible asset is separable from the entity.

Amortisation is recognised so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets less their residual values over
their useful lives on a straight-line basis over the following periods depending on the period the University
is expected to benefit:

Software &licences . over three years ,
Other intangibles over three to eight years

Research expenditure is written off as incurred. Development expenditure is also written off, except where
the directors are satisfied as to the technical, commercial and financial viability of individual projects.
Previously capitalised curriculum development costs are included within other intangibles, and are
amortised between three and eight years, depending on the period the University is expected to benefit.
Provision is made for any impairment.

Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost or valuation, net of
depreciation and any impairment losses.

Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets less their residual values over
their useful lives on a straight-line basis over the following periods depending on the period the University
is expected to benefit:

Short leasehold over the life of the lease
Equipment over three years
Fixtures and fittings over three years

The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale
proceeds and the carrying value of the asset and is credited or charged to statement of comprehensive
income.

Page 25

BPP University Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

1.6

1.7

1.8

Accounting policies (continued)
Impairment of non-financial assets

At each reporting year end date, the University reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible
assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If
any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the
extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an
individual asset, the University estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the
asset belongs.

Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in
use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which
the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying
amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in statement of comprehensive income, unless the relevant
asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation
decrease.

Recognised impairment losses are reversed if, and only if, the reasons for the impairment loss have
ceased to apply. Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or
cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the
increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no
impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an
impairment loss is recognised immediately in statement of comprehensive income, unless the relevant
asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a
revaluation increase.

Stocks

Stocks are principally books, which are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. External
creative costs and artwork costs of new titles are absorbed into the cost of the first print run. Net realisable
value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated costs necessary to
make the sale. Cost is calculated using the FIFO (first-in, first-out) method. Provision is made for obsolete,
slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents are basic financial assets and include cash in hand, deposits held at call with
banks and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.

Page 26

BPP University Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

1.9

Accounting policies (continued)
Financial instruments

Basic financial instruments

Trade and other debtors/creditors

Trade and other debtors are recognised initially at transaction price plus attributable transaction costs.
Trade and other creditors are recognised initially at transaction price less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method,
less any impairment losses in the case of trade debtors.

Other financial assets

Other financial assets, including investments in equity instruments which are not subsidiaries, associates
or joint ventures, are initially measured at fair value, which is normally the transaction price. Such assets
are subsequently carried at fair value and the changes in fair value are recognised in statement of
comprehensive income, except that investments in equity instruments that are not publicly traded and
whose fair values cannot be measured reliably are measured at cost less impairment.

Impairment of financial assets

Financial assets, other than those held at fair value through profit and loss, are assessed for indicators of
impairment at each reporting end date.

Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that
occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows have been
affected. If an asset is impaired, the impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and the
present value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the asset's original effective interest rate. The
impairment loss is recognised in statement of comprehensive income.

If there is a decrease in the impairment loss arising from an event occurring after the impairment was
recognised, the impairment is reversed. The reversal is such that the current carrying amount does not
exceed what the carrying amount would have been, had the impairment not previously been recognised.
The impairment reversal is recognised in statement of comprehensive income.

Derecognition of financial assets

Financial assets are derecognised only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire
or are settled, or when the Company transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and
rewards of ownership to another entity, or if some significant risks and rewards of ownership are retained
but control of the asset has transferred to another party that is able to sell the asset in its entirety to an
unrelated third party.

Derecognition of financial liabilities

Financial liabilities are derecognised when the Company's contractual obligations expire or are discharged
or cancelled.

Page 27

BPP University Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

1

1.10

1.11

1.12

1.13

Accounting policies (continued)

Equity instruments

Equity instruments issued by the University are recorded at the proceeds received, net of transaction costs.
Dividends payable on equity instruments are recognised as liabilities once they are no longer at the
discretion of the University.

Interest receivable and similar income

Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefit will flow to the University and
the amount of revenue can be measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference
to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.

Interest payable and similar expenses

Interest payable and similar expenses include interest payable recognised in statement of comprehensive
income using the effective interest method, unwinding of the discount on provisions, and net foreign
exchange losses that are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.

Taxation

The tax expense represents the sum of the current tax and deferred tax.

Current tax

The current tax is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in
the statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable
or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The
University's liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively
enacted by the reporting end date.

Deferred tax

Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all timing differences and deferred tax assets are
recognised to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered against the reversal of deferred tax
liabilities or other future taxable profits. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the timing
difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition of other assets and liabilities in a transaction
that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting end date and reduced to the
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the
asset to be recovered. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year
when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Where items recognised in other comprehensive income
or equity are chargeable to or deductible for tax purposes, the resulting current or deferred tax expense or
income is presented in the same component of comprehensive income or equity as the transaction or other
event that resulted in the tax expense or income. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the
University has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax
assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority.

Page 28

BPP University Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

1.14

1.15

1.16

1.17

1.18

Accounting policies (continued)
Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the University has a legal or constructive present obligation as a result of
a past event, it is probable that the University will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.

The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the
present obligation at the reporting end date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the
obligation. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount expected to be required to
settle the obligation is recognised at present value. When a provision is measured at present value, the
unwinding of the discount is recognised as an interest payable and similar expenses in statement of
comprehensive income in the period in which it arises.

Employee benefits
The costs of short-term employee benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense, unless those costs
are required to be recognised as part of the cost of stock or fixed assets.

The cost of any unused holiday entitlement is recognised in the period in which the employee's services
are received.

Termination benefits are recognised immediately as an expense when the University is demonstrably
committed to terminate the employment of an employee or to provide termination benefits.
Retirement benefits

Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.
Any difference between the amount due and the amount paid is recorded on the balance sheet.

Leases

Rentals payable under operating leases, including any lease incentives received, are charged to statement
of comprehensive income on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease except where another
more systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the
leases asset are consumed.

Foreign exchange
Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at
the dates of the transactions. At each reporting end date, monetary assets and liabilities that are

denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates prevailing on the reporting end date. Gains
and losses arising on translation are included in the statement of comprehensive income for the period.

Page 29

BPP University Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

2 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the University's accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgements,
estimates and assumptions about the carrying amount of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent
from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and
other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised where the revision affects only that
period, or in the period of the revision and future periods where the revision affects both current and future

periods.

Critical judgements

The directors deem that there were no critical judgements involved in these financial statements.

Key sources of estimation uncertainty

The directors deem that there were no key sources of estimation uncertainty involved in these financial

statements
3 Turnover
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Turnover
Educational services 242,423 186,028
Lease income 242 294
Total 242,665 186,322

All turnover is generated in the United Kingdom and relates to educational services.

Turnover classed as from educational services relates to “fee income for taught awards” as defined by the
OfS. During the year the University did not receive any grant income the OfS, grant or fee income from
other bodies, fee income for research awards, or fee income from non-qualifying course.

Page 30

BPP University Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

4

Operating profit

2024
£'000
Operating profit for the year is stated after charging:
Exchange losses 1
Fees payable to the auditor for the audit of the University's financial 345
statements
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets (see note 12) 69
Amortisation of intangible assets (see note 11) 1,280
Property rental charge 11,356

Employees

2023
£'000

265

75
933
9,838

The average monthly number of persons (including directors) employed by the University during the year

were:
2024

Numbers

Education delivery 620
Administration and services 645
Sales and marketing 226
1,491

2024

£'000

Wages and salaries 68,357
Social security costs 6,913
Pension costs 3,238
78,508

2023
Numbers

506
504
156

1,166

2023
£'000

49,601
5,228
2,468

57,297

In the current year, 142 (2023: 156) employees of the University performed services for other affiliated
group companies, and other group subsidiary employees performed services for the University. This
resulted in staff cost recharges to these entities of £4.775 million (2023: £3.600 million) and as such, these
costs were not borne by the University. The staff costs and average employee numbers have been stated

below to be consistent with the allocation method used for the year ended 31 August 2024.

Page 31

BPP University Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

5 Employees (continued)
Staff costs for the year after recharges:

2024 2023
Numbers Numbers

Education delivery 619 506
Administration and services 546 400
Sales and marketing 184 104
1,349 1,010

2024 2023
£'000 £'000

Wages and salaries 63,803 47,483
Social security costs 6,904 5,189
Pension costs 3,026 2,275

73,733 54,947

Remuneration is determined by taking into account comparable benchmarking information for comparable
roles, both within and outside the higher education sector, market forces and the performance of the Group
alongside the individual's skills, experience and role responsibilities.

The factors used in considering reward proposals are:

The size and complexity of the organisation

The nature of the HE markets and issues of recruitment and retention
Leadership of staff

Partnerships and external relationships

Major initiatives and projects

Vice-Chancellor remuneration

At BPP University (BPPU), the remuneration of the Vice-Chancellor is determined by BPP Education
Group. The Nomination & Remuneration Committee whose members are independent support and advise
on decisions made by the Group. The membership and Terms of Reference of the Nomination &
Remuneration Committee are available under the governance section at bpp.com.

BPP University is wholly owned by BPP Holdings which together with other subsidiaries forms the BPP
Education Group. BPPU comprises approximately half of the Group. The Vice-Chancellor of BPPU also
serves as Deputy Chief Executive of the BPP Education Group.

As Deputy CEO of the Group, the Vice Chancellor's total remuneration package for services to the Group
is set by the Group's shareholders. In line with other senior executives the remuneration is based on a
review of appropriate benchmarks for the position and responsibilities carried out, periodic reviews of the
Vice-Chancellor's contribution to the performance of the Group and consideration of the BPP general
annual! pay review. The Nominations and Remuneration Committee advises the shareholders as to the
appropriate level of the Vice-Chancellor's remuneration which comprises an annual salary and a bonus
based on the financial performance of the Group as a whole.

The Vice-Chancellor's remuneration consists of the following elements:
e Salary

e Performance-related pay

¢ Benefits

e Payments in lieu of pension contributions

Page 32

BPP University Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

5 Employees (continued)

A summary of the Vice-Chancellor's remuneration over the past two years is shown below:

2024 2023
. £ £
Emoluments of the Vice-Chancellor
Base salary 350,000 255,816
Bonus 127,908 91,800
Payments in lieu of pension contributions 16,800 12,791
Private medical insurance 853 1,067
Total 495,561 361,474

The Vice-Chancellor's bonus is awarded in relation to his role as Deputy Group CEO. It is determined by
the BPP Group based on the overall performance of the BPP Education Group as determined by the
Group's shareholders.

The Committee has noted the reported pay multiple against staff of 7.0 (2023: 5.1) and will continue to
monitor this aspect in its deliberations on Vice-Chancellor’s pay. The head of the provider’s basic salary is
7.0 times (2023: 5.1) the median pay of staff, where the median pay is calculated on a full-time equivalent
basis for the salaries paid by the provider to its staff.

The head of the provider’s total remuneration is 8.8 times (2023: 6.4) the median total remuneration of
staff, where the median total remuneration is calculated on a full-time equivalent basis for the total
remuneration by the provider of its staff.

In calculating the median salary, we have included all staff who have been paid through the payroll, we
have not included the pay of staff engaged on work in the University who are employed by employment
agencies or freelancers as it is not possible to determine the hourly rate of such staff to enable a
calculation of the full year full time equivalent pay of each individual employee of an employment agency
staff that would be required to calculate their median pay.

Page 33

BPP University Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

5 Employees (continued)

Salary Ranges

The number of employees, excluding the Vice-Chancellor, whose base salary exceed £100k are set out in

the table below.
Salary Ranges

£100,000 - £104,999
£105,000 - £109,999
£110,000 - £114,999
£115,000 - £119,999
£120,000 - £124,999
£125,000 - £129,999
£130,000 - £134,999
£135,000 - £139,999
£140,000 - £144,999
£145,000 - £149,999
£150,000 - £154,999
£155,000 - £159,999
£160,000 - £164,999
£165,000 - £169,999
£170,000 - £174,999
£175,000 - £179,999
£180,000 - £184,999
£185,000 - £189,999

Total

Compensation for loss of office

2024
Numbers

4

a oo oS

2023
Numbers

12-210

aes

Restructures undertaken as part of continuing focus on financial sustainability and management of the cost

base.

Compensation

Headcount

6 Directors’ remuneration

Remuneration for qualifying services
Company pension contributions to defined contribution schemes

Page 34

2024
£
767,649

Numbers

54

2024
£000

1,454
48

1,502

2023

£
127,883

Numbers
9

2023
£'000

1,446
46

1,492

BPP University Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

6 Directors’ remuneration (continued)

Remuneration disclosed above include the following amounts paid to the highest paid director:

2024
£'000

Remuneration for qualifying services 490
Company pension contributions to defined contribution schemes 16

506

2023
£'000

370
12

382

A number of the directors are also directors of BPP Holdings Limited and other BPP Holdings Limited
subsidiaries. The directors emoluments are allocated to the relevant entities based on qualifying services.
The amount remunerated to directors of the University by its parent, BPP Holdings Limited, and not
included in Directors' emoluments disclosed above was £0.582 million (2023: £0.350 million). In addition,
one of the directors is accruing benefits under the BPP Holdings Limited group pension scheme, which is a
defined contribution scheme, in respect of their services to the group Companies. This is included in

amount remunerated to directors of BPP Holdings Limited above.

7 Interest receivable and similar income
2024
£'000
Interest receivable from group companies 14,828
Interest receivable from external parties 1,200

16,028

2023
£'000

8,950
994

9,944

Interest is charged on the loan balances owed from group undertakings at 2.75% (2023: 2.75%) above the

monthly SONIA rate.

8 Interest payable and similar expense
2024
£'000

Interest on other loans 50

Page 35

2023
£'000

BPP University Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

9 Taxation

Current tax

UK corporation tax

Adjustments in respect of prior years
Total current tax charge

Deferred tax

Origination and reversal of timing differences

Adjustments in respect of prior years
Total deferred tax charge

Total tax on profit

2024
£'000

21,173
1,302

22,475

22
(7)

15

22,490

2023
£000

11,844
(1,373)

10,468

53
16

69

10,537

The actual charge for the year can be reconciled to the expected charge for the year based on the profit or

loss and the standard rate of tax as follows:

Profit before taxation

Expected tax charge based on the standard rate of corporation tax in the

UK of 25.00% (2023: 21.52%)
Effects of:

Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit

Adjustments in respect of prior years
Deferred tax - impact of tax rate change

Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods - deferred tax

Taxation charge for the year

2024
£'000

84,529

21,132

63
4,302

(7)

22,490

2023
£'000

55,196

11,878

9
(1,373)
7
16

10,537

The standard rate of tax applied to reported profit is 25.00% (2023: 21.52%). In the Finance Bill 2021, the
Government announced that from 1 April 2023 the corporation tax rate would increase to 25.00% (rather
than remaining at 19.00%, as previously enacted). This new law was substantively enacted on 24 May

2021.

The Company recorded a tax benefit of £nil, a tax benefit of £0.007 million, a tax expense of £0.020 million
during the years ended 31 August 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively, associated with the change in tax

rates.

Page 36

BPP University Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

10 Dividends

2024 2023 2024 2023
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
per share per share
Final paid 10,000 5,000 20,000 10,000
11 Intangible fixed assets
Software & Other
licences _ intangibles Total
£'000 £°000 £000
Cost
At 1 September 2023 178 8,781 8,959
Additions - separately acquired - 1,105 1,105
Disposals (178) : (178)
At 31 August 2024 - 9,886 9,886
Amortisation .
At 1 September 2023 178 2,812 2,990
Charge for the year - 1,280 1,280
Disposals ~ (178) - (178)
At 31 August 2024 - 4,092 4,092
Carrying amount
At 31 August 2024 - 5,794 5,794
At 31 August 2023 - 5,969 5,969

Other intangibles additions relate to the capitalisation of curriculum development costs. Development costs
have been capitalised in accordance with FRS 102 Section 18 Intangible Assets other than Goodwill and
are therefore not treated, for dividend purposes, as a realised loss. Amortisation charged for the year has
been recognised within administrative expenses.

Page 37

BPP University Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

12 Tangible fixed assets

Short Fixtures and
leasehold Equipment fittings Total
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Cost
At 1 September 2023 2,567 1,910 683 5,160
Additions - 3 - 3
Disposals - (105) (1) (106)
At 31 August 2024 : 2,567 1,808 682 5,057
Depreciation :
At 1 September 2023 2,567 1,827 683 5,077
Charge for the year - 69 - 69
Disposals - (105) (1) (106)
At 31 August 2024 2,567 1,791 682 5,040
Carrying amount
At 31 August 2024 - 17 - 17
At 31 August 2023 - 83 - 83
13 Stocks
2024 2023
£'000 £'000

Finished goods and goods for resale 187 129

Page 38

BPP University Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

14

15

Debtors

2024 2023
Amounts falling due within one year: £'000 £'000
Trade debtors 35,747 34,404
Amounts due from parent undertaking 72,496 58,144
Amounts due from fellow subsidiaries 109,205 89,080
Other debtors 356 674
Prepayments 2,657 4,358
Accrued income 8,561 5,741

229,022 192,401

Amounts owed from group undertakings falling due within one year represent loans repayable on demand
and trading balances at arm's length settled monthly. Interest is charged on the loan balances at 2.75%
(2023: 2.75%) above the monthly SONIA rate.

2024 2023
Amounts falling due after more than one year: £'000 £'000
Amounts owed by group undertakings 20,800 20,800
Deferred tax asset (note 18) 314 329
Total debtors 21,114 21,129

Amounts owed from group undertakings falling due in over one year represent loans repayable on
demand. Interest is charged on the joan balances at 2.75% (2023: 2.75%) above the monthly SONIA rate.

Restricted cash

2024 2023

£'000 £'000
Funds relating to a standby letter of credit - 50
Employer apprenticeship funds 89 161

89 211

Page 39

BPP University Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

15

16

Restricted cash (continued)

Restricted cash principally relates to funds transferred into a blocked account which the University is
required to have relating to a standby letter of credit. This is required to support the guarantee against the
portfolio of student loans provided for in note 17. The restricted cash value at a minimum must be equal to
the total value of the facility under guarantee per the condition imposed by Barclays Bank PLC. The total

value of the facility under guarantee at balance sheet date was f£nil (2023: £0.050 million).

Employer apprenticeship funds relate to cash received by the University on behalf of employers (BPP's
customers) who enroll their 16-18-year old employee/apprentices onto courses. This cash is classed as
‘restricted cash’ as it does not belong to the University, BPP merely acts as an intermediary as the training

provider, drawing down funds generally, in relation to apprenticeships.

Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

2024

£000

Trade creditors 643
Amounts due to fellow subsidiaries 1,220
Corporation tax 32,422
Other taxation and social security 1,664
Deferred income 43,506
Other creditors 585
Accruals 13,466
31,693

Fees received in advance
125,199

Page 40

2023
£'000

21
1,448
22,187
1,075
67,903
601
5,851
40,719

139,805

BPP University Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

17 Provisions for liabilities

2024 2023
£000 £000
Course closure - 5
Other - 13
- 18
Course

closure Other Total
£'000 £'000 £'000

At 1 September 2023 5 13 ; 18
Utilisation of provision (5) (13) (18)
At 31 August 2024 . - .

Course closure
The provision for course closure relates to an estimate of costs relating to compensation for students. We
expect the provision to be fully utilised or released in the next year.

Other

Other provisions relate to guarantees that have been provided for a portfolio of student loans which are
due to be repaid through to 2025. The total value of the facility under guarantee at balance sheet date was
£nil (2023: £0.05 million). This is considered to be the maximum exposure to the University for the year
ended 31 August 2024. A provision of £nil (2023: £0.013 million) has been made which represents the
directors’ best assessment of the probable exposure under the guarantee at the balance sheet date.

There is a liquidity risk as there is a possibility that all guarantees could be called upon within 12 months.
However, as the guarantee relates to a portfolio of loans it is extremely unlikely that all loans would be
called upon. The risk of default is managed by the loan provider performing extensive credit checks on all
loan applicants and loans are granted provided the applicant passes these checks. There is an amount
held in restricted cash as disclosed in note 15 which would be used to fund guarantees being called upon.

Page 41

BPP University Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

18

19

20

Deferred taxation

The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the University and movements
thereon:

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Balances:
Accelerated capital allowances 243 275
Other timing differences 71 54
314 329
2024
Movements in the year: £'000
Asset at 1 September 2023 329
Charge to profit or loss (15)
Asset at 31 August 2024 314

The deferred tax asset set out above is not expected to fully reverse out within the next 12 months.

Retirement benefit schemes

2024 2023
Defined contribution schemes £'000 £'000
Charge to profit or loss in respect of defined contribution schemes 3,238 2,468

The University operates a defined contribution pension scheme for all qualifying employees. The assets of
the scheme are held separately from those of the University in an independently administered fund.

Capital and reserves

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Issued and fully paid
2 (2023: 2) Ordinary shares of £1 each (2023: £1 each) - -

Share capital does not display above, due to rounding, as it isan amount less than £1,000.

Profit and loss account

The retained earnings reserve represents the cumulative distributable profits and losses net of dividends
and other adjustments.

Page 42

BPP University Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

21

22

23

24

25

Operating lease commitments

Lessor
At the reporting end date, the University had contracted with tenants for the following minimum lease
payments:

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Not later than one year 186 186
Later than one year and not later than five years - 186

186 372

Related party disclosures

The Company has taken advantage of the exemption, afforded by paragraph 33.1A of FRS 102 The
Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland, not to disclose related party
transactions entered into between two or more members of a group.

Commitments and contingencies
The Company has no capital commitments or contingent liabilities at the reporting date (2023: £nil).
Ultimate controlling party

In the opinion of the directors, the University's immediate parent is BPP Holdings Limited, a company
incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales. The ultimate parent of the
Company is Bright Holdings S.a.r.l. (registered in Luxembourg) and the ultimate controlling party is a group
of investment funds managed by TDR Capital LLP (registered in the UK).

Bright Topco Limited is the largest and smallest group undertaking for which consolidated financial
statements are prepared.

Copies of the Group financial statements of Bright Topco Limited are available from BPP House, Aldine
Place, 142-144 Uxbridge Road, Shepherds Bush, London, W12 8AA.

Subsequent events

No material events have occurred upto the date of the balance sheet date which would affect the financial
statements of the Company.

Page 43

BPP University Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

26

27

Cash generated from operations

Profit for the year after tax

Adjustments for:

Taxation charged

Interest receivable and similar income
Interest payable and similar expense
Amortisation of intangible assets
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets
Decrease in provisions

Movement in restricted cash

Movements in working capital:
(Increase)/decrease in stocks

Increase in debtors
Increase/(decrease) in creditors
(Decrease)/increase in deferred income
Cash generated from operations

Tax paid

Net cash (used in)/generated from operations

Analysis of changes in net funds

Cash at bank and in hand
Restricted cash

Page 44

1 September
2023
£'000

42,823
211

43,034

2024
£'000

62,039

22,490
(16,028)
50

(58)
(36,621)
(443)
(24,397)

8,485

(12,240)

(3,755)

Cash flows
£'000

(8,886)
(122)

(9,008)

2023
£'000

44,659

10,537
(9,944)

933
75
(2)

(92)

81

(71,386)
(2,094)
38,520

11,287

11,287

31 August
2024
£'000

33,937
89

34,026

BPP University Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 August 2024

28 Notes supporting statement of cash flows

Cash and cash equivalents for purposes of the Statement of cash flows comprises:

2024 2023

£000 £000

Cash at bank and in hand 33,937 42,823
Restricted cash : 89 211
34,026 43,034

Reconciliation of movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities:

All the changes arising in the liabilities from financing activities are provided in the Statement of cash flows
above. There is no other change in the liabilities considered to be arising from financing activities.

Page 45

