Busways Travel Services Limited
Financial statements for the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Registered number: 02295227

WEDNESDAY

A2

|

*Al
22/01/2025
COMPANIES HOUSE

ll

ut

#289

Strategic report
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

The directors present their strategic report on the Company for the period ended 27 April 2024.

Review of the business

Busways Travel Services Limited (‘the Company”) is a public transport operator, operating predominantly local bus
services in and around the Tyne & Wear and adjacent areas. The Company operates a fleet of 310 buses (2023: 312)
and employs 1,117 people (2023: 1,056).

Results and performance
The growth in revenue reflects recovering passenger demand across our services as pandemic-related restrictions have
eased and confidence has returned.

The results of the Company for the period ended 27 April 2024 show a profit on ordinary activities before taxation of
£10,275,000 (2023: loss of £528,000) and revenue of £64,156,000 (2023: £53,509,000). The Company has net assets
of £37,661 ,000 (2023: £41,373,000).

The Company continues to build on the commercial strategy of competitive fares, investment and high customer service
which has maintained our presence in the region.

Business environment

The Company operates predominantly local bus services, and carried around 119,000 passengers a day (2023:
413,000). These services are mainly operated on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market. The Company
also operates tendered services, including school contracts, on behalf of local authorities and other public bodies. The
Company works closely with local authorities, passengers and other stakeholders. The Company benefits from being
part of the UK Bus (regional operations) Division of Stagecoach Group Limited ("the Group”), a nationwide public
transport operator.

Our services are central to delivering economic growth, social equity and objectives around improved air quality and
decarbonisation. This is reflected in the continued government investment in buses, in particular, as we transition to a
net zero future. Bus services continue to benefit from a supportive policy environment from national and local
government.

Business culture

We are committed to conducting business in a socially responsible way and we believe this to be consistent with our
business objectives and strategy. Indeed, by taking a responsible approach towards the environment and the wider
community, we believe we will enhance our objective to deliver organic growth.

Strategy

The Company's absolute focus remains safety and operational excellence, which underpin our delivery of high quality
public transport services. Providing good value travel and investing in our people, fleet and new technology is essential
to enhancing our customers’ experience. We also continue to take steps to improve the efficiency of our operations
and maintain close control of costs.

1 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 27 April 2024

Future outlook

Bus services continue to benefit from a supportive policy environment from national and local government. In England,
Bus Recovery Grant (BRG) funding expired at the end of June 2023 and has been replaced by an enhanced operating
Bus Service Operators Grant Plus ("BSOG+") from July 2023, The Department for Transport has announced that
BSOG+ will continue, albeit at a reduced rate, from April 2024 to March 2025 at the earliest.

Further funding has also been allocated to local authorities to support commercial and tendered bus services over the
same period. Since its launch in January 2023, the £2 bus fare cap scheme has driven an increase in bus patronage,
particularly from existing bus users, and the scheme has now been extended until December 2024. During the year,
the Department for Transport launched the second phase of the Zero Emission Bus Regional Areas (“ZEBRA2”)
programme in England, with up to £129m of funding available to support the introduction of zero emission buses.

We remain positive on the long-term outlook for the Company. Public transport delivers the sustainable connectivity
people need to access work, education, healthcare, shopping, leisure, and meeting family and friends. We are focused
on further rebuilding profitability and adapting our services to meet new and emerging travel patterns. Whilst the recent
General Election may lead to some change in the detail of transport policy, there is broad cross-party support for the
role that buses play in delivering government objectives on social equity and inclusion, economic development and
levelling-up, and in transport decarbonisation.

We have worked closely with local and national government in maintaining bus services through the pandemic and into
recovery. We anticipate that this close partnership will be a continuing feature of transport policy, including through an
expansion of bus service franchising, and we are engaging closely with national and local policy-makers to maximise
the opportunities that this will offer. We are confident that our strong financial position and our continuing momentum
means that we can deliver further benefits to our customers, employees, investors and wider stakeholders.

Principal risks and uncertainties .
The management of the business and the execution of the Company's strategy are subject to a number of risks.

The management and reporting of risk is undertaken at the Group level, rather than at an individual business unit level.

The principal risks and uncertainties of Stagecoach Group Limited, which includes those of the Company, are discussed
in the Group's 2024 Annua! Report (paragraph 1.4.5 of the Strategic Review), which does not form part of this report.

Key performance indicators (“KPIs”)

The directors of Stagecoach Group Limited manage the Group's performance on a divisional basis. For this reason,
the Company's directors believe that analysis using KPls for the Company is not necessary or appropriate for an
understanding of the development, performance or position of the business of the Company. The development,
performance and position of the UK Bus Division of Stagecoach Group Limited, which includes the Company, is
discussed in the Strategic Review (paragraph 1.4.6) of the Group's 2024 Annual Report which does not form part of

this report.

2 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 27 April 2024

Financial risk management

The Company's activities expose it to a variety of financial risks including the effects of changes in interest rates, credit
tisk and commodity prices. The effects of changes in interest rates and commodity prices are managed at a Group level
by a central Group treasury function. The Company has implemented policies which require appropriate credit checks
to be performed on potential customers before sales are made. All credit checks are performed centrally by Stagecoach
Services Limited, a fellow Group company.

Section 172 statement ;
The Directors believe that in the decisions taken during the period ended 27 April 2024, they have acted, both
individually and together, in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the
Company for the benefit of its members as a whole. In doing so, the Directors have had regard to, amongst other
things, the matters set out in section 172(1)(a-f) of the Companies Act 2006.

Recognising their duty to have regard to stakeholders, the Board engages with, and receives updates from various
stakeholders. The views of and impact of the Company's activities on those stakeholders are an important consideration
for the Directors when making relevant decisions. Due to the number and distribution of both the Company's
stakeholders and the Stagecoach Group, generally our stakeholder engagement takes place at an operational and
group level. The culture and values upheld when engaging with stakeholders are consistent across the Group,
whichever company is communicating with stakeholders.

From the perspective of the Board, as a result of the Group governance structure, the matters that it is responsible for
considering under section 172(1) of the Companies Act 2006 have been considered to an appropriate extent by the
Stagecoach Group Limited Board in relation to both the Group and the Company. To the extent necessary for an
understanding of the development, performance and position of the Company, an explanation of how the Board of .
Directors of Stagecoach Group Limited has considered the matters set out in section 172 (for the Group and for the
Company) is summarised on pages 36-37 of the Group's 2024 Annual Report, which does not form part of this report.

Employees

From the perspective of the Directors, as a resuit of the Group governance the Group Directors have taken the lead in
carrying out the duties of a director in respect of the Company's employees, including engaging with them, having
regard to their interests and the effect of that regard (including on the principal decisions taken by the Company during
the financial period). The Directors have also considered relevant matters where appropriate. An explanation of how
the Group Directors have carried out these responsibilities for the Company is set out on pages 36-37 of the Group's
Annual Report, which does not form part of this report.

Other stakeholders

Similarly, from the perspective of the Directors, as a result of the Group governance structure, the Group Directors have
taken the lead in carrying out the duties of a directors in respect of the Company’s other stakeholders. The Directors
have also considered relevant matters where appropriate. An explanation of how the Group's Directors have had regard
to the need to foster the Company's business relationships with suppliers, customers and others, and the effect of that
regard, including on the principal decisions taken by the Company during the financial period, is set out for both the -
Group and Company on pages 36-37 of the Group's Annual Report, which does not form part of this report.

3. BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 27 April 2024

By order of the Board

Bue, Duyull

BM Dingwall
Director

One Stockport Exchange
20 Railway Road
Stockport

United Kingdom

SK1 3SW

25 October 2024

4 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED

Registered number: 02295227

Directors’ report
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

The directors present their report on the affairs of the Company, together with the audited financial statements and
independent auditors’ report, for the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024 (52 week period ended 29 April 2023).

Results and dividends
The growth in revenue reflects recovering passenger demand across our services as pandemic-related restrictions have
eased and confidence has returned.

The results of the Company for the period ended 27 April 2024 show a profit on ordinary activities before taxation of
£10,275,000 (2023: loss of £528,000) and revenue of £64,156,000 (2023: £53,509,000). The profit for the financial
period amounted to £7,781 ,000 (2023: loss £577,000). This amount has been appropriated as follows:

Note 2024 2023

£000 £000

Profit/(loss) for the financial period 7,781 (577)
Dividend to parent company . 6 {10,000} (9,000)
Transferred to reserves (2,219) (9,577)

Future developments
Future developments have been discussed in the strategic report on page 2.

Financial risk management
Financial risk management has been discussed in the strategic report on page 3.

Directors

The directors who held office during the period under review and up to the date of approval of these financial
statements were:

BM Dingwall
S Walker
SD Greer

5 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Directors’ report (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Employees

Human resources are key to the Company's business and the Company's relationship with its employees is fundamental
to achieving its objectives. We aim to recruit and retain the best employees in our sector, which allows us to deliver
good customer service. The Company invests significantly in the training and development of our people. We have
strong, long-established working relationships with trade unions and work in partnership with them on a range of issues
including training and development, occupational health matters, pensions and other employee benefits, as well as
areas such as new vehicle design and uniform.

The Company recognises its obligations to give disabled people full and fair consideration for all vacancies within the
statutory medical requirements which have to be met for certain grades of staff. Wherever reasonable and practicable,
the Company will retain newly disabled employees and at the same time provide fair opportunities for the career
development of disabled people. Refer to s.172 disclosure in the Strategic Report on page 3 for further details on the
directors’ engagement with employees.

Business relationships
The directors have had regard for the need to foster the Company's business relationships with suppliers, customers
and others. Details of these activities are included as part of the s.172 disclosure in the Strategic Report.

Energy and carbon reporting

Energy and carbon reporting for Stagecoach Group Limited, which includes the energy and carbon emissions figures
for the Company, are disclosed in Stagecoach Group Limited's 2024 Annual Report (paragraph 1.7.2 of the Strategic
Report), which does not form part of this report.

Statement of corporate governance arrangements

The Group is a large private company owned by Inframobility UK Bidco Limited, a company managed by DWS
Infrastructure, a long-term infrastructure investment management business, we follow The Wates Corporate
Governance Principles for Large Private Companies issued by the Financial Reporting Council ("The Wates Principles”).
The principles can be found at https:/Awww.frc.org.uk. We reported our corporate governance arrangements with
reference to the Financial Reporting Council's UK Corporate Governance Code which is summarised on pages 41-43
of the Group's 2024 Annual Report, which does not form part of this report.

For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024, the Company has prepared the financial statement in accordance with
The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018 (the “Reporting Regulations’). In complying with these
requirements, the Company has elected not to apply a code because for the period ended 27 April 2024, Stagecoach
Group Limited, has applied the Wates Principles, which was applied throughout the Group.

Reflecting the structure of the Group, a number of corporate governance matters are reserved for the board of
Stagecoach Group Limited. The principal responsibilities include agreeing the overall strategy and investment policy, to
approve major capital expenditure, to monitor performance and risk management procedures of senior management,
to ensure there are proper internal controls in place and to consider major acquisitions or disposals.

6 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Directors’ report (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Statement of corporate governance arrangements (continued)

The Executive Directors of the Group maintain day-to-day contact and meet regularly face-to-face or in video
conferences with senior management and Directors of the Company. The Company’s managing director reports to the
Chief Operating Officer and is supported by his or her own management team. The Chief Operating Officer reports to
the Chief Executive Officer. To the extent necessary for an understanding of the corporate governance arrangements
applied across the Group, an explanation of is summarised on pages 41-43 of the Group’s 2024 Annual Report, which
does not form part of this report.

Donations
Donations to charitable organisations amounted to £13,885 (2023: £8,295).

The Company does not make political contributions and accordingly there were no payments for political purposes
during the period (2023: £Nil).

Going concern

These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. In applying the going concern basis, the
Directors have taken into account the recent trading performance of the Company. The Company is in a net current
assets and net assets position as at 27 April 2024. The directors have also considered the Company's cash position
and forecast cash flows for a period of 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements, arising from
the services to be rendered.

The Directors have received confirmation from Stagecoach Group Limited, the Company’s intermediate parent
company, that Stagecoach Group Limited will provide financial support to the Company, if required, to assist the
Company in meeting its liabilities as and when they fall due, to the extent that resources are not otherwise available to
the Company to meet such liabilities. Stagecoach Group Limited has confirmed that it has the ability to provide such
support and will provide the support, as appropriate, for a period of 12 months from the date of approval of these
financial statements. In applying the going concern basis, the Directors have also considered the past practice of
Stagecoach Group Limited in providing financial support to the Company and its fellow subsidiaries.

The Directors, having taken account of Stagecoach Group Limited's current intention, Stagecoach Group Limited's past
practice, recent trading performance, and available liquidity have a reasonable expectation that the Company will
continue to operate as a going concern for a period of 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements.

Refer to note 1(a) for further details on the going concern basis.

Directors’ responsibilities statement
The directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic Report, the Directors’ Report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors
have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), Financial Reporting Standard 101. Under
company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the profit or loss of the Company for that period.

7 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Directors’ report (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Directors’ responsibilities statement (continued)

In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:

e — select suitable accounting policies in accordance with [AS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting
Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently;

e make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

¢ present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable
and understandable information;

¢ provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in FRS 101 is insufficient to
enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the company
financial position and financial performance; .

© prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Company will not continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and
enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of
fraud and other irregularities.

Independent auditors and disclosure of information to auditors

Each director, as at the date of this report, has confirmed that insofar as they are aware there is no relevant audit
information of which the Company's auditors are unaware, and they have taken all the steps that they ought to have
taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the
Company’s auditors are aware of that information.

The auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution concerning their
re-appointment will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting of Stagecoach Group Limited.

Indemnification of directors and officers

The Company maintains Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance in respect of legal action that might be brought
against its directors. The Company has indemnified each of its directors and other officers of the Company against
certain liabilities that may be incurred as a result of their offices.

By order of the Board

Brees Duypull

BM Dingwall
Director

One Stockport Exchange
20 Railway Road
Stockport

United Kingdom

SK1 3SW

25 October 2024

8 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUSWAYS TRAVEL
SERVICES LIMITED
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Busways Travel Services Limited for the period ended 27 April 2024 which
comprise the Income Statement, the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of
Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 20, including material accounting policy information. The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards
including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion, except for the effects on the corresponding figures of the matter described in the Basis for qualified

Opinion section, the financial statements:

e give a true and fair view of the company’s affairs as 27 April 2024 and of its profit for the period then ended;
¢ have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and

° have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical
tequirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard,
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting
in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions
that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern for
a period 12 months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant
sections of this report. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a
guarantee as to the company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

Other information
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and
our auditor's report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report.

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise
explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUSWAYS TRAVEL
SERVICES LIMITED (CONTINUED)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024 .

Other information (continued)

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit or otherwise appears to
be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required
to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial Statements themselves. If, based on the
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required
to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

* the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial period for which the financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and ,

« the strategic report and directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the
audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us
to report to you if, in our opinion:

* adequate accounting records have not been kept or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from
branches not visited by us; or

e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
* certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

* we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors' responsibilities statement set out on pages 7 and 8, the directors are responsible
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such
internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of
accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic

alternative but to do so.

10

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUSWAYS TRAVEL
SERVICES LIMITED (CONTINUED)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line
with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect irregularities, including fraud. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate
concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion. The extent to which our
procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below. However, the primary responsibility
for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.

+ We obtained: an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the company and
determined that the most significant include compliance with applicable health & safety, environmental and data
protection regulations, competition and consumer protection laws, labour regulations and employee rights laws.

+ We understood how Busways Travel Services Limited is complying with those frameworks to the extent that could

“materially impact the financial statements by making enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible
for legal and compliance procedures and the Company Secretary. We corroborated our enquiries through our
reading of board minutes, papers provided to the Group Audit Committee and correspondence received from
regulatory bodies.

+ We assessed the susceptibility of the company’s financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud
might occur by meeting with management within various parts of the business to understand where they considered
there was susceptibility to fraud. We also considered performance targets and their influence on efforts made by
management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions of analysts. Where this risk was considered to be
higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk. These procedures included testing
manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from
fraud or error.

+ Based on this understanding, we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and
regulations. Our procedures included a review of board minutes to identify any non-compliance with laws and
regulations and enquiries of senior management.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting
Council's website at https://www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

11

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BUSWAYS TRAVEL
SERVICES LIMITED (CONTINUED)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted
by faw, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company's members as
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Gant @ Young uf

Julie Cavin (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Edinburgh

Date: 25 October 2024

12

Income statement
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Revenue
Cost of sales

Gross profit/(loss)
Other operating income

Operating profit/(loss)
Finance income

Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation
Tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities

Profit/(loss) for the financial period

The results for the period arise wholly from continuing operations.

The accompanying notes form an integral part of this income statement.

13. BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED

Note

52 week 52 week
period ended period ended
27 April 2024 29 April 2023

£000 £000
64,156 53,509
(62,512) (63,108)
1,644 (9,599)
6,668 7,742
8,312 (1,857)
1,963 4,329
10,275 (528)
(2,494) (49)
7,781 (577)

Registered number: 02295227

Statement of other comprehensive income
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

52 week 52 week
period ended period ended
Note 27 April 2024 29 April 2023
£000 £000
Profit/(loss) for the financial period 7,781 (877)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income:

-Actuarial (loss)/gain on retirement benefit obligations 16 (1,496) 7,145
Other comprehensive (expense)/income (1,496) 7,146
Tax credit/(charge) relating to actuarial remeasurement on retirement
benefit obligations 13 3 (7)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the period, net of tax (1,493) 7,138
Total comprehensive income for the period 6,288 6,561

The accompanying notes form an integrai part of this statement of other comprehensive income.

14 | BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Balance sheet
As at 27 April 2024

Non-current assets
Tangible fixed assets
Right of use assets
Deferred tax asset
Retirement benefit asset

Current assets

Stocks

Trade and other receivables
Cash at bank and in hand

Current liabilities
Trade and other payables
Corporation tax creditor

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables

Provisions for liabilities and charges

Retirement benefit obligation

Net assets

Capital and reserves
Called up share capital
Contribution reserve

Profit and loss account

Total shareholders’ funds

Note

10(a)
10(b)
13
16

11
12

14

14
15
16

17

2024
£000

608
664
191
9,331

10,794

531
35,526
697

36,754

(9,336)

(9,336)

27,418
38,212

(144)
(130)
(277)

(551)
37,661

300
418

36,943

37,661

2023
£000

568
1,335
203
10,195

12,301

443
36,503
225

37,171

(7,491)
(1)

(7,522)

29,649
41,950

(298)

(279)
(577)
41,373

300
418
40,655

41,373

The financial statements on pages 13 to 46 were approved by the board of directors on 25 October 2024 and were

signed on its behalf by:

Brew Dugulb

BM Dingwall

Director

The accompanying notes form an integral part of this balance sheet.

15 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED

Registered number: 02295227

Statement of changes in equity
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Called up
share capital
£000
At 30 April 2022 300
Loss for the financial period -
Other comprehensive income -
Total comprehensive income for
the period -
Dividends :
At 29 April 2023 300
Profit for the financial period -
Other comprehensive expense -
Total comprehensive income for
the period -
Dividends -
At 27 April 2024 300

Reference for called up share capital in note 17.

16 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED

Profit Total
and loss Contribution shareholders’
account reserve funds

£000 £000 £000

43,094 418 43,812

(577) - (577)

7,138 - 7,138

6,561 - 6,561

(9,000) : (9,000)
40,655 418 41,373
7,781 - 7,781
(1,493) : (1,493)
6,288 - 6,288
(10,000) - (10,000)
36,943 418 37,661

Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies

The principal accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the 52 week period to 27 April
2024 and the preceding reporting period, are:

a) Basis of accounting

The Company is a private company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in the UK and registered in England.
The address of the Company’s registered office is shown on page 8 and a description of the Company's principal
activities are set out on page 1. The registered number is 02295227.

These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with Financial
Reporting Standard 101, ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (FRS 101) and the Companies Act 2006 (the Act).

The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have been applied in the preparation of these financial
statements, in accordance with FRS 101:

e Paragraphs 45(b) and 46-52 of IFRS 2, Share-based payments

e« Paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements with regards to comparative information
requirements in respect of paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1, paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 Property, plant and
equipment and paragraph 118(e) of IAS 38 Intangible assets

° IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’

e Paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38A, 38B-D, 111 and 134-136 of IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements

e IAS 7, Statement of cash flows

« Paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8, Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors

e Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, Related party disclosures

« The requirements in IAS 24, Related party disclosures, to disclose related party transactions entered into
between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is party to the transaction is
wholly owned by such a member

« Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurements

The Company has notified its shareholders in writing about, and they do not object to, the use of the disclosure

exemptions used by the company in these financial statements. The financial statements are prepared in Sterling which
is the functional currency and presentational currency of the entity and rounded to the nearest £'000.

Going concern

These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. In applying the going concern basis, the
Directors have taken into account the recent trading performance of the Company. The Company is in a net current
assets and net assets position as at 27 April 2024. The directors have also considered the Company's cash position
and forecast cash flows for a period of 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements, arising from
the services to be rendered. The Directors have received confirmation from Stagecoach Group Limited, the Company's
intermediate parent company, that Stagecoach Group Limited will provide financial support to the Company, if required,
to assist the Company in meeting its liabilities as and when they fall due, to the extent that resources are not otherwise
available to the Company to meet such liabilities.

17. BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

a) Basis of accounting (continued)

Going concern (continued)

Stagecoach Group Limited has confirmed that it has the ability to provide such support and will provide the support, as
appropriate, for 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements. In applying the going concern basis,
the Directors have also considered the past practice of Stagecoach Group Limited in providing financial support to the
Company and its fellow subsidiaries.

The Directors, having taken account of Stagecoach Group Limited's current intention, Stagecoach Group Limited's past
practice, recent trading performance, and available liquidity have a reasonable expectation that the Company will
continue to operate as a going concern for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of these financial
statements.

The Group going concern assessment performed by Stagecoach Group Limited (the “parent”) was performed using
financial forecasts for the period to 1 November 2025 and considering a wide range of downside scenarios. Further
detail of the Group's going concern assessment is included in the financial statements of Stagecoach Group Limited.

i) New accounting standards adopted during the period
New standards, amendments to standards and interpretations that are mandatory for the first time for the financial
period beginning 30 April 2023, do not have any significant effect on the financial statements and are listed below.

International Accounting Standards and Interpretations Effective for annual
periods beginning on or
after
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 01 January 2023
Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a
Single Transaction 01 January 2023
Amendments to IAS 8, Definition of Accounting Estimates 01 January 2023
Amendments to IAS 1 and IFRS and IFRS Practice Statement 2, Disclosure of
Accounting policies 01 January 2023
Amendments to IAS 12 Income taxes: International Tax Reform — Pillar Two Model
Rules 01 January 2023

18 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

a) Basis of accounting (continued)

ii) Other new standards

The International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations
Committee (“IFRIC’) have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date for financial years
beginning on or after the dates disclosed below and therefore after the date of these financial statements:

International Accounting Standards and Interpretations Effective for annual
periods beginning on or

. after

Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements

* Non-current Liabilities with Covenants

+ Deferral of Effective Date Amendment

* Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-Current 01 January 2024

Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments:

Disclosures: Supplier Finance Arrangements 01 January 2024

Amendments to IFRS 16, Leases — Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback 01 January 2024

Amendments to IAS 21 — Lack of exchangeability 01 January 2025*

* Not yet adopted by the UK Endorsement Board.

b) Tangible fixed assets

Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working
condition for its intended use. Land and buildings and other fixed assets are shown at cost, net of depreciation and any
provision for impairment as set out in note 10(a).

Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost or valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset
on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, as follows:

Leasehold land and building 10 to 50 years
Public service vehicles (PSVs), depending on type 7 to 16 years
Other plant and equipment and furniture and fittings 3 to 10 years
c) Leases

The Company leases many assets including properties, office and plant equipment. Rental contracts are typically made
for a fixed period of 6 months to 100 years. Certain leases have extension options which the Company may choose to

exercise.

For contracts that convey the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for
consideration, the Company recognises lease liabilities to make lease payments, and right-of-use assets representing

the right to use the underlying asset.

19 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)
c) Leases (continued)

Effect of lease extensions and break clauses on lease terms

Options to extend leases and break clauses are included in a number of the Company's leases. These are used by the
Company to maximise flexibility in managing its assets and operations to meet passenger demands. The Company
considers all the circumstances that create an economic incentive to exercise an extension option or not utilise a break
clause. An extension option or the periods after a break clause are only included in a lease term if the lease is
reasonably certain to be extended or if the break clause is reasonably certain not to be utilised.

For leases of properties, the Company considers the likely value of future rentals and anticipated changes in services
operated from the property when considering whether it is reasonably certain to extend a lease or not to utilise a break
clause.

Measurement of lease liabilities
Liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured at present value. Lease liabilities include the net present value of
the following lease payments:

e Fixed lease payments, less any lease incentives receivable;

« Amounts expected to be payable by the Group under residual value guarantees;

«The exercise price of a purchase option if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that option;

e Payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Group exercising that option;

e Payments to be made under reasonably certain extension options;

e Variable lease payments that are based on an on index or rate, initially measured using the index or rate at
the commencement date.

The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be readily determined,
the Group's incremental borrowing rate is used, being the rate that the Company would have to pay to borrow the funds
necessary to obtain an asset of similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment with similar
terms, security and conditions. Incremental borrowing rates are determined for each internal reporting period and
applied to the leases entered into during each such period.

To determine the incremental borrowing rate, the Company:

e uses recent third party financing received by the individual lessee as a starting point, adjusted to reflect
changes in financing conditions since the third party financing was received;

¢ makes adjustments to the rate to reflect the terms and conditions specific to the lease. These will include
adjustment for items such as the lease term and the right-of-use asset being leased.

The Company is exposed to potential future increases in variable lease payments for some properties based on an
index or rate, which are not included in the lease liability until they take effect. When adjustments to lease payments
based on an index or rate take effect, the lease liability is reassessed and adjusted against the right-of-use asset. There
are no leases with other forms of variable payment. Lease payments are allocated between principal and finance cost.
The finance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of
interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.

20 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

c) Leases (continued)

Measurement of lease liabilities (continued) .

Contracts can contain lease and non-lease components. For all property leases, the Company has separated lease
and non-lease components. For all other leases, the Company has elected not to separate lease and non-lease
components but instead accounts for these as a single lease component. Non-lease components for properties are
excluded from the projection of future lease payments and are treated as a separate expense on a straight-line basis
within operating costs.

Lease terms are negotiated lease by lease resulting in a wide range of terms and conditions. The lease agreements
do not generally impose any financial covenants. The principal restriction on assets held under lease or hire purchase
agreements is a restriction on the right to dispose of the assets during the period of the agreement.

Right-of-use assets
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the following:

e the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability;

e any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received;
« — any initial direct costs; and

« — dilapidation provisions.

Right-of-use assets are generally depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the asset's useful life and the
lease term. If the Company is reasonably certain to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated
over the underlying asset's useful life.

Short-term leases and low-value assets
Payments associated with short-term leases of equipment and vehicles and all leases of low-value assets are

recognised on a straight-line basis as an expense in the consolidated income statement. Short-term leases are leases
with a lease term of 12 months or less. Low-vaiue assets have a capital value, when new, of less than £4,500 and
comprise principally IT equipment and small items of office equipment.

d) Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.

e) Stocks

Stocks of parts and consumables are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance
for obsolete or slow moving items. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out (“FIFO”) method for fuel stocks and
average cost method for all other stocks

21 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

f) Taxation
Tax, current and deferred, is calculated using tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet

date. .

Corporation tax is provided on taxable profits at the current rate applicable. Tax charges and credits are accounted for
through the same primary statement as the related pre-tax item.

Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax
bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.

Deferred income tax is measured at the rates that are expected to apply in periods in which the temporary differences
reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.

Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against
which the temporary difference can be utilised. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with
respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation.

Management estimates amounts relating to uncertain tax treatments based on the applicable law and regulations,
historic outcomes of similar audits and discussions, independent, external specialist advice and consideration of the
progress on, and nature of, current discussions with the tax authority. Where management determines that a greater
than 50% probability exists that the tax authorities would accept the positions taken in the tax return, amounts are
recognised in the financial statements on that basis. Where the amount of tax payable or recoverable is uncertain, the
Company recognises a liability or asset based on either: management's judgement of the most likely outcome or, when
there is a wide range of possible outcomes, a probability weighted average approach.

g) Revenue .

Revenue represents commercial passenger revenue, concessionary passenger revenue, tender and school revenue,
contract revenue, engineering sales and lost property receipts receivable in respect of the period. The directors regard
the Company's business activities, which are carried out wholly in the United Kingdom, as being of one class.

The Company recognises revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that
reflects the consideration (payment) to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or
services. Performance obligations of the Company are generally clear and transaction prices are even over the period
to which they relate and are time apportioned.

Customer compensation is treated as a reduction in revenue. The Company principally generates revenue from the
provision of transport services to its customers. The Company has a number of revenue streams, as set out below. In
general, revenue presented in the income statement is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or
receivable. Where appropriate, amounts are shown net of discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes. The revenue
is recognised as performance obligations are satisfied as described below for each significant revenue stream.

22. BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)
g} Revenue (continued)

Commercial passenger revenue

Commercial passenger revenue primarily relates to ticket sales for travel on the Company's transport services.
Passenger revenue is recognised in the income statement in the period in which the related travel occurs. This can
involve some estimation — for example, revenue from the sale of season tickets and travelcards, that entitle individuals
to use certain of our services during a specified period of time, is deferred within liabilities and recognised in the income
statement over the period covered. The recognition of season ticket and travelcard income is recorded on a straight-
line basis over the applicable period.

Concessionary revenue

In the UK, the Company receives concessionary revenue from public bodies, such as locai authorities, for transporting
certain qualifying individuals free of charge to the passenger. Although the revenue is received from a party other than
the person receiving the service, the Company accounts for such revenue in accordance with IFRS 15, Revenue from
Contracts with Customers, with the performance obligation being the provision of the free travel to those eligible.
Amounts that are receivable from government bodies in respect of travel by individuals on the Company's transport
services is recognised in the income statement in the period in which the related travel occurs.

Tendered and school revenue

Other amounts that the Company receives from government bodies to pay for the operation of transport services they
consider to be socially desirable are included in revenue and recognised in the income statement in the period that the
relevant payment relates to. This includes tender and school revenue receivable to financially support certain bus
services the Company operates in the UK.

Contract revenue

Revenue receivable from government bodies and others to the Company for operating transport services under contract
is recognised in the income statement in the period that the contracted services relate to. In general, the revenue in
respect of any particular period can be clearly determined from the contract. Where there is a contingent element to
contract revenue (for example, where additional amounts are payable or receivable based on the punctuality of transport
services and/or other operational measures), revenue is recognised based on the applicable operational measures
when the amount of revenue can be reliably estimated and it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount
of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur.

Other revenue and income

Revenue that is incidental to the Company's principal activity of providing transport services is reported as other
revenue. Such revenue is recognised as the service is provided, the amount of revenue can be reliably estimated and
it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur. This may
include income undertaking maintenance work on other operators’ vehicles and selling fuel to other transport operators.

23 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

.1 Accounting policies (continued)

g) Revenue (continued)

Contract liabilities

A contract liability is the obligation to provide services for a customer for which the Company has received consideration
(or an amount of consideration is due) from the customer. If a customer pays consideration before the Company
provides the services, a contract liability is recognised when the payment is made or the payment is due (whichever is
earlier). Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when the Company performs under the contract. Customers
include individuals, corporations and public bodies who pay the Company for transport services. Contract liabilities
include amounts in respect of unexpired season tickets and other tickets giving the holder a right to travel on the
Company's services after the balance sheet date.

h) Other operating income

Revenues incidental to the Company's principal activity are reported as other operating income, and are recognised in
the income statement in the period in which they are earned. Income from other sources is reported as other operating
income. These other sources include COVID-related grant income, selling advertising space on vehicles and premises
that the Company operates and property rental.

i) Lease obligations

Assets acquired under leases are recorded in the balance sheet as an asset (at the equivalent of the purchase price)
and as an obligation to pay future lease rentals. Obligations from leases within creditors represent the total of the capital
payments outstanding at the balance sheet date. Future finance charges are not included.

The interest element of lease obligations are charged to the income statement over the period of the lease.

i) Pension costs and other post retirement benefits
The company participates in both a defined benefit and a defined contribution scheme. The Stagecoach Group Pension
Scheme and Tyne & Wear Local Government Pension Scheme are defined benefit schemes.

In respect of the Stagecoach Group defined benefit scheme, obligations are measured at discounted present value
whilst scheme assets are recorded at market value. The recognised net asset is limited to the present value of economic
benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the scheme. An
economic benefit is available to the Company if it is realisable during the life of the scheme or on settlement of the
scheme liabilities.

The operating and financing costs of the defined benefit plan is included within operating profit and is disclosed
separately in the notes to the financial statements; service costs are spread systematically over the working lives of
employees and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise. Actuarial gains and losses are
recognised immediately in the statement of other comprehensive income. Mortality rates are considered when
retirement benefit obligations are calculated.

Past service costs and adjustments are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are

conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period (the vesting period), in which case the past
service costs are amortised using a straight-line method over the vesting period.

24 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

jf) Pension costs and other post retirement benefits (continued)

A full actuarial valuation is undertaken triennially for the scheme and updated annually using independent actuaries
following the projected unit credit method. The present value of the scheme obligations is determined by discounting
the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity
equivalent to the terms of the related obligations. Experience adjustments and changes in assumptions which affect
actuarial gains and losses are reflected in the actuarial gain or loss for the period.

For defined contributions schemes, the Company pays contributions to a separately administered pension scheme.
Once the contributions have been paid the Company has no further obligations. The Company’s contributions to defined
contribution schemes are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.

k) Grants

Grants from government are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received, and the
Company will comply with all attached conditions. Government grants relating to costs (or net losses) are deferred and
recognised in the income statement over the period necessary to match them with the costs (or net losses) they are
intended to compensate. Government grants relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are recorded
as liabilities and are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected lives of the related
assets. Government grants received in excess of the amounts recognised in the income statement are held as deferred
grant income within trade and other payables.

Bus Service Operators Grant ("BSOG") and Bus Service Operators Grant Plus ("BSOG+’) are recognised as other
operating income. Other grants are credited to the profit and loss account as the expenditure is expensed.

COVID-19 related grants are government grants receivable in light of the ongoing COVID-19 situation. The amounts
principally reflect grants receivable under the COVID-19 Bus Services Support Grant ("CBSSG’) scheme and the Bus
Recovery Grant (“BRG’).

Under the CBSSG scheme, grant income may be claimed by operators of local bus services to close the shortfall of
revenue earned by them during the period affected by COVID-19 and the costs incurred by them in that period. The
estimation of the grant income involves significant uncertainty).

Under Bus Recovery Grant (“BRG") support, funding was allocated to operators with reference to revenue and mileage
operated. Income is recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the related shortfall of revenue
over costs is incurred to the extent there is reasonable certainty that: (a) the Company will comply with the conditions
attaching to the grant and (b) the grant will be received and retained by the Company, taking account of the potential
adjustments to grant payments as a result of any reconciliation process.

!) Dividends

Dividends on ordinary shares are recorded in the financial statements in the period in which they are approved by the
shareholders, or in the case of interim dividends, on the period in which they are paid.

25 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

m) Share based payments

The Group previously issued equity-settled and cash-settled share based payments to certain employees. All of the
Group's equity-settled and cash-settled share based payments were wound up on 20 May 2022, following the change
of control of the Company, with the final accounting for the payments included in financial statements for the period
ended 29 April 2023.

n) Cash flow statement

Busways Travel Services Limited is not required to prepare a cash flow statement under IAS 7, as it is a wholly owned
subsidiary undertaking of Stagecoach Group Limited whose consolidated financial statements, which are publicly
available, include a consolidated cash flow statement in which the cash flows of the company are included.

0) Financial instruments
The disclosure of the accounting policy that follows for financial instruments are those that apply under [AS 39 ‘Financial
Instruments: Recognition and measurement’ for.

Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Company’s balance sheet when the Company becomes
a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at fair
value through profit or loss, loans and borrowings, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an effective
hedge, as appropriate. The Company determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition. All
financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and in the case of loans and borrowings, plus directly attributable
transaction costs.

The Company has only entered into basic financial instrument transactions that result in the recognition of financial
assets and liabilities such as trade and other receivables and payables, financing arrangements with banks and other
third parties and balances due from and to related parties.

Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balance sheet if, and only if, there
is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis,
or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.

Full details of the financial instruments policy of Stagecoach Group Limited are discussed in note 1 of the Group's 2024
Annual Report.

Pp) Trade and other payables

Trade and other payables are generally not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost which approximates to
nominal value due to creditors days being relatively low.

26 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED “Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

q) Trade receivables

Trade receivables are recorded at their original amount less provision for expected credit losses. The Company has
elected to apply the simplified version of the expected credit loss model permitted by IFRS 9 in respect of trade
receivables. The lifetime expected credit losses are assessed for all balances. The Company has established a
provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience and is adjusted for specific forward-looking factors.
The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through the use of a provision account and movements in the provision
are recognised in the income statement within operating costs and other income. When a previously provided trade
receivable is uncollectable, it is written off against the provision.

Adjustments to this policy may be made in specific circumstances. At each reporting date, the Company assesses
whether trade receivables are credit-impaired. This includes a review of whether the customer is in significant financial
difficulty, the probability that the customer will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and any default or
delinquency in payments.

1) Cash and cash equivalents

For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held at call with
banks and other short-term highly liquid investments with maturities at the balance sheet date of twelve months or less
that are available for meeting short term cash commitments and subject to no significant penalty for early withdrawal.

s) Reserves
The Company has a number of reserve accounts.

Called up share capital represents the nominal value of the issued share capital of the Company.

Capital account represents capital contributions made prior to the Company adopting FRS 101.

Contribution reserve represents equity investments that have been made by the parent company.

The Profit and loss account is the cumulative retained loss of the Company.

t) Critical accounting policies and estimates

Preparation of the financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101, ‘Reduced Disclosure
Framework’ requires Directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual outcomes could differ from those estimated.

The Directors believe that the accounting policies and estimation techniques discussed below represent those that
require the greatest exercise of judgement. The Directors have used their best judgement in determining the estimates

and assumptions used in these areas buta different set of judgements could result in material changes to the Company’s
reported financial performance and/or financial position.

27 ~BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)
t) Critical accounting policies and estimates (continued)

The critical accounting policies summarised below cover the policies regarded by the Directors as critical to the
Company's reporting in general.

i) Pensions

The determination of the Company's pension benefit obligation and expense for defined benefit pension
schemes is dependent on the selection by the Directors of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating
such amounts. Those assumptions include the discount rate, the annual rate of increase in future salary levels
and mortality rates. The Directors’ assumptions are based on actual historical experience and external data.
While we believe that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant

changes in assumptions may materially affect the pension obligation and future expense.

ii) Taxation

The Company's tax charge is based on the pre-tax profit for the period and tax rates in force. Estimation of the
tax charge requires an assessment to be made of the potential tax consequences of certain items that will only
be resolved when agreed by the relevant tax authorities. Assessment of the likely outcome is based on historical
experience, professional advice from external advisors, and the current status of any judgemental issues.

However, the final tax cost to the company may differ from the estimates.

iii) Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment, other than land, are depreciated on a straight-line basis to write off the cost or
valuation less estimated residual value of each asset over the shorter of their estimated useful lives. Useful
.lives are estimated based on a number of factors, including the expected usage of the asset, expected
deterioration and technological obsolescence. If another depreciation method (for example, reducing balance)
was used or different useful lives or residual values were applied, this could have a material effect on the

Company's depreciation charge and net profit.

iv) COVID-19 support schemes

Under CBSSG and BRG, grant income may be claimed by operators of local bus services in England to close
the shortfall of revenue earned by them during the period affected by COVID-19 and the costs incurred by them
in that period. Estimating the amount of CBSSG and BRG receivable for the period ended 27 April 2024 involves
significant estimation uncertainty. The extent to which certain costs are eligible for inclusion in claiming bus
support grant income and how certain costs should be determined for the purposes of the schemes remains
subject to reconciliation processes. That creates estimation uncertainty in determining the Group's bus support
grant income. In the period ended 27 Apri! 2024, the Company has recognised bus support scheme grant
income of £1.062m (2023: £3.939m), being the amount in respect of which the Company considers there to be
reasonable certainty that: (a) the Company will comply with the conditions attaching to the grant and (b) the
grant will be received and retained by the Company, taking account of the potential adjustments to grant

payments as a result of the schemes’ reconciliation processes.

Full details of CBSSG and BRG are discussed in note 1 of the Stagecoach Group 2024 Annual Report.

28 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

u) Dilapidations

A dilapidations provision is recognised when there is future obligation relating to the maintenance of leasehold assets.

Provisions for dilapidations are recognised on a lease by lease basis and are based on the Company's best estimate
of the future expected repair costs required to restore leased assets to the condition required at the end of their

respective lease terms.

2 Revenue

Due to the nature of the Company’s business, the origin and destination of revenue (the United Kingdom) is the same
in all cases. As the Company predominantly sells bus services to individuals, it has few customers that are individually
“major”. Its major customers are typically public bodies that subsidise or procure transport services - such customers

include local authorities and transport authorities.

2024 2023
£000 £000
Commercial passenger revenue 41,156 36,368
Concessionary revenue . 16,399 13,708
Tendered and schoo! revenue 3,580 2,922
Contract and other revenue 3,021 511
64,156 53,509

3. Other operating income
2024 2023
£000 £000
Advertising income 309 310
Printing income 202 203
Newspaper distribution income 77 83
Property rental income 80 100
Government grant income 5,950 6,951
Other miscellaneous revenue 50 95
6,668 7,742

Government support grants in the form of BSOG, BSOG+, CBSSG and BRG are reported as other operating income.

29 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

4 Finance income

2024 2023

Note £000 £000

Lease interest expense (35) (55)
Net finance income on pension obligations 16 754 125
Net finance income on intercompany loan 1,244 1,259

1,963 1,329

5 Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation

The profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before taxation for the period is stated after charging:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Depreciation and amounts written off tangible fixed assets:
- owned 215 223
- right of use assets 702 690
Operating lease rentals:
-PSV 3,276 6,174
Rentals payable on low-value and short-term leases 52 34

No auditor’s fees have been settled directly by the Company. Audit fees of £19,643 (2023: £19,643) were paid by a
fellow subsidiary undertaking on behalf of the Company in respect of audit work performed in the UK.

6 Dividends
2024 2023
£000 £000
Interim dividend paid to parent company: £1.67 per ordinary share
(2023: £1.50) 10,000 9,000

7 Staff costs
The average monthly number of persons employed by the Company (excluding executive directors) during the period
was:
2024 2023
Number Number
Operations 998 999
119 57

Administration and supervisory
1,117 1,056

30 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

7 Staff costs (continued)

2024 2023
Staff costs Note £000 £000
Wages and salaries 29,727 26,288
Social security costs . 2,752 2,569
Other pension costs . 16 2,819 2,726
35,298 31,583

8 Directors’ remuneration
2024 2023
£000 £000
Emoluments of directors 163 263

The above details of directors’ emoluments include an apportionment of the emoluments of J Summers, CL Stockton-
Jones, SD Greer and S Walker (2023: BM Dingwall, J Summers, CL Stockton-Jones and S Walker) which are paid by
fellow group undertaking, Stagecoach Services Limited with the exception of BM Dingwall which are paid by Stagecoach

Holdings Limited.

The highest paid director in the prior period received £357,000.

No part of the remuneration of BM Dingwall is directly attributable to the Company in the current period.

The number of directors who were members of pension schemes during the period was as follows:

2024 2023
Number Number
Defined contribution scheme 4 3

Contributions made to defined contribution schemes in respect of the highest paid director in the prior period was

£22,000.

31 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED : Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

9 Tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities

a) Tax recognised in the income statement

Note
Current tax:
UK corporation tax on profit/(loss) in the period
Amounts payable to fellow group undertaking in respect of losses
Adjustments in respect of prior years
Total current tax
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of timing differences
Adjustments in respect of prior years
Total deferred tax 13

Total tax reported in the income statement

b) Tax relating to items (credited)/charged outside of the income statement

Tax on net actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit Pension schemes

c) Factors affecting the tax charge/{credit) for the period

The tax assessed for the period is lower (2023: higher) than the standard rate of
corporation tax in the UK of 25.00% (2023: 19.49%). The differences are
explained below:

Profit/(loss) on ordinary activities before tax

Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the
UK of 25.00% (2023: 19.49%)

Effect of:

Non tax deductible expenditure and other permanent differences

Impact of excess pension contributions where pension in surplus

Treatment of inter-company transactions

Impact on current year movement (differential in rates 19.5% - CT to 25% - DT)
Adjustments in respect of prior years

Total tax charge for the period reported in the income statement

32  BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED

2024 2023
£000 £000
- 31
2,492 -
(13) 63
2,479 94
12 (30)
3 (15)
15 (45)
2,494 49
2024 2023
£000 £000
(3) 7
2024 2023
£000 £000
10,275 (528)
2,569 (103)
12 6
(155) (55)
78 160
- (7)
(10) 48
2,494 49

Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

9 Tax on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities (continu

d) Factors that may affect future tax charges

ed)

The deferred tax balances have been calculated with reference to the enacted UK corporation tax rate as at balance

sheet date of 27 April 2024 of 25%.

10 Non-current assets

a) Tangible assets

The movement in the period is summarised below:

Plant &

Owned Leasehold land equipment and
buildings and buildings furniture & fittings Total
£000 £000 £000 £000

Cost
Beginning of period 26 992 3,590 4,608
Additions : 98 - 157 255
Disposals - : (14) (14)
End of period 124 992 3,733 4,849
Accumulated depreciation
Beginning of period (1) (744) (3,295) (4,040)
Charge for period (3) (66) (146) (215)
Disposals - - 14 14
End of period (4) (810) (3,427) (4,241)
Net book value
29 April 2023 25 248 295 568
27 April 2024 120 182 306 608

There is no right of use assets included in above.

33. BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED

Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

10 Non-current assets (continued)

b) Right of use assets

The movement in the period is summarised below:
. Leasehold land &

buildings
£000
Cost
Beginning of period 4,101
Additions 31
End of period 4,132
Accumulated depreciation
Beginning of period (2,766)
Charge for period (702)
End of period (3,468)
Net book value
29 April 2023 1,335
664

27 April 2024

Cash outflows of £757,000 in relation to leases and related interest have taken place during the 52 week period to 27
April 2024 (52 week period to 29 April 2023: £757,000).

The income statement includes the following depreciation charges and other costs relating to leases:

Note 2024 2023
£000 £000

Depreciation
Land and buildings 10(b) 702 690
Total depreciation for right-of-use assets 702 690
Expense relating to short-term leases 3,321 6,196
Expense relating to low value assets 7 12
Lease costs included within operating profit 4,030 6,898
Interest expense included in finance costs 4 35 55

Lease costs included within profit before tax 4,065 6,953

34. BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

11 Stocks
2024 2023
£000 £000
Spares, consumables and fuel 531 443

In the opinion of the directors, the difference between the replacement cost of these stocks and their balance sheet
value is not material.

The cost of stock recognised as an expense and included in the operating costs during the period amounted to
£10,673,000 (2023: £9,860,000).

12 Trade and other receivables

2024 2023
Amounts falling due within one year: £000 £000
Trade debtors 216 194
Amounts owed by group undertakings 753 3,397
Intercompany loan receivable 32,255 © 31,010
Prepayments 184 170
Contract assets , 1,022 801
Government grant receivable 1,096 934

35,526 36,503
Amounts due from fellow group undertakings within one year accrue no interest and are repayable on demand.

Contract assets represents amounts that have been earned by the Company prior to the balance sheet date which
remain un-invoiced at the balance sheet date.

13 Deferred tax asset

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against
current tax liabilities and where the deferred taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The offset amounts are as follows:

Deferred tax assets:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Deferred tax asset . 122 134
Pension temporary differences . 69 69
Total deferred tax asset 191 203

35 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

13 Deferred tax asset (continued)

The movement in deferred tax during period was:

At start of period
(Charged)/credited to income statement
Credited/(charged) to equity

At end of period

Deferred tax included in the balance sheet comprises:

Accelerated capital allowances
Other temporary differences
Pension temporary differences

Net deferred tax asset

Note

9(a)
9(b)

2024 2023
£000 £000
203 165
(15) 45
3 (7)

191 203

2024 2023
£000 £000
50 66
72 67
69 70
191 203

The amount of deferred tax recognised in the income statement by type of temporary difference is as follows:

Accelerated capital allowances
Pension temporary differences
Other short term temporary differences

Deferred tax (charge)/credit

14 Trade and other payables

Amounts falling due within one year:
Lease liabilities

Amounts owed to group undertakings
Intercompany group relief payable
PAYE and NIC payable

Government grants receivable
Pension creditor

Other creditors

Accruals

Contract liabilities

36 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED

2024 2023
£000 £000
(17) 42
(3) (5)

5 8
(15) 45
2024 2023
£000 £000
909 1,057
1,704 2,124
2,492 -
629 763
36 371
216 288
- 13
2,270 2,395
1,080 480

9,336 7,491

Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

14 Trade and other payables (continued)

2024 2023
£000 £000

Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Lease liabilities 60 252
Government grants receivable 84 46
144 298

Amounts due to fellow group undertakings within one year accrue no interest and are repayable on demand. Amounts
due to fellow group undertakings within one year accrue no interest and are repayable on demand.

Contract liabilities represents amounts advanced by customers in respect of which the Company has not yet met the
performance obligations to allow the recognition of the balance as revenue. These mainly relate to the season tickets
held by passengers which cross over the year end date and concessionary payments received by the Company in
respect of services that had yet to be performed.

The contract liabilities as at 27 April 2024 are expected to be recognised as revenue in the year to 27 April 2024. The
contract liabilities at the previous balance sheet date were predominately recognised within revenue in the subsequent
year. :

Changes in the contract liabilities relating to customer contracts at each year-end principally reflect changes in the
volume of season tickets purchased in advance of the respective year-end dates.

15 Provisions for liabilities and charges

2024 2023
Note £000 £000
Current:
Litigations provision 15(b) : -
Non-current:
Dilapidations provision — leased properties 15(a) - -
Dilapidations provision — leased vehicles 15(c) 130 -
Total provisions 130 -

37. BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

15 Provisions for liabilities and charges (continued)

a) Dilapidations provision — leased properties

2024 2023
£000 £000
Provision at start of period - 13
Provision created during period - -
Provision utilised during period - (13)
Provision at end of period - -

The provision for dilapidations relates to the Company’s leased Denton House mast site in Newcastle was utilised in
full during the prior period.

b) Litigations provision

2024 * 2023

£000 £000

Provision at start of period - 10

; Provision utilised during period - (10)
Provision at end of period - -

The provision, in respect of the Company's employment tribunals was utilised in full during the prior period.

¢) Dilapidations provision — lease vehicles

2024 2023
Non-current: £000 £000
Provision at start of period - -
Provision created during period 130 -
Provision at end of period 130 :

The provision relates to the Company's leased vehicles for hand back condition on the tyres and vehicles and it is
expected to be utilised during the term of the lease.

16 Retirement benefit obligations

The Company participates in the Main Section of the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme ("SPS"), a defined benefit

occupational pension scheme.

In addition, the Company contributes to defined contribution schemes for certain employees. Contribution costs of
£2,672,000 (2023: £2,516,000) were recognised by the Company, and as at 27 April 2024 there was a creditor of
£216,000 (2023: £288,000) in relation to these contributions.

38 | BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

16 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

The Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme (“SPS”)

The Stagecoach Group Pension scheme is a defined benefit scheme. The Main Section of the scheme (in which the
Company participates) closed to future accrual in April 2017. However, in March 2021 a small number of former
members of the Tyne & Wear Local Government Pension Scheme ceased active participation in that scheme and
commenced accrual in the Main Section as a limited exception.

As the scheme is fully funded on a technical provisions basis, the Company, together with a number of other participating
companies within the Group headed by Stagecoach Group Limited, no longer makes contributions to the Scheme. The
Company accounts for its portion of the retirement benefit obligation, based on its historic share of contributions to the
scheme and the proportion of its members.

In the consolidated financial statements of Stagecoach Group Limited, the scheme as a whole is accounted for as a
defined benefit scheme. The consolidated financial statements of Stagecoach Group Limited provide further details of
the scheme.

A full actuarial valuation of the scheme is normally carried out every three years. With the agreement of the employer,
the Trustees conducted an out-of-cycle valuation as at 31 October 2022 to recognise and align the new investment and
funding strategies. This valuation was completed on 31 May 2023. No additional or deficit recovery contributions were
required.

The management and reporting of the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme is undertaken at Group level. A sensitivity
analysis of significant actuarial assumptions is included within note 23 of the Group's 2024 Annual Report, which does
not form part of this report.

Unfunded scheme
The Company also has unfunded legacy commitments for a number of former employees.

39 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

16 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

The amounts recognised in the balance sheet were determined as follows:

As at 27 April 2024 SPS Unfunded Total
£000 £000 £000
Equities 1,433 - 1,433
Private Equity 712 - 712
Bonds 61,158 - 61,158
Cash 1,310 - 1,310
Property 4,714 - 4,714
Fair value of plan assets 69,327 - 69,327
Present value of obligations (56,886) (277) (57,163)
Surplus/(deficit) before tax 12,441 (277) 12,164
Withholding tax provision on recoverable (3,110) - (3,110)
Retirement benefit surplus/(deficit) net of
withholding tax 9,331 (277) 9,054
As at 29 April 2023 , . SPS Unfunded Total
£000 £000 £000
Equities 2,077 - 2,077
Private Equity 908 - 908
Bonds 64,831 - 64,831
Cash 489 - 489
Property 5,913 - 5,913
Fair value of plan assets 74,218 - 74,218
Present value of obligations (58,533) (279) (58,812)
Surplus/(deficit) before tax 15,685 (279) 15,406
Withholding tax provision on recoverable (5,490) - (5,490)

Retirement benefit surplus/(deficit) net of
withholding tax 10,195 (279) 9,916

At 27 April 2024, 90.8% (2023: 89%) of SPS scheme assets were quoted on a recognised stock exchange or held in
cash or asset readily convertible to cash and therefore considered to be liquid.

40 “BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED : Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

16 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows:

Period ended 27 April 2024

Current service cost
Administration cost
Interest (income)/expense

Total defined benefit cost
Defined contribution cost

Total income statement (credit)/charge

Period ended 29 April 2023

Current service cost
Administration cost
Interest (income)/expense

Total defined benefit cost
Defined contribution cost

Total income statement charge

The impact of the income statement charge can be analysed as follows:

Total included in staff costs
Total included in finance charges

41 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED

SPS
£000

106
41

(767)

(620)

(620)

SPS
£000

169
41

(135)

75

75

Unfunded DC Total
£000 £000 £000
. - 106
- - 41
13 - (754)
13 - (607)
- 2,672 2,672
13 2,672 2,065
Unfunded DC Total
“£000 £000 £000
- - 169
- - “41
10 - (125)
10 - 85
- 2,516 2,516
10 2,516 2,601
2024 2023
Note £000 £000
7 2,819 2,726
4 (754) (125)
2,065 2,601

Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

16 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

The amounts recognised within the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income were as follows:

Period ended 27 April 2024

Actual return on assets lower than discount rate
Experience loss arising on benefit obligations

Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of
the scheme liabilities

Charged to other comprehensive income
Withholding tax credit on distribution of recoverable

Total (charged)/credited to other comprehensive income

Period ended 29 April 2023

Actual return on assets lower than discount rate
Experience loss arising on benefit obligations

Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of
the scheme liabilities

Credited to other comprehensive income
Withholding tax charge on distribution of recoverable

Total credited to other comprehensive income

SPS Unfunded Total
£000 £000 £000
(4,578) - (4,578)
(1,535) (16) (1,551)
2,249 4 2,253
(3,864) (12) (3,876)
2,380 - 2,380
(1,484) (12) (1,496)
SPS Unfunded Total
£000 £000 £000
(4,843) - (4,843)
(4,362) (29) (4,391)
20,309 56 20,365
11,104 27 11,134
(3,986) - (3,986)
7,118 27 7,145

The movement in the liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit plan during the period

under IAS 19 was:

As at 27 April 2024

Surplus/(liability) at the beginning of the period
Charged to income statement

Recognised in statement of comprehensive income
Employer's contributions

Surplus/(liability) at end of period
Withholding tax provision on recoverable surplus

Surplus/(liability) net of withholding tax at end of the period

42 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED

SPS
£000
10,195
620
(3,864)

6,951
2,380

9,331

Unfunded
£000
(279)
(13)

(12)

27

(277)

(277)

Total
£000

9,916
607
(3,876)
27

6,674

2,380

9,054

Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

16 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

The movement in the liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit plan during the period
under IAS 19 was: (continued)

As at 29 April 2023 SPS Unfunded Total

£000 £000 £000
Surplus/(liability) at the beginning of the period 2,793 (324) 2,469
Charged to income statement (75) (10) (85)
Recognised in statement of comprehensive income 11,104 27 11,131
Employer's contributions 359 28 387
Surplus/(liability) at end of period 14,181 (279) 13,902
Withholding tax provision on recoverable surplus (3,986) - {3,986)
Surplus/(liability) net of withholding tax at end of the period 10,195 (279) 9,916

The movement in fair value of the plan assets during the period under IAS 19 is as follows:

As at 27 April 2024 SPS Unfunded Total
£000 £000 £000
At beginning of period 74,218 - 74,218
Remeasurement - return on plan assets (4,578) - (4,578)
Interest income 3,516 - 3,516
Administration costs (41) - (41)
Employer's contributions - 27 27
Benefits paid (3,788) (27) (3,815)
At end of period 69,327 - 69,327
As at 29 April 2023 SPS Unfunded Total
£000 £000 £000
At beginning of period ' 79,954 - 79,954
Remeasurement - return on plan assets (4,843) - (4,843)
Interest income . 2,449 - 2,449
Administration costs (41) - (41)
Employer's contributions 359 - 359
Benefits paid (3,660) - (3,660)
At end of period 74,218 - 74,218

43. BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

16 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

The movement in the present value of obligations recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit

plan during the period under IAS 19 is as follows:
As at 27 April 2024 ‘

At beginning of period

Current service costs

Interest cost

Actuarial gain — experience on benefit obligations
Actuarial gain — changes in assumptions

Benefits paid

At end of period

As at 29 April 2023

At beginning of period

Current service costs

Interest cost

Actuarial gain — experience on benefit obligations
Actuarial gain — changes in assumptions

Benefits paid

At end of period

(3,660)

The principal actuarial assumptions used for both schemes were as follow:

Rate of increase in pensionable salaries
Rate of increase of pension payment
Discount rate

Rate of inflation (RPI)

Consumer prices inflation assumption

44 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED

SPS Unfunded Total
£000 £000 £000
58,533 279 58,812
106 - 106
2,749 13 2,762
1,535 16 1,551
(2,249) (4) (2,253)
(3,788) (27) (3,815)
56,886 277 57,163
SPS Unfunded Total
£000 £000 £000
75,657 324 75,981
169 - 169
2,314 10 2,324
4,362 29 4,391
(20,309) (56) (20,365)
(28) (3,688)
58,533 279 58,812
27 April 2024 29 April 2023
% %
Nia Nia
2.5 2.5
5.3 49
3.1 3.0
2.6 2.5

Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

16 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

The life expectancy assumptions used for each scheme are periodically reviewed. The weighted average life
expectancies announced at period end were:

27 April 2024 29 April 2023
Years , Years
Current pensioner aged 65 - male 19.7 19.6
Current pensioner aged 65 - female 21.9 21.9
Future pensioner at 65 (aged 45 now) - male 20.5 20.4
Future pensioner at 65 (aged 45 now) - female 23.2 23.1
17 Called up share capital
2024 2023
Authorised £000 £000
6,000,000 (2023: 6,000,000) Ordinary shares of £0.05p each 300 300
1 (2023: 1) ‘A’ share of £1 - -
Allotted, called up and fully paid
6,000,000 (2023: 6,000,000) Ordinary shares of £0.05p each 300 300
4 (2023: 1) ‘A’ share of £1 - : -

Ordinary shares have the following rights, preferences and restrictions:
The ordinary shares carry a right to vote all general meetings of the Company, a right to share in any dividend issued,
and a right-to share in a distribution of capital of the Company. ,

18 Guarantees and other financial commitments

a) Lease commitments
The Company has commitments of £Nil (2023: ENil) for short-term leases and £6,000 (2023: £5,000) of low-value assets
as at 27 April 2024.

b) Contingent liabilities
The Company, together with certain other group undertakings, is a member of a group for VAT purposes, and technically
stands liable in the event of default by any other group undertaking.

c) Cross guarantees :

. The Company is subject to a cross corporate guarantee in relation to the Stagecoach Group Limited banking
arrangements with the Bank of Scotland. There have been no instances where this guarantee has been called upon
during the period and none are expected in the future.

45 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

19 Related party transactions

The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions granted under IAS 24 by not disclosing details of sales and
purchases with other members of the group headed by Stagecoach Group Limited. Details of amounts owed to and
from group undertakings are disclosed in aggregate in notes 12 and 14.

The fellow group undertaking Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited is a 37.5% owned joint venture of Stagecoach Group
Limited. Since 16 October 2023, for the period ended 27 April 2024, Busways Travel Services Limited included revenue
relating to operating contracts on behalf of Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited to a value of £2.647m and costs
relating to operating contracts on behalf of Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited of £2.692m.

As at 27 April 2024, the Company has a receivable of £Nil and a payable of £327,000 with Scottish Citylink Coaches
Limited. This balance is due to be settled within one year and do not accrue interest as they represent trading balances
due to be settled between the Company and Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited.

20 Ultimate parent company

The Company's immediate holding Company is Stagecoach Bus Holdings Limited, registered in Scotland (registered
number SC176671). Its ultimate holding company is Pan-European Infrastructure III, SCSp ("PEIF Ill’), an infrastructure
fund managed and advised by DWS Infrastructure. PEIF Ill is not under the control of any single party or, parties acting
in concert.

The parent undertaking of the smallest group of which the company is a member, and for which consolidated financial
statements are expected to be prepared, is Stagecoach Group Limited, a company registered in Scotland with registered
number SC100764 and registered address at 10 Dunkeld Road, Perth, Perthshire, United Kingdom, PH1 5TW.

The parent undertaking of the largest group of which the company is a member, and for which consolidated financial
statements are expected to be prepared, is Inframobility UK Topco Limited, a company registered in England with
registered number 13919225 and registered address at One Stockport Exchange, 20 Railway Road, Stockport, United
Kingdom, SK1 3SW.

46 BUSWAYS TRAVEL SERVICES LIMITED Registered number: 02295227

