Company no: 04793659
Charity no: 1098136

Canterbury
Christ Church
University

Annual Report and Consolidated Financial
| Statements

For the year ended 31 July 2024

*ADH5Z481*

A0Q 03/12/2024 #287
COMPANIES HOUSE

TUESDAY

CONTENTS

Directors and Advisers

Vice Chancellor's Introduction
The Strategic Report

Public Benefit Statement

Statement of Primary Responsibilities of the University’s
Governing Body

Statement of Corporate Governance

Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking

Statement of Internal Control

Independent Auditor's Report to the Governing Body
Statement of Principal Accounting Policies

Consolidated and University Statement of Comprehensive
Income and Expenditure for the year ended 31st July 2024

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Reserves for year
ended 31st July 2024

Consolidated and University Statement of Financial Position
as at 31st July 2024

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the year ended 31st
July 2024 ;

Notes to the Financial Statements

Page

21

24

28
32
34
36
41

48

49

50

51

52

DIRECTORS AND ADVISERS

Directors in place for the year to 31 July 2024 and up to the date of signing the

financial statements:

Ms N Ahmed

Ms S Appleby

Ms J Armitt (Pro-Chancellor)

Revd Dr J Arnold (from 1 August 2024)
Mr S Carey (resigned 31 July 2024)
Professor A G Dewhurst

Dr A Eyden

Dr K Fox (resigned 31 July 2024)

Right Revd R Hudson-Wilkin

Mrs P Jones

Miss A Lundy (resigned 9 February 2024)
Lady A Newey

Dr R Rogers (from 1 August 2024)

Mr C Stevens

Revd R Stevenson

Mr J Stockwell

Mr A Ghega (Student Union President appointed = Professor R Thirunamachandran (Vice-

27 September 2024)
Ms J Harding
Mr R Higgins

Clerk to the Governing Body and
University Solicitor
Ms A Sear

Independent Auditor
Forvis Mazars
Statutory Auditor

6 Sutton Plaza,
Sutton Court Road,
Sutton,

Surrey SM1 4FS

Registered office — Parent and
Subsidiary

Canterbury Christ Church University
C/O Governance and Legal Services
Dept.

Anselm

North Holmes Road

Canterbury

Kent

CT1 1QU

Registered company number
04793659 registered in England and
Wales

Registered charity number
1098136

Chancellor and Principal)
Professor J Wood

Internal Auditor
KPMG LLP

415 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London

E14 5GL

Principal Bankers
Lloyds Bank PLC
2 City Place
Beehive Ring Road
Gatwick

West Sussex

RH6 OPA

National Westminster Bank PLC
9th Floor

250 Bishopsgate

London

EC2M 4AA

VICE CHANCELLOR’S INTRODUCTION

| am pleased to introduce the financial statements for Canterbury Christ Church University for the
academic year 2023/2024. These statements include the statutory reports that set out the financial
performance of the University. They also provide an opportunity for us to reflect on the achievements
and challenges over the same period.

The external context for higher education remains challenging. Despite this, the University remains
committed to the ambitions set out in Vision 2030. As can be seen from these Financial Statements,
we are in a relatively strong financial position. The careful stewardship of the budget has enabled us
to deliver an operating surplus of £3.6m.

Our focus remains on our core objectives of education and the student experience, and research and
enterprise. There have been many successes in these areas. We now have over 37,000 students
across three different campuses and studying with key collaborative partners in the UK and overseas.
Diversifying our offer to students from across the globe has continued to be a key success and
supported our financial sustainability.

We have broadened our course offering and we continue to meet the emerging needs of the region,
supplying the workforce with a talented pipeline of graduates in health, education, arts and humanities,
social sciences and law, as well as newer areas such as engineering, medicine and digital arts. The
employability record of our students places us as 13th in the country amongst larger universities.

We have also increased opportunities to widen participation and much needed diverse representation
across a range of careers. We are proud to support our most vulnerable students, including those with
care experience as we focus on making higher education more accessible.

The student voice is central to the continuous improvement of the student experience. In the 2024
National Student Survey (NSS) the University improved across all seven question themes for our
directly taught courses. Our overall positivity score of 80.1% has improved by 2.3% when compared to
the prior year. This is a reflection of the work of colleagues who have a continued commitment to
supporting students and delivering an excellent experience at our University. This is underpinned by
our Silver rating in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF).

To support the Students’ Union in their ambition to be in the heart of university life, we were pleased to
provide premises at the North Holmes Road campus for a new Students’ Union hub. The hub is a new
centre that allows the union to connect with more students and host a range of activities, with dedicated
space for students to study, socialise and relax. Following a student vote, the new space has been
named the Mary Seacole building, honouring the remarkable British-Jamaican nurse who made a huge
impact during the Crimean War, and whose legacy of outstanding achievement and public service aligns
perfectly with our values and mission.

We continue to build on the strong performance in the 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF).
Working with business, the public and third sectors is an important part of our Research and Enterprise
Strategy. In the most recent Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF 4) the University was ranked within
the top 20% of UK universities for 2 areas — research partnerships and community engagement- as well
in the top 40% of UK universities in three other areas.

One of the key themes at the heart of our strategic framework, Vision 2030 is the implementation of
‘Shaping Sustainable Futures’. | was extremely proud to see our University being ranked as a ‘Gold
Tier’ university in the annual UK study of the sector's sustainability credentials. We were also ranked in
the top third of UK universities in the People and Planet league table.

VICE CHANCELLOR’S INTRODUCTION (CONTINUED)

In presenting the financial results for the 2023/24 year, | would like to thank al! members of the
Canterbury Christ Church community including our staff, students, governors, alumni, partners and
stakeholders for their continued support and engagement.

Ta. T/

Professor R Thirunamachandran

Vice-Chancellor and Principal

THE STRATEGIC REPORT
Directors' Report

The disclosure requirements for the Directors' report can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 5
to 19 and form part of this report by cross reference. | present this report on behalf of all named directors
(see page 2) in order to meet the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Scope of Financial Statements

The Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024 have been prepared to comply with the
Statement of Recommended Practice (SORP) Accounting for Further and Higher Education and
applicable accounting standards in the UK and in line with regulatory advice in the form of the Accounts
Direction from the Office for Students (OfS 2019.41). The University is based in the UK and operates
as both a company registered in England and Wales and a registered charity.

Subsidiary Company

The University holds an investment in a subsidiary company, Medco (CCCU) Limited. This is a company
registered in England and Wales which operates under a franchise arrangement with Warwick
University Enterprises Limited. The subsidiary company is in a VAT group with the parent company.
The subsidiary company's results have been consolidated with the parent company in these financial
statements. The Directors’ report and the Strategic report refers to the University as a company and
registered charity, and where applicable applies to the subsidiary company. The reports do not include
partner institutions, as these are separate reporting entities.

Activities and Objectives

The principal activities and objectives of Canterbury Christ Church University are concerned with the
provision of higher education teaching, research and knowledge exchange. To support these
objectives, the University undertakes other activities, including the provision of accommodation,
catering and conference services.

Mission

The University’s mission is to pursue excellence in education and research; inspired by our Church of
England foundation, we are passionate about transforming individuals, creating knowledge and
enriching communities to build sustainable futures.

Vision 2030

Our new Vision has been developed with people at its heart and will drive and shape our University
over the next seven years. In consultation with staff, students and key stakeholders throughout the year,
we have set out our mission, values and aims to help guide us towards a more innovative and
sustainable future.Our values are to be sustainable and ethical, to be innovative and courageous, to be
compassionate and inclusive and to be collaborative and creative. The strategic framework has four
clear strategic aims:

e student learning, life and futures;

e research, enterprise and innovation;
« people, culture and community; and,
« impact.

All aims are underpinned by our commitment to sustainable futures and the cross-cutting themes are:

Sustainability
Compassion
Wellbeing
Partnerships
Inclusivity
Global

THE STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
Financial Strategy

During the 2023/24 year, the University's financial strategy was based on seven key principles, in line
with the Vision 2030 strategic objectives:

* There is a symbiotic relationship between the organisational strategy and the budget. The
creation of the budget will help to deliver this strategy.

Ensuring financial sustainability in the short, medium and long term.

Investing strategically in the future areas of growth and potential growth.

Ensuring sustainability of areas which are strategically important.

Working together to manage and grow the University budget as a whole, through the actions
of individual and collective budget managers.

Ensuring transparency in budget setting and reporting.

* Delivering efficiency, effectiveness and value for money across all areas.

The objectives of the financial strategy are:

1. To maintain a diverse and financially sustainable academic provision for directly delivered
programmes.

2. To support the development of financially sustainable partnerships for the delivery of
University accredited programmes within England.

3. To support the growth and expansion of financially sustainable Trans National Education
(TNE).

4. To enable growth and diversification in other income activities.

5. To make financial provision as required for the support of staff and students.

Key Performance Indicators

The University seeks to maintain its long-term financial sustainability and overall financial strength by
not breaching the following criteria:

. A surplus calculated through EBITDA as a % of income of at least 5% in any one year.

. A ratio of staff costs to total income of less than 60% (after discounting income received
for activity which is 100% delivered through partners).

. Minimum year end cash holdings do not fall below an equivalent of 60 cash days and

maintenance of working capital throughout the year at a level in excess of £10m, in line
with the Treasury Policy updated in 2024 and approved by the Finance and Resources
Committee.

In determining the specific Key Performance Indicators for the University the requirement to meet bank
covenants has been embedded in the measures.

Summary Results for the Year

The consolidated results for the University for the year ended 31 July 2024 are summarised, as
follows:

2024 2023
£000 £'000
Income 319,115 263,808
Expenditure 311,870 260,420
Surplus before Profit/(Loss) on disposal of assets and 7,245 3,388

impairment


THE STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)

The particular areas to highlight from the consolidated financial results are:

+ Anincrease in total income of 21% from £263.808m to £319.115m.
+ Anincrease in expenditure of 20% to £311.870m.

- Acredit for the year of (£2.195m) for notional interest and staff service costs within the Local

Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) (2023 a debit charge of £3.928m).

* Capital additions of £7.226m (2023: £8.328m).

* AnLGPS pensions surplus that is not recognised as an asset by the University of £35.238m
(2023: a surplus of £30.118m) leading to movement on the SOC! of £2.195m for the year.

The University returned a reported surplus of £7.245m, representing 2.27% of total income. This is

compared to the surplus or deficit reported in previous years, as follows:

Surplus/(deficit) after depreciation
and before tax £'m

The operating performance includes adjustments required by FRS 102 of which the most significant is

the non-cash adjustments for future potential pensions’ costs.

The table below summarises the adjustments to reconcile the operating surplus to an adjusted surplus
which provides an indicator of year on year performance which is not affected by any fluctuations in non

cash pension charges.

Consolidated results

2024

£000
Operating surplus reported per Financial Statements for the 7,245
year excluding (profit)/loss on sale of fixed assets
USS pension provision movement (1,318)
LGPS and USS pension interest charges, net (1,677)
LGPS charges in excess of employer contribution (489)
Adjusted surplus 3,761

2023
£000
3,388

(133)
156

3,817

7,228

The adjusted surplus of £3.761m represents 1.18% of total income.

THE STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)

Pension Reserve

The University contributes to the Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) on behalf of all eligible
staff who have elected to join the scheme. This pension fund is a defined benefit scheme and as its
assets and liabilities can be separately identified by the scheme’s actuary, these are reported within the
financial statements.

An actuarial gain on the LGPS pensions scheme of £2.195m is reported in the Statement of
Comprehensive Income. The scheme generated a surplus of funds of £35.238m for the year, as asset
values exceeded liabilities. The surplus was not reported in the Balance Sheet (Statement of Financial
Performance) as the asset ceiling was applied and the surplus is not recognised as an asset of the
University.

In prior years the pension reserve presented a deficit, which as a liability was shown separately in the
Balance Sheet (Statement of Financial Position). This reflected the level at which the scheme assets
failed to cover the present value of liabilities as determined by the actuaries.

Student Numbers

The University reported 38,000 students registered in the annual return, an increase when compared
to the prior year (2023: 27,000).

These numbers include students studying for Canterbury Christ Church University awarded degrees at
our partner institutions. The University works with a number of significant partners in the UK and
overseas to deliver collaborative provision in addition to offering undergraduate and post graduate
courses at the campus sites of Canterbury, Medway and Tunbridge Wells to home students and
international students either studying in the UK or in their home country.

Capital Projects

The University has a range of strategies which underpin the delivery of the Strategic Plan, Vision 2030.
The strategies specify an investment plan for the necessary developments in buildings, technology and
other capital schemes. The investment plan is set in the context of the strategic plan to enhance
significantly and improve the quality of facilities for the University's students as well as supporting new
technologies, enabling further growth and expansion of the institution's provision of education.

In 2023/2024 the University invested a total of £7.226m in capital assets, part funded from capital grants
of £0.355m. Of the total expenditure on capital projects a total of £3.251m was invested in software and
systems developments. This included further enhancement to the student records database which went
live for the registering of students for the 2022/2023 academic year and the continued development of
the Curriculum Management Tool. A further £1.643m was invested in IT equipment and infrastructure
and £0.450m in classroom facilities and equipment to enhance the student experience. The balance of
£1.879m was used to make improvements to the estate and to invest in plant and machinery to service
the buildings.

The University continues to benefit from the investment in carbon saving measures as supported by the
funding received in prior years in the form of interest free loans from SALIX Finance and from capital
grant funding received from the Office for Students (OfS).

THE STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)

Annual Capital Investment

Payment of Creditors

The payment policy of the University is that payments are made in accordance with those terms and
conditions agreed between the institution and its suppliers. Where no specific conditions exist, suppliers
are paid within 30 days of the receipt of invoice. The payment performance of the University is available
to the public at:

https://www.gov.uk/check-when-businesses-pay-invoices

In the year 2023/2024 the University met the target to pay valid and undisputed invoices within 30 days
for 89% of all invoices received (2022: 79%).

Cash Flow

Canterbury Christ Church University has continued to maintain appropriate cash balances generated
through operations to support revenue payment commitments and capital investment in facilities and
equipment for students. The cash position increased by £2m at the end of the year (2023: £21m
increase).

Cash Balance


THE STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
Long Term Loans as a Percentage of Income

The University anticipates the need to manage its loan financing arrangements in a careful and
measured manner, recognising that conditions can change substantially over the period of a long-term
loan. The Governing Body requires that interest rate exposure is managed by means of a combination
of variable and fixed rate borrowing. The % balance of fixed to variable interest rate loan finance
reported on the balance sheet at the 31 July 2024 was 18%.

Tota! income for the year increased by 21%, in part as a result of the growth in tuition fee from
partnership activity and an increase in interest earned on short term deposit balances. The impact of
growth in total income is a decrease in the rate of long-term loan finance held as a percentage of income
from 22% to 17%.

Long term loans as a percentage of

Net debt represents the total outstanding debt as at the year end, minus cash held at the bank. The
decrease in net debt in 2024 reflects the increase in cash held at the year end.

Net Debt in £'m

10

THE STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)

Equity and Inclusion, including Disabled Employees

The University recognises that building a diverse workforce is fundamental to achieving a truly inclusive
work and learning environment and welcomes applications from all sections of the community.

Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the
abilities of the applicant concerned. in the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is
made to ensure that their employment with the University continues, and that appropriate training is
arranged. It is the policy of the institution that the training, career development and promotion of
disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.

The University is a Stonewall Diversity Champion, Disability Confident Employer, Athena SWAN award
holder and a signatory for the Armed Forces Covenant.

Events after the reporting period
There are no events to be reported after the reporting period.
Section 172 Statement

The Governing Body welcomes the reporting requirement as an opportunity to explain how stakeholder
participation and feedback has informed and shaped decisions and how the University has reacted to
feedback in the strategy and plans it has developed. The Governing Body sees the main key
stakeholders as being our students, our employees, our partners and suppliers who work with us to
deliver the aims of the University and the wider society, community and environment that support our
sustainability. The Governing Body has set out in the Statement of Corporate Governance the structure
of committees that aid decision making and how the governors work to achieve their responsibilities.
This includes the maintenance of a reputation for high standards of business conduct with suppliers,
partners and with students.

Employee Engagement

The Governors and Management place considerable value on the involvement of its employees in
decision making as the University considers the employees’ interests as key to the success of the
organisation. Therefore, the Articles of the University require the Governing Body includes three elected
staff governors. The University also recognises three trades unions — Universities and Colleges Union
(UCU), UNITE and UNISON - who represent employees. The University undertakes to keep the staff
informed on all matters affecting them, and the various factors affecting the performance of the
institution and its subsidiary company. This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, the
sharing of the staff newsletter, the ‘In Touch’ magazine and by publishing the annual financial
statements on the University's website. Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide
range of matters affecting their current and future interests.

As part of the University’s commitment to engaging with staff there have been two pulse surveys
undertaken each year since 2022. The most recent pulse survey completed in May 2024. The results
from the survey informed the launch of the Continuous Improvement Programme. This included the
development of skills of staff in the University in creating a Continuous Improvement Community of
Practice. It was these practitioners who delivered improvement projects to address issues identified
with processes and working practices.

Feedback from the staff surveys also led to an external benchmarking exercise of workload tariffs and
updates to the Academic Workload Framework. Further to the implementation of the revised guidance
there were refinements made to the Workload Allocation Management System to support the use of the
system in 2024/2025.

11

THE STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)

Business Relationships - Partners and Suppliers

The University recognises the strategic importance of working with suppliers, many of whom are local
businesses, to provide a range of services and goods to support the delivery of high-class education.
To support this business relationship, the University engages with suppliers to consider improvements
to the contracting, ordering, goods receipting and payment processes. During 2023/2024 a number of
significant supplier contracts have been awarded and renewed through open and negotiated tender
procedures. To streamline the process both for the University and the supplier, the use of established
procurement frameworks is adopted where possible.

The development and maintenance of strategic collaborative partnerships continues to be a focus for
the University. During the year the University continued to work with the Global Banking School, the
London Schoo! of Commerce, the Elizabeth School of London, UK Management College and the
Stratford College London to provide business-focused courses in regions across the nation. This helps
to collaboratively increase access to Higher Education across the UK, as well as delivering more
opportunities through education to transform lives. These partnerships have significantly strengthened
the University's portfolio, offering programmes in the areas of Management of Business, Tourism,
Marketing, Accounting and Financial Management, with multiple intakes throughout 2023/2024 and the
introduction of a new course in June 2024, the Certificate in Higher Education in Business studies.

Society and Community

Engaging with our community of students has driven our strategic plan, Vision 2030. We recognise our
students are at the heart of all that we do, and when consulting on the strategic plan they worked
alongside the University and the Christ Church Students’ Union to help shape the aims and themes of
the strategic plan. We have also worked closely with our external partners to understand their
perceptions of the University, and what more we can do to serve them and the wider community.

The STEM Hub, based at the University, provides schools and colleges in the south east with free and
impartial advice and guidance on STEM activities and careers, enabling young people to make informed
choices about their future. The STEM Hub delivered the STEM Community Celebration at the Memorial
Gardens in Crawley in June 2024. This was attended by more than 4,000 children, parents and
grandparents who enjoyed a spectacular day celebrating Science, Technology, Engineering and Maths.
Support was provided to the event by local employers from various STEM industries, as well as many
local businesses and organisations. There were over 65 different STEM experiences offered to allow
people to engage with a new experience of science.

In June 2024 the Interdisciplinary Research Network held its annual conference that brought together
local community groups, organisations and services with the researchers from the University. The focus
of the conference was to address local challenges in building just, fair and sustainable. The event aimed
to help to match external groups, organisations and businesses with the University’s researchers to
seed new projects and collaborations. Sessions on the day included Water Provisions and Firefighting
presented by Kent Fire and Rescue Service and the Food Bank Movement presented by Canterbury
Food Bank.

In October 2023 the University continued support of the National Care Leaver Week, seeing this as an
opportunity to shine a light on the University’s proud record of supporting care experienced students
into higher education and in particular to the CCCU community. Facing numerous significant challenges
in their life means that care leavers are more likely end up in prison than go to university in England.
Canterbury Christ Church University is consistently in the top five higher institutions for welcoming the
highest number of new care leavers with 50-70 entrants per year. The University has well established
links to the Local Authority Virtual Schools in Kent and Medway and charities including Young Lives
Foundation and the Kent Refugee Action Network. Alongside our collaborative partners at the
Universities of Kent, UCA and Greenwich we deliver targeted outreach to children in care. The support
for young people and their carers includes the online HE insight sessions ‘Opening Doors' designed to
upskill Foster Carers to support their young person's journey to university. In support of this, the
University identifies defined targets to increase the number of Care Leavers progressing to university
as part of the Access and Participation Plan.

12

THE STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)

The University is proud to be a signatory of the Care Leaver Covenant, with further commitments to
support Care Leaver students and the wider care-experienced community, and is an active member the
National Network for the Education of Care Leavers (NNECL).

Environment

The environment is a key factor in the future sustainability of the University. The University’s mission,
values and strategic commitments show a connection to ourselves, each other and the environment,
on different scales from the local to the global. The University has developed a master plan for the next
20 years that takes an integrated approach to the development of a sustainable university estate, that
shows the principles of Education for Sustainable Futures can be applied in practice.

The University recognises that it has an impact upon the local and global environment and is committed
to minimising any negative and enhancing the positive effects that the delivery of its activities has. It is
committed to environmental good practice and maintains an externally certified ISO14001
Environmental Management System (EMS) to ensure continual improvement, prevention of pollution
and compliance with all appropriate environmental legisiation.

In recognition of our commitment to the environment the University has been awarded Gold Tier status
by the U Switch Green University report. The report stated: “it's positive to see that all of these
universities in the Gold Tier have green workshops and eco-friendly initiatives in place.”

Our aims to protect our environment include:

e Develop the University estate in a way that maximises educational, research and community
benefit and enhances positive environmental impact.

« Develop our campus environments, recognising our sense of place within unique heritage
locations.

« Integrate our F built and natural environments in ways that embody our values; providing specific
examples of our distinctive education and research profile.

e Maintain progress in reducing environmental impact, maintaining a focus on reducing our
carbon emissions in support of sector and national targets.

Providing an environment where equality, diversity and inclusivity thrives, and in which students are
supported to become global citizens, is so important to the work of the University. However, this is a
journey in which the University is still learning and adapting.

Global climate change is one of the biggest challenges facing the world. Many national and local
governments, and many organisations have declared Climate Emergencies, including Christ Church.
As part of the University’s commitment to reduce its operational carbon emissions to net zero and to
assist staff and students in supporting this endeavour, the University offers certified Carbon Literacy
Training. This is part of the carbon literacy project which was established by the Carbon Literacy Trust.
The training provides an understanding of:

The basic science behind climate change;

Social equity and climate change;

What we need to do to meet the Paris Agreement targets and achieve a zero carbon society;
What you can do to act on climate change — in your personal life and at university / in your
future job role; and,

e Strategies and skills for communicating action on climate change.

13

THE STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
Carbon Reporting

Canterbury Christ Church University is committed to responsible energy management and
sustainability, which it practices throughout the organisation. The University recognises that climate
change is one of the most serious environmental challenges threatening the world today.

In 2019 the University and the Christ Church Students’ Union (CCSU) joined with other organisations
across the globe to declare a climate emergency committing to achieving net-zero carbon dioxide
emissions by 2030 or 2050 at the very latest. Achieving this is going to involve improving activities and
infrastructure across many areas of the University. The University is deeply committed to social,
environmental and financial sustainability at a strategic and operational level.

The University demonstrates its commitment to the role it must play in reducing greenhouse gas ©
emissions through the University’s Strategic Framework “Vision 2030”. The strategic framework places
collaboration, courage and creativity at its centre. There are four strategic aims in the strategy that are
all underpinned by the commitment to sustainable futures.

The University has developed a response to the climate emergency which includes energy
management and emission reduction with a low carbon 2030 vision. The University has achieved
and maintained the standard ISO 14001, with a successful recertification in April 2023 for its
Environmental Management System (EMS).

Emission Performance

The University completes an annual review of energy performance and the amount of direct
transportation incurred each year as part of the Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (SECR)
process.

In 2023/2024 electricity consumption was 11% less than in the basline year (2019/2020). The
consumption of gas for the same reporting period when compared to the baseline year had reduced by
13%.

The report confirms the direct transportation consumption has reduced by 52% in comparison to the
baseline year.

These measures indicate that the hybrid working patterns adopted by staff since 2020 have had a
positive impact on both consumption of energy and travelling patterns. This is supported by the
estimate of Scope 1 Emissions originating from Direct Transport, Natural Gas, LPG and Refrigerants,
all of which are reported to be 14% lower than reported for the baseline year.

The Scope 2 Emissions from indirect sources, including the purchase of electricity, steam, heat or
cooling have also seen a marked reduction in usage. The Scope 2 Emissions are reported as being
28% lower than the baseline year.

The Scope 3 Emissions from vehicles owned by employees or hired for employees for business
purposes has reduced significantly in 2023/2024 when compared to the baseline year, a reduction of
75%.

The travel patterns of staff has changed post pandemic, with more meetings and conferences being
attended on line rather than in person, saving travel time and expense and emissions.

14

THE STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (SECR) Annual Statement 2024

Energy Consumption 2023/24 2022/23 2019/20 Variance

Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and|
LPG
operation of facilities. {kWh} 8,372 7731 t)
Refrigerants (kg) 1 37 0

Scope 2: Electricity purchased. Total Electricity (KWh}| 9,545,628 10,355,744 10,697,640 11%
Scope 3: Indirect Transport} Employee owned Vehicles (kwh) 329,509 399,280 1,288,748 74%

Ta Scape EI ERECT AV)

2023/24 2022723 2019720 Variance

Natural Gas (ico) 1,800 | tea | 2075 | 13% |
Direct Transport (CO 26) 20 39 “53%

LPG (CO 28}

Refrigerants (tCO 2)

Total Scope] eicOve

Emissions Assessment

Scope 1: Combustion of fuel and}
operation of facilities.

Scope 2: Electricity purchased and Location Based (LB) (tCO 2)
heat and steam generated.

"Market Based (MB) (tCO 2)
Employee owned Vehicles (tCO 22)

Total Scope,!42 and 3 Emissions (iCO ve), F3,382) [5"179)
Total Scope ta2.and 3 Emissions {tCO 7) $2208) =

On-Site Generation of Electricity - “im ey ota 2022/23 2021/22 . 2020/21 2019/20

Scope 3 : Indirect transport!
Location Based

Market Based

Generated electricity exported to Grid] ct

There has been a further increase in the University’s total income and student numbers due to its
business partnership arrangements with external training providers, which influences the intensity
ratios.

From 1 October 2019 the University changed its purchasing strategy for electricity switching from a
conventional fuel mix to 100% renewable from Ofgem accredited onshore wind farms. There was a
significant increase in the price of Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin (REGO) certified sources
of renewable electrical energy. Despite this the University continued to purchase their electrical supply
from a REGO certified source. The University purchases energy through an energy consortium,
ensuring that it procures its energy at competitive rates in challenging market conditions.

Value for Money (VfM)

Value for money is important in the context of the tuition fees received from students and how these
are utilised within the institution. The following chart of Undergraduate Fees demonstrates how these
funds were applied in 2022/23 based upon the Transparent Approach to Costing (TRAC) methodology
data for that particular year. The report that is produced in January 2024 is presented retrospectively
for 2022/23, as this is the latest data available from the TRAC return.

15

THE STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
Using the TRAC methodology the Total undergraduate fee of £9,250 represents the following:

£5,660 Teaching and Research

£1,240 Professional and Support Services

£950 Estates and Facilities

£400 _ IT Infrastructure and Support

£270 Welfare and Careers

£260 Bursaries

£200 Library and Academic Skills

£140 Recruitment, Outreach & Communications
£100 Subsidising Student Accommodation

£30 Students’ Union

Teaching and Research (61%) @ Professional and Support Services (13%) Estates and Facilities {10%}
$81T infrastructure and Support (4%) © Welfare and Careers (3%) B Bursaries (3%)
@ Library and Academic Skills (2%) Recruitment, Outreach & Communications (2%) & Subsidising Residence Deficit (1%)

mStudents' Union (1%)

The above is a representation of how the 2022-23 Undergraduate fee was used by the University and
the relative percentages are as follows:

* 61% Teaching and Research - lectures, technicians, course administration, course materials etc.

* 43% Professional and Support Services - student registration & records, human resources,
finance, VC's Office etc.

* 10% Estates and Facilities - building running costs, maintenance, light & heat, security etc.

+ 4% IT Infrastructure and Support - computing, software, subscriptions etc.

* 3% Welfare and Careers- Counselling, Chaplaincy, Sports Centre and Careers.

16

THE STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)

* 3% Bursaries — support and fee reductions for eligible students.

* 2% Recruitment, Outreach & Communications - school and college engagement, widening
participation, recruitment activity etc.

* 2% Library and Academic Skills -books, periodicals, electronic subscriptions

* 1% Subsidising Residence & Catering Deficit - This activity has a net expenditure.

* 1% Students’ Union - grant to support the ongoing provision of the Students' Union.

Risk Management

The approval of risk management processes, including the University's high level risk register, and risk
management framework are delegated by the Governing Body to the Audit Committee, which reviews
identified risks on a termly basis. The processes ensure that a culture of risk management is embedded
across the University. The University’s risk management framework seeks to limit the adverse effects
on the performance of the institution and the system to manage these risks is described in the statement
of internal control.

The system of internal control is based on an ongoing process designed to identify the principal risks
to the achievement of strategic policies, aims and objectives; to evaluate the nature and extent of those
risks; and to manage them efficiently, effectively and economically. This process has been in place for
the year ended 31 July 2024 and up to the date of approval of the financial statements and accords
with the requirements of the Office for Students.

The Governing Body's review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control is also informed by
the work of the Senior Management Team within the University, who have responsibility for the
development and maintenance of the internal control framework, by the work of the Internal Auditor,
and by comments made by the External Auditor in their management letter. Whilst a prudent approach
has been adopted to financial planning, the University considers that there are key risks to its financial
health and sustainability which are also likely to be experienced in other institutions across the sector.

The main risk areas and actions being taken to mitigate them contained in the University's High-level
Risk Register, as follows:

¢ Failure to maintain a financially sustainable offer for directly delivered programmes.

Actions to mitigate include:
- _ the review of financial forecasts, including performance indicators and covenants;
- review of the academic portfolio;
- development of course performance plans;
- review of student:staff ratios;
- development of financial reporting at course or module level; and,
- embedding of the new Academic Framework review.

e Failure to monitor, prepare and manage changes in the political and funding landscape
for Higher Education.

Actions to mitigate include:
- continued membership of Universities UK and MillionPlus in order to continue to make the case
for investment in higher education including maintenance support for students;
- monitor implementation of the Government's HE manifesto commitments; and,
- consideration of the Government's legislation on Lifelong Learning Entitlement as part of the
Academic Framework.

e Failure to recruit full time Home Undergraduate and Postgraduate students.

Actions to mitigate include:
- enhanced marketing of courses; increased schools and colleges liaison;

17

THE STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)

- review of the Academic Portfolio and Academic Framework to create a more attractive offering
with a focus on employability;

- improve admissions process

- monitoring UCAS application; and,

- DATAHE market share analysis reports reviewed for market insights.

e Ineffective management of partnerships, including the risk of major change in
partnership activity and compliance implications of partnership working.

Actions to mitigate include:

- central management of all UK based partnerships through a well-resourced unit;

- external review of partnerships by the University’s internal auditors;

- annual monitoring of partnerships through the Partnership Oversight Sub-Committee;

- continuous monitoring through the Partner Strategic Group and the Partner Operational Group
meetings;

- regular monitoring reports of individual partnerships; and,

- developed contingency plans, detailing options appraisals for teach out if required;

These risks have been taken into consideration in the University’s modelling of future years’ forecasts
and contingency arrangements are included within the institution’s plans to review and redesign
services and reduce costs. Taking forward these measures will reduce the impact of these risks so that
they do not compromise the longer-term sustainability of the University. ,

Going Concern

The University’s financial forecasts for the next two years continue to show a surplus position and
meet the year end bank covenants. The longer term forecasts are dependent upon clarification of the
UK Government's review of funding of the Higher Education sector more generally.

For the medium term however, the University is able to meet in full its financial commitments.

The Governing Body have reviewed the financial forecasts through to 2028/29; whilst recognising the
uncertainty over funding beyond 2025/26, the Board remains assured that the University continues to
be a going concern.

Directors’ Indemnities

As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a
qualifying third-party indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. The
indemnity was in force throughout the last financial year and is currently in force. The Company also
purchased and maintained throughout the financial year Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance in
respect of itself and its’ Directors and those of the subsidiary company.

Disclosure of Information to the Auditor

Each of the persons who are directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that so far as the
directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information (as defined by Section 418 of the Companies
Act 2006) of which the company’s auditor is unaware, and the directors have taken all the steps that
he/she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the company's auditor is aware of that information.

18

THE STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
Reserves Policy and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)

The University seeks to retain a level of reserves to support its financial sustainability and in accordance
with its strategic plan, the policy is reviewed in each academic term. The reserves position is maintained
through the achievement of surpluses in line with the institution’s key performance indicators.

When reporting a liability, the pensions’ reserve is recognised in the balance sheet. This represents a
longer-term liability which does not materially impact upon the short to medium term policy for the
maintenance of a general reserve. When reporting a surplus the asset in the scheme is not attributable
to the University and as such is not recognised as an asset and has no impact on the general reserve.

Monthly financial reports are produced for the Senior Management Team (SMT) and for each meeting
of the Finance and Resources Committee of the Governing Body.

The table below shows the consolidated performance indicators for the year ended 31 July 2024,
compared to actual outturn for the previous year. Targets for each of these KPls are prepared and
reported to management based on the approved annual budget. As part of the mid-year forecasting
process, the financial position is reviewed, and a revised budget is produced in year. The target KPis
are amended to reflect the revised budget position to be reported through to the end of the year.

Key Performance Indicators — actual outturn

Operating surplus/(deficit) as a % of income
Adjusted surplus as a % of income
Unrestricted reserves as a % of total income

External borrowing as a % of total income
| Current asset/(current liability) ratio 1.09 1.13
| Net liquidity days 69 81
EBITDA as a % of total income 5.48 6.83
Net Cash inflow/outflow as a % of income based on net 5.09 8.23
cash inflow from operating activities

The reported surplus for the year ended 31 July 2024 reflects adjustments for the accounting treatment
under FRS 102 of pensions’ provisions and liabilities.

The operational outturn/adjusted surplus for the University for the year ended 31 July 2024 was
£3.761m.,

Unrestricted reserves are reported net of the LGPS pensions liability, when the asset values exceed
the liability the net asset or surplus on the scheme is not recognised by the University and will not be
included in the University’s reserves.

External borrowing decreased in year with capital repayments being made to reduce the principal
amount of loans. The overall position reflecting repayment of loan capital is a balance at 31 July 2024
of £54.041m (2023: £57.837m).

Net liquidity days are reported as being 69 days, which is a reduction compared to the prior year of 81
days. The balance of cash and cash equivalents held at the year end was £2.034m more in 2024 than
2023, however, expenditure had increased year on year, reflecting payments to collaborative
partnerships, impacting on the calculation of net liquidity days. Throughout the year the University has
maintained sufficient funds to meet all commitments in line with the treasury management policy
approved by the Finance and Resources Committee.

The KPls are included in the University's monthly financial reports monitored and reviewed by the
Senior Management Team. They are also considered and assessed by the Finance and Resources
Committee as part of the review of financial performance. The University’s operating performance for
the year has remained within the parameters of the approved KPIs.

19

THE STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
Financial Risk Management

The University recognises that all teasury management activities involve risk and potential reward. The
University's policy on borrowing is to minimise cost while maintaining the stability of its financial position
by sound debt management techniques. The objective for lending purposes is to achieve the best
possible return while minimising risk.

The Chief Finance and Operating Officer has the authority to implement the University's strategy for
depositing surplus funds and managing the cash flow of the University. In exercising these powers, he
has regard to the perceived credit risk associated with the approved organisations with which funds
may be deposited or invested; also the effect of possible changes in interest rates on the cost of
borrowing and the return from investing and the need to maintain adequate liquid funds to meet the
University’s obligations.

Outlook

The University continues to face the challenge of a fixed rate of tuition fee for UK students undertaking
undergraduate courses restricting income in the context of rising inflation for pay and non-pay costs.

There are new challenges facing our University and other universities in the sector. There has beena
reduction in the number of Home and Overseas Full Time Undergraduate students registering to study
in higher education which impacts future income expectations. In addition, universities are facing higher
employment costs including an increase in the Teachers’ Pension Scheme employer contributions from
April 2024 from 23.68% to 28.68%, a rise of approximately 20% in the actual cost of providing the
pension for academic staff.

In the light of these financial challenges, the University has introduced a Transformational Change
Programme with four strands to review and redesign all areas of the University. The four strands are:

Removal of Faculty Structure and Consolidation of Schools
Student and Academic Service Redesign

Research and Enterprise Services Review and Redesign
Corporate Services Review and Redesign

Despite these challenges we remain committed to delivering our Vision 2030 strategy with compassion,
and by working collaboratively with the involvement of our staff, students and stakeholders.

Professor R Thirunamachandran
Vice Chancellor, Principal and Director

Date: 26 November 2024

20

PUBLIC BENEFIT STATEMENT

Canterbury Christ Church University is a registered charity under the Charities Act 2011. The objects
of the University are the advancement of education, learning and research for the benefit of the public
including, in particular, the conduct and development of the University known as Canterbury Christ
Church University for the training of persons as teachers and the provision of other higher or further
education.

In setting the University’s objectives, and planning its activities, the governors, as charity trustees, have
- given careful consideration to the Charity Commission's public benefit guidance.

In March 2023 the University launched its Strategic Framework, Vision 2030, which sets out its mission
and values, supported by four strategic aims, and six cross-cutting themes:

Our mission

The University's mission is to pursue excellence in education and research; inspired by our Church of
England foundation, we are passionate about transforming individuals, creating knowledge and
enriching communities to build sustainable futures.

Our values

Sustainable and ethical
Innovative and courageous
Compassionate and inclusive
Collaborative and creative

Strategic aims

Student Learning, Life and Futures
Research, Enterprise and Innovation
People Culture & Community

Our impact

Cross-cutting themes
Sustainability
Partnerships
Compassion

Inclusivity

Wellbeing

Global

The Vision 2030 framework informs the business plans of departments and schools across the
University. To demonstrate progress towards the achievement of the University's strategic aims, a set
of refreshed KPIs has been established. Notably we have achieved the following outcomes:
« We had 38,000 registered undergraduate and postgraduate students studying in the UK.
e Nearly two-thirds of our graduates are in highly skilled graduate-level employment 15 months
after completing their studies, 5 percentage points higher than the national average, as per the
HESA Graduate Outcomes 2023 report.
e The University successfully recruited 108 students into the third cohort of the KMMS Medical
School and looking ahead has a new cohort of 104 students starting for the 2024/2025
academic year.

e The University worked with 72 Kent and Medway health care providers in 363 locations.

e We supported over 50 partner schools and colleges in Kent and Medway.

21

PUBLIC BENEFIT STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
We had 15,000 health and care graduates.
We are in the top 25 universities for increasing social mobility.

We were ranked in the top 20% of higher education institutions for community engagement and
research partnerships in the recent Government's Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF 4)

We were ranked in the top third of higher education institutions for sustainability and the
environment in the ‘People and Planet’ League table.

Illustrations of how the University has fulfilled its charitable public benefit purposes in 2023/24 include:

We held our first Futures Day in May 2024 — an exciting new event held on Campus and Online
over a 36 hour period. Over 362 donors helped to raise £14,414 that has been applied to
supporting students through the cost of living crisis.

We are part of the Police Education Consortium (PEC) along with three other universities,
Middlesex University, University of Cumbria and University of Portsmouth who work
collaboratively to deliver transformational police education. The PEC has won the title of ‘Best
Apprenticeship in Public Sector’ award at the Apprenticeship Guide Awards 2024.

One of our Senior Lecturers in the School of Nursing, May Chen, has won a prestigious the
RCN Foundation Impact Award 2024 in recognition of the positive influence her research had
upon the wellbeing of student nurses.

We continue to support Pride Canterbury in celebrating the LGBTQIA+ community. The Pride
Canterbury event was held on 8-9 June 2024 and there was strong representation from the
University in the parade. We also supported Medway Pride, with a stall being provided at the
festival celebrations.

We welcomed the return of the annual Medieval Mayhem pageant to Canterbury in July 2024.
In support of the event the University hosted a series of free, fun and entertaining events for
the local community, including a medieval encampment to provide a living history display. There
was a selection of table top and PC based games designed by the University’s Games Design
students and a demonstration of medieval music provided by the University’s Master of Music,
Gareth Balch.

Alpine’s Rac(H)er Programme hosted a test and training camp in June 2024 in collaboration
with the University’s Sports Lab. The camp was a continuation of the driver's development
provided as part of their participation in the programme. The collaboration included the BWT
Alpine F1 team. The sports lab provided a series of tailored test and training workshops for four
young drivers.

The University supported the next generation of voters with students from secondary schools
from across Canterbury and the surrounding area taking part in a democratic debate hosted by
the University’s Politics and International Relations programme. Nearly 80 students came
together to discuss the topics that mattered to them, ahead of the general election.

The University supported the development of women leaders by being part of the South East
Action Learning Programme. Women leaders in the University were given the opportunity to
connect with leaders in universities across London and the South East. During a six month
programme they were given the space to explore challenges and ambitions in a facilitated way.

22

PUBLIC BENEFIT STATEMENT (CONTINUED)

The University held the annual Alumni Awards event, welcoming more than 100 graduates and
guests to recognise those who make a difference, inspiring change and making a positive
impact on the community. The winners this year ranged from Alumni who champion the
importance of the transformative impact of education, to those who served in the nursing
profession as carers during the COVID 19 pandemic.

The School of Engineering, Technology and Design worked in collaboration with Tensei, a
company that specialises in designing and producing innovative plant fibre materials, to
investigate and research their latest sustainable material. This was a social values programme
project funded by a Growing Kent & Medway grant.

The School of Teacher Education achieve two notable successes in the year. The School
achieved the highest possible rating of its International Qualified Teacher Status (iQTS)
provision. The School also successfully completed the Department for Education (DfE)
accreditation process to deliver Initial Teacher Education in the 2024/2025 year.

23

STATEMENT OF PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE UNIVERSITY'S
GOVERNING BODY

In accordance with the Instrument and Articles of Government, the Governing Body is responsible for
the determination of the educational character and mission of the University and the oversight of its
activities including ensuring that an effective system of internal control is maintained. The other primary
responsibilities of the Governing Body are to:

e protect the effective and efficient use of resources, and for safeguarding assets, taking advice
from the Finance and Resources Committee;

« set a framework for the appointment, assignment, grading, appraisal, suspension, dismissal
and determination of the pay and conditions of staff other than designated senior staff, for the
guidance of the Finance and Resources Committee and/or the Vice-Chancellor as appropriate;

¢ ensure the effective management of the University and plan its future development;

e observe the highest standards of corporate governance. To ensure and demonstrate integrity
and objectivity in the transaction of its business and, wherever possible, following a policy of
openness and transparency in the dissemination of its decisions;

e ensure that funds provided by the Office for Students and other funding bodies are used in
accordance with specified terms and conditions in the agreements between the University and
such funding bodies;

e ensure, through the Finance and Resources Committee and the Audit Committee, the
establishment and monitoring of systems of control and accountability including financial and
operational controls and risk assessment;

e take such steps as are reasonably practicable to ensure that the Students’ Union operates in a
fair and democratic manner and is accountable for its finances (The Education Act 1994);

e protect the health and safety of employees, students and other individuals whilst on the
University’s premises and in other places where they may be affected by its operations;

e ensure that the University has a written statement of policy on health and safety and
arrangements for the implementation of that policy, including the establishment of a Health and
Safety Group with trade union and staff representation;

e eliminate unlawful discrimination and promote equality of opportunity and good relations
between different groups; and

e determine the educational character and mission of the University including the approval of the
University's Strategic Plan and the setting of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).

The specific responsibilities of the Governing Body have been set out in the Statement of Corporate
Governance.

Financial Responsibilities of the Governing Body

The Governing Body is responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial position of the University and which enable it to ensure
that the financial statements are prepared in accordance with the Instrument and Articles of
Government, the Statement of Recommended Practice: Accounting for further and higher education
and relevant legislation. In addition, within the terms and conditions of funding for Higher Education
Institutions from the Office for Students (OfS), the Governing Body, through its designated accountable
officer (the Vice-Chancellor), is required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the University and of the surplus or deficit and cash
flows for that year.

24

STATEMENT OF PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE UNIVERSITY'S
GOVERNING BODY (CONTINUED)

In causing the financial statements to be prepared, the Governing Bady has ensured that:

suitable accounting policies are selected and applied consistently,
judgements and estimates are made that are reasonable and prudent,

applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to
presume that the University will continue in operation. The Governing Body is satisfied that the
University has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future. For this
reason, the going concern basis continues to be adopted in the preparation of the financial
statements.

The Governing Body has taken reasonable steps to:

ensure that OfS funds are used only for the purposes for which they have been given and in
accordance with the Financial Memorandum and any other conditions which the OfS may from
time to time prescribe;

ensure that there are appropriate financial and management controls in place to safeguard
public funds and funds from other sources;

safeguard the assets of the University and to prevent and detect fraud;

safeguard the economical, efficient and effective management of the University’s resources
and expenditure; and

review the means of securing its own effectiveness.

The governors confirm, so far as each governor is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which
the group auditor is unaware. Each governor has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken in
their duty as a governor in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to
establish that the group auditor is aware of that information.

The key elements of the University's system of internal financial control, which is designed to discharge
the responsibilities set out above, include the following:

clear definitions of the responsibilities of, and the authority delegated to, heads of academic
and administrative departments;

a comprehensive medium and short-term planning process, supplemented by detailed annual
income, expenditure, capital and cash flow budgets;

regular reviews of KPIs and business risks and monthly reviews of financial results involving
variance reporting and updates of forecast outturns;

clearly defined and formalised requirements for approval and control of expenditure, with

investment decisions involving capital or revenue expenditure being subject to formal detailed
appraisal and review according to approval levels set by the Governing Body;

25

STATEMENT OF PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE UNIVERSITY'S
GOVERNING BODY (CONTINUED)

comprehensive financial regulations, detailing financial controls and procedures, including a
fraud policy, all as approved by the Finance and Resources Committee and Governing Body;

compliance with a University policy on risk management; and

a professional internal audit team whose annual programme is approved by the Audit
Committee under powers delegated by the Goveming Body and whose head provides the Audit
Committee with a report on internal audit activity within the University and an opinion on the
adequacy and effectiveness of its system of intemal control, including internal financial control.

Any system of internal financial control can, however, only provide reasonable, but not absolute,
assurance against material misstatement or loss.

The Governing Body intends to publish the financial statements on the University’s website:

the maintenance and integrity of the University's website is the responsibility of the governors,
the work carried out by the auditor does not involve consideration of these matters and,
accordingly, the auditor accepts no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to
the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.

legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

fottd fed a

Ms J Annitt :

Pro-Chancellor (Chair of the Governing Body)

Date:

26 November 2024

26


STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The University is a private limited company by guarantee without share capital, and a registered charity.
It has a wholly owned subsidiary, Medco (CCCU) Limited, trading as Unitemps, a private limited
company.

The objects of the University are set out in articles of association incorporating the instrument of
government of 23 September 2021. It is a registered OfS provider, having entered onto The OfS
Register on 28 August 2018.

The Church of England retains an interest in the distinctive Christian elements of the University’s
governance arrangements through special safeguarding provisions contained in the governing
documents. These provisions, known as the golden vote, allow for the Church of England to exercise a
power of veto if the Governing Body passes any resolution that seeks to remove or vary any clause in
the governing documents pertaining to the University’s Christian distinctiveness. The golden vote is not
considered to be a material factor in the University's overall governance arrangements in circumstances
where it has never been exercised and its inclusion and scope in the governing documents has been
narrowed following dialogue with the Church of England.

Governors are the charity trustees and are responsible for ensuring compliance with charity law. The
Governing Body adheres to the Seven Principles of Public Life, the Higher Education Code of
Governance and the OfS public interest governance principles.

The Governing Body shall consist of a majority of independent Governors and when complete, normally
consists of not fewer than 18 persons.

The maximum number of Company Members is 19. It includes four nominative governors being
members of the Church of England of whom: (i) one is appointed by the Archbishop of Canterbury; (ii)
one is appointed by the Diocesan Boards of Education of Canterbury and Rochester dioceses acting
jointly (iii) one is appointed by the Archbishops’ Council of the Church of England (iv) one is the Bishop
of Dover or their nominee; one is the Vice-Chancellor and Principal; three staff governors: the three
being respectively a member of the Academic Board nominated by that Academic Board together with
a member of the academic staff of the University and a member of the professional services staff of the
University; one student governor, being the elected President of the Students’ Union, ex-officio, and not
more than nine co-opted governors, at least six of whom are to be members of the Church of England.

In terms of co-opted governors, the Governing Body is mandated to seek to ensure that different
University, county and regional interests are reflected in its membership.

The Governing Body is chaired by Ms J Armitt, the Pro-Chancellor since 1 August 2021. Since 1 August
2023 Mr C Stevens has held the role of the Deputy Pro-Chancellor of the Governing Body. The role of
Senior Independent Governor is held by the Right Reverend Bishop R Hudson-Wilkin.

A schedule of delegation sets out the responsibilities of decision making, between the Governing Body,
its committees and the Vice Chancellor. The main responsibilities of Governing Body are:

1. to determine the educational character and mission of the University including the approval of

the University's Strategic Plan and the setting of KPls;

to approve annual estimates of income and expenditure;

to ensure the solvency of the institution and the safeguarding of its assets;

to appoint or dismiss the Vice-Chancellor, the Clerk to the Governing Body, the Chaplain and

such other senior posts designated by the Governing Body;

5. to ensure that there are suitable arrangements for monitoring the Vice-Chancellor's
performance;

6. to vary or revoke of the Instrument or Articles of Government (subject to provisions within those
documents regarding the Archbishops’ Council);

7. to ensure compliance with Company and Charity law;

PON

27

STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED)

8. to approve annual financial statements upon external audit;

9. to approve the constitution of the student body (Students’ Union) and receive audited accounts
of the Students’ Union;

10. to approve the University’s Risk Management Framework, Risk Register and Risk Appetite
Statement;

11. to approve and monitor widening participation arrangements;

42. to regularly monitoring performance against planned strategies and operational targets; and

13. to review its own effectiveness and performance and that of its committees formally every three
years, and annually on a ‘light touch’ basis; and,

14. to review its terms of reference and work plan annually.

The Governing Body normally meets four times per year. Three further ‘all governor’ briefing sessions
were held. Additionally, governor visits enable governors to be fully briefed on the University's activities,
meeting with students and staff. In 2023/24, the following governor visits took place: visit of the Medway
Campus facilities, the Graduate Futures department, Academy of Sustainable Futures and the School
of Creative Arts and Industries.

The Academic Board, a committee of the Governing Body, chaired by the Vice-Chancellor, is
responsible for all aspects of the academic work of the University and can establish such committees
as are necessary. Each committee is chaired by a senior member of staff and faculties are represented
on all committees.

Subject to the requirements of validating and accrediting bodies, the Academic Board is responsible
for: general issues relating to the research, scholarship, teaching and courses at the University; the
appointment of internal and external examiners; assessment and examination policies and procedures;
the curriculum; academic standards and course validation; the procedures for the award of qualifications
and honorary academic titles; the procedure for the suspension or expulsion of students for academic
reasons; for considering the development of the University's academic activities; and for advising on
such other matters as the Governing Body or the Vice-Chancellor and Principal may refer to it.

An overview of the central academic committees of the University, including membership and terms of
reference can be found on the University’s website.

There are four other Governing Body committees: Chairs’ Committee, Finance and Resources
Committee, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee, all of which include independent
governors.

Decisions and recommendations of Governing Body committees are reported to the Governing Body
and terms of reference are reviewed on an annual basis.

The Chairs’ Committee is responsible for advising the Governing Body about governance policy and
practice; monitoring the University’s register of interests; considering nominations to the Governing
Body and recommending appointments to it; considering Honorary Fellowship and Doctorate
nominations; considering nominations for naming University buildings and rooms; monitoring
compliance with the CUC Code of Governance; oversight of committee terms of reference and schedule
of delegation; oversight of annual governor informal discussions and three yearly review of governance;
reviewing its own effectiveness and performance annually on a ‘light touch’ basis and formally every
three years; strategic oversight of Estates Planning; and there is an annual review of Chairs’ Committee
terms of reference and work plan.

The Chairs’ Committee membership consists of:
e Pro-Chancellor of the University (Chair of the Governing Body) Ms J Armitt (Archbishop of

Canterbury's appointee)
e Chair of the Audit Committee — Lady A Newey (Independent)

28

STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED)

© Chair of F&R Committee (and Deputy Pro-Chancellor of the University from 1 August 2023) —
Mr C Stevens (Independent)
Chair of the Remuneration Committee — Mrs N Ahmed (Independent)
Vice-Chancellor and Chair of the Academic Board — Professor R Thirunamachandran (Vice-
Chancellor)

e¢ One co-option if vacancies exist because individual members fulfil multiple roles.

The Chairs’ Committee normally meets three times in each academic year. In 2023/24 the Chairs’
Committee met on three occasions.

The Finance and Resources Committee is responsible for the financial affairs of the University including
consideration of estimates of income and expenditure and the consolidated financial statements; the
strategic management of the University’s estate; major building developments, acquisitions or
disposals; the efficient use of physical resources; the care and maintenance of the University's estate;
consideration and monitoring of the ICT strategy; oversight of the Vice-Chancellor's actions related to
human resources and strategic oversight of the University's People Strategy; strategic oversight of the
widening participation agenda; annual accounts of the Students’ Union; oversight of the University's
subsidiary companies; approval of financial regulations, policies and procedures; oversight of TRAC

. returns; oversight of the sustainability agenda; and reviewing its terms of reference and work plan
annually.

The Finance and Resources Committee membership consists of:

Chair of the Finance and Resources Committee — Mr C Stevens (Independent)
Student Governor — Miss A Lundy (to 9 February 2024)

Professor G Dewhurst (Independent)

Ms J Harding (Independent)

Revd R Stevenson (Independent)

Vice-Chancellor — Professor R Thirunamachandran (Vice-Chancellor)

The Finance and Resources Committee normally meets three times in each academic year. In
2023/24 the Finance and Resources Committee met on three occasions.

The Audit Committee is responsible for the appointment of the External Auditor; discussing the nature
and scope of the external audit; discussing with the external auditor any arising problems including a
review of the management letter; appointing the internal auditor; reviewing the internal audit strategy
and findings; monitoring the effectiveness of risk management; monitoring the implementation of audit
recommendations; ensuring all significant losses are investigated; overseeing policies on fraud and
irregularity; monitoring arrangements to promote economy, efficiency and effectiveness; receiving
reports from the National Audit Office, the regulator and other organisations; monitoring performance
of both internal and external audit; considering financial statements in the presence of the external
auditor; monitoring data assurance arrangements; monitoring KPls; considering the Audit Committee
Annual Report; and reviewing its Terms of Reference and Work Plan annually.

The Audit Committee membership consists of:

Chair of the Audit Committee — Lady A Newey (Independent)

Ms S Appleby (Independent)

Mrs P Jones (Archbishops' Council of the Church of England appointee)
Mr J Stockwell (Independent)

And Co-opted members:

e MrD Crush (from 1 August 2023)
e Mr G Ward (from 1 August 2023)

29

STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED)

The Audit Committee normally meets four times in each academic year. In 2023/24 the Audit Committee
met on four occasions.

The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the pay and conditions of employment for
the Vice-Chancellor; the senior management team; and other senior staff deemed appropriate.

Remuneration Committee membership consists of:

e Chair of the Remuneration Committee — Ms N Ahmed (Independent)
e Pro-Chancellor of the University -—Ms J Armitt
e Professor J Wood (Independent)

e Student Governor — Ms A Lundy (to 9 February 2024)

And Co-opted member:
e Lord A Colgrain (independent Assessor).
The Remuneration Committee normally meets once in each academic year.

A Governance Effectiveness Review undertaken by the SUMS Consultancy in 2023/24 concluded that
the standard of governance at the University is “good”. A number of recommendations were set out in
SUMS’ report, for the Governing Body to consider as potential areas for further enhancing the
University’s governance effectiveness.

The University ensures openness and transparency in order that stakeholders can have confidence in
its decision-making and management processes.

Transparency about the corporate governance arrangements of the University is achieved by virtue of
publication of the following documents on its website:

Memorandum and Articles
Schedule of Delegation
Governing Body Structure
Governor Appointment Policy
Register of Interests

Terms of Reference

Annual Financial Statements
Governing Body and Committee Minutes
FOI Publication Scheme
Whistleblowing Policy

Fit and Proper Persons Policy.

The Governing Body updated its Governor Appointment Policy, and the Audit Committee approved an
update to the University's Whistleblowing (‘Speak Up’) Policy in 2023/24. The University refreshed its
FOI Publication Scheme in 2023/24.

The Governing Body ensures the adequacy and effectiveness of arrangements for corporate
governance, risk management and oversight of any statutory and other regulatory responsibilities,
including compliance with ongoing OfS conditions of registration, terms and conditions of funding as
well as any other relevant regulatory responsibilities by:

- Meeting at least four times each academic year to determine strategy;

- Receiving and approving, on an annual basis, the ‘Report on Maintenance of Academic
Standards and the Management and Enhancement of the Quality of the Student Experience’
(from the Academic Board) as well as the annual ‘Degree Outcomes Statement’;

30

STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (CONTINUED)

- Receiving and approving, on an annual basis, a compliance statement on ‘Research and
Enterprise Integrity’.

- Receiving an annual report and assurance from the University Solicitor regarding the
University's compliance with OfS initial and ongoing general conditions of registration;

- Receiving updates from the Audit Committee concerning internal control, and strategic risk
management;

- Oversight by the Audit Committee of the University’s risk management framework and a high-
level strategic risk register fully aligned to the University’s strategic goals set out in the
University’s Vision 2030 Strategic Framework;

- Regular reviews by the Audit Committee of Internal Audit reports, which include an independent
opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the University’s systems of governance, risk
management and internal control, together with improvement recommendations;

- Monitoring of institutional KPIs (governor sub-set); and

- Reviewing post-investment lesson learning reviews in respect of major investment projects
undertaken by the University.

Specifically, in terms of public funding from the OfS, UK Research and Innovation (UKRI, including
Research England), the Department for Education or the Education and Skills Funding Agency the
University ensures: a. regularity in the use of public funding; and b. propriety in the use of public funding
by: the provision of a framework of financial controls for the University in the Financial Regulations and
associated Financial Procedures.

The various elements of the University’s Financial Regulations were approved by the Finance and
Resources Committee at its meetings on 8 November 2023, 6 March 2024 and 5 June 2024. The
Financial Regulations are subordinate to the University’s Articles and to any restrictions contained in
terms of conditions of funding and the audit code of practice.

The purpose of the Financial Regulations is to provide control over the totality of the University’s
resources and provide assurance in respect of a., and b., above. Compliance with the Financial
Regulations is mandatory. Breaches are notified to the Governing Body via the Audit Committee. This
statement covers the reporting period from 1 August 2023 to the date of signing and approving the
financial statements on 26 November 2024.

31

MODERN SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING

The University is committed to ensuring that slavery and human trafficking is not occurring in its supply
chain, in line with the Modern Slavery Act 2015. As a values-based institution, the University condemns
any form of labour exploitation or human trafficking and expects all its suppliers and business partners
to adhere to the principles set out in the Modern Slavery Act. Oversight of the management of risks of
modern slavery and human trafficking in the supply chain is provided by a nominated senior manager,
the Chief Finance and Operating Officer. The University's Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking
Statement has the support of the full Governing Body and was approved by the Governing Body at its
meeting on 26th November 2024.

Actions taken by the University in this financial year to meet its obligations include:
Procurement Activity

In the 2023-24 financial year the University has awarded twelve major supply contracts, three of which
were deemed to be potentially those that may be at high risk of modern slavery activities. All successful
suppliers were asked to confirm that they had arrangements in place to manage the risk of slavery in
their supply chain. The University is further developing its processes in 2024/25 to ensure that bidders
for such contracts will be required to complete a further in-depth assessment of the checks that they
have in place to detect cases of modern slavery and forced labour.

Sustainability Toot

This year the University has implemented a new supply chain sustainability monitoring tool. This will
allow for the monitoring of the sustainability impacts of University suppliers which have registered,
including modern slavery risks. This is an important development as it provides a more systematic
approach to supply chain monitoring and management and facilitates collaboration across the higher
education sector.

In the first year of operation, the tool has enabled the 134 suppliers who have self-certified that they are
a supplier to CCCU with the following outcomes:

. 60 are legally obliged to publish a modern slavery statement and have done so

. 2 are legally obliged to publish a modern slavery statement and have not yet done so
: 36 are not obliged to publish a modern slavery statement but have done so anyway

. 36 are not obliged to publish a statement and have not done so

The tool also captures information about incidents of modern slavery, staff training, risk analysis and
reporting mechanisms. This data will be used to increase the number of suppliers that use the tool
(prioritising suppliers of high-risk goods or services) and to encourage companies to improve their
arrangements for managing modern slavery risks.

Operational Control Procedure

As part of its Environmental Management System (EMS) the University maintains a series of
‘operational control procedures’ that document the steps taken to ensure that the institution's
sustainability obligations are appropriately managed. The previous arrangements which involved two
separate procedures for the management of modern slavery risks and sustainable procurement have
now been combined which has enabled more effective processes for the embedding of modern slavery
checks within the procurement supply chain.

Procurement Partners
The University uses pre-negotiated ‘framework agreements’ to award many of its contracts. Most of

these are awarded and managed by the Southern Universities Purchasing Consortium (SUPC) which
embeds responsible procurement into all of its activities.

32

MODERN SLAVERY AND HUMAN TRAFFICKING (CONTINUED)

Suppliers in higher-risk spend categories are asked by SUPC to commit to the Base Code of the Ethical
Trading Initiative (ETI). SUPC will work to persuade suppliers in high-risk spend categories to support
these initiatives. The ET| Base Code is founded on the conventions of the International Labour
Organisation (ILO) and is an internationally recognised code of labour practice.

SUPC (and other regional universities purchasing consortia with whom we work) are also affiliated with
the Electronic Watch to ensure compliance with labour rights and safety standards in the technology &
computing supply chain. This is particularly relevant for the supply of IT equipment which is classed as
a high-risk industry.

SUPC is committed to acquiring goods and services for its members without causing harm to others.

Affiliating with Electronics Watch is an important step towards achieving this aim, as it provides a
mechanism for universities across Europe to monitor their electronics supply chains effectively.

33

STATEMENT OF INTERNAL CONTROL

The Governing Body has responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal control that supports
the achievement of policies, aims and objectives, while safeguarding the public and other funds and
assets for which they are responsible, in accordance with the responsibilities assigned to the Governing
Body in the University’s Instrument and Articles of Governance and the Terms and Conditions of
Funding for Higher Education Institutions from the OfS.

The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
policies, aims and objectives; it can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance of
effectiveness.

The system of interna! control is based on an ongoing process designed to identify the principal risks
to the achievement of policies, aims and objectives; to evaluate the nature and extent of those risks;
and to manage them efficiently, effectively and economically. This process has been in place for the
year ended 31 July 2024 and up to the date of approval of the Strategic Report and Financial Statements
and accords with the OfS and Turnbull guidance.

The Governing Body has responsibility for the institution's system of internal control, for reviewing its
effectiveness and ensuring that the review has covered all controls (financial, operational, risk
management and compliance).

The following processes have been established:

- The Governing Body meets at least four times each year to consider the plans and strategic
direction of the institution.

- The Governing Body and the Audit Committee have approved the Risk Management Policy
and Procedures which summarise the approach, roles and responsibilities, and the annual
review of effectiveness process.

- The Governing Body has assumed responsibility for oversight of the risk management process
within the University as a whole, and determined its risk appetite, which includes adopting a
differentiated approach to risk depending on the nature of the activity. As Chief Executive, the
Vice-Chancellor has ultimate responsibility for the management of the University, including the
management of risk. The University’s Chief Finance and Operating Officer oversees the risk
management process adopted by the University.

- The University maintains a comprehensive Strategic Risk Register that identifies the high-level
strategic risks facing the institution. Each risk has an identified risk owner clearly documented
within the Register together with a scoring assessment based on likelihood and impact. Risks
are given a gross and residual rating. Risk identification and management is closely linked to
the achievement of the institution's objectives, with all schools and departments producing local
tisk registers alongside their annual business plans and major change strategic project owners
producing the same. The University's identified high-level corporate risks are directly linked to
the University's Key Performance Indicators which monitor achievement against the Strategic
Plan.

- Each risk response has been formally considered by the Senior Management Team (SMT) and
the Audit Committee. The SMT, chaired by the Vice-Chancellor considers the risks identified
in the Project Risk Registers. The Vice-Chancellor and the SMT monitor the top ‘net exposure’
risks on a regular basis, as well as the effectiveness of controls in place to manage less serious
risks. Less serious risks are reviewed and monitored by faculties, schools and departments
which operate local registers as part of an overall approach, embedding risk assessment and
management within the University. To support this the University has established a Risk Forum
of risk and action owners who meet at least six times per year to assess risk, controls and
actions that underpin the strategic plan.

34

STATEMENT OF INTERNAL CONTROL (CONTINUED)

Regular reports are received from the Audit Committee concerning findings of the Internal Auditor and
matters relating to internal control. The Vice-Chancellor provides a written report to the Audit Committee
on the University’s approach to Risk Management at each of its meetings and an annual report is
presented in May of each year.

The University has appointed Interna! Auditors, who operate to standards defined by the Chartered
Institute of Internal Auditors. The Internal Auditors submit regular reports which include their
independent opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal control, together with
recommendations for improvement.

The Governing Body's review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control is also informed by
the work of the executive managers within the University, who have responsibility for the development
and maintenance of the internal control framework, and by comments made by the External Auditors in
their management letter.

Control weaknesses identified in year have been addressed by management, and there are no
significant control weaknesses to note at the end of the year.

35

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE GOVERNING BODY OF
CANTERBURY CHRIST CHURCH UNIVERSITY

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Canterbury Christ Church University (‘the University’) and
its subsidiary (‘the Group’) for the year ended 31 July 2024 which comprise the Consolidated and
University Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure, the Consolidated and University
Statement of Changes in Reserves, the Consolidated and University Statement of Financial Position,
the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of
significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 “The
Financial Reporting Standard Applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland” (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:

. give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's and University’s affairs as at 31 July 2024
and of the Group’s and University’s income and expenditure, gains and losses, changes in
reserves and cash flows for the year then ended;

. have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice;

. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Statement of Recommended
Practice — Accounting for Further and Higher Education; and

. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the
Group and University in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the
financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’'s Ethical Standard and we have fulfilled our other
ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern
basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to
events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and
University’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the
financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described
in the relevant sections of this report.

36

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE GOVERNING BODY OF
CANTERBURY CHRIST CHURCH UNIVERSITY (CONTINUED)

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report, other than the financial
statements and our auditor's report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the
other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other
information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the
audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or
apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material
misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of

the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of Directors

As explained more fully in the Statement of Responsibilities of the Directors set out on page 24, the
directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they
give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group and
University's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate
all or part of the University Group or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on
the basis of these financial statements.

The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed
below.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect
of irregularities, including fraud.

37

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE GOVERNING BODY OF
CANTERBURY CHRIST CHURCH UNIVERSITY (CONTINUED)

Based on our understanding of the University Group and its operations, we considered that non-
compliance with the following laws and regulations might have a material effect on the financial
statements: OfS requirements, UK tax legislation, pensions legislation, employment regulation and
health and safety regulation, anti-bribery, corruption and fraud and money laundering.

To help us identify instances of non-compliance with these laws and regulations, and in identifying and
assessing the risks of material misstatement in respect to non-compliance, our procedures included,
but were not limited to:

. Inquiring of management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance, as to
whether the University Group is in compliance with laws and regulations, and discussing their
policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations;

. Inspecting correspondence, if any, with relevant licensing or regulatory authorities;

. Communicating identified laws and regulations to the engagement team and remaining alert to
any indications of non-compliance throughout our audit; and

. Considering the risk of acts by the University Group which were contrary to applicable laws and
regulations, including fraud.

We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct effect on the preparation of the
financial statements, such as pensions legislation, the OfS Accounts Direction and the Companies Act
2006.

In addition, we evaluated the directors’ and management's incentives and opportunities for fraudulent
manipulation of the financial statements, including the risk of management override of controls, and
determined that the principal risks related to posting manual journal entries to manipulate financial
performance, management bias through judgements and assumptions in significant accounting
estimates, in particular in relation to defined benefit pension obligations, revenue recognition (which we
pinpointed to the cut-off assertion), and significant one-off or unusual transactions.

Our audit procedures in relation to fraud included but were not limited to:

. Making enquiries of the directors and management on whether they had knowledge of any
actual, suspected or alleged fraud;

. Gaining an understanding of the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud;

. Discussing amongst the engagement team the risks of fraud; and

. Addressing the risks of fraud through management override of controls by performing journal
entry testing.

There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the primary responsibility
for the prevention and detection of irregularities including fraud rests with management. As with any
audit, there remained a risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery,
intentional omissions, misrepresentations or the override of internal controls.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the
Financial Reporting Council's website at www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms
part of our auditor's report.

38

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE GOVERNING BODY OF
CANTERBURY CHRIST CHURCH UNIVERSITY (CONTINUED)

Other Required Reporting
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

. the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial period for
which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

. the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable
legal requirements.

Opinion on other matters prescribed in the OfS Audit Code of Practice issued under the Further and
Higher Education Act 1992

In our opinion, in all material respects:

. funds from whatever source administered by the provider for specific purposes have been
properly applied to those purposes and managed in accordance with relevant legislation;
: funds provided by OfS, UK Research and Innovation (including Research England), the

Education and Skills Funding Agency and the Department for Education have been applied in
accordance with the relevant terms and conditions; and

. the requirements of the OfS's accounts direction have been met.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and University and its environment obtained
in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the
directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act
2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

. adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not
been received from branches not visited by us; or

. the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

. certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

. we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the OfS Audit Code of
Practice requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

. the provider's grant and fee income, as disclosed in the notes to the financial statements, is
materially misstated; or,
. the provider’s expenditure on access and participation activities, as disclosed in the financial

statements, has been materially misstated.

39

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE GOVERNING BODY OF
CANTERBURY CHRIST CHURCH UNIVERSITY (CONTINUED)

Use of the audit report

This report is made solely to the University’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part
16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
University’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to
anyone other than the Group and University and the University’s members, as a body, for our audit
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Signed: 772 J Wohafretd

Nicola Wakefield (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of:

Forvis Mazars LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor

6 Sutton Plaza,
Sutton Court Road,
Sutton Surrey,
SM1 4FS

Date! aeyy Wovember 2%O%*

STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

1. Basis of Preparation

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention, taking
into account the Statement of Recommended Practice (SORP): Accounting for Further and Higher
Education 2019 and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standards FRS 102. The University is a
company limited by guarantee incorporated in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act. The
University’s registered address and that of the subsidiary company is shown on page 1 of this report.
Under FRS 102 the University has taken advantage of the exemptions for financial instrument
disclosure for the parent and from providing a parent company cash flow statement.

The University is a public benefit entity and therefore has applied the relevant public benefit
requirements of FRS 102. The Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with the historical cost
convention. The principal accounting policies, which have been applied consistently throughout the
current year are set out below.

The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis informed by the University’s
future financial forecasts, taking into account possible changes in performance. In arriving at its
assessment the Governing Body has reviewed the financial forecasts and is satisfied that the University
has sufficient facilities to continue operating at its current level.

2. Critical Judgements

The following are the critical judgements that have been made in the process of applying the University’s
accounting policies.

2.1 Income Recognition - Capital and Research Grants Received

The University’s accounting policy requires recognition of income when performance related conditions
are met. Income received in advance of performance related conditions being met is recognised as
deferred income within creditors on the balance sheet and released into income as the conditions are
met. The research contracts that are entered into by the University are assessed and any performance
conditions identified. The income from these research activities is released based on the meeting of the
conditions stated in the research contracts or on commencement of the activity if no conditions are
specified. Where conditions have not yet been met the income is held as deferred income within
creditors on the balance sheet.

2.2 Income Recognition — Deposit Interest

The income generated from short term deposits of cash and cash equivalents is seen to be part of the
operating cash flow of the University as it is derived from short term investment of liquid cash and cash
equivalents. The income is reported as investment income in the Statement of Comprehensive Income,
however, the appropriate treatment of this income in the Cash Flow Statement is to include it in the
operational surplus/(deficit). This is a change to previous reporting of interest earned from cash deposits
in the Cash Flow Statement, where it had been included in investment activities. The change was
deemed necessary as the University does not hold any long-term investments and to include the income
as being part of investing activities could be misleading as the income is sourced from liquid cash from
operational activities. In previous years the amount of interest was insignificant, and the reporting
treatment only became relevant when the amount of interest earned increased to a material level in the
year ended 31 July 2023. This change affects the Cash Flow Statement report and has no impact on
the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Financial Position or on the level of reported
reserves. The comparatives for 2023 in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement have been amended to
reflect this change.

2.3 Universities Superannuation Scheme

FRS 102 makes the distinction between a group plan and a multi-employer scheme. A group plan
consists of a collection of entities under common control typically with a sponsoring employer.

41

STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

A multi-employer scheme is a scheme for entities not under common control and represents (typically)
an industry-wide scheme such as Universities Superannuation Scheme. The accounting for a multi-
employer scheme where the employer has entered into an agreement with the scheme that determines
how the employer will fund a deficit results in the recognition of a liability for the contributions payable
that arise from the agreement (to the extent that they relate to the deficit) with the resulting expense
charged through the profit or loss account in accordance with section 28 of FRS 102. The directors are
satisfied that Universities Superannuation Scheme meets the definition of a multi-employer scheme and
will therefore recognise the discounted fair value of the contractual contributions under the recovery
plan if this is in existence at the date of approving the financial statements.

2.4 Depreciation

The annual depreciation charge for fixed assets is sensitive to changes in the estimated useful
economic lives and residual values of the assets. Depreciation methods, useful economic lives and
residual values are reviewed by management at the date of preparation of each Statement of Financial
Position.

3. Accounting Estimates

The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet
date that have a significant risk of causing material adjustment to the carrying amounts of the assets
and liabilities within the next financial year are highlighted as follows.

3.1 Local Government Pension Scheme

The present value of the Local Government Pension Scheme defined benefit liability depends on a
number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a variety of assumptions. The
assumptions used in determining the net cost for pensions include the discount rate. Any changes in
these assumptions as disclosed in note 23 will impact on the carrying value of the pension liability.

3.2 Bad Debt Provision

The provision for bad and doubtful debts is based on our estimate of the expected recoverability of
debts. The assumptions underlying our estimate for bad debt provision are driven by the nature of
debtor (ie student, accommodation and commercial debt), as well as by the age profile of the component
debts. The validity of the respective provision percentages applied to each category of debt is reviewed
against recent historic trends for debt recoverability each year, following which the rates are prudently
revised where appropriate. On that basis, we believe that our estimate of bad debt provision each year
closely aligns with the risk associated with the recoverability of outstanding debt.

3.3 Provision for Dilapidations

Provision is made for the cost of dilapidations of certain of the University’s lease hold buildings. This
provision requires management's best estimate of the costs that will be incurred to settle a present
obligation and management rely on the judgement of a qualified valuer in making these assumptions.
4. Basis of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include the University and its subsidiary company for the financial
year to 31 July 2024. Intra-group transactions are eliminated on consolidation. The consolidated
financial statements do not include the income and expenditure of the Students’ Union as the University
does not exert control or dominant influence over policy decisions of the Union.

5. Recognition of Income

Income is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable and represents
amounts receivable for services provided in the normal course of business, net of discounts and VAT

42

STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

recoverable from HM Revenue and Customs. Revenue from transactions that have a commercial
substance, including tuition fee, accommodation, catering and conference income and consultancy fees
are recognised as income in the Statement of Comprehensive Income using the Performance Related
method of apportionment. Fee income is stated gross and credited to the income and expenditure
account over the period in which students are studying. This may involve the deferral of income over
more than one financial year. Where the amount of the tuition fee is reduced, by a discount awarded
by the University for prompt payment, income receivable is shown net of the discount. Bursaries and
scholarships are accounted for gross as expenditure and are not deducted from income.

Income generated as interest earned on short term deposits of cash and cash equivalents is recognised
as investment income in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

In the past interest earned on liquid funds had been reported in the Cash Flow Statement as part of the
University’s investment activities, which given that the University does not hold any income generating
investments did not seem to be an appropriate treatment. Due to the very short-term nature of the
deposits and cash held at the bank on which the interest is earned it seems more appropriate to
recognise this as part of the University’ operating activities. Therefore, the income will now be included
in the Cash Flow Statement as part of the surplus/(deficit) reported for the year.

6. Grants

Revenue-based grants from Government, the Office for Students (OfS), the Department for Education
(DfE) and HEKSS trusts are passed through the Income and Expenditure Account when the conditions

relating to the grant have been satisfied (see 5, Recognition of Income above). Grants or other
contributions from Government and other bodies are accounted for using the performance model and
are recognised in the financial statements when the conditions for their receipt have been complied with
and there is reasonable assurance that the grant or contribution will be received.

7. Agency Arrangements

Funds the institution receives and disperses as a paying agent on behalf of a funding body are excluded
from the income and expenditure of the University where the University is exposed to minimal risk or
enjoys minimal economic benefit related to the transaction.

8. Foreign Currencies

Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of exchange ruling at the date
of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated
into sterling at the closing rate as at the year end. The resulting exchange differences are charged to
the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

9. Operating Leases

Rental costs under operating leases are charged to expenditure in equal annual amounts over the
period of the leases. Rent free periods or other incentives reduce the total expenditure on the lease,
calculated by applying all of the incentive over the life of the lease.

10. Intangible Assets

The development cost to the University of software assets is capitalised as an intangible asset when
the asset comes into full use. Software in development is held in the asset register until complete and
fully in use. The value of the asset is stated at historic cost less accumulated amortisation charges, with
amortisation being charged on a straight line basis from the month that the asset is fully developed.

Significant intangible assets with a value of £200,000 or more are amortised over 10 years and lower

value assets of less than £200,000 are amortised over five years. The costs relating to the development
of the medical programme are capitalised as an intangible asset. Development costs accrue from the

43

STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

date at which the contract was entered into, and are capitalised when the asset comes into use, and
will be amortised when the benefits are realised on a straight-line basis over five years.

11. Tangible Assets

Tangible assets are stated at historic purchase cost less accumulated depreciation, or in the case of ,
Land and Buildings, at deemed cost based on the one-off revaluation undertaken at 31 July 2014.

The total cost of an asset can include incidental expenses incurred by staff or consultants, where these
costs relate entirely to the project. The costs of major building programmes will also include the interest
charged on any related loan finance used to fund the building during the construction phase of creating
the asset.

Depreciation is charged on a straight line basis from the month that the asset is acquired or that
construction is complete. During the time of construction the value of the asset is held in assets under
construction. Once construction is complete the value of the asset is transferred to the asset register.
Depreciation commences from when the asset is commissioned into use.

Land is not depreciated as it is considered to have an indefinite useful life. Buildings are depreciated
over their expected useful lives of up to 50 years. Assets in the course of construction are accounted
for at cost incurred to the end of the year. They are not depreciated until they are ready for use. For
large construction projects the components of the building are identified separately and are depreciated
over the useful economic life as determined by the nature of the asset.

Costs incurred in relation to a tangible fixed asset, after the initial purchase or production, are capitalised
to the extent that they increase the expected future benefits to the University from the existing tangible
fixed asset beyond its previously assessed standard of performance; the cost of any such
enhancements are added to the gross amount of the tangible fixed asset concerned.

Minor works in excess of £10,000 are separately identified and depreciated over ten years. These have
been included in the freehold land and buildings category in note 9.

Fixtures, fittings and equipment, including computers and software, costing less than £10,000 per
individual item are written off in the year of acquisition.

Equipment that is capitalised is depreciated over the useful economic life expectancy of the asset. This
is estimated to be 5 years for equipment including IT assets and between 10 to 25 years for plant and
machinery. Where buildings, minor works and equipment are acquired with the aid of specific grants
the asset is capitalised and depreciated as above. The related grants are released as income when the
performance conditions are met, or on receipt of funds if no conditions are specified.

Expenditure to ensure that a tangible fixed asset maintains its previously recognised standard of
performance is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period it is incurred.

The University has a planned maintenance programme, which is reviewed on an annual basis. All
assets are reviewed on an annual basis for indicators of impairment. Any adjustment to the value of an
asset for impairment is charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period it arises.

12. Assets held for resale
Tangible assets that are held for resale are carried at a value that is the lower of net book value or
expected recovery amount. Assets identified as being held for resale trigger an impairment review in

fine with the HE SORP. From the impairment review if an asset requires an adjustment to the carrying
value the resulting impairment is charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

44

STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
13. Stock

Stocks are materials held by various University departments including catering supplies, together with
books and other items purchased for resale. Stocks relate to finished products and are valued at the
lower of cost or selling price less costs to sell, on a first-in, first-out basis. Where necessary, provision
is made for obsolete, slow-moving and defective stocks.

14. Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash includes cash in hand, cash at bank, deposits repayable within 3 months and overdrafts.
15. Maintenance of Premises

The University has a long-term rolling maintenance plan which forms the basis of the ongoing
maintenance of the estate. The cost of routine corrective maintenance is charged to the income and
expenditure account as incurred. A provision for dilapidation is made where the lease agreement

requires the University to return the property to the landlord in a specified state. A provision is made
for the estimated costs of the dilapidation spread over the period of tenancy. Any increase or decrease
in this provision is charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

16. Taxation Status

The University is a registered charity within the meaning of Part 3 of the Charities Act 2011 and as such
is a charity within the meaning of Section 506 of the income and Corporation Tax Act 1988. It is
therefore a charity within the meaning of Para 1 of schedule 6 to Finance Act 2010 and accordingly, the
University is potentially exempt from taxation in respect of income or capital gains received within
categories covered by Sections 478-488 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010 or Section 256 of the
Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 to the extent that such income or gains are applied to
exclusively charitable purposes.

Canterbury Christ Church University receives no similar exemption in respect of Value Added Tax
(VAT). Irrecoverable VAT on inputs is included in the costs of such inputs. Any irrecoverable VAT
allocated to tangible fixed assets is included in their cost.

Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at
the balance sheet date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the
future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date. A net deferred tax
asset is presented in the financial statements as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on
the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable
taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of
underlying timing differences can be deducted. Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that
are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse based on
tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred
tax is measured on an undiscounted basis.

17. Pension Schemes

Retirement benefits to employees of the University are provided by the Local Government Pension
Scheme (LGPS), the University Superannuation Scheme (USS) and the Teachers’ Pension Scheme
(TPS). These are defined benefit schemes, with the USS and TPS schemes being multi-employer
schemes. It is not possible to identify the assets and liabilities of multi-employer schemes which are
attributable to the University on a consistent and reliable basis. In accordance with FRS 102, the USS
and TPS pension schemes are accounted for on a defined contribution basis and the contributions to
these schemes are included as expenditure in the period in which they are payable in the Statement of
Comprehensive Income.

45

STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

The University has an agreed obligation to fund past deficits of the USS and therefore, recognises the
net present value of contributions payable that arise from this agreement as a liability in the Statement
of Financial Position (Balance Sheet).

The TPS is an unfunded scheme and there is no liability for past deficits reported for this scheme.

The University is able to identify its share of assets and liabilities of the LGPS. The movement in the
defined benefit liability of this scheme, when adjusted for payments into and out of the plan, is charged
to the Statement of Comprehensive Income. This cost is the aggregation of changes in the defined
benefit obligation and changes in plan assets. To identify this liability the assets of the LGPS are valued
using bid values. LGPS liabilities are measured using the projected unit method and discounted at the
current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The increase in the present value of the liabilities of the scheme expected to arise from employee
service in the period is charged to Operating Expenses, Note 8.

The difference between the fair value of the University’s share of the assets held in the LGPS defined
benefit pension scheme and the schemes liabilities measured on an actuarial basis using the projected
unit method are recognised in the University's Statement of Financial Position (Balance Sheet) as a
pension scheme liability. The carrying value of any resulting pension scheme asset is restricted to the
extent that the University is able to recover the surplus through reduced contributions in the future or
through funds from the scheme.

Actuarial gains and losses, and movements to the defined benefit pension scheme's assets or liabilities
arising from a change in actuarial assumptions are charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income
in accordance with FRS 102.

18. Investments
Endowment asset investments are held as cash.

Where charitable donations are to be retained for the benefit of the institution as specified by the donors,
these are accounted for as endowments in the reserves on the Balance Sheet. The University has two
main types of endowments:

- Expendable endowments - the donor has specified a particular objective other than the
purchase or construction of tangible fixed assets, and the Institution can convert the donated
sum into income.

- Restricted permanent endowments - the donor has specified that the fund is to be permanently
invested to generate an income stream to be applied to a particular objective.

19. Financia! Instruments

The University does not hold any non-basic financial instruments. The primary financial instruments are
cash, loans, receivables from trade debtors and payables to creditors and suppliers. The recognition of
trade debtors and trade creditors is at fair value. Loans, accruals and prepayments are recognised at
the amortised cost.

Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the Group becomes a party to the
contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified
according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An equity instrument is any
contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of its liabilities.
All financial assets and liabilities are initially measured at transaction price (including transaction costs),
except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially
measured at fair value (which is normally the transaction price excluding transaction costs), unless the
arrangement constitutes a financing transaction. If an arrangement constitutes a financing transaction,
the financial asset or financial liability is measured at the present value of the future payments
discounted at a market rate of interest for a-similar debt instrument.

46

STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)

Financial assets and liabilities are only offset in the statement of financial position when, and only when
there exists a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and the Group intends either
to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Financial liabilities
are derecognised only when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires.

Assets, other than those measured at fair value, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each
balance sheet date. If there is objective evidence of impairment, an impairment loss is recognised in
the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

20. Investment in Subsidiaries

The investment in the subsidiary undertaking is shown at cost less any impairment value. The University
carries out an annual impairment review of the investment in the subsidiary.

21. Reserves

Reserves are classified as restricted or unrestricted. Restricted endowment reserves include balances
which, although endowed to the University, are held as a permanently restricted fund which the
University must hold in perpetuity. The following reserves are maintained:

+ Unrestricted — where the reserve is not restricted as to its use.

+ Designated — this is the designated pensions reserve reported in Note 23.

+ Restricted — where the University holds funds for which the donor has placed restrictions on
their use.

47

Consolidated and University Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure
For the Year Ended 31 July 2024

Income

Tuition fees and education contracts
Funding body grants

Research grants and contracts
Other income

Investment income

Total income

Expenditure

Staff costs

Interest and other finance costs
Other operating expenses

Depreciation and Amortisation

Total Expenditure

Notes

aAhWN =

Surplus/(Deficit) for the year before loss on disposal of

fixed assets

(Loss)/Profit on disposal of fixed assets

Surplus/(Deficit) for the year

Endowment comprehensive income for the year 17
Actuarial (loss)/gain in respect of pension scheme 23

Total comprehensive surplus for the year

Represented by:

Endowment comprehensive income/(losses) for the

year

17

Unrestricted comprehensive gain for the year

Surplus for the year attributable to the University

Consolidated University

2024 2023 2024 2023
£000 £'000 £°000 £'000
277,704 224,103 277,704 224,103
18,918 18,023 18,918 18,023
1,102 1,715 1,102 1,715
17,038 18,715 16,870 18,575
4,353 1,252 4,335 1,243
319,115 263,808 318,929 263,659
98,036 88,509 97,936 88,405
3,582 2,658 3,582 2,658
199,713 159,353 199,683 159,351
10,539 9,900 10,539 9,900
311,870 260,420 311,740 260,314
7,245 3,388 7,189 3,345

- (146) - (146)
7,245 3,242 7,189 3,199

2 (30) 2 (30)
(2,195) 9,880 (2,195) 9,880
5,052 13,092 4,996 13,049

2 (30) 2 (30)

5,050 13,122 4,994 13,079
5,052 13,092 4,996 13,049

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

48

Consolidated and University Statement of Changes in Reserves

For the Year Ended 31 July 2024

Consolidated

Balance at 1 August 2022

Surplus from the income and expenditure statement
Other comprehensive income

Total comprehensive income for the year
Balance at 31 July 2023
Balance at 1 August 2023

Surplus from the income and expenditure statement
Other comprehensive income

Total comprehensive income for the year

Balance at 31 July 2024

University

Balance at 1 August 2022

Surplus from the income and expenditure statement
Other comprehensive income

Total comprehensive income for the year

Balance at 31 July 2023
Balance at 1 August 2023

Surplus from the income and expenditure statement
Other comprehensive income

Total comprehensive income for the year

Balance at 31 July 2024

Income and expenditure account Total
Endowment _ Restricted Unrestricted
£'000 £'000 £°000 £'000
483 40 124,568 125,091
- - 3,242 3,242
(25) (5) 9,880 9,850
(25) (5) 13,122 13,092
458 35 137,690 138,183
458 35 137,690 138,183
. - 7,245 7,245
- 2 (2,195) (2,193)
- 2 5,050 5,052
458 37 142,740 143,235
Income and expenditure account Total
Expendable Restricted Unrestricted

£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
483 40 124,594 125,117

: - 3,199 3,199

(25) (3) 9,880 9,852
(25) (3) 13,079 13,051
458 37 137,673 138,168
458 37 137,673 138,168

- - 7,189 7,189

- 2 (2,195) (2,193)

- 2 4,994 4,996

458 39 142,667 143,164

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

49

Consolidated and University Statement of Financial Position

As at 31 July 2024
As at 31 July As at 31 July
Consolidated University
Notes 2024 2023 2024 2023
£'000 £000 €£'000 £'000
Non-current assets
Tangible assets 9 162,863 167,356 162,863 167,356
investments 10 : - 450 450
Intangible assets 11 18,136 16,956 18,136 16,956
180,999 184,312 181,449 184,762
Current assets
Stock 249 239 249 239
Trade and other receivables 12 143,855 104,597 143,881 104,674
Cash and cash equivalents 18 57,346 55,312 56,956 55,086
201,450 160,148 201,086 159,999
Less: Creditors: amounts falling
due within one year 13 ( 184,854) ( 141,192) ( 185,011) (141,508)
Net current assets 16,596 18,956 16,075 18,491
Tota} assets less current liabilities 197,595 203,268 197,526 203,253
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 14 ( 50,328) (54,041) (50,328) (54,041)
Provisions
Pension liability LGPS 23 - - - -
Other provisions 16 (4,032) (11,044) { 4,032) (11,044)
Total net assets 143,235 138,183 143,164 138,168
eee ee eee
Restricted Reserves
Income and expenditure reserve - endowment reserve 7 37 35 37 35
Unrestricted Reserves
Income and expenditure reserve - endowment reserve 17 458 458 458 458
Income and expenditure - Local Government Pension Scheme reserve - - - -
Income and expenditure reserve - unrestricted includes pension 142,740 137,690 142,669 137,675
143,198 438,148 143,127 138,133
Total Funds 143,235 138,183 ° 143,164 138,168
ae ESS

The Financial Statements on pages 44 to 76 were approved and authorised for issue by the Governing Body on 26 November 2024
and signed on Its behalf by:

Professor R Thirunamachandran a
Vice Chancellor and Principal / Gone 7 ;
Canterbury Christ Church University ”

Registered company number 04793659

Ms J Armitt . -
Pro-Chancellor (Chair of the Governing Body)

a

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
50

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the Year ended 31 July 2024

Cash flow from operating activities
Surplus/(deficit) for the year

Adjustment for non-cash items
Depreciation and amortisation
(Increase)/decrease in stock

(Increase) in debtors

Increase in creditors
(Decrease)/increase in other provisions
Pension charges

Adjustment for investing or financing activities
Interest payable

Endowment income and donations

Loss/(profit) on the sale of tangible assets

Capital Grant income

Net cash inflow from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities

Proceeds from sales of fixed assets

Payments made to acquire tangible and intangible assets
Payments from endowment assets

Capital grant receipts

Net cash (outflow) from investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities

Interest paid

Endowment cash received

New unsecured loans

Repayments of amounts borrowed

Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities

Increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year

Notes

9/11

12
13
16
23

9/11
17
2/14

17
14
15

18
18

2024 2023
Restated
£°000 £'000
7,245 3,242
10,539 9,900
(10) 2
(39,258) (35,129)
43,820 41,579
(7,012) (1,451)
(2,166) 3,973
3,553 2,502
(104) (43)
- 146
(355) 4.751)
16,252 22,970
- 2,097
( 7,226) (8,328)
(102) (74)
355 1,751
(6,973) (4,554)
(3,553) (2,502)
104 41
- 14,000
(3,796) (8,966)
(7,245) 2,573
2,034 20,989
55,312 34,323
57,346 55,312

* The comparatives have been amended in the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement. The interest earned on
cash and cash equivalents has been restated in 2023 as it is included in the surplus for the year and is no

longer reported separately as investment income.

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

51

Notes to the Financial Statements

Consolidated & University

1. TUITION FEES AND EDUCATIONAL CONTRACTS

2024 2023

Notes £°000 £000

Full-time home and European students 252,174 204,683
Full-time Students Overseas 16,951 11,462
Part-time Students 4,519 4,179
Total fees paid by or on behalf of individual students 273,644 220,324
Education contracts 4,060 3,779
Total 277,704 224,103

Consolidated & University
2. FUNDING BODY GRANTS

2024 2023
Recurrent grant £'000 £'000
Office for Students 10,703 8,573
Research England 3,412 3,672
Education and Skills Funding Agency : 3,446 2,984
Total recurrent grants : 17,561 15,229
Specific grants
Challenge Competitions - 28
Regional Innovation Fund 36 -
Higher Education Innovation Fund 738 735
QR Policy Support 50 50
Enhancing Research Culture 150 150
QR Participatory Research 20 20
Department for Education 8 60
Total specific grants 1,002 1,043
Capital grant received and recognised in the year
SELEP - 328
OfS - Capital - 473
OfS - Teaching Capital Investment Fund 50 100
OfS - Research Capital Investment Fund 100 150
NHSE (Formerly HEE - KMMS) 205 700
Total capital grants 355 1,751
Total 18,918 18,023

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
52

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

Consolidated & University

3. RESEARCH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS 2024 2023
£'000 £'000

Research Councils 198 20

Research Charities 289 265

Government UK & Overseas 307 661

Industry Commerce Public 113 68

Other grants and contracts | 195 701
402 715

Consolidated

4. OTHER OPERATING INCOME 2024 2023
£°000 £'000

Residences, catering and conferences 8,020 8,255
Other income generating activities 8,214 9,857
Other operating income 804 603
17,038 18,715

Other income generating activities above include Teach First, consultancy fees and
consultancy contracts, social work and community engagement.

Consolidated

5. INVESTMENT INCOME 2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Bank interest receivable 2,647 1,252
Pensions interest 1,706 -
43530 1,252

Bank interest receivable is now reported as part of cash flow from operating activities in
the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, as per the Accounting Policy for income
recognition, 2.2. The comparatives reported for 2023 have been amended in the Cash
Flow Statement to reflect this change, as stated on page 51 of the Financial Statements.

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
53

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

6. STAFF COSTS

All Staff are employed by Canterbury Christ Church University. The average monthly number of persons (including senior
post holders) employed during the year, expressed as full time equivalents was:

Consolidated

2024 2023
Number Number
Academic Staff 653 627
Professional Service Staff 851 828
Academic Support Staff 258 209
Total 1,762 1,664
2024 2023
: £'000 £'000
Staff costs
Wages and salaries 75,994 69,031
Social security costs 7,303 6,716
Other pension costs 14,739 12,762

Total 98,036 88,509

The other pension costs represents the total value of contributions due in the year to TPS, USS and LGPS. In 2023 an
additional cost of £3,817k was recognised within other operating expenses relating to the balance between the contributions
due to the LGPS and the actuarially calculated service cost. In 2024 the actuarially calculated service costs charged was
less than the amount of contribution paid in year, and therefore the charge to other operating expenses was a net credit of
(£489k) after taking into account administrative charges. The total pension charges recognised for the year are reported in
note 23.

Included in Wages and salaries and other pension costs are severance payments of £1,901,957 for 73 members of staff
(2023: £660,132 for 30 members of staff). The University has in place a redundancy policy that is applied for all instances of
restructuring that may generate a redundancy situation. Although every effort is taken to minimise the risk of redundancy,
where redundancies ‘are unavoidable, the University will endeavour to handle them fairly, consistently, empathetically and
with dignity. The policy defines the measures that will be taken to ensure this, through providing meaningful information, and
consulting and involving employees and recognised trade unions regarding proposals for organisational change.

Key management personnel

Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the
activities of the University. Staff costs includes compensation paid to key management personnel. Compensation consists of
salary and benefits, including employer's pension contribution. The Key Management Personnel in the University are
members of the Senior Management Team.

In 2023/2024 there were 14 senior post holders holding positions for 13 roles due to staff changes in year (2022/2023 there
were 12 senior post holders in post).

2024 2023
£'000 £'000

Key management personnel compensation 2,051 1,929

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
54

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

6. STAFF COSTS (CONTINUED)

Higher paid staff
2024 2023
Salary Range Number Number

£100,000 to £104,999
£105,000 to £109,999
£110,000 to £114,999
£115,000 to £119,999
£120,000 to £124,999
£125,000 to £129,999
£130,000 to £134,999
£140,000 to £144,999 1 -
£150,000 to £154,999 - .
£155,000 to £155,999 - -
£160,000 to £164,999 : 1
£165,000 to £169,999 - :
£170,000 to £174,999 1 -
£175,000 to £179,999 - -
£180,000 to £185,000 - 1
£190,000 to £194,999 1 -

1 OwWrne
1 oaonoaw

Excluding the Vice Chancellor 1 13

The emoluments paid to the five members of the Governing Body (2023: 5) and their accrued benefits
under defined benefits pension schemes are shown below:

2024 2023
£'000 £000
Salaries 525 509
Employer's pension contributions 61 66
Total 586 575
Emoluments of the Vice-Chancellor, being the highest paid director
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Salary 293 282
Employer's pension contributions 8 18
Total emoluments of the Vice-Chancellor 301 300

The emoluments of the Vice Chancellor are shown on the same basis as for higher paid staff. There
have been no non-taxable or taxable benefits paid to the Vice Chancellor in the year other than
those that are for the reimbursement of business travel and other business expenses. These are
claimed in line with the University’s staff expenses policy. The Vice Chancellor's expense claims and
charges are approved by the Pro-Chancellor and published on the University’s website.

The Vice Chancellor has enhanced opt out membership of the USS Pension Scheme, and therefore,
the contribution made by the University to the scheme on his behalf was at the rate of 6.5% to 31
December 2023. This reduced to zero contribution rate from 1 January 2024.

The pay ratio of the Vice Chancellor's total emoluments as a ratio to the median of the total
emoluments for all staff is 8.1:1 (2023: 8.2:1). The pay ratio of the Vice Chancellor's basic salary as
a ratio to the median of the basic salary of all staff is 7.9:1 (2023: 7.8:1). These calculations are ona
full time equivatent basis for all staff employed by the University whose payroll charges are included
in the real time information report to HM Revenue and Customs.

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
55

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

6. STAFF COSTS (CONTINUED)

Directors’ Emoluments

The remuneration of the Vice-Chancellor is determined by the Remuneration Committee which is made up of
Independent Members only and chaired by Ms Nadra Ahmed CBE. From November 2018, the Committee
has been supplemented to include an external member, Lord Colgrain, who is not a member of the
Governing Body. In addition, the President of the Students’ Union has been a member of this Committee
since November 2021. The decisions of the Remuneration Committee are reported in writing to the full
Governing Body.

The remuneration of the Vice-Chancellor is based on an annual appraisal against objectives carried out by
the Pro-Chancellor. Any annual increase in the Vice-Chancellor’s pay is based on a senior salary
framework, which was approved by the Remuneration Committee in 2014 and subsequently updated in 2019
and applies equally to all members of the Senior Management Team. The framework is based on a 3-point
scale for assessment and performance — exceptional, excellent and requiring improvement. The pay
increase for an ‘excellent’ rating is pegged to the annual national pay award for all staff.

Based upon the Vice-Chancellor's performance in 2022/23, the committee agreed with the Pro-Chancellor's
assessment that this represented excellent performance and accordingly a pay increase in line with the
national award was approved by the committee at 5%. In support of this assessment, the committee noted
that despite a number of setbacks in the year the Vice-Chancellor had taken positive action to transform
leadership in the University. This supported the preparation for re-accreditation of the nursing provision in
early 2024 and the achievement of a number of significant outcomes including:

. the silver award in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF);

. a ‘Good’ rating from Ofsted for Primary, Secondary and Further Education teacher training;
° the University being ranked as number 1 in the country for the employability of graduates;
. an 8% improvement in the National Student Survey;

. the presentation and launch in year of a new Strategic Framework for 2023-30.

In the face of challenging recruitment numbers of undergraduate students in the University and across the
sector, the finances of the University performed well. Income for the year 2022/23 increased by 42% and the
University reported an operating surplus.

The Vice-Chancellor continues to be held in considerable esteem across the Higher Education sector
following many years of experience gained in senior roles within the Higher Education Funding Council and
universities. The Vice-Chancellor's understanding and influence on national policy issues is invaluable and
he continues to raise the profile of the University through external engagement, as demonstrated by the
roles he undertakes on a regional, national and global basis.

On a national level he is a member of the Board of Universities UK.

On a regional basis he is an Ambassador for the Chatham Historic Dockyard, a Kent Ambassador and holds
the position of a Deputy Lieutenant of Kent.

On the global stage he represents the University as a Trustee of the Colleges and Universities of the
Anglican Communion (CUAC). In this role and as the senior leader of the University, the Vice-Chancellor
upholds the values of the University as a Church of England Foundation.

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
56

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

7. INTEREST PAYABLE AND OTHER FINANCE COSTS Consolidated & University
2024 2023

£'000 £'000

Bank loans not wholly repayable within five years 3,553 2,502
Net charge on pension schemes 29 156

Total 3,582 2,658

Consolidated

8. ANALYSIS OF TOTAL EXPENDITURE BY ACTIVITY 2024 2023
: £'000 £'000
Academic departments 221,143 177,625
Academic services departments 6,009 5,667
Administration and central services 40,001 34,445
Premises 14,825 14,122
Residences, catering and conferences 12,285 12,212
Research grants and contracts 1,809 2,124
Other expenses 1,677 1,667
Depreciation 10,539 9,900
Interest payable and other finance costs 3,582 2,658
311,870 260,420
Consolidated
2024 2023
Other operating expenses include: £'000 £'000
Fees payable for auditing of the financial statements of the parent company 66 52
Fees payable for auditing the subsidiary company 10 5
Other fees payable to the group auditor - grant and pension assurance review 5 5
Operating lease rentals - land and buildings 7,056 7,023
Operating lease rentals - equipment 114 152
8a ACCESS AND PARTICIPATION 2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Access Investment (i) 1,122 961
Financial Support 4,250 4,657
Disability Support (i) 1,698 1,553
Research and Evaluation 134 80
7,204 “7,251,

(i) £1,945k of these costs are included in the staff cost figures included in the financial statements, note 6, (2023:
£1,356k).

The published. Access and Participation plan is available on: https:/Awww.canterbury.ac.uk/about-us/access-and-
participation

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
57

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

9. TANGIBLE ASSETS Consolidated and University
Fixtures,

Freehold Land Assets under Fittings and Plant and

and Buildings Construction Equipment Machinery Total
Cost and deemed cost for
land and buildings £'000 £000 £000 £°000 £'000
At 1 August 2023 179,696 4,129 33,357 8,527 225,709
Additions - 3,975 - - 3,975
Assets coming into use 648 ( 4,666) 3,292 726 -
Disposals - - - - -
At 31 July 2024 180,344 3,438 36,649 9,253 229,684

Accumulated depreciation

and impairment losses

At 1 August 2023

Depreciation ( 30,422) - (22,335) (5,596) (58,353)

Charge for the year -

Depreciation (4,496) (81) (3,258) ( 633) ( 8,468)
Disposals -

Depreciation - - - - -

At 31 July 2024 (34,918) (81) (25,593) (6,229) (66,821)
Net book value

At 31 July 2024 145,426 3,357 11,056 3,024 162,863
At 34 July 2023 149,274 4,129 11,022 2,931 167,356

Financed by capital grant:
At 31 July 2024 - : 355 : 355

At 31 July 2023 - - 175400 1,751

As part of the transition to FRS 102 the University's land and buildings were valued at 31 July 2014 by Strutt and
Parker, an external valuer, in accordance with RICS Valuation — professional standards.

Heritage Assets

Heritage assets held by the University consists of artwork and assets of cultural interest displayed in the University’s
campuses held in perpetuity. The total estimated value of the assets as determined at 31 July 2024 is £172,720 (April
2023: £170,550). The recognition value of all items is based on the insurance replacement cost. The heritage assets
are not depreciated as their individual value, other than for insurance purposes, is not known. These asset values are
not included in the tangible asset note.

Assets Held for Resale

There were no tangible assets held for resale in the financial year to 31 July 2024.

Subsidiary Company Assets

There were no tangible assets held by the subsidiary company.

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
: 58

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

10. FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS

Shares/
Capital
Contribution Loans Total
£'000 £'000 £'000
450 - 450
At 1 August 2023 and 31 July 2024 450 “ 450

Medco (CCCU) Limited had share capital of 10,000,000 £1 ordinary shares of which 4,500,002 were
issued, all owned by Canterbury Christ Church University. £4,500,000 of the £1 ordinary shares were
converted from issued and paid up redeemable preference shares at an Extraordinary General Meeting on
the 7 November 2006. At an Extraordinary General Meeting held on 26 October 2009, Canterbury Christ
Church University agreed to a voluntary reduction in its share capital from £4,500,002 to £449,999.

The subsidiary company Medco (CCCU) Limited had been dormant from July 2012. The company was
reactivated and started trading as an agency for temporary staff from 1 February 2015. The results of the
subsidiary company have been consolidated with the parent company's statements. The registered address
of the subsidiary company is the same as the parent: Anselm, North Holmes Raod, Canterbury, Kent, CT1
1QU.

The Directors and Governing Body believe that the carrying value of the investment is underpinned by the
operational value the business provides to the parent company. This support is in the form of agency
workers in a range of roles within the University, and to students and graduates in the form of employment
opportunities.

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 314 July 2024
59

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

11. INTANGIBLE ASSETS Consolidated and University
Assets in ;
development Software Total
£°000 £'000 £'000
At 1 August 2023 2,144 17,929 20,073
Additions 3,251 - 3,251
Assets coming into use (2,641) 2,641 -
At 31 July 2024 ~ 2,754_ 20,570 23,324
Amortisation
At 1 August 2023 - 3,117 3,117
Charge for the year - 2,071 2,071
At 31 July 2024 ee 5,188 5,188
Net book value
At 31 July 2024 2,754 — 15,382_ 48,136
Atst July 2023 2,144 14,812 16,956

Intangible assets include software assets that are under development by the University and those
that are complete and are brought into use in the year. This includes the development cost of the
Medical School programme.

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
60

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

12. TRADE DEBTORS AND OTHER RECEIVABLES

Consolidated University
2024 2023 2024 2023
£°000 £'000 £°000 £'000
Trade debtors 119,985 83,634 119,985 83,634
Prepayments and accrued income ; 23,870 20,963 23,870 21,019
Amount owed by subsidiary company - - 26 21
143,855 104,597 143,881 104,674

The level of debt related to student tuition owed at the end of the year has increased by £32m due to the
intake of partnership students.

As at 31 July 2024 the University has a debtor of monies owed by the University of Kent of £286,193
(2023: £1,147,704).

13. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

Consolidated University

2024 2023 2024 2023

£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Bank loans 3,713 3,796 3,713 ' 3,796
Trade creditors 36,477 22,147 36,449 223147
Amount owed to subsidiary company - - 175 306
Taxation and social security 3,640 3,378 3,640 3,378
Accruals and deferred income 141,024 111,871 141,034 411,881

184,854 141,192 185,011 141,508

Amounts owed to the subsidiary company and amounts owed by the parent company are unsecured, interest free and
repayable 30 days from the date of invoice. The bank loans relate to the capital repayment of loan finance to support
the campus redevelopment, the purchase of the prison and student accommodation in Broadstairs. The repayment
profile has increased since the prior year due to the capital repayments now being made for the termed out loan for
the Verena Holmes building, held jointly with Lloyds and Natwest banks. Loans are secured on assets held by the
University and the loan agreement restricts further borrowing and indebtedness.

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
61

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

14 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR
Consolidated University
2024 2023 2024 2023
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Secured loans 50,328 54,041 50,328 54,044
50,328 54,041 50,328 50,190

The Revolving Credit Facility was a flexible loan provided jointly by Lloyds and NatWest banks. The credit facility converted ta long
term finance on 24 April 2023 at the intitial loan amount of £35m, amortising over a 20 year profile and is now reported in secured
loans.

Loans held with Lloyds and Natwest banks have been secured over the freehold land and buildings included in Tangible fixed assets
in note 9.

15 BORROWINGS
Original
amount
Lender borrowed |Term (Years| Date

£000

Lloyds Bank [Thanet Campus Development 4,250]
Lloyds Bank Thanet Accommadation Development

Lloyds Bank Canterbury Campus Development . . 6,102
Lloyds Bank Canterbury Campus Development 1 . 2,631 2,875

Lloyds Bank Canterbury Campus Development 2 . 9,294 10,154

Lloyds Bank Canterbury Campus Development 3 .! 2,624 2,875
oyds Bank Verena Holmes (50%) : . 16,407 17,281

Natwest Verena Holmes (50%) : 5. 16,407 17,281

|Carbon Saving measures - interest
|Satix Finance free toan .! 1

Total 54,041 57,837

In April 2018 the University entered into a financing through a Revolving Credit Facility jointly with Lloyds Bank and Natwest to further
support the Estates Master Plan for the second phase, including construction of the Verena Holmes building. The total credit agreement
was for £47,000,000 for five years with the option to convert to a term loan on completion of the building programme. There was a non-
utilisation charge whilst the funds remain committed but undrawn of 0.6%. The utilisation costs were expensed to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income. This loan converted to a term loan on a 20 year amortisation profile on 24 April 2023, with £35,000,000 being
drawn on the conversion date.

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
62

15. BORROWINGS (CONTINUED)

16.

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

Bank loans and overdrafts

Bank loans and overdrafts are repayable as follows:

In one year or less

Between one year and two years
Between two and five years

In five years or more

Total

PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES

Dilapidation provision at the start of the year

Additions in year
Utilised in year

At 31 July

Other Provisions

Provisions at the start of the year

Additions in year

Utilised in year

Provision at the end of the year

Consolidated and University

2024
£'000
3,713
3,648

11,129

35,551

54,041

2023
£'000
3,796
3,713

11,034

39,294

57,837

Consolidated and University

2024
£'000

1,898
268
(218)

1,948

2024
£'000

9,146
1,424
(8,483)

2,084

2023
£'000

1,833
377

(312)

1,898

The University has provided for the potential future dilapidation costs in line with the substance of the
works required.

2023
£°000

10,662
3,131

(4,647)

9,146

Provision is made for the return of unused funding from prior years, costs relating to fire safety wort
and charges for costs from curriculum changes. The net pension liability arising from future pensic
costs of the Universities Superannuation Scheme has reverted to a neutral position from 31 July 202.

and the provision has been released in full.

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

17. ENDOWMENTS

Consolidated and University

Expendable
£'000

Opening balance at 1 August 2023
Capital 458
Movement for the year to date
New Endowments 46
Donations 32
Interest 24
Expenditure (102)
Closing balance at 31 July 2024 458
Represented by:
Capital 458

The above amounts are represented by cash balances

Representing:

Specific donations 3
Scholarships and bursaries 230
Prize funds 225

458

Restricted
Permanent

£000

35

37

37

31

37

2024
Total

£'000

493

46

32

26

(102)

495

495

236
256

495

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

64

2023

Total
£'000

523

32

12

(74)

(30)

493

523

215

276

493

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

18. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

University At 1st August Cash At 31st July
2023 Flows 2024
£'000 £'000 £'000

Balance at bank 54,629 1,807 56,436
Cash & cash equivalents - 457 63 520
endowment assets
55,086 1,870 56,956
Consolidated
At ist August Cash At 31st July
2023 Flows 2024
£'000 £°000 £'000
Balance at bank - University 54,629 1,807 56,436
Balance at bank - Medco (CCCU) 226 164 390
Limited
Cash & cash equivalents - 457 63 520
endowment assets
55,312 2,034 57,346

19. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

In response to the Supreme Court's decision in the Harpur Trust v Brazel case the Government
consulted on the calculation of holiday entitlement for part time and irregular hours workers. This has
required reforms coming in from 1 January 2024 to simplify and address issues for employers. The
University's policies and procedures are in accord with the reforms and the contingent liability
reported in 2022/2023 is no longer considered to have an impact on the University in the current or
future years.

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
65

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

20. LEASE OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER COMMITMENTS

At 31 July 2024, Canterbury Christ Church University had annual commitments under non-cancellable operating
leases as follows:

Land and
Buildings Total 2023
£'000 £°000 £'000
Paid during the year 6,183 6,183 6,392

Future minimum lease payments due:

Not later than 1 year 6,507 6,507 6,123
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 24,703 24,703 22,771
Later than 5 years 83,890 83,890 65,202
Total! lease payments due 115,100 115,100 94,096

The University had outstanding financial commitments in the form of open purchase orders with a total value of
£16,258,055 at the year end (2023: £14,420,419). These orders do not form part of the above lease
commitments.

Other commitments consist of long term arrangements for the use of Polo Farm facilities by the University for a
term of 65 years.

Future minimum payments due: 2024 2023
£'000 £000
Not later than 1 year 389 327
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 1,558 1,310
Later than 5 years 19,624 16,829
21,571 18,466

21. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES

Canterbury Christ Church University's subsidiary company, Medco (CCCU) Limited trades as a Unitemps staffing
agency, under a franchise arrangement with Warwick University Enterprises Limited. The ultimate controlling
party of the subsidiary company is the parent company, the University. The subsidiary company's results have
been consolidated with the parent company in these financial statements.

Funding council grants are disclosed on the face of the statement of comprehensive income and in the relevant
notes to the financial statements.

22. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD

There are no events to be reported after the reporting period.

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
66

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

23. PENSION SCHEMES

The three principal pension schemes for Canterbury Christ Church University's staff are the Teacher's Pension
Scheme (TPS), the local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) and the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS).
The schemes are defined benefit schemes. The TPS and USS schemes are both multi-employer schemes and it is not
possible to identify the assets of the schemes which are attributable to the University on a consistent and reliable
basis. In accordance with FRS 102 the USS and TPS pension schemes are accounted for on a defined contributions
basis. The contributions to these schemes are included as expenditure in the period in which they are payable in the
Statement of Comprehensive Income.

The University had an agreed obligation to fund past deficits of the USS and therefore, when in deficit it will recognise
the contributions payable that arise from the agreement as a liability in the Balance Sheet. As the scheme has now
moved into surplus, there is no liability to be reported by the University in the financial year ending 31 July 2024.

The TPS is an unfunded scheme and therefore, no liability for past deficits are reported.

The total employer's pension contribution for Canterbury Christ Church University was:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Contribution to TPS 8,293 7,067
Contribution to LGPS , 6,119 5,316
Contribution to USS 326 376
__14,738_ 12,759
Percentage employers contributions to TPS as at the year end 28.68% 23.68%
Percentage employers contributions to LGPS as at the year end 18.50% 17.50%
Percentage employers contributions to USS as at the year end 14.50% 21.10%

The assumptions and other data relevant to the determination of the contribution levels of the schemes are as follows:

TPS LGPS USS
Latest actuarial valuations 31/03/20 31/03/22 31/03/23
. Prospective Projected Projected Unit
Actuarial Method benefits Unit
Dual rate of

0.9% pa and
2.5% pa above
Discount rate CPI +1.7% 4.50% gilt yields

Salary scale increases per annum 3.55% 3.90% CPI + 1%

Linked to CPI +/-

Pension increases per annum 2.55% CPI at £2.9% 3bps

Market value of assets at date of last valuation NIA £7.70bn £73.1bn
Notional value of assets at date of the last valuation £222.2bn NIA N/A
Proportion of members accrued benefits covered by 85% 102% 111%

the actuarial value of assets

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
67

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

23. PENSION SCHEMES (CONTINUED)

The most recent valuation of Kent's Local Government Pension Scheme at 31 March 2022
records a surplus of £129m, equivalent to a funding level of assets to liabilities of 102%.

The Teachers' Pension Scheme valuation at 31 March 2020 reported the scheme as having a
notional deficit of £15.0 billion.

The latest Universities’ Superannuation Scheme valuation at 31 March 2023 indicated that the
scheme had a surplus of £7.4 billion, equivalent to a funding level of assets to liabilities of
111%,

Teachers’ Pensions Scheme

The Teachers' Pension Scheme (TPS) is a statutory, contributory, defined benefit scheme. The
regulations under which the TPS operates are the Teachers’ Pensions Regulations 1997, as
amended. These regulations apply to teachers in schools and other educational establishments
in England and Wales maintained by local authorities, to teachers in many independent and
voluntary-aided schools, and to teachers and lecturers in establishments of further and higher
education. Membership is automatic for full-time teachers and lecturers and from 1 January
2007, for teachers and lecturers in part-time employment following appointment or a change of
contract. Teachers and lecturers are able to opt out of the TPS.

The Teachers' Pensions Regulations require an annual account, the Teachers' Pension
Account, to be kept of receipts and expenditure (including the cost of pensions’ increases).
From 1 April 2001, the Account has been credited with a real rate of return (in excess of price
increases and currently set at 3.1%), which is equivalent to assuming that the balance in the
account is invested in notional investments that produce that real rate of return.

Not less than every four years the Government Actuary, using normal actuarial principles,
conducts a formal actuarial review of the TPS. The aim of the review is to specify the level of
future contributions.

The contribution rate paid into the TPS is assessed in two parts. First, a standard contribution
rate (SCR) is determined. This is the contribution, expressed as a percentage of the salaries of
teachers and lecturers in service or entering service during the period over which the
contribution rate applies, which if it were paid over the entire active service of these teachers
and lecturers would broadly defray the cost of benefits payable in respect of that
service. Secondly, a supplementary contribution is payable if, as a result of the actuarial
investigation, it is found that accumulated liabilities of the Account for benefits to past and
present teachers, are not fully covered by standard contributions to be paid in future and by the
notional fund built up from past contributions. The total contribution rate payable is the sum of
the SCR and the supplementary contribution rate.

Although teachers and lecturers are employed by various bodies, their retirement and other

pension benefits, including annual increases payable under the Pensions (Increase) Acts, as

provided for in the Superannuation Act 1972, are paid out of monies provided by Parliament.

Under the unfunded TPS, teachers’ contributions on a ‘pay-as-you-go’ basis and employers’

contributions are credited to the Exchequer under arrangements governed by the above Act.
_ The scheme is accounted for as if it is a defined contribution scheme.

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
68

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

23. Pension Schemes (continued)
Universities Superannuation Scheme

USS is valued every three years by professionally qualified independent actuaries using the
projected unit method, the rates of contribution payable being determined by the trustees on the
advice of the actuaries. In the intervening years, the USS actuary reviews the progress of the USS
scheme.

The contribution rate payable by Canterbury Christ Church University to USS reduced from 21.6%
to 14.1% of pensionable salaries from 1 January 2024. The actuary to USS has confirmed that it
is appropriate to take the pension costs in Canterbury Christ Church University's financial
statements to be equal to the actual contributions paid during the year. In particular, the current
contribution rate has regard to the surplus/(deficit) disclosed, the benefit improvements introduced
subsequent to the valuation and the need to spread the surplus/(deficit) in a prudent manner over
the future working lifetime of current scheme members.

Because of the mutual nature of the scheme, Canterbury Christ Church University is unable to
identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a consistent and
reasonable basis and therefore, accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution
scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the income and expenditure account represents the
contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting year. The liability for future
payments is included in the balance sheet as a provision.In 2024 the scheme is in surplus and
there is no liability to be reported in the University's balance sheet.

Local Government Pension Scheme

The LGPS is a funded scheme and is valued every three years by actuaries using the projected
unit method, the rates of contribution payable being determined by the members of Kent County
Council Superannuation Fund on the advice of the actuaries. In the intervening years, the LGPS
actuary reviews the progress of the LGPS scheme.

For LGPS, the actuary has indicated that the resources of the scheme are likely, in the normal
course of events, to meet the liabilities as they fall due at the level specified by the LGPS
Regulations.

Under the definitions set out in FRS 102 the LGPS is a multi-employer defined benefit pension
scheme. In the case of the LGPS, the actuary of the scheme has identified Canterbury Christ
Church University’s share of its assets and liabilities as at 31 July 2024.

The pension scheme assets are held in a separate trustee administered fund to meet long-term
pension liabilities to past and present employees. The trustees of the fund are required to act in
the best interests of the funds’ beneficiaries. The appointment of the trustees of the fund is
determined by the scheme’s trust documentation. The trustees are responsible for setting the
investment strategy for the scheme after consultation with professional advisors.

The significant assumptions used by the actuary for FRS 102 for the LGPS at 31 July 2024 were:

2024 2023
% pa % pa
Inflation / Pension increase 2.80 2.85
Rate of increase in salaries 3.30 3.35
Discount rate for liabilities 5.10 5.15

It is accepted there is a potential financial impact to the choice of assumptions applied. The
University has considered the assumptions to be applied for the year in comparison to
assumptions applied by other institutions in the sector.

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
69

23. PENSION SCHEMES (CONTINUED)

The post retirement mortality tables adopted are the S3A tables. These base tables are projected using the
CMI 2023 model. The S3PA tables provide for a multiplier of 110% for both males and females. The base
tables are projected with a long term rate of improvement of 1.25% p.a., a smoothing parameter of 7.0, and
an initital parameter of 0.0%. The weighting parameter for 2023 is 15%.

The assumed life expectations from age 65 are:

Males Females
Current Pensioners 20.7 years 23.3 years
Future Pensioners 22.0 years 24.6 years
Sensitivity analysis
£'000 £000 £'000
Adjustment to discount rate +0.1% 0.0% 0.1%
Present value of total obligation 133,428 135,976 138,598
Projected service cost 5,291 5,497 5,711
Adjustment to long term salary increase +0.1% 0.0% 0.1%
Present value of total obligation 136,125 135,976 135,829
Projected service cost 5,497 5,497 5,497
Adjustment to pension increases and +0.1% 0.0% 0.1%
deferred revaluation
Present value of total obligation 138,506 135,976 133,517
Projected service cost 5,718 5,497 5,283
Adjustment to life expectancy assumption: +1 Year None -1 Year
Present value of total obligation 140,248 135,976 131,842
Projected service cost 5,706 5,497 5,294

The assets in the LGPS scheme and the expected rate of return for Canterbury Christ Church University
were:

Value at 31 Value at 31
July 2024 July 2023
£'000 £'000
Equities 97,361 99,123
Gilts 12,052 863
Bonds 24,771 21,275
Property 15,196 15,597
Cash 5,382 1,782
Absolute return fund 8,615 11,132
Infrastructure 7,837 5,736
171,214 155,508
Value at 31 Value at 31
July 2024 July 2023
£'000 £'000
Total market value of assets 171,214 155,508
Present value of scheme liabilities (135,975) (125,388)
Present value of unfunded liabilities (1) (2)
Surplus in the scheme * 35,238 30,118

*The surplus in the scheme is subject to an asset ceiling for recognition in the Statement of Financial Position
of the University in 2024.

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
70

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

23. PENSION SCHEMES (CONTINUED)

2024 2023
Reconciliation of Defined Benefit Obligation £'000 £'000
Opening Defined Benefit Obligation 125,390 156,142
Current Service Cost 5,518 9,175
Interest Cost , 6,446 5,289
Change in financial assumptions 77 ( 59,308)
Change in demographic assumptions* { 292) (2,572)
Contributions by Members 2,282 2,009
Past Service Costs, including curtailments 75 -
Estimated Unfunded Benefits Paid (1) (1)
Estimated Benefits Paid (net of transfers in) (2,852) (3,186)
Experience (gain)/loss on defined benefit obligation (667) 17,842
Closing Defined Benefit Obligation 135,976 125,390

* The change in demographic assumptions in 2023 reflects the outcome of the McCloud/Sargeant judgement.

Reconciliation of Fair Value of Employer Assets 2024 2023
£'000 £000
Opening Fair Value of Employer Assets 155,508 150,189
Interest on assets 8,152 5,178
Return on assets less interest 2,043 (3,599)
Administration expenses (141) (92)
Contributions by the Employer 6,223 5,450
Contributions by Members 2,282 2,009
Other Actuarial gains/(losses) . (440)
Estimated Benefits Paid including unfunded benefits (2,853) (3,187)
Closing Fair Value of Employer Assets 171,214 155,508

The total return on the fund assets for the year to 31 July 2024 was a gain of £8,152,000 and interest earned on these
assets was £2,043,000. Scheme assets do not include any Canterbury Christ Church University owned financial!
instruments or any property occupied by Canterbury Christ Church University.

2024 2023
Analysis of the amount shown in the balance sheet for LGPS: £'000 £000
Scheme assets 171,214 155,508
Scheme liabilities (135,976) 125,390
Surplus in the scheme 35,238 30,118
Current service cost including curtailments 5,593 _ 9,175
Admin charge 141 92
Total operating charge: 5,734 9,267
Analysis of the amount charged to interest payable for LGPS
Interest (income)/cost (1,706) 114
Net charge to other finance income (1,706) 414
Total profit and loss charge before deduction for tax
Analysis of other comprehensive income for LGPS:
Return on assets in excess of interest 2,043 (3,599)
Other actuarial gains/(losses) on assets - (440)
Changes to demographic assumptions 292 2,572
Financial assumption changes (77) 59,308
Experience gain/(loss) on defined benefit obligation 667 (17,842)
Total other comprehensive income before deduction for tax 2,925 39,999

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
71

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
24, FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Consolidated 2024 2023
£000 £000

Financial Assets

Financial Instruments are debt instruments
measured at amortised cost

Cash and cash equivalents 57,346 34,323
Trade and other debtors 119,985 84,315
177,331 118,638

Financial Liabilities

Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost

Loans . 54,041 52,803
Trade creditors 36,477 18,201
Other creditors 141,024 74,630
231,542 145,634
University 2024 2023
£'000_—; -£'000

Financial Assets
Financial Instruments are debt instruments
measured at amortised cost

Cash and cash equivalents 56,956 34,040
Trade and other debtors 119,985 84,315
176,941 118,355

Financial Liabilities

Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost

Loans 54,041 52,803
Trade creditors 36,477 18,201
Other creditors 141,209 74,781

231,727 145,785

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
72

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

25. STUDENT SUPPORT FUNDS

2024 2023
Total Total
£'000 £'000
DfE Bursaries
Funding Council grants 1,708 973
Balance brought forward from previous years 178 391
Disbursed to students (2,020) (1,186)
(134) 178

Strategic Report and Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
73

