~“

COMPANIES HOUSE

CENTRAL VHGA

20235-2024

Trustees’ Annual
Report and Accounts
For year ended Si July 2024

*ADWPIDNL*

iil

Aog 19/02/2025 | #169 -
COMPANIES HOUSE

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incerporating the Group Strategic Report) and conselidated financial statements.


CONTENTS

Strategic Report

People and Planet

Impact Report

The Financial Period in Review
Trustees’Annual Report

Governance, Structure and Management

Statement of Trustees’ responsibilities

Independent auditor's report to the members
of Central Young Men's Christian Association

Consolidated Statement of Financial
Activities 2024 incorporating the Income and expenditure account

Consolidated Statement of Financial
Activities 2023 incorporating the Income and expenditure account

Consolidated Balance Sheet
Consolidated statement of cash flows
Notes to the accounts

Reference and administration details

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report {incorparating the Group Strategie Rewort) and consolidated haancal statements

28

52

54

63

64

68

69

73

74

75

77

79

101

STRATEGIC
REPORT


r
r

fAnd

Welcome to the Central YMCA Annual
Report for the year ended 31 July 2024.

The UK charity sector

has faced an extremely
challenging environment

over the last four years,
starting with the upheaval

of COVID-19, then spiralling
energy costs and the ongoing
cost of living crisis. Across our
core activities in Education
and Training, Health and

Wellbeing, and Awards we
have continued to face a
combination of rising costs
and rapidly shifting patterns
of demand for our services.
We remain acutely aware that
the underlying needs of the
communities we serve have
never been greater.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’‘S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings

Trustees’ Annual Report fincorgerating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements

Over the past year, we have continued to
reposition ourselves for the future, seeking
to maximise the effectiveness of the Charity’s
resources, and ensure that we can deliver
the greatest possible impact. We completed
the second year of our three-year turnaround
plan and have found that the combination

of preparing for greater volumes in our
education activities, the revitalisation of
fitness training and awards, and unforeseen
challenges, such as the closure of our Club
swimming pool, has left us again facing
significant losses. As part of our planned
restructuring, we have disposed of significant
property assets on Great Russell Street.
Including the sale and closure of our Club
space.

We understand that these changes are
disruptive and upsetting for our members.
We are sorry that we have had to take this
difficult decision in order to reinvest in
our remaining operations and prepare the
Charity for the future. The team has done
everything possible to protect services
for the most vulnerable groups and to
transfer services, where possible, to our
existing facility in King’s Cross and to our
new Moorgate site, or to find solutions with
partners in Camden and across London.

In the coming year, we expect our financial
results to continue to be impacted by the costs
of restructuring, higher general costs, shifting
usage patterns, and the slower than expected
turnaround in underlying economic conditions.
We anticipate further financial losses. Part of
the proceeds of the sale of our Club site have
been used to pay off an existing loan and to
increase our cash reserves. We expect that we
will have sufficient cash reserves and invest-
ments to continue to support any losses as we
invest for the future and work to turnaround
our financial performance.

As we emerge from the restructuring process
and the rolling crises of the last few years, we
remain absolutely focused on delivering our
mission to advance the education, health, and
wellbeing of our communities, by improving
access to life-changing opportunities, and
enabling everyone to achieve their potential,
to live a fulfilled life, and contribute positively
to society. We are working to develop a new
five-year strategy which will establish the road
ahead for this mission, to maximise our impact
and ensure that a sustainable financial model is
in place.

| would like to thank my fellow Trustees,
co-opted Committee members, and our in-
credible team of staff, volunteers, partners and
donors who together work so hard to support
communities across the UK. As we face the
challenges ahead, your commitment and hard
work is appreciated more than ever.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertaicngs
Trustees’ Annual Repert (incorporating the Group Strategic Re oort) and cunselidated financ.al statements 7

it

she

Ryan Palmer

ate

witli

vit
suit

# nme . “ile «te
ee went wea

nab

vata


The charity sector continues to face
significant pressures, and Central YMCA

is no exception. However, 2024 has been

a milestone year for us as we proudly
celebrate 180 years of serving our
community. This remarkable achievement is
a testament to the enduring strength of our
mission and the collective efforts of our staff,
members, volunteers, and supporters over
generations.

This year marked significant progress in
our transformation journey, which began in
2022. As we adapt to ensure a sustainable
future, we've made strides in reshaping
our structure and services. A highlight of
the year has been the launch of our Next
Generation qualifications through YMCAfit
and YMCA Awards. These innovative
programmes reflect our commitment to
equipping learners with the skills and
knowledge to thrive in a rapidly changing
world. Furthermore, we secured a record-
high contract allocation from the Education
and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA), a
recognition of the quality and impact of our
work.

However, this year has not been without its
challenges. The unexpected closure of our
swimming pool in December 2023 placed
significant financial strain on the Charity,
compounding the pressures of an already
difficult economic environment.

Additionally, we made the tough but
necessary decision to close our gym on
Great Russell Street. Changing commuter
demographics, rising service costs, and

the ongoing cost-of-living crisis informed
this move, allowing us to reimagine our
Health and Wellbeing offering to better
serve current and future needs. Whilst the
challenging macro environment has led to
this difficult decision, we remain committed
to help the communities that need our
support. Although the building may be
sold, our services will continue, perhaps in a
different form but still strongly aligned to our
core values and mission.

As we reflect on 180 years of history, we
remain focused on the future. The challenges
we face only deepen our resolve to innovate
and lead with purpose. With the dedication
of our team, the trust of our partners, and
the support of our community, | am confident
that Central YMCA will not only endure but
thrive, continuing to empower individuals
and foster a healthier, more inclusive society.

Thank you for standing with us as we work
toward creating lasting change. Together, we
are building a brighter future.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 9

Holistic overview
of Central YMCA

What we do

Education & Training

We build careers through
nationwide apprenticeships
and education programmes in
21 centres across England.

YMCAfit

We work to produce
outstanding fitness instructors
who go the extra mile and
inspire people to improve
their health and fitness.

YMCA Club & YMCA KX

We help people get active
and stay well in London's most
inclusive gym and a unique
Yoga and Pilates studio.

YMCA Awards

We design health, fitness and
wellbeing qualifications that
support employability and
career progression.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incerporating the Group Strategic Recort! and consolidated financial statements.

Founded in 1844, Central
YMCA was the very first
YMCA, sparking a global
movement that now spans
120 independent national
YMCAs, all tackling social
issues both locally and
globally.

Central YMCA is a national
charity, delivering a range of .
services across multiple sites.
We transform lives through
a unique blend of education,
health and wellbeing.
In 2023-2024 we welcomed:
2,613 new learners across _
the country, awarded 9,056
qualifications, and supported
6,253 people within our

_ Health and Wellbeing hubs. ~

i rE =
ae
eH Education andtraining ce : G
Se
LEE pathways att orstudy,
ae
programmes: tonapprenticesiips
sie A Cor CCH ing athalale ;
PLOvIsiIOn EMMEATt delivering ane.
4 indstrysleading traiminGaih se
fitmess::healthzandawellbeing# es
= -
: ]

Central YMCA advances the education,
health and wellbeing of our learners,
customers, members and wider
communities. Building on our legacy of care
established at our inception back in 1844
we have been breaking down barriers and
creating improved access to life-changing
opportunities for 180 years.

The last decade alone has seen us deliver
training and education to over 22,000
funded learners and welcome tens of
thousands of members and customers into
our Health and Wellbeing sites in London

in a drive to improve physical activity across
the capital.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings =
Trustees’ Annual Report (inccrporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financiat statements.


Our impact
in 2023-24

(snapshot view)

Education and Training

2,157

learners engaged in
funded training (1,118 in 2022-23)

2,613

total new learners
across the Charity (2,522 in 2022-23)

1,685

Qualifications awarded to learners within the
Charity from funded learning (1,511 in 2022-23)

9,056

Qualifications awarded
through YMCA Awards (8,916 in 2022-23)

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakins
12 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements

Health and Wellbeing

6,253

Total Members in YMCA Club
throughout the year (6,680 in 2022-23)

899

Older Adults supported through
Health & Wellbeing services (940 in 2022-23)

2,041

YMCA Club Community members (older adults,
asylum, concession & GP referral)
throughout the year (2,253 in 2022-23)

5,868

exercise classes hosted across
Health & Wellbeing (3,860 in 2022-23)

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 13

2024 was a key milestone year
for both Central YMCA and the
wider global movement as it
marked the 180th anniversary
of the YMCA Founder's CENTRAL YMCA

Day. This is a phenomenal

accomplishment for any (N)
organisation, and even more so saee . aus
a charity. We were fortunate to

be able to bring the majority

of the workforce together for
a day away from the business,
focused on celebration and

wellbeing.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annust Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Resort) and consolidated financial statements 15

We hosted our 9* Annual Education and Training Awards at the House of
Commons, celebrating the standout success, progression, and inspiration of
learners from our Study Programmes and Apprenticeships. Further details can be
found in the Central YMCA Impact Report at ymca.co.uk/about/impact.

|

We saw significant expansion across our Education and Skills (Apprenticeships) provision
reaching over 1,000 learners in both key areas of our provision while retaining over

70% delivery for individuals aged 24 and under. We were also successfully awarded two
contracts by devolved authorities (Norfolk & Suffolk and Hertfordshire) which will enable
us to commence delivery of Early Years Skills Bootcamps in August 2024.

Early Years
Prefessional Skills

BOOvCaIN DS

Funded b' ia
eg. Funded by Department
z= UK Government for Educatlon

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
16 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated Financial statements

a ——— |

Expanding on the work completed through the previous year on New Product Development
and Next Generation Learning we commenced delivery of our Next Generation Personal
Training Qualifications — combining the best of digital and online learning solutions and our
tried and tested delivery methodologies. This is a brand-new learning experience in the sector
and has been thoroughly validated by learners who have completed the course to date:

“The online
experience was
excellent, offering
a flexible e-learning
component that

let me progress

at my own speed,
whether | was

studying on my

phone, tablet, or at
my desk.”

as |

In December 2023 Central YMCA's Education and Training provision
where we retained our Good Provider status.

The final report stated:

“Leaders and managers have a strong mission: to provide
education and training te improve the lives of young
people and adults, many of whom experience barriers

to success. They have successfully developed a broad

and rich ¢currleulum that meets the needs of learners,
apprentices and employers. Apprentices and learners
achieve well, and many progress to further training and
employment once they complete their training.”

“| walk away from
this course feeling
fully prepared for
the future, thanks
to its perfectly
balanced approach
of remote and in-
person learning,
which fit seamlessly
into my life.”

"This course was perfect for me, delivering
everything | needed with learning materials that
were incredibly easy to use. The flexibility to study
remotely or face-to-face allowed me to tailor my
learning to my own pace and lifestyle.”

was inspected by Ofsted,

ofsted

Good
Provider

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN‘S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Stratagic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 17

Within
220 25= 24


72%

of learners aged 16-18 recruited
onto Study Programmes in
2023/24 were identified as

not in education, employment,

or training (NEET) with 81%
successfully achieving their main
aim (vocational qualification),
maintaining this achievement rate
over the last 2 years.

97%

of apprentices who completed

our learner survey felt that

their apprenticeship/course
enabled them to make a positive
difference in society and their local
community.

90%

of employers said that the quality
of training their apprentices receive
is either good or outstanding.

96%

of employers said that they would
recommend Central YMCA to
another employer.

98%

of employers said that their
Apprentice/ Apprentices add value
to their organisation.

100%

of learners said they have
received support around their
chosen progression route. This is
either through looking at higher
education within Central YMCA,
local colleges, or university
applications, or by improving their
job search skills.

|

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incerporating the Group Strategic Report} and consolidated financial statements. 19

Creating
andjthe

Sustainabl


HRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings

Creating positive impact and social value has
been at the heart of what we do, and why we
do it, since our inaugural year in 1844, and is
just as important now as it ever was.

We continue to align our work with the
United Nations’ Sustainable Development
Goals (SDGs), with a deep belief that these
can serve as a broader and more impactful
framework to deliver our purpose, vision
and mission. The SDGs are a universal call
to action to end poverty, protect the planet,
and ensure that all people enjoy peace

and prosperity by 2030. Partnerships and
collaboration are core to this, and we choose
our partners based on our common drive

to achieve these goals and deliver broader
social value.

As such our impact reporting is to be viewed
through this lens, with a strong focus on
deliveriny against those goals where we
make the most difference, specifically, ‘Good
Health & Wellbeing’, ‘Quality Education’
and ‘Decent Work & Economic Growth’. We
believe that collaboration and shared vision
will be key to achieving the sustainable
development goals and effecting meaningful
change towards a sustainable future.

Qur full impact report, demonstrating how we
have delivered against the SDG’s can be found
on our website: ymca.co.uk/about/impact.

Further information on the SDGs themselves,
and current UK performance, can be found
here.

the Group Strategic Report) and consclidated financial statements. 21


Our
strategy

The issues we face today both as a charity,
and wider society, are complex and
interconnected, and this was particularly
highlighted by the COVID-19 pandemic. In
response to these pressures, we continue

to adapt and evolve our offer, developing
flexible and creative solutions. Our ambition
has always been to help those we work with,
whether through our education or health
and wellbeing programmes, to develop

new skills and behaviours, empowering our
communities to achieve their goals and build
lifelong relationships to support sustained
health, and professional and personal -
growth.

During 2023-24 work was undertaken to
support the Charity’s financial sustainability
and ensure that the Charity’s resources are
used in the best possible way to deliver its
public benefit. 2023-24 marked the second
year of a three-year turnaround plan set out
to ensure that Central YMCA can continue
to deliver its charitable purpose and social
impact whilst navigating a challenging
operating environment. The turnaround
plan was developed following a strategic
review of the Charity’s operations, including
a review of the Charity’s premises and the
investment required to maintain these,

alongside market analysis for each of the
sectors we operate in. This work established
a number of recommendations to improve
financial sustainability, whilst also taking into
account the impact on our service users. This
has included robust and careful analysis of
the Charity‘s income streams and cost base
to support a path of increasing resilience.
This has required some difficult decisions
from the Board of Trustees, with a full review
of the Charity’s assets, operating model and
the services the Charity delivers having been
undertaken.

Whilst some progress has been made
during the year to implement these
recommendations, significant challenges
remain. This work therefore remains ongoing
and will feed into a new five-year strategy
due to launch in August 2025.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
22 Trustees’ Annual Report {incergorating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.


Key activities undertaken within
2023-24 have included:

Review and sale of fixed assets:

¢ Following a shift in working patterns
following the COVID-19 pandemic, the
Charity's London office was no longer

utilised and so the Board of Trustees took
the decision to sell this site. This decision

supported the Charity’s goal of utilising

the Charity’s assets to reinvest in impactful

areas ot our work.

YMCA Club Pool

The operating environment within the
health and fitness sector has changed
substantially following the COVID-19
pandemic and this has significantly
impacted the ongoing viability of the
Central YMCA‘s central London Club.
Compounded by significant investment
tequired to maintain and service an aging
facility, a full review was undertaken to
consider the best use of resources to
maintain the Charity's services for the
long term. Following caretul and robust
analysis, and as a matter of firaricial
necessily, the Board of Trustees agreed
that it was not possible to retain the

Club site without exposing the Charity to
significant risk. As a result, Trustees agreed
to sell this site, enabling the Charity to
invest its resources more effectively, and
reach many more individuals for the long-
term in the communities we serve.

CENTRAL TUSNU MEN S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION ott sume d ary sntue et
Trustees Any ddeputiace postr gthe Greup vt atog 7 Re ert eh. ae

ad hnene

23

implementation of a new curriculum and enrichment strategy

* Central YMCA‘s curriculum strategy has been crafted to align with our mission to foster
meaningful educational and employment pathways, particularly for individuals in
disadvantaged communities. This has included an expanded offering, with the securement
of Skills Bootcamps contracts for 2024-25, which will provide targeted adult skills training,
particularly for learners in underserved areas, equipping them with specialised, high-

demand skills for today’s workforce.

Development of digital qualifications and resources:

¢ Anew suite of digital qualifications and resources was delivered through YMCA Awards and
YMCAfit within 2023-24, expanding our reach and making adult education more accessible.

Development of new partnerships

° Anew partnership was developed with
YMCA London City & North to develop
a new Health and Wellbeing Hub in
Moorgate, launching in September 2024.

¢ In partnership with YMCA Black Country,
the Skills team developed the Early Years
Academy, training Black Country's Level 2
and Level 3 Early Years Apprentices across
their nine settings. A true collaboration
in recruitment and onboarding new
employees, the Academy wove Black
Country's strong curriculum with Central
YMCA's training approach into the Early
Year Standards. With three intakes over
the 2023/2024 term, the partnership
supported 36 Black Country employees.

* YMCA Awards partnered with MH1
Global to address the UK’s pressing
wellbeing crisis by developing a suite
of qualifications aimed at upskilling
professionals in public health. With the
UK facing challenges such as physical
inactivity, obesity, substance misuse, and
mental health issues, these qualifications
equip a new cadre of “Health Navigators”
to bridge the gap between communities
and public health services. Health
Navigators are trained to engage in
meaningful conversations, design tailored
interventions, evaluate outcomes, and
connect individuals to appropriate local
resources. The qualifications integrate
MH1 Global's MHO tool, which validates
the effectiveness of early, non-clinical

interventions. YMCA Awards looks forward
to showcasing the transformative impact
of these initiatives in the coming year.

Women in Action — With a clear gap in
women's health education and initiatives
across the fitness sector and beyond,
we partnered with Women In Action

to develop our YMCA Level 3 Award

in Supporting Participation in Physical
Activity: Menopause with Women In
Action. Launching October 2024, the
programme can also be complemented
by a training offer at the corporate level
to raise further awareness and impact in
women’s health.

As our education offering has expanded
so too have our relationships with new
employers across a variety of provision,
with AAXA and Sound Minds UK both
taking on new learners in year — in Health
& Beauty and Employability respectively.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
24 Trustees’ Annual Report (incereorating the Group Strategie Report) and conselidated financial statements


\
\
hy 2

ob


Looking ahead, within
2024-25 a new five-year
strategy will be developed

for the period 2025-2030.
There is recognition that the
opportunities and challenges
facing the Charity, and our
communities are complex and
long-term, and will require
more time to address. The
extension of our next strategy
to five years also aligns with
the 2030 Global Goals and the
World YMCA’'s Vision 2030.

:
Empowering
__ communtiies,
1

As part of this strategy, we will build

an impact roadmap that aligns with the
Charity's core purpose and financial
objectives, to support a more resilient
organisation focused on clear impact-led
goals. This will be developed with a large
group of internal and external stakeholders
over the next 12 months, taking into
account changes to the wider non-profit
and education ecosystems, changes to
societal need and key risks impacting the
Charity. We are cognisant of the continued
volatility and uncertainty that continues

to impact our sectors, including the
forthcoming changes to education policy
and funding reforms. Any future strategy
will therefore retain a degree of flexibility,
allowing the organisation to adapt to new
opportunities and challenges, however
with a core driver of delivering greater
social impact and supporting our ambitions
against the SDGs.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN‘S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and conselidated financial statements 27

Coup HEALTH
AND WELL-BEING

CECE WORK AND

5] REDUCED
ECONOWIC GROWTH

TMEQUALITES:
a

=>

wv

FORTHE GOALS VLA SUSTAINABLE
gs

PARTHERSHIPS

DEVELOPMENT

%aux* GOALS

In 2023-24 we worked with 2 O9 ,ermanent

employees, 1 0 trustees PD self-employed

practitioners, 46 casual workers and

approximately 6 0 volunteers.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
30 Trustees’ Annual Report fincergorating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated Financial statements

We are incredibly proud of the way our staff and volunteers have worked together to navigate
a challenging operating environment in 2023-24. Our people are at the heart of everything we
do and are integral to the support provided to our communities. We continue to benefit from
the loyalty of our workforce and their unerring commitment to deliver the Charity's goals. It is
through our people’s dedication and creative thinking that we continue to develop solutions
to today’s challenges.

In 2023-24 our people strategy focussed on the following key areas

* employee wellbeing, with a particular focus on mental health

* celebrating our values

* the employee experience, including onboarding, professional development
and employee voice

* keeping our people safe and ensuring that equality, diversity and inclusion is
embedded in everything we do. :

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consclidated financial statements. 31

Our commitment
to wellbeing

Wellbeing is core to Central
YMCA’s purpose and values.
There is no denying that
broader societal and sector
related challenges, alongside
the charity’s financial
challenges, have put huge
pressures on our workforce.
The focus in 2023-24 has
therefore been to ensure that
our people are equipped and
supported to manage these
pressures.

Employee engagement activities including
Executive Team roadshows, staff forums
and employee voice surveys, have all had a
focus on wellbeing and work-life balance to
help us understand current challenges and
provide additional support where required.
In 2022-23 we expanded the support
services provided by our Employee
Assistance Programme, however with a firm
belief that prevention is better than cure. In
2023-24 we therefore continued to provide
a wellbeing programme to support healthy
working practices.


Key achievements within the year included:

¢ We trained an additional 15 Mental °
Health Champions to support
employees and promote a workplace
culture where staff are free to discuss
mental health issues openly and feel
supported by their colleagues when
they do so. We have continued to
promote wellbeing and good mental
health, sharing information and raising
awareness via our staff training and
communication channels.

To mark Mental Health Awareness
Week in May 2024, we organised

a series of events, talks, and
informal activities, encouraging
staff engagement and reflection on
mental health. Behind the scenes,
we continue to invest in initiatives
that ensure Central YMCA remains a
caring and inclusive place to work,
with a clear focus on wellbeing and
connection

Looking forward, within

2024-25, the entire Executive
team will complete Mental Health
First Aid training, joining our
dedicated network of Mental
Health Champions. This initiative
highlights our ongoing focus on
fostering a supportive workplace
culture.

We have continued to survey staff
regarding their experience during

the year. Our latest Employee Voice
Survey saw a 13% average increase

in positive perceptions of employee
experience across all 44 questions.
Notably, overall wellbeing scores rose
by 7.3%, reflecting the effectiveness of
our efforts. The survey response rate
remained steady at 53%, providing
valuable insights into areas of strength
and improvement.

MENTAL
HEALTH

MHFA England ATWORK

XN

Mant

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings

Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategi

ic Report) and consolidated financial statements.

33

Celebrating
our values

In November 2023 a project group
of volunteers was established from
across the organisation to bring

the Charity’s values to life. This
employee-led group developed
and launched a new values-aligned
recognition programme, ‘Embracing
Our Values’. The programme
includes quarterly nominations,
culminating in an annual awards
ceremony. Our first awards ceremony
was held at the Charity’s 180
birthday celebration in June 2024.

The programme
has inerdassd)

percaivac!

within teams [bx ; } ,: Ae |
ane (ay the wider |
crgentton by,

2QOY

ina year
and) chivan a

2A

seaing the values
practisad) around them.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
34 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements

Within 2023-24 we were proud
to honour Ceres Vassoler,

our Senior HR Manager, as
the Values Champion of the
Year. Ceres exemplified our
core values of Nurturing,
Empowerment, and Creativity
in every aspect of her work.
Her tireless dedication
ensured our charity maintained
the highest standards of
service, even during the most
challenging times.

Ceres’s approach seamlessly integrated

HR bost practices with praqmatism, always
treating people with humanity and respect.
Her unwavering support uplifted her
colleagues, fostered collaboration, and
inspired creativity. Whether navigating post-
pandemic challenges or empowering her
team to reach new heights, Ceres consistently
drove positive change with innovation and
compassion. This recognition celebrated
not only her professional achievements but
also her humility and profound impact on
our organisation. Ceres truly embodied the
spirit of our charity, and we were thrilled to
recognise her outstanding contributions.

.

! ee coal . 1)
=

~

CENTRAL YGJNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION end supt disty und
Trustees’ Annual Ropert bage poste g th. Group Stateg ke on tand cca? ot


Enhancing ~
the employee
experience —


: _At the heart of our work is the belief that investing in ‘our.
people creates a stronger organisation. The employee
experience goes beyond simply meeting mandatory
requirements; it’s about curating a positive and engaging
culture where everyone can thrive. As we emerge from-the

_ challenges of COVID-19 and continue our turnaround plan,
we have placed significant emphasis on supporting our teams
"with opportunities that exceed the basics.

Our efforts are already reflected in our employee survey
results, which highlight the positive impact of this

~ approach. Looking ahead, we are excited to implement a
comprehensive plan for continuing professional development -
for all staff, ensuring that everyone has access to growth

. opportunities tailored to their roles and aspirations.

A cornerstone of this work is our partnership with YMCA-
George Williams College, a charity with over fifty years of
expertise in training practitioners working with young-people
and families. Rooted in relational practice, the College offers
programmes that support high-quality youth work, effective
leadership, impact measurement, and embedding youth
voice across organisations. As part of our 2025-2030 strategy,
we will increasingly integrate their training to-support our
teams’ development and strengthen the charity’s impact.

Looking forward, in 2024-25 we will be launching pilot
cohorts for the YMCA Management and Leadership
Programmes, aimed at aspiring, established, and strategic
leaders, alongside the YMCA Induction Programme. These |
initiatives reflect our commitment to equipping staff at all
‘levels with the skills and confidence to excel in their roles,
ensuring we deliver our charitable purpose with excellence.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings .
nual Report (incorperating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. _ 37

We take our responsibilities for safeguarding extremely
seriously and believe that everyone has the right to
protection from harm, abuse, and exploitation. We

are dedicated to protecting those participating on our
programmes and ensuring our people have the skills to
identify and raise concerns.

In 2023-24 we saw an increase in reports to our
Safeguarding Team against the prior year (145, against
53 in 2022-23).

This increase illustrates the vulnerability of the people
we work with. It also demonstrates the strength of our
reporting process and commitment to supporting our
learners and members. Welfare has been the most
reported concern in 2023-24, with learners experiencing
hardship as result of the cost-of-living crisis. In response,
we have actively offered first hand support, such as the
implementation of breakfast clubs in some areas, whilst
also referring to local housing services and food banks.

The second largest concern relates to mental health and
suicide attempts. To help staff to manage these issues,
additional training was delivered in partnership with RLB
Safeguarding and Papyrus, a UK charity dedicated to
the prevention of suicide and the promotion of positive
mental health and emotional wellbeing in young people.

Within 2023-24 we have also taken a more joined

up approach to safeguarding, health and safety and
equality, diversity and inclusion, recognising the
interdependencies in these areas, particularly around
accessibility and additional support needs. At Central
YMCA we are committed to promoting and maintaining
safe and healthy working conditions, equipment, and
systems of work for all our staff, volunteers, service users,
and any members of the public visiting our premises. We
recognise our responsibility as employers to provide safe
working conditions to those working for and with our
organisation.

~~

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
EE nual Report incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated Financial statements. 39

Our commitment
to equality,

~» diversity and

~ Inclusion


EDUCATION

Offer opportunities to all,
to learn and develop.
Support those with additional needs and
significant barriers.

“HEALTH

Provide vibrant, safe spaces that offer wide
ranging inclusive programmes and services.
Adapt to the changing landscape of our
community and individual needs.

At Central YMCA we are
committed to equality,

diversity and inclusion (ED&l) in
everything we do. We believe
creating an organisation where
everyone feels valued is not only
the right thing to do, but also
helps drive success and create
impact.

We are committed to creating environments
in which our people and communities are
treated fairly and with respect. This includes
our staff, volunteers, trustees, members,
learners, apprentices and other members
of the public we engage with. We are
committed to a culture that recognises,
celebrates and values the differences
between individuals. We firmly believe

that a diverse and inclusive workforce is
integral to meeting the needs of our diverse
communities and creating inclusive spaces

These commitments also closely align with
our wider ambitions to contribute to the
United Nations’ SDGs, particularly Gender
Equality and Reduced Inequalities.

TRAINING

Extend a provision of commercial and
charitable activities.
Develop skills leading to and
generating employment.

WELLBEING

Deliver expert support, recovery and resilience
for those living with long-term health conditions
and post- COVID challenges.

We continue to embed ED&I into all
our programmes and services, ensuring
accessibility and equal access.

We develop annual ED&l priorities, with
our approach focussed on three key areas:

1. Our service users, customers and
wider communities — understanding how
we can better serve our diverse external
stakeholders, which communities we are not
currently reaching, and how our products
and services can evolve to address changing
societal need.

2. Our workforce — ensuring we attract and
retain a diverse talent pool and provide an
environment where everyone feels included,
is treated equitably, and can thrive during
their time with the organisation.

3. Our strategic planning — ensuring that
diverse views are represented in strategy
development and the development of

new strategic projects and initiatives. This
includes making sure project teams are
diverse to avoid ‘group think’ and other
biases.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report {incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 41

These three areas are underpinned by We continue to support our internal working

a robust governance framework, where practices through our staff ED&l Forum,
equality, diversity and inclusion are with a particular focus on disability, our
prioritised by the Board and its committees, LGBTQIA+ community, gender and race,
both in terms of composition and ways of ethnicity, and cultural heritage. This forum
working, but also in relation to strategic oversees progress in the application of
oversight. our ED&lI policy and annual priorities and

provides a safe space for discussion on
matters important to our workforce.

During 2023-24 we undertook
the following activities:

* Measured how our internal people felt ° Provided staff learning and
about equality diversity and inclusion development opportunities, led by
at Central YMCA via the employee speakers with lived experience. This
voice programme, in order to measure included sessions on Autism and
year on year progress and demonstrate gender identity, unconscious bias,
impact in this area. invisible illness and the intersectionality

© Aligned to workforce representation of neurodiversity with racial identities.
and pay gap analysis undertaken * Developed a more robust approach
in 2022-23, begun to develop to accessibility, providing a framework
targeted initiatives and development to support improvements across the
programmes to support improvements. Charity. This approach embraces the

¢ Undertook a full review of the current social model of disability, and aligned
employee journey, from attraction to to the Charity's value of equity, is
exit, identifying strengths, weaknesses, focussed on breaking down barriers for
opportunities and threats, to help us disabled people.
prioritise areas for improvement. * Encouraged best practice in our

¢ Developed an ED&| dashboard which partners and suppliers, through
included: workforce, learner and our supplier code of conduct and
member representation, reporting on development of joint programmes to
disability, gender, race, ethnicity and drive change.

cultural heritage and sexual orientation

¢ Undertook pay gap analysis against
disability, gender, race, ethnicity and
cultural heritage and sexual orientation

* Continued to deliver bespoke
programmes to meet specific
community needs, such as Project
MOVE, a programme which carries the
primary goal of promoting physical
activity and wellbeing among young
people of the Global Majority.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary underiakings
42 Trustees’ Annual Report {incerperating the Group Strategic Regort) and conselidated financial statements

Looking forward, a new set of annual priorities have been approved by the Board of Trustees
developed for 2024-25. These are aligned with the Charity’s wider goals and key objectives
for the year and will also support the 2025-30 strategy development process for the Charity.

They include:

e Using the Charity’s new ED&l
dashboard, undertake data analysis
to identify gaps in representation and
areas for improvement, and agree
where positive action may be required

¢ Continue to deliver an internal learning
and development programme to
increase staff and trustee awareness of
ED& issues, with a particular focus on
disability inclusion

Improve engagement with those

with lived experience and third-party
experts in the development of products
and services and the creation and
refurbishment of charity premises
Research external benchmarks and
accreditations to support continuous
improvement

Undertake robust needs analysis and
stakeholder engagement to support
the development of the Charity‘s 2025-
2030 strategy


Work force
representation and
pay gap analysis

At Central YMCA we are an equal
opportunities employer and value diversity,
believing it takes all types of individuals to
make a creative and innovative organisation.
We look to attract, recruit, develop and
retain talented people from all backgrounds
at every level of the organisation, to draw on
different perspectives and experiences that
add value to the way we operate.

To ensure we are doing this, we monitor
the composition of the workforce regarding
information such as gender identity

and gender reassignment, race, sexual
orientation, and disability.

We prioritise these areas in the first instance,
identifying any improvements that need to

be made and agreeing where positive action — tS tiene
needs to be taken. The data represents our q . Honea
workforce as of June 2024. Comparison data i ™ toes,
is taken from the latest publicly available | Cyne ‘ =
data sets.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
44 Trustees’ Annual Report (incerporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements

Pay Gap
analysis

At Central YMCA we undertake annual
pay gap reviews for gender, race,
disability and sexual orientation. Whilst
there is a statutory requirement for
gender; expanding across the four areas
referenced helps the Charity to identify
other areas for improvement and may
result in the development of specific
targets and initiatives to reduce any
gaps identified. The results of this review
are reported to the Charity's Resources
Committee and wider Board of Trustees
and contributes to strategic priorities for
the next financial year.

sect |

arate —| peared #

wins :
rae — -—_~ 2 oe -
tom j
ttite — cs

LOLS Oh,

“Asatage Pap

e
Ee
Fg
2
2

-

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 45

SPOTLIGHT:

In partnership with

YMCA England & Wales,

Y's Girls

We were really excited to have been able
to launch the Y‘’s Girls Project in London
this year, in partnership with YMCA England
& Wales. A stunning initiative that brings
together young girls and women and
supports them to be their best.

Young girls in London, like their peers
nationwide, need trusted adults now more
than ever. Y’s Girls addresses this need,
fostering resilience, confidence, and
self-belief in girls facing challenges at school,
at home, and with their self-esteem.

Through the programme, girls between the
ages of 9 and 14 have been paired with a
YMCA recruited and trained mentor who
works with them to gain confidence, explore
their interests, and learn new things in an
informal and fun environment, and it opens
opportunities for the girls to try new things
that they might not get the chance to do

otherwise. Y’s Girls also provides a safe
space for girls to talk through things that
are bothering and seek advice, particularly
around things that they may not feel
comfortable sharing with parents, friends,
or teachers. We have hosted multiple
sessions to support group activities as well
as organised external events and sessions —
such as bracelet making, facepainting and
theatre trips.

The impact also extends beyond personal
growth, influencing their families,
communities, education, and lifelong
opportunities.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
46 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.

Y’S GIRLS
MENTORING

Enabling girls to belong,
contribute and thrive

Want to empower and support
girls in your community?

What is Y’s Girls Mentoring?

The Y’s Girls mentoring programme matches trained volunteer
mentors with young girls aged 9-14 years old to support them
to be their best.

How does it work?

You will be assigned to a local Project Coordinator who will tell you
more about Y’s Girls mentoring, as weil as discuss your interests
and availability. You will then be matched with a young person as
your mentee.

As a mentor, you will be offered a full package of ongoing training
and support for your personal and professional development, to
help you and the young person get the most out of the mentoring
process.

Over a 12-month period, you will regularly meet with your young
person and work together to identify achievable goals to focus
on. These goals should empower the young person, building their
resilience and enabling them to lead fulfilling lives. As a mentor,
you can also help the young person to access activities and
services, and try new things.

These sessions also offer an informal environment for the young
person to discuss anything that might be worrying them, from
family and personal relationships, to lifestyle and education.

@a;2q) CONTACT US we &
# y’s.girls@ymca.org.uk Department for
Sr : Digital, Cutture, BENEFACT
Glesestx —ymea.org.uk/ys-girls Media & Sport TRUST
Here for young people YMCA enobles people to develop their full potential in mind, body and spirit.
bd | Here forcommunities Inspired by, and faithful to, our Christian values, we create supportive, inclusive and
Here for you energising communities, where young people can truly belong, contribute and thrive.
FAMILY & YOUTH WORK HEALTH & WELLBEING HOUSING N SUPPORT & ADVICE
Ll

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subs.diary undertakings
Trustees’ Aanual Report incorporating the Group Stratugc Ret orti and zonsondated financial statements 47

vid ai
ve

“


Our commitment
to environmental
sustainability

EretEOAGLE ND
CLEAN

e
i
CLEAN WATER
AND SANITATION
{
i
1
'
1
H

g"

At Central YMCA we are
committed to pro-actively
managing our direct and
indirect environmental and
social impacts and see this as
central to building a successful
organisation for the long-term.

TT rn cans

SUSTAINABLE
DEVELOPMENT

! Sax GOALS |

As part of our wider commitment to delivering
against the United Nations’ Sustainable
Development Goals (SDGs), we recognise

our responsibility to reduce our carbon and
environmental footprints and play our part in
the UN's global Race To Zero.

We strongly believe that good environmental
management is an essential part of overall
good practice in all business types, including
the not-for-profit sector. Therefore, we

strive to go beyond the minimum available
environmental standards in all areas of
operation and promote these ideals with our
suppliers and partners.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
50 Trustees’ Annual Report (incerporating the Group Strategic Report) andl consclidated financial statements

Through both individual and collective efforts to make continual improvements to our ways
of working, we believe everyone across the organisation, and within our wider communities,
can contribute to reducing the resources we consume to help mitigate climate change and its

adverse impact on people and their communities.

As set out in Central YMCA's Environmental Sustainability Policy and supporting
action plan, we aim to deliver improved environmental and social impacts through the
following activities:

Compliance with relevant legislation and
regulations

Ensuring that environmental, social
and ethical factors are integrated
into our strategic planning, delivery
model, management processes and
that objectives are set for continual
improvement

Ensuring that social, ethical and
environmental scrutiny of products
and services is integrated into our
procurement processes

Maximising energy efficiency and use
of low carbon technology wherever
possible

Promoting sustainable travel and

actively encouraging the use of
technology solutions to replace face to
face meetings where practicable
Maximising resource efficiency and
promoting the circular economy

by repairing, reusing and recycling
products wherever possible

Supporting the professional
development of our employees and
ensure that they all receive training
appropriate to their role to support our
environmental ambitions

Promoting “Net Zero” along our supply
chain, service users, partners and
beyond.

At Central YMCA we are at the start of our environmental sustainability journey and
recognise there is work to be done in each of our facilities to reduce our Greenhouse
Gas (GHG) emissions. We will be following the following Fifty Shades Greener (FSG)
four stage process to deliver our ambitions in this area:

41.

Measurement: By measuring our
current emissions, we can develop
green performance indicators. Over
time we can use this data to compare
our results and prove that we are

in fact reducing our contribution to
climate change.

Observation: Identify areas in our
buildings and our daily routines that
cause us to affect the environment in a
negative way.

Implementation: Develop and
implement a green action plan to
reduce the emissions identified in
stages 1 and 2.

Monitoring: to ensure our green
action plan is having a positive impact,
continue to measure and monitor so
we can see our impact reducing over
time.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertchings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Revurt! and zunsu‘idated financial statements 51

PANG U

inibnosaicn on dhs bnpeah of our wed, Gono lect topent bee


ae ae a

a . ca -


The financial
period in review

12 months to 31 July 2024

2023-24 was a challenging year for the Central YMCA and saw an overall net
deficit of £7.6m (2023 £4.6m).

Total income rose to £10.6m (2023 £9.0m) whilst total expenditure, including restructuring
and one-off costs equalled £18.4m (2023: £13.4m). Removing the restructuring and one-off
costs the expenditure was £15.8m (2023: £12.8m).

Restructuring and one-off costs of £2.2m (2023 £0.5m) were in part driven by the disposal of
two major property assets.

e In January 2024 the Charity’s Office building in London at 111 Great Russel Street, held as an
asset for sale on the balance sheet, was sold for proceeds of £3.5m and an accounting loss
on disposal, including the transaction costs, of £68k. The accounting treatment disclosing this
asset as held for sate, has been shown as such as a true and fair override to reflect the nature
of the transaction.

* The Club premise at 112 Great Russell Street was sold in July 2024 then leased back until 30th
June 2025. Proceeds for this transaction were £11.0m and the accounting loss on disposal,
including transaction costs, were £765k.

The terms of the 112 Great Russel Street sale also required the charity to remove all fixtures
and fittings from the premises. To facilitate this, the Charity ceased operating from the Club
premises on 7th February 2025. A £0.5m provision is recognised in the 2024 accounts for
these decommissioning costs.

The disposal of these two property assets saw a welcome injection of cash into the Charity.
Some of the proceeds were used to reduce borrowing with a £4.0m mortgage with the Charity
bank, secured on the Club premises, and a £1.0m loan from Rothschilds, secured against the
Charity investment assets, both fully repaid before the year end.

With the difficult trading conditions, some of the proceeds were required to fund the losses
in the year but at the 31 July 2024 the Charity’s cash balance stood at £5.0m (2023 £0.2m).
Investments held by Charity fell to £3.8m (2023 £5.7m) with the disposal of investments in the
year required to support liquidity under the difficult trading conditions.

Total Charity funds were £8.1m (2023 £15.7m). The depletion of the Charity’s funds remains
a key-risk and the year was a setback to the Charity’s three year plan to restore financial
sustainability. A revised plan and longer-term strategy for the Charity is currently under
consideration with the aim of maximising impact on users whilst simultaneously ensuring the
Charity’s long term financial sustainability.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary underiakings
54 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements

The Charity's Wellbeing activity received total income of £1.7m (2023 £1.9m) with a share of
deficit contribution of £1.7m (2023 £0.9m). Trading was impacted by the prolonged closure
of the swimming pool at the Club which also required additional once-off expenditure of
£0.278m to reopen the pool. Wellbeing activities ceased at the Club in February 2025
following the sale of the premises and these activities are now focused on the Charity’s
other London locations at Kings Cross and at Moorgate where in August 2024 a small fitness
centre was opened in the basement of the premises at our fellow YMCA, London City and
North.

Income for YMCA Fit Training course was £2.2m (2023 £1.4m) with a positive contribution of
£0.1m (2023 £0.0m). Income growth was positive with recovery from the cost-of-living crisis
which impacted 2023 but was offset by additional costs, largely because of the investment
in the digitisation of the content and product delivery.

YMCA Education and Skills saw strong income growth at £5.4m (2023 £4.3m) with a positive
contribution of £0.1m (2023 deficit of £0.3m) with a greater reliance on delivery through
sub-contractors whilst YMCA Awards income fell slightly to £0.6m (2023 £0.7m) and share of
deficit contribution rose to £0.3m (2023 £0.2m).

Central Support costs rose to £3.9m (2023 £2.8m) driven largely by a higher reliance on
interim staff and consultancy required to support the Charity through a continued period of
change and challenge.

The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis, as whilst the
Charity's current financial performance is not sustainable in the longer term, operational
restructuring during the year has taken substantial costs out of the business and reduced
exposure to the cost of maintaining ageing property. Restructuring of the balance sheet
through property disposals and loan repayments has also provided sufficient liquidity to
absorb short term deficits whist financial stability is restored under the new long-term
strategy.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report {incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 55

Share of the deficit contribution from each of the charitable operations

Hsiedatti be
Wellbeing
YMCA Club . . (1,466) (657)
YMCA KX (284) (218)
Education .
YMCA Education and Skills 79 (260)
YMCAfit 130 32
YMCA Awards (Qualifications) (277) (192)
Deficit contribution from charitable operations ; (1,818) (1,295)
Central support costs (3,895) (2,832)
Overall deficit from charitable operations (5,713) (4,127)
Net investment income and surplus on commercial trading 250 331
Net expenditure for the period before restructuring costs and (5,463) (3,796)
voluntary donations and gains and losses on investments and revaluations " '
Voluntary income 179 130
Exceptional income . - 37
Restructuring costs and one off costs (2,206) (537)
Loan interest . (343) (229)
Net expenditure for the period before gains and losses on investments (7,833) (4,396)
and revaluations
Net (losses) / gains on investments 245 122
Net expenditure (7,588) (4,274)
Losses on revaluation of fixed assets - : (302)
Net movement in funds . (7,588) (4,576)

Fixed assets

The principal change in the fixed assets of the group was the disposal of its freehold property
at 112 Great Russell Street. The Net Book Value of Long leasehold assets held on the balance
sheet now is £0.0m (2023 £11.9m). Other changes included additions to Intangible Assets

of £0.8m, as the Charity continued to develop its range of Awards products; continued
investment in the FIT businesses CRM; and £0.2m additions to fixture and fittings largely for
the new Moorgate Fitness Centre.

Office premises at 111 Great Russell Street, held on the balance sheet as an asset for resale,
were also successfully disposed of in the year.

. CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
56 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.


Employment Policies

The Charity is committed to promoting equality, diversity, and inclusion as core principles that
underpin all aspects of our work. These values are integral to how we recruit, support, and
engage with our people throughout their employee life cycle. Our long-standing 180-year.
history reflects a deep-rooted commitment to inclusivity, shaping both our heritage and our
future.

The Trustees recognise that engaged staff are essential to delivering our charitable
purpose. Higher engagement positively impacts performance, motivation, and wellbeing,
and this year’s employee voice results suggest we are making progress. However, we also
acknowledge that engagement can be challenging, particularly in the current climate.

Like many charities, we operate with a lean structure and a small budget, navigating
constant changes in government policies, funding uncertainties, and a complex operational
environment.

Despite these challenges, we pride ourselves on fostering a culture of trust and autonomy.
Teams across the organisation demonstrate excellent communication, with some showcasing
exemplary practices. There is an undeniable energy and excitement in being part of a
complex and dynamic charity, and this shared passion fuels our collective mission.

Staff engagement is supported through:

¢ Open communication: Regular updates via staff forums, executive team roadshows, and
email communications to ensure everyone remains informed.

¢ Employee voice: Actively seeking staff feedback and taking meaningful action to address
concerns and suggestions.

* Empowerment: Trusting staff to work autonomously while providing the support and
guidance they need to succeed.

The contribution of around 60 volunteers also plays a vital role in delivering our charitable
aims. Our volunteers dedicate their time to running activities that develop individuals and
communities. Their support is invaluable in maintaining the breadth and impact of our
community programmes.

We believe in fair and transparent reward structures that reflect employees’ sustained
contributions. Compensation and benefit decisions are informed by external benchmarking
and reviewed by a job evaluation panel, with key management and leadership pay governed
by the Board of Trustees.

As we continue to evolve, equality, diversity, and inclusion remain central to our organisational
practices. These principles not only shape our policies but also guide us in creating an
environment where every individual feels valued and empowered to contribute to our mission.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 57

Grants received - the Group and the Association

Central YMCA has received a number of grants to further its work during the financial period.
The grants are summarised as below and total £120,197.

Date Amount£ . Funder Project Name
Aug-23 700 Ufi - VocTech Trust Awards Digitisation
Sep-23 | 5,000 | YMCA England and Wales | GIRLS move
5,000 Barclays Football Foundation School Football Sessions
Sep-23 St Andrew Holborn Charitable Trust Older Adults
Jan-24 12,330 Sport England Project Move (BAME youth)
Oct-23 1,000 Camden Council

| Dee.23 |

| Dec23 | 1010 | YMCA England and Wales Cost of Living Appeal
Cadent Gas (in partnership with YMCA England .

3,000

Ford Britain Trust

Manchester Laptops

YMCA England and Wales

10,000
7,012

1,000

Ufi - VocTech Trust

Ys Girls

Awards Digitisation

Camden Council

Phase IV rehabilitation

Jan-24 2,167 St Giles Hotel E&T Awards - Event Sponsor
Jan-24 20,000 YMCA England and Wales | Ys Girls
Jan-24 2,016 St Giles Hotel Playscheme
Mar-24 YMCA England and Wales
Mar-24 Inner Wheel Club of - Kirkby-in-Ashfield
May-24 540 Qualification Wales Welsh Translation Award
Jun-24 970 Central District Alliance (via ActionFunder) Playscheme
Jun-24 2,078 YMCA England and Wales Cadent Project
Jul-24 10,000 YMCA England and Wales Cost of Living
Various 10,500 Living Well Healthy living
58 Trestees’ AnnualReport ncerpoating the Group Sualgic Repor ond consolidted france satement

Dependence on donations

Central YMCA is not dependent on donations to support our services or facilities. The Charity
received £62k during the year from two legacies (2023: nil).

The Charity received £6,306 of donation income during the year through individual giving
and fundraising activities. We would like to thank the individuals and organisations who have
chosen to support the Charity and the services we provide.

Central YMCA works in a way that is compliant with the Code of Fundraising Practice and
covers the requirements charities must follow as set out in the Charities Act 2011. To add
further diligence to our Fundraising work we also registered with the Fundraising Regulator
this year.

Fundraised income supports both new and existing projects to help our beneficiaries, with
fundraising efforts involving encouraging donations from members of our community, local
and national grant-giving organisations, and through legacy giving. These projects are most
often aligned to Health and Wellbeing or Educational enrichment for less privileged and/or
underrepresented groups.

With the Fundraising department being newly established, we have reviewed all newly
created fundraising materials to ensure compliance with Code of Fundraising Practice

and have registered with the Fundraising Preference System to ensure adherence to the
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). We have no third-party fundraising bodies or
organisations working on our behalf. This year we have expanded our fundraising team to
drive an increase in Trust and Grant submissions, recognising the increased competition in the
marketplace, and to establish individual giving and fundraising activities, through which we
continue to apply the fundraising Code of Practice to the Charity’s fundraising activities.

We follow up on all feedback we receive from members of the public to ensure compliance
with the Fundraising Regulations and regularly record, report and evaluate our work.

Trustees’ Risk Statement

At Central YMCA we are committed to protecting our learners, members, staff and volunteers
as well as the resources, partners and supporters of the Charity. This is demonstrated through
a robust risk management framework in which the principal risks of the Charity are regularly
monitored, and new controls put in place where required.

Risk management

The Board of Trustees have overarching responsibility for risk management and ensure that
the Charity’s risk profile is considered when undertaking key decisions. This includes an
assessment of risks to the strategy and the delivery of charitable objectives.

The Board of Trustees ensures that the Charity has appropriate systems of controls, financial
and otherwise, to provide reasonable assurance that:

the Charity is operating efficiently and effectively
its assets are safeguarded against unauthorised use or disposition
proper records are maintained and financial information used within the Charity
or for publication is reliable
e the Charity complies with relevant laws and regulations.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report fincorperating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 59

The Board is supported through its sub-committees which each have oversight of the risk
landscape and assurance arrangements in their respective areas. This includes a Risk and
Audit Committee which drives continuous improvements to the Charity’s risk management
processes. The Board is also supported by Trustee Leads who provide support and challenge
on specific risk areas outside of formal board and committee meetings.

The Board and its committees are supported by management responsibilities for risk,
compliance, audit, safeguarding, governance, data protection and health and safety.

The Board and its committees receive regular reports on:

safeguarding of children, young people and adults at risk

financial management and performance

non-financial performance, including learner achievement and progression
internal controls, risk management, regulatory reporting and compliance
health and safety

data protection and information security

equality, diversity and inclusion.

The Charity has a risk management and internal control framework which comprises:

* policies, procedures and tools to support the identification, assessment,
treatment and control of risks
* monitoring of systems and procedures to mitigate those risks identified
internal and external audit cycle to monitor effectiveness of controls
procedures designed to minimise any potential impact on the Charity should those risks
materialise, including business continuity and crisis management plans
quarterly reviews of principal risks by the risk and audit committee and full board
annual assessment of emerging and principal risks
annual review of the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control framework.

Principal risks and uncertainties

A challenging operating environment within 2023-24 has continued to have a significant
impact on Central YMCA and the wider sectors in which the Charity operates. The cost-of-
living crisis has put increasing pressure on the not-for-profit sector, which has seen increasing
demand for services, alongside increasing costs for delivery and reduced funding.

The Charity’s principal risks include:

ensuring adequate financial resources to support long term viability

pressures on our income and continued eroding of reserves to support operational losses
safeguarding children, young people and adults at risk

internal or external incidents affecting premises and services

(including health and safety incidents)

cyber-security or data breach resulting in the loss or disclosure of sensitive data
non-compliance with key regulation, legislation and funding requirements.

The Charity is also exposed to risk through its financial instruments where these instruments
are primarily investments. The Board seeks to minimise the Charity’s exposure to these risks
through balanced investment portfolios managed by reputable investment managers and
through the use of banks with good credit ratings.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
60 Trustees’ Annual Report {incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.

Trade debt is comprised in the main from small balances due from individuals, businesses
or government, the remaining debt is deemed a low exposure to credit risk as a significant
proportion relates to deferred income.

In response to financial challenges, the Charity continues to undertake the following activities:

Review of fixed assets and loss-making services
Continued reviews of budgeting and forecasting methods, including sensitivity analysis and
longer-range cashflow forecasts
Improvements to business analytics and reporting to inform decision making
Continued development of new products and services to adapt to changing customer
demand, with a focus on digital delivery

¢ Income diversification through development and delivery of curriculum, fundraising and
partnership strategies
Additional initiatives to support employee wellbeing, with a particular focus on mental health
A robust internal and external audit cycle to ensure compliance with key regulatory and
funding requirements

* Prudent management of our reserves with more effective cost control and alignment of
delivery with our funding

Investment powers

Under its Articles the Charity has the power to invest in any way the Board of Trustees wish.
Rothschild manages an investment portfolio on behalf of the Trustees and has been asked to
invest to provide income to subsidise the activities of the Charity and also to build up reserves
to provide capital funding for improvements to the facilities and other projects. Rothschild
was set the target of achieving a total return of 2% per annum above inflation (CPI) over

the long term (before taking account of cash distributions to Central YMCA). The portfolio
delivered a 4% return for the year (2023: 4%), behind the benchmark set.

The Charity has not set any environmental, social and governance (ESG) restrictions on the
investments other than avoiding anything carrying a government health warning, such as
tobacco products. The Charity meets regularly with Rothschild to discuss the investment
strategy and is reassured that Rothschild’s overarching commitment to ESG investment is
in line with the ethos of the Charity. Details of investments are set out in note 11 of the
accounts.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incerperating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 61

Reserves policy

The Board of Trustees has established the level of free reserves (that is, those funds that

are freely available) that the Charity ought to have. Reserves are needed to bridge the gap
between carrying out activities and receiving the funds for those activities. During the year
the Board reviewed the reserves policy and concluded that free reserves should cover three
months’ operating expenditure (2023: six months). This equates to £4.1m (2023: £6.7m based
on six months).

As at 31% July 2024 the Group’s reserves are as follows:

Funds represented by property, The funds invested in tangible and intangible fixed assets are not
plant and equipment and intan- £1,387k freely available to the Group and therefore are excluded from free
gible assets (Note 10) reserves.

These are funds arising from a legacy which are restricted as to their

Restricted endowment reserves £1,056k future use and therefore are not freely available.

. The fund is designated to provide educational grants in the name
Designated reserve — Basil Scott £264k of the late Mr Scott. This fund will be integral to a new programme

fund of charitable bursaries to be launched and centred around breaking
down barriers.
£5,373k The three month's operating funds target is around £4.1m and the
Free reserves free reserves are currently at 136% of the target (2023 18% of the
old policy based upon 6 months).
Total Group reserves £8,080k

The free reserves balance at 31 July 2024 was 136% of the three month's operating costs
target. The free reserves balance at 31 July 2023 based upon the six month's operating cost
target was 18%.

Auditor

Buzzacott LLP were re-appointed as the Charity's auditors in 2024.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN‘S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
62 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consclidated financial statements

Trustees’ Annual

Report

Public Benefit Statement

Trustees confirm that they have complied with their duty, in section 4 of the Charities Act
2011, to have due regard to the Charity Commission’s general guidance on public benefit.

Trustees have had due regard to the Charity Commission’s public benefit guidance when
exercising any powers or duties to which the guidance is relevant.

Objectives and activities

The Charity’s purpose is to advance
the education, health and wellbeing
of our communities. This aligns to
our founding objects; to provide for
the spiritual, physical, intellectual
and social welfare of people of all
ages. Our purpose and founding
objects form the bedrock of our
mission to create improved access
to life-changing opportunities and
our vision of enabling everyone to
achieve their potential, live a fulfilled
life and contribute positively to
society.

Trustees ensure that this purpose

is carried out for public benefit
through a commitment to work with
all people who need our support.
Working with local and national
government, the public and private
sectors to help individuals and
organisations to grow and bring
lasting benefits, through inclusive
health, wellbeing, education and
training programmes.

oO

The principal activities for the year
were to provide:

¢ Abroad range of relevant training
programmes, in the form of
vocational and work-based learning
and continuous professional
development courses, delivered
through Central YMCA's Education
and Training operations, including
YMCAfit, with identified fitness and
exercise facilities at YMCA Club and
YMCA kX,

e Awide range of nationally
recognised vocational qualifications
developed and managed by YMCA
Awards from Level 1 to Level 4 for
those undertaking suitable courses
run by third parties in the UK,
Europe and the rest of the world.

¢ Community focused health and
wellbeing programmes designed
to encourage people of all ages to
improve their health, particularly
targeting young people and groups
with specific needs, such as those
living with HIV/AIDS. We devised
innovative programmes specifically
to boost their physical and mental
well-being with prices reduced or
waived where appropriate.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.

63

Governance, Structure
and Management

Governing document

Central YMCA is a company limited by guarantee governed by its Articles of Association
dated 1911 and last updated in November 2018. It is registered as a charity with the Charity
Commission. There are currently 14 Full Members (16 in 2023). Reference and administration
details can be found on the final page of this report.

Charitable objects

The charitable objects of the Charity, as set out in its Articles, are to promote and assist the
advancement of the spiritual, social, intellectual and physical condition of principally young
men and women (but without any specific restriction as to age) and aims to:

|. Provide a welcome to Members and beneficiaries for themselves, in a meeting place which is
theirs to share, where friendship can be made and counsel sought.

ll. Develop activities which stimulate and challenge its Members and beneficiaries in an
environment that enables them to take responsibility and find a sense of achievement.

Ill. Involve all Members in care and work for others.

IV. Create opportunities for exchanging views, so that its Members can improve their
understanding of the world, of themselves and of one another.

V. Relieve or assist in the relief of persons of all ages who are in conditions of need, hardship or
distress by reason of their social, physical or economic circumstances.

Appointment of Trustees

Trustees are elected by Full Members at the annual general meeting. The Board may appoint
additional Trustees during the year, but any Trustee so appointed must be elected at the
following annual general meeting. The Charity must have a minimum of three Trustees at any
time and the Nominations Committee supports the recruitment of Trustees.

When deciding how to recruit Trustees, the Board thinks about how best to attract a diverse
pool of candidates and tries to achieve a strong balance of skills and diversity. The Board
also makes a positive effort to remove, reduce or prevent obstacles to people being Trustees
by reviewing the timings of meetings, offering reimbursement for reasonable expenses and
considering how it recruits new talent across a diverse community.

The Board launched a Trustee Apprenticeship programme in 2021-22 and one participant

on this programme was subsequently appointed in 2022-23 as a full Trustee on the

Board. Apprentice Trustees gain governance experience, attend Board meetings and

receive additional support through a dedicated board mentor but do not hold the legal
responsibilities of a Trustee. At the end of the programme we support participants to achieve
their first Board role, which could include a role on the Charity’s Board of Trustees if there is a
suitable vacancy. The Board appointed one participant to this programme in 2023-24.

The Board also co-opts individuals to its subcommittees to provide specialist skills and
experience to support the work of the committees. Current co-optees include individuals with
expertise in education, awarding organisations, equality, diversity and inclusion and finance.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
64 Trustees’ Annual Report (incerperating the Group Strategic Report} and consolidated financial statements.

Annual board reviews

The Board of Trustees regularly reviews board performance and progress against the
implementation of the principles of the Charity Governance Code. It also reviews its structure,
size, composition, skills and experience to ensure any imbalances and gaps inform Trustee
recruitment. The Board has set maximum terms of service in line with the recommendations
of the Charity Governance Code and any Trustees appointed for longer are subject to a
rigorous review and business case for retention whilst ensuring there is periodical progressive
refreshing of the Board.

In 2023-24 the Board of Trustees commissioned NCVO to undertake an independent board
and governance review to audit the Charity’s governance arrangements against the Code and
best practice. The results of this review were shared with the Board in July 2024 and a Task
and Finish Group has been established to take forward the recommendations.

Trustees’ induction and training

All Trustees undertake induction and on-going training to ensure they have the current
knowledge and are aware of developments in corporate and charity governance. They meet
key members of staff and are briefed about the activities within each business unit. In addition
to formal meetings, there are days at which Trustees and staff meet to hold discussions
regarding the future strategy and direction of the organisation and where other matters can
be discussed on a more informal basis. Trustees also undertake training in relation to their
responsibilities for safeguarding, along with any other training identified as part of board
reviews and training needs analysis.

Board structure

The Board of Trustees administers the Association. The Board meet at least quarterly to

allow all Trustees to have a comprehensive and up-to-date view of financial and operational
performance and to ensure all Trustees are able to consider important risk and compliance
matters such as regulatory compliance and the Charity’s safeguarding, Prevent and health and
safety obligations in sufficient depth.

The Board has in place the following committees:

Risk and Audit Committee

¢ Meets at least quarterly and otherwise as required.

e Reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of risk management and internal controls, including
the Charity’s internal audit programme.

¢ Leads the process for the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Charity’s external
auditors and oversees the Charity’s relationship with the external auditors.

¢ Reviews the integrity of the Group's financial statements, including its annual report, prior to
their submission to the Board of Trustees.

Resources Committee

¢ Meets at least quarterly.

¢ Supports oversight of all matters relating to people, premises, finance and IT.

¢ Monitors development of the budget and ongoing financial performance.

¢ Supports oversight of the Charity’s investment policy and associated strategy to deliver the
Charity’s investment objectives.

Nominations Committee

¢ Meets as required.

¢ Responsible for identifying and nominating candidates to the Board of Trustees to fill board
vacancies as and when they arise and support regular refreshing of the Board.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 65

Awards Committee

© Meets at least quarterly.

* Supports oversight of operational strategies, performance, reach and impact of the Charity’s
awarding organisation.

¢ Makes recommendations to the Board of Trustees in relation to YMCA Awards’ compliance
with the Conditions of Recognition as part of its annual submissions to the awarding
regulators.

Health and Wellbeing Committee

* Meets at least quarterly.

¢ Supports oversight of operational strategies, performance, reach and impact of the Charity’s
health and wellbeing provision.

Education and Training Committee

¢ Meets at least quarterly.

° Monitors the performance and achievement of learners across all of our education and training
provisions. :

* Oversees systems of pastoral care, with particular focus on our system of support for learners
with Additional Learning Needs and other vulnerable groups.

¢ Supports the Board of Trustees with regular monitoring of quality improvement plans and
the annual development of the self-assessment report against Ofsted’s Education Inspection
Framework.

© Receives feedback from learners, apprentices and employers on their experience with the
Charity. -

* Monitors safeguarding concerns and the systems and support in place to address these.

Equality Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group

° Meets at least quarterly.

* Contributes to the development and review of the Charity’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
policy and annual priorities

¢ Reviews and monitor progress against ED&I objectives, action plans and any associated
targets, advising and recommending as appropriate and contributing to various reports to
fulfil Charity and statutory duties.

¢ Serves as a sounding board to any proposed solutions, providing alternative suggestions
based on own experience where appropriate.
Provides views on wider ED&I issues, trends and good practice
Considers and challenges the Charity's practice, approach and development of ED&I, and
in particular where progress is limited or, in support of under-represented or disadvantaged
individuals and groups

The Chief Executive is appointed by the Trustees to lead and manage the day-to-day
operations of the Charity, supported by the Executive Team. To facilitate effective operations,
the Chief Executive has delegated authority, within the terms of delegation approved by the
Trustees, for finance, employment, business development and operational activity.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
66 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated Financial statements.

Group Structure

Central YMCA Central YMCA Trading Limited

Charity number: 213121 Company number: 3667206
Company number: 119249

Central YMCA Trading Ltd markets items derived from the activities of the Association and undertakes other
non-primary purpose trading activities. The profits of this subsidiary are paid by Gift Aid to the Charity.

Central YMCA, as the founding YMCA, was also active within the national and global YMCA Movement
during the year.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report {incorporating the Group Stratagic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 67

Statement of Trustees’
responsibilities

The Board of Trustees are responsible for preparing the Trustees’ Report (incorporating the Group

Strategic Report) and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

Company law requires the Trustees to prepare financial statements for each financial year which
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Charity and the group and of the income and
expenditure of the Charity and the group for that period. In preparing these financial statements,
the Trustees are required to:

¢ select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;

* observe the methods and principles in Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of
Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with the
Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102);

¢ make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

* state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

* prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume
that the Charity will continue in business.

The Board are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show
and explain the Charity’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Charity and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible
for safeguarding the assets of the Charity and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Disclosure of information to auditor

So far as each Trustee is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Charity’s auditor
is unaware. The Board have taken all the steps they ought to have taken as Trustees to make
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Charity’s auditor is
aware of that information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of 3418 of
the Companies Act 2006.

The Trustees are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial
information included on the Charity’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing

the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions.

On behalf of the Board

S Varma
Chair of Risk and Audit Committee _.

A Beal

Chairman “jes 3—____
N da Silva Af /) Ss:

Company Secretary fb Pros 0,

Date approved: 30 January 2025 Registered Office:
112 Great Russell Street, London WC1B 3NQ.

68

Independent auditor's
report to the members
of Central Young Men's
Christian Association

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Central Young Men’s Christian Association

{the ‘charitable parent company’) and its subsidiaries (collectively the ‘group’) for the year
ended 31 July 2024 which the comprise the group statement of financial activities, the group
and charitable parent company balance sheets and the group statement of cash flows, the
principal accounting policies and the notes to the financial statements. The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:

* give a true and fair view of the state of the group's and of the charitable parent company’s
affairs as at 31 July 2024 and of the group's income and expenditure for the year then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice; and

* have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs
(UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in
the auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We
are independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant
to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the trustees’ use of the going
concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties
relating to events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on
the group and charitable parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period
of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the trustees with respect to going concern are
described in the relevant sections of this report.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 69

Other information

The trustees are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report and financial statements, other than the financial
statements and our auditor's report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not
cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report,
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears

to be materially misstated. if we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in

the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on

the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

¢ the information given in the trustees’ report, which is also the directors’ report for the
purposes of company law and includes the strategic report, for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

* the trustees’ report, which is also the directors’ report for the purposes of company law
and includes the strategic report, has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the charitable parent
company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified
material misstatements in the trustees’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

* adequate accounting records have not been kept by the charitable parent company, or returns
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or

e the charitable parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting
records and returns; or
certain disclosures of trustees’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of trustees

As explained more fully in the trustees’ responsibilities statement, the trustees (who are also
the directors of the charitable company for the purposes of company law) are responsible for
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and
fair view, and for such internal control as the trustees determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
70 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.

In preparing the financial statements, the trustees are responsible for assessing the group's
and the charitable parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting
unless the trustees either intend to liquidate the group or the charitable parent company or to
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an
auditor's report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance,
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations.

We design procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material
misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures
are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below:

How the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities including fraud

Our approach to identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in respect of
irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, was as follows:

* The engagement partner ensured that the engagement team collectively had the appropriate
competence, capabilities and skills to identify or recognise non-compliance with applicable
laws and regulations; and

e We focused on specific laws and regulations which we considered may have a direct material
effect on the accounts or the activities of the group and parent charitable company. These
included but were not limited to the Charities Act 2011, the Companies Act 2006, Accounting
and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to charities
preparing their accounts in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard applicable to
the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102), and laws and regulations pertaining to
health and safety, employment, safeguarding, and data protection.

¢ We assessed the susceptibility of the group and parent charitable company’s financial
statements to material misstatement, including obtaining an understanding of how fraud
might occur, by:

* Making enquiries of representatives from the trustees and directors as to where they
considered there was susceptibility to fraud, their knowledge of actual, suspected and alleged
fraud; and

© Considering the internal controls in place to mitigate risks of fraud and non-compliance with
laws and regulations.

To address the risk of fraud through management bias and override of controls, we:

Carried out substantive testing of expenditure including the authorisation thereof;
Performed testing of journals;
Assessed whether judgements and assumptions made in determining the accounting
estimates were indicative of potential bias; and

* Investigated the rationale behind significant or unusual transactions if any were identified.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report lincorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 71

In response to the risk of irregularities and non-compliance with laws and regulations, we
designed procedures which included, but were not limited to:

Agreeing accounts disclosures to underlying supporting documentation;
¢ Reading the minutes of meetings of trustees; and
¢ Enquiring as to actual and potential litigation and claims.

There are inherent limitations in our audit procedures described above. The more removed
that laws and regulations are from financial transactions, the less likely it is that we would
become aware of non-compliance. Auditing standards also limit the audit procedures required
to identify non-compliance with laws and regulations to enquiry of the trustees and other
management and the inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.

Material misstatements that arise due to fraud can be harder to detect than those that arise
from error as they may involve deliberate concealment or collusion.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located
on the Financial Reporting Council's website at www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This
description forms part of our auditor's report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the charitable company’s members, as a body, in accordance
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken
so that we might state to the charitable company’s members those matters we are required to
state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted
by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the charitable
company and the charitable company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report,
or for the opinions we have formed.

4 February 2025

Edward Finch (Senior Statutory Auditor)

For and on behalf of Buzzacott LLP, Statutory Auditor
130 Wood Street

London
EC2V 6DL

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
72 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorperating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.

Consolidated Statement of

Financial Activities 2024

INCORPORATING THE INCOME
AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT

for the year ended 31 July 2024:

+“ Endowment

Donations and legacies 70 110 - 180
Charitable activities 9,957 1 - 9,968
Other trading activities 398 - - 398
Investments 29 - - 29
Total income 5 10,454 121 - 10,575
Expenditure on:

Raising funds 215 - - 215
Charitable activities: .

~ Charitable operations 15,523 121 - 15,644
- Restructuring & one-off costs 19 2,206 - - 2,206
- Interest costs 343 - - 343
Total expenditure on charitable 18,072 121 . 18,193
Total expenditure 6 —4g287,—~*~<“‘CTSC“(‘(Sy!!OC#«WS,GOB~
Net gains on investments 11 245 - - 245
Net expenditure (7,588) - - (7,588)
Other recognised gains/losses:

Losses on revaluation of fixed assets 10 - - - -
Net movement in funds (7,588) - - (7,588)

Reconciliation of funds
Fund balances brought forward 14,612 - 1,056 15,668
1617 &

Fund balances carried forward 7,024 - 1,056 8,080

Notes 5 and 6 to the accounts show full analysis of comparative income and expenditure by the charitable activities.
All items not shown in notes 5 and 6, being net gains and losses on investments and the gain on revaluation of fixed

assets, are unrestricted for both financial periods

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incerporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 73


Consolidated Statement of

Financial Activities 2023 ae!

INCORPORATING THE INCOME .
AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT an |

for the year ended 31 July 2023:

Income fro

Donations and legacies 33 97 - 130
Charitable activities 8,302 13 - 8,315
Other trading activities 445 - - 445
Investments 44 - - 44
Exceptional item 36 . - - 36
Total income S 8,860 110 . - . 8,970

Expenditure on:
Raising funds : 211 - - 211

Charitable activities:

- Charitable operations 12,279 110 - 12,389
- Restructuring & one-off costs 19 537 - - 537
- Interest costs 229 - - ; 229
Total expenditure on charitable activities . 13,045 110 - 13,155
Total expenditure 6 13,256 110 - 13,366
Net gains on investments 1 122 - : 122
Net expenditure (4,274) - - (4,274)
. Other recognised gains/losses:
Losses on revaluation of fixed assets 10 (302) - - (302)
Net movement in funds (4,576) - - (4,576)

Reconciliation of funds
Fund balances brought forward 19,188 - 1,056 20,244

Fund balances carried forward . oN & 14,612 - 1,056 15,668

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
74 Trustees’ Annual Report (incerporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.


Consolidated —
Balance Sheet Oo

Company number: 119249
as at 31 July 2024

Fixed assets:

Intangible - IT Software 10 1,032 768
Plant, property and equipment 10 350 ; 12,368
Investments . 11 . 3,774 5,666
Total fixed assets ; 5,156 18,802

Current assets:

Property held for sale . 10 oa , 3,474

Inventories 12 2 . 2
Debtors 13 1,001 623
Cash at bank and in hand 4,954 203
Total current assets 5,957 4,302

Liabilities:

Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 14 (3,033) : (3,449)
Net current assets 2,924 853
Total assets less current liabilities 8,080 19,655
Provisions for liabilities 14 - (1)
Bank loan 15. . (3,986)
Total net assets 8,080 : 15,668
The funds of the charity:

Endowment funds 18 : 1,056 . 1,056
Restricted income funds \ 18 : -

* Total restricted funds 1,056 1,056 i

Unrestricted fund — general : 16 4,913 (3,690)
Unrestricted fund - designated reserves 7 264 : 264
Revaluation reserves 16 1,847 18,038
Total unrestricted funds 7,024 . , ‘ 14,612
Total charity funds 8,080 ; 15,668

These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Trustees on 30
January 2025 and were signed on its behalf by: ;

A Beal S Varma , oo.
_ Chair Act S . ) . Chair of Risk and Audit Committee . Loe

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings ony
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. |"


Parent Association
Balance Sheet

Company number: 119249
as at 31 July 2024

Fixed assets:

Intangible — IT Software : 10 : 1,032 : 768
Plant, property and equipment | 10 350 12,368
Investments 11 3,774 5,666
Total fixed assets 5,156 : : 18,802

Current assets:

Property held for sale . 10 - 3,474

Debtors . 13 : 989 625
Cash at bank and in hand , : 4,954 203
Total current assets 5,943 . 4,302

Liabilities:

Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 14 (3,363) (3,844)
, Net current assets 2,580 458
Total assets less current liabilities - ; 7,736 19,260
Provisions for liabilities 14 . - . (1)
Bank loan 15 . (3,986)
Total net assets . 7,736 15,273
The funds of the charity:
Endowment funds 18 1,056 1,056
Restricted income funds , 18 - . -
Total restricted funds 1,056 . 1,056
Unrestricted fund — general 16 4,569 (4,084)
Unrestricted fund — designated reserves 7 264 264
Revaluation reserves 16 1,847 - 18,037
” Total unrestricted funds 6,680 14,217
Total charity funds - 7,736 15,273

“* The Association’s net movement in funds for the financial period was a deficit of £7.6m (2023: a deficit
of £4.6m). : .

These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Trustees on 30
January 2025 and were signed on its behalf by: ; ; :

A Beal AS S Varma : -,
Chair eee Chair of Risk and Audit Committee

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings .
76 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated Financial statements. >


Consolidated statement OB
ofcash flows oe

for the year ended 31 July 2024: ; .

Cash flows from operating activities:

Net cash used in operating activities 20 (5,853) (4,039)

Cash flows from investing activities:

Dividends, interest and rents from investments 29 44

Purchase of property, plant and equipment (279) . {21)

Purchase of IT Software and Product Develop- . (776) (746)

ment

Proceeds from sale of Fixed assets and Property

held for resale 14,983 ~

Proceeds from sale of investments 2,118 6,356

Purchase of investments . (501) ; (2,295) .
Net cash provided by investing activities 15,574 : 3,338

Cash flows from financing activities:

Finance Lease . 27 -
Loan repayment (4,997) -
Net cash outflow from financing activities (4,970) : -
Change in cash and cash equivalents in the 4,751 (703)
reporting period

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning 203 906
of the reporting period | .

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the 4,954 203

reporting period

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings . . ~
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements...» : “77+. *


CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report fincorgerating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.


Notes to the accounts

1 General Information

The Central Young Men's Christian Association and its subsidiaries (together “the Group”)
operates a number of charitable activities throughout the UK. The Group uses a number of
brand names for its services, including YMCA Awards, YMCA Club, YMCAfit, Moorgate Fitness
Club, and YMCA KX.

The Central Young Men's Christian Association (“the Association”) is a registered charity and
a company limited by guarantee. It is registered in England, its registered office is 112 Great
Russell Street, London, WC1B 3NQ and its registered number is 119249. Full Members are a
group of 14 (2023: 16) individuals who have affirmed their commitment to the Association's
charitable aims and are the equivalent of the shareholders of a commercial company. They
are elected by the Board of Trustees. The Full Members of the Association are each liable to
contribute 37 pence towards the liabilities of the Association in the event of liquidation but
cannot receive any distribution of any kind arising from their membership.

2 Statement of Compliance

The group and individual financial statements of the Central Young Men’s Christian
Association have been prepared in compliance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards,
including Financial Reporting Standard 102, “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in
the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland” ("FRS 102”), the Companies Act 2006, and
the “Statement of Recommended Practice” (SORP FRS 102) applicable to charities preparing
their accounts in accordance with FRS102. The Group financial statements are also prepared
in accordance with the Charities Act 2011. The Trustees have used a true and fair override as
set out in estimates and judgements (page 86) in relation to Office Premises held for resale at
31 July 2023 and sold in January 2024.

The Group is a public benefit entity group, and the Association is a public benefit entity, as
defined by FRS102.

3 Accounting Policies

The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these consolidated and
separate financial statements are set out below.

The accounting policies have been applied consistently for each year presented.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 79

(a) Basis of preparation

These consolidated and separate financial statements are prepared on a going concern
basis, under the historical cost convention, as modified by the recognition of long leasehold
properties and certain financial assets measured at fair value.

The preparation of financial statements requires the use of certain critical accounting
estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying
the Group and Company accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of
judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the
financial statements, are disclosed in note 4.

The Association has taken advantage of the exemption in section 408 of the Companies Act
from disclosing its individual income and expenditure account.

(b) Going concern

The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through cash generated
by charitable and trading operations, from returns from investments and from planned
withdrawals from the investment portfolio.

The Trustees have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being a period of at least twelve
months after the date on which the report and financial statements are signed and believes
there to be no material uncertainty in this regard. For this reason, the Group continues to
adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.

(c) Exemptions for qualifying entities under FRS 102

FRS 102 allows a qualifying entity certain disclosure exemptions. The Association has taken
advantage of the following exemptions:

i. from preparing a statement of cash flows, on the basis that it is a qualifying entity and the
consolidated statement of cash flows, included in these financial statements, includes the
Association's cash flows;

ii. from disclosing the Association's key management personnel compensation.
(d) Basis of consolidation

The Group consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the
Association and its subsidiary undertaking made up to 31 July 2024.

Consolidated financial statements are required to be prepared and the Association has taken
advantage of the exemption under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 from publishing
its individual income and expenditure account, statement of other comprehensive income and
related notes.

(e) Foreign currency
The Group and Association’s functional and presentation currency is the pound sterling.

In practice the amount of foreign currency transactions is not material. When they do arise,
they are translated into the functional currency using the spot exchange rates at the dates of
the transactions. At each period end, foreign currency monetary items are translated using the
closing rate. All exchange differences are dealt with in the statement of financial activities.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
80 Trustees’ Annual Report lincorgorating the Group Strategic Report) and consclidated financial statements.

(f) Revenue recognition

Income from charitable activities represent the amounts derived (excluding value added tax)
from the provision of goods and services to third-party customers and certain grants during
the financial period. The Group recognises revenue according to the following principles:

¢ Gym membership income is recognised at the start of service provision with the
exception of annual gym membership income which is recognised over the duration of
the membership period.

¢ YMCAfit training course income is recognised upon the commencement of the course.
These courses are short in duration and the terms and conditions stipulate refunds will
not be provided once the course has commenced.

* Training and Skills contract funding income is recognised over the duration of the
learning, with the below stipulations:

o Whilst apprenticeship framework funding provides for an additional lump
sum on achievement, this is only recognised at the student's completion
date.

o ESFA 16-19 Study Programme and Traineeship funding is recognised as
income over the duration of each learner's programme without a lump sum
at the end.

e Income from the sale of goods is recognised when the goods are delivered.

* School programme income and venue hire income for periods exceeding one month are
recognised over the duration of the contract period.

¢ Non-exchange transactions (grants, donations, bequests) are recognised in the Statement
of Financial Activities when conditions for their receipt have been complied with, receipt
is probable, and the amount known. Any income from performance related grants is
carried forward as part of deferred income to the extent that the related services have
not been performed. Grants which fund charitable activities are classified as income from
charitable activities.

¢ Investment income comprises interest receivable on short-term deposits as well as
amounts received on investments and is recognised in the period in which the Group is
entitled to the income.

e All other income, which has not been detailed above, is recognised when the entitlement
to the income is confirmed, receipt is probable, and the value can be measured reliably.

(g) Restructuring costs

The Group classifies certain charges relating to significant reductions in staffing, centre
closures and associated costs that have a significant impact on the Group's financial results
as ‘restructuring costs’. These are disclosed separately to provide further understanding of
the financial performance of the Group.

(h) Employee benefits

The Group provides a range of benefits to employees, including paid holiday arrangements
and defined contribution pension plans.

Short term benefits, including holiday pay and other similar non-monetary benefits,
redundancy and other payments to staff leaving the Group, are recognised as an expense in
the period in which the service is received.

In the period the Group operated two defined contribution plans for its employees
where the Group pays fixed contributions into a separate entity with no further payment

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 81

obligations. The contributions are recognised as an expense when they are due. Amounts not
paid are shown in accruals in the balance sheet. The assets of the plans are held separately
from the Group in independently administered funds.

(i) Taxation

As a registered charity, the Association can claim certain reliefs from corporation tax on its
income. Where these reliefs apply, no taxation is provided. All irrecoverable VAT is treated as
part of the cost of the item to which it relates.

(j) Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost or, in the case of long leasehold property, fair
value. Cost includes the original purchase price and costs directly attributable to bringing the
asset to its working condition for its intended use. No land value is attributed to long leases
as other parties have rights over the site on which the buildings are constructed.

Depreciation is calculated, using the straight-line method, to allocate the depreciable amount
to the assets’ residual values over their estimated useful lives, as follows:

Fixtures, fittings and computer equipment - 5% to 33%
Long leasehold buildings - 40 years
Refurbishment works to the long leasehold buildings _- 10 years
Short leasehold buildings - 20 years

Running repairs and minor renewals of buildings and plant are written off as incurred.

Individual long leasehold properties are held at their estimated fair value. Updated valuations
are obtained when either there is evidence that the previous valuations do not reflect the
current values of the relevant properties or every three years. The surplus or deficit above
depreciated historic cost is transferred to the revaluation reserve, except that a deficit

which is in excess of any previously recognised surplus over depreciated cost relating to the
same property, or the reversal of such a deficit, is charged (or credited) to the Statement of
Financial Activities. A deficit which represents a clear consumption of economic benefits is
charged to the Statement of Financial Activities regardless of any such previous surplus.

Where there are indications that the residual value or useful life of an asset has changed,
the residual value, useful life or depreciation rate are amended retrospectively to reflect the
new circumstances. The assets are reviewed for impairment if these factors indicate that the
carrying amount may be impaired. Impairment losses are recognised in the Statement of
Financial Activities.

If an impairment loss is subsequently reversed, the carrying amount of the asset is increased
to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the revised
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined (net
of depreciation) had no impairment loss being recognised in prior periods. A reversal of an
impairment loss is recognised in the Statement Financial Activities.

Assets are de-recognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected.
On disposal, the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount is
recognised in Statement of Financial Activities.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
82 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.

(k) Intangible assets

Identifiable intangible assets are recognised when the Association controls the asset, it is
probable that future economic benefits attributed to the asset will flow to the Association and
the cost of the asset can be reliably measured.

Computer software purchased from third parties is capitalised on the basis of the costs
incurred to acquire and bring into use the specific software.

New qualifications developed by the new product development (NPD) team based on a
business case and expectation that these products will generate surplus income for a number
of future periods are capitalised as intellectual property (IP) in the year of development and
amortised over a standard period of expected income generation from the year of product
launch.

Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated
useful lives from the date the software is available for use. The estimated useful lives of
computer software is 3 to 5 years. New IP products are estimated to have an expected income
generating period of 3 years before significant reviews and rewrites are necessary.

(I) Investments

Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Other
investments, which comprise listed investments held by the Group’‘s investment managers,
are stated at their fair value, being the closing market value of the investments as at the
period end. Changes in the value of the investments and gains and losses on disposals are
recognised in the Statement of Financial Activities. Any accumulated investment gains are
recognised as a revaluation reserve.

(m) Leased assets

Leases of assets that transfer substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership
are classified as finance leases. The Group and Association long leasehold property, which
was all disposed of in the year, was held under a lease with an original life of 999 years which
is classified as a finance lease. However, as a nominal rent was payable under the lease, no
liability is recognised in respect of the lease.

Leases that do not transfer all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as operating
leases. Payments under operating leases are charged to the Statement of Financial Activities
on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.

(n) Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and estimated selling price less costs to sell.
Inventories are recognised as an expense in the period in which the related income is
recognised.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Stratagic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 83

(o) Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and the
investment managers, and other short-term highly liquid investments with a maturity of 3
months or less.

At 31 July 2024 all cash and cash equivalents for the Group and Association are in the form of
cash at bank with no time limit or penalties applicable for the withdrawal of funds.

(p) Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a
result of past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the
obligation, and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.

Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be
required in settlement is determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. A
provision is recognised even if the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item
included in the same class of obligations might be small.

Provisions for leased property dilapidations relate to the estimate cost of making good the
dilapidations as at the balance sheet date, where the Group has such an obligation as a result
of the tenancy agreements or property law. The provision is estimated based on current
rectification costs.

(q) Financial instruments

The Group has chosen to adopt Sections 11 and 12 of FRS 102 in respect of financial
instruments.

Basic financial assets, including investments, trade and other receivables and cash and bank
balances are initially recognised at transaction price. Investments are subsequently measured
at fair value, concessionary loans are not subsequently re-measured and other financial
instruments are subsequently measured at amortised cost.

Other than long-term loans (greater than one year), basic financial liabilities, including trade
and other payables are initially recognised at transaction price and subsequently at amortised
cost. Long-term loans are recognised at the present value of future cash flows stated
discounted at the market rate of interest.

Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the associated cash flows are
settled or expire or when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to a third party.
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
84 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.

(r) Apportionment of expenses

Charitable expenses are allocated directly against the operation to which they relate and
represent the cost of running the programme.

Governance costs include audit, company secretarial and strategic management costs.
Support costs, which include Governance costs, have been allocated using a range of
calculation and allocation methods most appropriate to the type of expenditure in question.

HR costs, staff related expenditure and insurance costs . Staff numbers

Marketing, Finance, Facilities, IT and central staff costs Turnover by operations

NPD and Business Development costs Direct by project/expense incurred
(s) Funds

Funds held by the Association are either:

* unrestricted general funds — these are funds which can be used in accordance with the
charitable objects at the discretion of the Trustees

e designated funds — these are funds set aside by the Trustees out of unrestricted general
funds for specific future purposes or projects

¢ restricted funds — these are funds that can only be used for particular restricted purposes
within the objects of the Association. Restrictions arise when specified by the donor or
when funds are raised for particular restricted purposes.

¢ endowment fund - these funds are gifts of endowments where the Trustees have the
power.to utilise in line with the objects of the Association.

Further explanation of the nature and purposes of each fund is included in notes 17 and 18.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees! Annual Report lincorporating the Group Strategic Report and consolidated financial statements. ” : 85

4. Critical accounting judgements and estimation uncertainty

Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience
and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable
under the circumstances.

(a) Critical judgements in applying the Group's accounting policies

In the opinion of the Trustees, other than the assessment of whether the adoption of the
going concern assumption in the preparation of the financial statements as discussed within
the accounting policies above, there are no judgements made in applying the accounting
policies which have had a material impact on the financial statements and which do not
involve the use of estimates.

(b) Key accounting estimates and assumptions

The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting
estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and
assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are addressed below.

(c) Provisions for property dilapidations

A provision of £0.5m was made in relation to the expected decommissioning costs of the Club
premises at 112 Great Russell Street which was disposed of in the year and will be vacated by
the end of June 2025. The provision has been based upon tenders received from suppliers
for the work required to be completed in accordance with the terms of the disposal. It is not
considered that any material liabilities for dilapidations exist at other locations operated by
the Charity.

(d) Provision for irrecoverable debts

The nature of the Group and Charity’s trade debtors is that they comprise a large volume of
low value balances, together with a small number of higher value items. Provision is made

in respect of any individual, higher value debts which are assessed as being irrecoverable.

In addition, an estimate is made for the value of the other debts which may become
irrecoverable and an appropriate provision made. The estimate is based on the age profile of
the debts, their aggregate value within each age profile, historic recovery rates and post year
end recoveries, with full provision being made in respect of older debts.

The carrying value of the debtors and the aggregate provision are given in note 13.

(e)Property held for sale

The Trustees have used a true and fair override to recognise a leasehold property fixed asset
as current asset held for sale. The asset was disclosed as held for sale on 31 July 2023 and
sold in the year to 31 July 2024. The Trustees consider that this accounting treatment best
represents the nature of the asset due to the imminent sale in the post year end period at the
time of signing the financial statements for the year ended 31 July 2023.

86

5. Analysis of income
Analysis of income 2024

Charitable activities:
Wellbeing
YMCA Club
One KX

Education
YMCAfit training courses
YMCA Skills and Education
YMCA Awards”

Other projects

Voluntary income — donations

Other trading activities:

Commercial trading income

Exceptional income

Total income before investment income
Investment income

Total

Analysis of income 2023

Wellbeing
YMCA Club
One KX

Education
YMCAfit training courses
YMCA Skills and Education
YMCA Awards

Other projects

Voluntary income - donations
Other trading activities:
, Commercial trading income
Exceptional income
Total income before investment income
Investment income

" Total

1,634 “141 4,645
rs) - 69
2,200 - 2,200
5,424 . 5,424
630 . 630
9,957 11 9,968
70 110 180
398 : 398
10,425 421 10,546
29 : 29
10,454 121 10,575

1,855, 13 1,868
67 - 67
1,418 - 1,418
4,281 - 4,281
668 - 668
13 - 13
8,302 13 8,315
33 97 130
445 - 445
36 - 36
8,816 410 8,926
44 - 44
8,860 410 8,970

All income from charitable activities has been generated in the United Kingdom. Of the above total income £29k
(2023: £40k) was derived from the sale of goods, £357k (2023: £404k) for space hire, £29k (2023: £44k) from
. investment income, £180k (2023: £130k) from Voluntary income, and the balance of £9,980k (2023: £8,352k) was.

derived from the provision of services.


6. Analysis of expenditure
Analysis of expenditure 2024

Charitable activities:

Wellbeing : . :
YMCA Club ; 2,991 121 ; 568 3,680
1 ; . One KX - 354 — : 24 378
Education ~ : ;
YMCAfit training courses , 2,121 . aod ' 833 2,954
YMCA Training 5,292 : 1,930 7,222
YMCA Awards . 907 - "$03 1,410
Restructuring costs 19 2,206 - - 2,206
Loan interest . 343 . ; - 343
' | 14,214 121 3,858 18,193 ©
Raising funds:
Commercial trading . , 67 : 34 - 901
Total expenditure before investment costs —- 14,281 121 3,892 * 18,294
Investment costs 111 - 3 114
Total . ° 14,392 121 3,895 18,408

Analysis of total expenditure 2023

Satethtants aes
Charitable activiti

Wellbeing
YMCA Club 2,415 110 . 615 3,140
One KX : , 285 - , 28° 313
Education ; ;
YMCAfit training courses . 1,678 ° - 470 2,148,
YMCA Training ; 4,249 - : 1,354 5,603
YMCA Awards : . 860 : » 325 1,185
Restructuring costs 19 537 , - : - ; 537
.t Loan interest . 229 - - 229
ws ; 10,253 110 2,792 13,155 -
Raising funds:
Commercial trading ; . 58 7 - 36 94
. Investment costs 113 - 7 4 117

Total . 10,424 110 2,832 “ 13,366,
All allocated support costs have been charged against unrestricted funds. ,

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
88 Trustees’ Annual Report (incerporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.


6. Analysis of expenditure (continued)
‘Support costs are made up as follows:

IT costs ; : ‘ 1,117 887
Property costs ; ; ; oo 205 239
Finance department costs : : . ; 453 : 329
HR costs . : 348 "286
Communication and marketing costs 433 : 349
Management costs . : 154 : 226
Maintenance department costs . . 286 -
Insurance . 41 113
Development/fundraising : , 571 237
Governance Costs : 287 : 166

, 3,895 _ 2,832

The basis of apportionment back to charitable activities is set out in the accounting policies.

Governance costs are made up as follows:

Auditor's remuneration (excluding irrecoverable VAT) . 52 44
Irrecoverable VAT on auditors’ remuneration 10 9
Company secretarial costs 96 ; 46
Share of management time on strategic matters ; , 129 67

287 : 166

7. Net expenditure for the financial period.

cht
1}
nx

Bad debt expenses . 304 -

Operating lease payments: ,

- Property rentals 161 _ 231
Services provided by the group auditor (including irrecover- .

able VAT): . :

- Audit services : , : : 59 50

- Tax compliance . . 3 3.
Depreciation — owned assets * . : . . 1,300 Ce 1,288

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary underakings &
Trustees’ Annual Report {incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.


8. Remuneration of Trustees

The Trustees did not receive any emoluments during the period (2023: fnil) for services as
Trustees of the Association.or for any other services to the Group. A total of £245 (2023: e
£340) was reimbursed to two (2023: two) Trustee(s) during the period in respect of travel
costs. Trustee indemnity insurance was purchased during the period at a cost of £3,650 (2023:
£7,184). :

,

9. Staff numbers and costs

The average number of persons employed by the group and parent during
the financial period, analysed by category:

. Operations.” 181 : 165

Management and administration 65 49
2460 214

In addition to the above staff, around 60 unpaid volunteers assist in the provision of Club services to those in need.
In accordance with the provisions of the Charities SORP, the value of time expended by volunteers has not been
recognised in these accounts.

The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:

Wages and salaries : . 5,754 5,001
Redundancy costs , . 7 60
Social security costs 555 472
Other pension costs . . 215 189

, 6,531 5,722

The total redundancy Payments for 2024 of £7k (2023: £60k) were funded from accumulated reserves.

The emoluments of the employees earning over £60,000 over the financial period fell into the
following bands:

"£60,001 - £70,000 . : 3 . 3
£70,001 - £80,000 ae 4 -
£80,001 - £90,000 : 2 2
£110,001 - £120,000 : ; : 1

£130,001 - £140,000 + -

Pension costs for these higher paid employees, for the year amounted to £20,660 (2023: £20,697). *

Key management compensation.

Key management personnel comprise members of the Executive Team The compensation paid or payable to key
management for employee services for the year was £574,569 (2023: £363,351). This includes salary, employer —
pension contributions, employer's National Insurance and other employee benefits.
: . oO :
* CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
90 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consclidated financial statements.


10. Property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets

For the group and association 2024:

Cost or Valuation:
At 31 July 2023
Additions
Disposals

At 31 July 2024

Depreciation:

At 31 July 2023
Charge for the period
Disposals

At 31 July 2024

Net book value:
At 31 July 2024

At 31 July 2023

1,219 1,168: 2,387! ~—«11,876 1,725 4312: 17,913! 20,300
404 372: 776 { - - 279} 279: 1,055

- oi -{ (11,876) - (1,721) | (13,597); (13,597)
1,623 1,540: 3,163! : 1,725 2,870: 4,595 7,758
655 964 | 1,619 - 1,554 3.991! 5,545! 7,164
386 126} 512! 522 72 194; 788! 1,300

- -! -! (22) : (1,566) } (2,088) } (2,088)
1,041 1,090; 2,131! - 1,626 2,619; 4,245} 6,376
582 450 ; 1,032 ; - 99 251} 350! 1,382

564 204 768

=
=
o
N
a
a]
=
ry
nS
ard
=
N
ray
o
.-)
=
»
—
a
oe

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements. 91

10. Property, plant and equipment, and intangible assets (continued)
For the group and association 2023: :

Cost or Valuation:

At 31 July 2022 700 16,950 1,725 4,291} 22,966} 24,607
Additions 519 -. oe avi avi 767
Transfer to current H H

accets ‘ - (3,474) - - | (3,474); (3,474)
Revaluations - (1,600) - -+ (1,600) : (1,600)
At 31 July 2023 1,219 11,876 1,725 4,312! 17,913 20,300
Depreciation:

At 31 July 2022 388 649 1,465 3,849: 5,963: 7,134
Charge for the 267 609 89 142} 1,288
period .

Revaluations - (1,258) - : (1,258)
At 31 July 2023 655 - 1554 3,991! 7,164
Net book value: i H

At 31 July 2023 564 204; 768: 41,876 171 321! 13,136
At 31 July 2022 310 158: 468 16,301 260 444: 17,005 : 17,473

Long leasehold properties at Fair Value:

Great Russell Street buildings

At period end open market value . - 15,350

Aggregate depreciation thereon - -

Net book value , - 15,350
Historical cost of revalued assets -- 5,763
Aggregate depreciation based on historical cost - (5,380)
Historical cost net book value , , - : 383

Property Held For Sale:

111 Great Russell Street building —

Balance Brought Forward . - 3.474 -
Transfer from Fixed Asset oo - , 3,474
Disposed of in year - oe : (3,474) -
Balance Carried forward ; ney 7S

92


11. Fixed Asset Investments — Group and Association
External investments (Group and Association)

Opening fair value , . i . , . “5,666 8,916
Purchases at cost : an ; : ‘501 . 2,295
Sale proceeds ; ; ; (2,118) (6,356)
Gain/loss on investments in year . : (275) 811
Closing fair value ; : 3,774 5,666

The investments were allocated as follows:

Fixed Income oe 4,200 1,530 1,849

Equities , 1,196 1911 ; 1,832 2,688
Hedge Funds 384 512 664 802 ‘
Other Funds 14 8 15 6
Investments ; 2,747 3,631 4,041 5,045
Liquid Funds oo 143 143 575 621

Total Lo 2,890 ; 3,774 - 4,616 5,666

Liquidfundsareincludedwithincashatbankandinhand inthebalancesheet. Theinvestmentsarevaluedbasedonquotedprices.
The above investments represent the totality of the financial assets measured at fair value.

12. Inventory

Items for resale 2 2 -

13. Debtors

Amounts due within one year

“Trade debtors _ 558 295 . 549 ; 297
"Other debtors ; , 302 206 299 - 206
“. Prepayments and accrued income 141 122 + : 141 122

1,001 ~ 623 ‘ 989 — 625

The Group and Association trade debtors are stated after provisions for bad and doubtful debts of £nil (2023: £180k). ;
Bad debts written off i in the year were £304k (2023: Eni). .

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report lincorporating the Group Strategic Report) and'consclidated financial statements. - oo 93.


14. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

Trade creditors 501 454 501 446
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings : - . - 333 7 418
Income tax, social security and VAT 205 491 205 “491
Accruals 1,202 125 1,202 119
Other creditors 251 784 248 775
Provisions 808 99 808 99
Deferred income 21 468 21 - 468
Short term borrowings 45 1,028 45 1,028

3,033 3,449 3,363 3,844

‘Amounts owed to group undertakings are unsecured, interest free, have no fixed date of repayment and are repay-
able on demand.

Provisions relate to dilapidations costs that are expected to materialise in the next 12 months in relation to centres
occupied by the Group under short lease arrangements. The amounts will be dependent on individual property
arrangements with landlords. .

During the year, a short-term borrowing arrangement of £1.0m (2023: £1.0m) with Rothschild, secured against the
investment portfolio, was repaid in full.

Deferred income analysis for Group and Association

YMCAfit training courses 336 (335) 1 248 88 336

Health and fitness membership fees , (18) (18) : (36) ; (10) (8) - (18)
YMCA Training courses 56 - 56 56 - 56
Programme funding 19 (19) : - 29 (10) 19
Prepaid Income Other . 75 (75) . . 75 - 75

468 (447) 21 398 70 ° 468

tee Deferred income brought forward 468 398
a Utilised in year (468) (398)
“Arising in year 21 . 468
Deferred income carried forward’ 21 . 468

“The above income arises from the provision of services and has been deferred as the related services had not been
provided as at the year end.

. CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
94 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.

14. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (continued)
Provisions for the Group and Association :

Expected to be utilised:

- within one year

Provision brought forward 7 99 - 99
Utilised in year ; (68) -
Arising in year _ , 77 -
Provision carried forward , : 808 99

- after more than one year

Provision brought forward : 39
Utilised in year . . : : (38)
Arising in year : - -
Provision carried forward . . . : 1
Total provision carried forward ; 808 100

The provision for leased property dilapidations relates to the estimated liability YMCA leased premises.

The provisions are expected to crystallise when the properties are vacated; the cost of the dilapidations will

be dependent on the outcome of negotiations with the landlord as to the extent of the required work and
construction costs at the time the lease comes to an end. During the year a provision of £0.5m was made to reflect
the expected costs of decommissioning the Club premises at 112 Great Russell Street. The above also includes a
provision for liability to ESFA (note 25) of £277k.

Finance leases

Not later than one year 20 -
Later than one year and not later than five . 7 .
years

Total liability carried forward | . 27 - -

The finance leases relate to gym equipment.

15. Bank loan - Group and the Association

Loan debt is repayable:

- within 12 months , : 18 : 7
oot within 1 to 2 years ; , - 84
within 2 to 5 years ; ; - 287
. after 5 years . mo - . 3,622

: 18 4,000

The bank loan was repaid in full in the year. In 2023 the bank loan was secured by a fixed and floating charge over

- the Charity's freehold and leasehold interests in the property at 112 Great Russell Street, London WC1 and was
repayable over a 25-year term with the first two years suspended {interest only repayment period). The loan was
subject to a fixed interest rate of 2.41% above the Bank of England base rate.

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consclidated financial statements. ° 95


16. Analysis of total funds
Analysis of total funds - Group 2024

At 31 July 2023 (3,690) 16,191 1,847 18,038 264 1,056 15,668

Net income / expenditure (7,588) - - - - -_ (7,588)
Other comprehensive income - - - - - - -
Total comprehensive income (7,588) - - - - - (7,588)
Transfer between funds 16,191 (16,191) - (16,191) - - oot
At 31 July 2024 4,913 - 1,847 1,847 264 1,056 8,080

Analysis of total funds - Group 2023

“At3t July 2022 584 © 16,493 1,847 18,400 264 1,056 20,244
Net income / expenditure (4,274) - a - - - (4,274)
Other comprehensive income 7 {302) - {302) - - (3,021)
Total comprehensive income (4,274) {302) - {302) - - (4,576)
At 31 July 2023 {3,690) 16,191 1,847 18,038 264 1,056 15,668

As at 31 July 2024 the general fund and the total of all funds held by the Charity totalled £4.6m and £7.7m,
respectively (2023: (£4.1m) and £15.3m). , °

Analysis of Group net assets between funds at 31 July 2024

Charitable fixed assets . 1,382 . . - - . 1,382
Investments 607 . 2411 4,056 3,774
Current assets ; 5,957 - - 5,957
Current liabilities ; (3,033) - oe (3,033)

4,913 2,111 1,056 8,080

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
96 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated Financial statements.


16. Analysis of total funds - continued
Analysis of Group net assets between funds at 31 July 2023

Charitable fixed assets .
Investments

Current assets

Current liabilities

Long term liabilities

155 16,455 - 16,610
2,763 , 1,847 1,056 5,666
828 - - 828
(3,449) - - (3,449)
(3,987) - - (3,987)
(3,690) 18,302 1,056 15,668

17. Designated funds — the Group and the Association

The funds of the Association include the following designated funds which have been set aside from unrestricted funds
by the Trustees for specific purposes.

Basil Scott fund
Total

The Basil Scott fund is designated to provide income to fund educational grants in the name of the late Mr Scott

264 - 264
264 : 264

were utilised in 2024 nor 2023 and the Charity is currently considering how to best utilise the funds.

18. Restricted funds —- the Group and the Association
Analysis of restricted funds — Group and the Association 2024

Income funds

Health and fitness activities

Capital funds
Endowment Fund

- 121 (121)

264
264

. No funds

- 121 (121)

1,056 - -
1,056 - -

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings

Annyal Report (incerporating the Group Straregic Report) and consolidated financial statements.

1,056
1,056


18. Restricted funds - the Group and the Association - continued
Analysis of restricted funds - Group and the Association 2023

Income funds

Health and fitness activities - 110 (110) - - |
. 110 (110) : -

Capital funds . :
Encowment Fund 1,056 - - , : - 1,056
1,056 : - : 1,056

Health and Fitness activities represent the balance of grants received to support users of the Club, in particular for those
with long term health conditions. The endowment fund is a legacy from the estate of the late Dr Charles Clark, income from
which, will be used to assist young people suffering personal problems to achieve specified goals which will contribute to
their life chances and personal fulfilment.

19. Restructuring and one-off costs
Items which relate restructuring and one-off costs are as follows:

During 2024 the Association incurred £2,206k (2023: £537k) arising from an organisation wide restruc-
turing exercise. Included in restructuring costs is the profit and loss on sale of fixed assets of £765k,
review of balance sheet and write off of balance of £630k. Also included,are exceptional one-off
costs relating to strategic planning of £435k and a provision for £276k in relation to potential repay-
ment of ESFA income relating to 2018-19 income.

20. Reconciliation of net expenditure to net cash provided
by operating activities

Net expenditure : , (7,588) (4,276)

Investment income (29) (44)
Investment revaluation 29 44
Depreciation charges 1,300 1,288
(Increase)/decrease in debtors (378) 318
Decrease in creditors , : (170) (519)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions . 708 . (38)
Loss/(surplus) on investments sold 275 (812)
Net cash used by operating activities : (5,853) (4,039)

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN’S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
98 Trustees’ Annual Report {incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.

21. Changes in net debt — group
Analysis of changes in net debt - Group 2024

Bank borrowings due within 1 year (1,028) 1,010 - (18)
Bank borrowings due over 1 year (3,986) 3,986 - -
Cash 203 : 4,751 - 4,954
Net debt (4,811) 9,747 - 4,936

Analysis of changes in net debt — Group 2023

Bank borrowings due within 1 year (1,009) (19) : - (1,028)
Bank borrowings due over 1 year (3,993) 7 - (3,986)
Cash ; 906 (703) : 203
Net debt (4,096) (715) - (4,811)

22. Capital commitments — the Group and the Association

As at 31 July 2024 there.was a capital commitment for a balance yet to be invoiced totalling £102k
(2023: £417k). The majority relating to the project to replace the Customer Relationship Manage-
ment (CRM) system used by the YMCAfit team of £57k (2023: £417k). The balance related to new
gym equipment and totalled £44k (2023: nil). The capital commitments relate to both the parent

and the group.

23. Operating lease commitments - the Group and the Association
The following represent the leasing commitments:

Commitments falling due:

- within 12 months 44 3 2B 3
- within 1 to 2 years - - 33 -
44 3 m1 3

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary underiakings .
Trustees’ Annual Report {incerporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.

99


24. Related party transactions

Owing to the diverse nature of the Charity’s operations and the number of activities that work in
partnership with other charities and public-sector bodies, transactions may take place with organi-
sations where Members of the Board have an interest. Any transactions involving such charities or
organisations are conducted at arm's length and in accordance with the Charity’s financial regula-
tions and normal procurement procedures.

The only related party transactions that took place during the financial period were as follows:

As per note 14, as at 31 July 2024 £333k (2023: £418k) was owed by the Charity to Central YMCA
Trading Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Charity. Central YMCA Trading Limited provides
and markets items derived from the activities of the Charity and undertakes other non-primary
purpose trading activities. The profits of this subsidiary are paid by Gift Aid to the Charity subse-
quent to the year-end.

Central YMCA, as the founding YMCA, was also part of the YMCA Movement in England in the
period.

25. Post balance sheet events

The Charity is ceasing trading out of its Club premises at 112 Great Russell Street in February
2025 and will have fully vacated the property by June 2025. In September 2024 the Charity
opened the Moorgate Fitness Centre in leased spaced in premises of the YMCA London City &
North. :

Since October 2024 we have been supporting the ESFA with an investigation into the perfor-
mance of a subcontractor who delivered 16-19 Study Programmes for the Charity during aca-
demic year 2018/19. In December 2024 we received a letter from the ESFA with the provisional
findings of their investigation. This has highlighted a potential maximum liability to the Charity
of £277k. Provision for this has been made in full in the financial statements and disclosed under
Restructuring and other one-off costs (see Note 19).

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings
100 Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.

Reference and

administration details

Charity number
Company number

Registered office

Trading Names and Associated
Websites

Auditor

213121

119249

112 Great Russell Street,
London WC1B 3NQ
Central YMCA

YMCA Awards

YMCAfit

YMCA Club

YMCA KX

Moorgate Fitness Club

Buzzacott LLP
130 Wood Street
London EC2V 6DL

www.ymca.co.uk
www.ymcaawards.co.uk
www.ymcafit.org.uk
www.ymecaclub.co.uk

www.moorgatefitnessclub.co.uk

Bankers

The Co-operative Bank
Delf House, Southway
Skelmersdale WN8 6NY

Royal Bank of Scotland
62/63 Threadneedle Street
London EC2R 8LA

Barclays
1 Churchill Place
London, E14 5HP

Solicitors

BDB Pitmans LLP
One Bartholomew Close
London EC1A 7BL

Property advisors

Montagu Evans LLP
5 Bolton Street
London W1J 8BA

Investment managers

Rothschild Private Management Limited

New Court, St Swithin’s Lane
London EC4N 8AL

Directors and Trustees

The directors of the charitable company (the
Association) are its Trustees for the purposes of
charity law. Throughout this report they are referred

to as Trustees.

Trustees serving during the
financial period and since the

year-end

Andrew Beal
Melissa Bryant
Glenn Dunn

lan Govendir
Yvonne Kelly
Anne-Marie Laing
Timothy Lissimore
Yusuf Nurbhai
Cheryl Turner
Stephen Varma
Adam Whale
Peter Wright

Senior employees

Chief Executive
Company Secretary

Chair
Resigned 25 January 2024

Appointed 18 July 2024

Resigned 18 July 2024

Appointed 30 October 2023

Ryan Palmer
Naomi da Silva

CENTRAL YOUNG MEN'S CHRISTIAN ASSOCIATION and subsidiary undertakings

Trustees’ Annual Report (incorporating the Group Strategic Report) and consolidated financial statements.

101

