Company registration number 02418535 (England and Wales)

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

(an

Ou

COMPANIES HOUSE.

A2

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

COMPANY INFORMATION

Directors

Secretary
Company number

Registered office

Auditor

Bankers

MAN Thompson CBE
E P Rooney

SLHill

JS Clubb

LJ Wigley

MAN Thompson CBE
02418535

Kingston House
Northampton Road
Newport Pagnell
Buckinghamshire
MK16 8NJ

Ad Valorem Audit Services Limited
2 Manor Farm Court

Old Wolverton Road

Old Wolverton

Milton Keynes

Buckinghamshire

MK12 5NN

HSBC Bank Plc

321 Avebury Boulevard
Milton Keynes

MK9 2NW


CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

CONTENTS

Strategic report

Directors’ report

Directors’ responsibilities statement
Independent auditor's report
Statement of comprehensive income
Balance sheet

Statement of changes in equity
Statement of cash flows

Notes to the financial statements

Page

10-12

13

14

15

16

17 - 30


CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

STRATEGIC REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

The directors present the strategic report for the year ended 31 October 2024.

Fair review of the business

Introduction

At the start of this review, it is important that all colleagues within the business feel reassured that the Directors
have acted, and continue to act, in their best interests. The investments considered, and being made, are done so
with a focus on their long-term financial benefit and consequences for the business. The relationship with our
suppliers, customers and professional bodies remain an important part of the company's strategy. The environment,
and our desire to maintain our carbon neutral status, have made further steps forward in the last twelve months. —
The deal, which changes our ‘off setting’ strategy is set to be announced during the next financial year.

The company, the Directors, and all colleagues are committed, as they have been for 35 years, to maintaining the
reputation for the Partnership across all sectors of engagement.

A Year in Review

The investments made, through this employee-owned business, in our colleagues has again made an extraordinary
difference to the company’s financial outturn in difficult times. It is not wrong to suggest again that if you invest in
them, they'll back you. The work life balance remains our priority. The introduction of the Partnership Reward Days,
and that focus produced the returns and allowed us to reintroduce the Partnership Dividend this year. Staff retention
reached record levels, recruitment, in a challenging labour market, improved significantly and a stability with people
is evident. The problems don't go away but the steps being taken have made real progress. That journey remains a
high priority in our strategic thinking.

Revenue rose to £83m, up 12% year on year, investment in colleagues, up over 11%, Gross profit has remained in
line with prior year at 30% having paid the Partnership Dividend, and with Directors Remuneration reducing year on
year. The investment in repairs and maintenance increased in the year by over 22%. The refurbishment programme
for all sites, to be completed at the end of 2026, is a necessary investment to maintain standards.

Cash, as always is the most important aspect of any business, improved year on year despite the investments,
shared rewards and increased staff costs through wages and the Partnership Reward Days being sold when that
option is available. : : .

Our new partnership in the year with Sharjah, in the Middle East, has proved mutually beneficial. An opportunity for
some of our team to be based in the Emirates and share their practise with others. We all hope this lays the
foundations to build on that starting point and show a development of their focus in the early years. The investments
being made, and the clear support from His Highness to the whole Education system in Sharjah, is to be applauded.

The training team, together with our academy are to be congratulated on their achievements. The academy now
has 250 learners on programme and a published qualification achievement rate of nearly 70%. This is 11.5% above
the benchmark. It is a reflection of the steps made that we are finalists for the 2025 Apprenticeship Guide Awards in
2 categories; Excellence in Training Delivery and Best Apprenticeship in Education. The depth of training and
support, across the business, is reflected in achieving the best outcomes, for the second year running, in the
national Ofsted league tables. Our future, the sector’s future, is becoming more dependent upon training its own
workforce. This remains a priority for the Partnership.

Fundraising and Community Support

Our thanks to our charity team, our colleagues and our parents for their continued support. The British Heart
Foundation, our chosen annual charity, for the year saw the benefits of those collective efforts as we handed over a
cheque for £176,000.

Whilst this was our primary charity support it should not be forgotten how much else the company does to support
projects, colleagues and other charities at the same time. The Charitable Support Fund makes donations to
registered charities on the basis of applications submitted, often very relevant to particular issues close to the hearts
of those within the business.


CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

Fair review of the business (continued)

New Developments

A company that many would argue has been cautious in its growth, continues to look for opportunities. A quiet year
for new openings as planning, Local Authorities and clients all have their own challenges and priorities. However, a
number of projects are coming to fruition, and we are looking forward to announcing their progress, completion, in
next year's accounts.

The Environment

The focus on our ‘Green’ environment, credentials has taken further steps in the year. We continue to seek, at every
turn, to reduce our carbon emissions. Green nappies, their proper disposal, paperless communications ‘with
colleagues, and reductions in carbon emissions through greener energy and investments in energy efficient heat
sources for all nurseries. The Board, and our Partnership Council approved this year another major investment to
offset our carbon emissions. We are seeking to purchase, and plant, a new woodland over 61 hectares in the UK.

This site alone will absorb 24,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide over 100 years. This will allow us, Childbase, to offset all
of our emissions. An investment in the next generation for whom we care.

Conclusion

| think it is fair to say that we all recognise we are living in an ever-changing working environment. The decisions
made by Government, and their implementation, cannot be ignored. The cost impact on the business of National
Insurance increases and business rates as the Local Authorities seek to recover their own financial deficits, and the
inflationary pressures of the workforce all contribute.

However, it has been another remarkable year. The whole Executive Board, The Partnership Trust Board and the
Partnership Council extend their thanks to all colleagues for the part they have played on the journey in the last 12
months. It is, and will remain, a people focused business. People drive the care, care drives the outcomes and the
outcomes reflect in the accounts. That is a position the partnership has adopted for over 35 years. That milestone,
the 35th anniversary, allowed reflections on the journey, how far we have come, and the changes we have
absorbed. There are many faces in the business who have been on that journey for all, most or part of the years.
They have all, in different ways, contributed. The year ahead, with the forthcoming support of the Partnership
Council, sees further investments with the extension of the reward days, take. or sell options, being introduced
across all 4 quarters and other benefits being either enhanced or maintained.

We would also like to extend our thanks to Buckinghamshire Council for their grant awarded during the year. This
contributed to the upgrading investments we made in one of our Aylesbury nurseries.

New nursery openings will bring new opportunities for colleagues to develop their careers. The continuing
partnership in Sharjah allows that international experience to be shared and the academy brings more people into
the business through the apprenticeship programme. The budget for the year ahead reflects some of the financial
restrains we now face. However, we look forward to our 36th year being exciting, interesting, financially rewarding
and no doubt, as challenging as ever.

Description of principal risks and uncertainties
The principal risks facing the company can broadly be grouped as competitive, legislative and financial.

Competitive

The main competitive risk relates to the ability of the company’s nurseries to continue to meet and exceed the
needs of parents and therefore continue to attract customers in their area and gain an advantage over their
competitors. To this end, all Childbase nurseries are committed to a child-centred approach, which treats each child
as an individual and follows a set of principles linked to the Early Years Foundation Stage to provide innovative
learning through play programmes.

Legislative

The quality of service provided in the education sector continues to be under public scrutiny. The company has an
excellent reputation within the marketplace however and continues to meet the requirements of the Office for
Standards in Education, Children's Services and Skills (Ofsted). All of the company's nurseries have an Ofsted
rating of “Outstanding” or “Good”.


CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

Description of principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

Financial

The company's main financial instruments comprised of cash, bank loans and overdrafts, and trade creditors. The
main purpose of these instruments is to provide funding for the company's operations. There are limited risks arising
to the company as a result of these instruments and the directors agree policies for the management of these
instruments which are detailed below:

a) Credit risk - the company’s contract terms to customers stipulate that fees must be paid in advance and therefore
any credit risk is considered to be minimal. Where fees are not paid as per the contract, the company has
procedures in place to ensure any issues are addressed in a timely manner.

b) Liquidity risk - the company seeks to manage and minimise financial risk by ensuring that sufficient liquidity is
available at all times to meet foreseeable needs and by investing cash assets safely and profitably.

c) Interest rate risk - the company raised a £25m loan to finance the Employee Ownership Trust share
purchase. The loan is on a variable interest rate arrangement linked to SONIA. Management have reviewed the
potential financial impact due to a rate increase and then considered the company’s ability to then increase its fee
rates to mitigate this risk and decided that no interest rate hedging is needed.

$172 Statement

The Directors have revised and updated the company’s Corporate Plan targets for the next four years, with this
financial year ended 31st October 2024 being the second year under the revised plan. This forms the basis for the
company’s long-term strategic direction. These Corporate Plan targets are fed through to operations across the
business for delivery within each of the settings.

To ensure we maintain the company’s high standards of business conduct, the Executive Directors meet with all key
stakeholders in the business on a quarterly basis, including the Partnership Trust Board. At these meetings we
review key targets and business operations, and ensure clear actions are set and maintained. The Partnership Trust
Board maintains its independence with two external non-executive appointments, the Partnership Council Chair,
and three employee representatives elected from the Partnership Council. The Partnership Council is made up of
‘elected representatives from each of the nurseries. The Partnership Trust Board and Executive Directors meet at
least twice a year with the Partnership Council.

For clarity, the Executive Board is restricted in its authority without the approval of the Partnership Trust Board.
Those restrictions are extended to Board appointments and financial expenditure above approved limits.

These meetings are complemented by ensuring regular dialogue takes place with all colleagues across the
business, and that feedback is received to assist with monitoring the effectiveness of policies and procedures.
Where appropriate, the Directors will change or amend policies and procedures as a result of feedback received.

We continue to maintain excellent relationships with both internal and external stakeholders, with particular focus on
cost, quality and delivery of products and services.

The Directors are committed to maximising the impact of the company’s operations in the local communities in
which the settings are located, whilst aiso continuing to improve its environmental status and further reducing
carbon emissions. Further details on the improvements achieved in the financial year are provided in the Energy
and Carbon Report at page 6. Our charitable activities in the financial year are also summarised in the Strategic
Report at pages 1 to 3.

Our Business Continuity Plan and detailed Risk Register remain an integral part of the business, both of which are
regularly reviewed and updated where necessary. These are also communicated with all key stakeholders within the
company.

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

Finally, the Directors recognise the importance of fulfilling an active role in the company, which sets out the
behaviours and culture expected of all internal and external stakeholders.

“On the board ©

“MAN . E P Rooney
Chairman Chief Executive Officer


CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

The directors present their annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 October 2024.

Principal activities
The company's principal activity is the provision of nursery care. The company had 44 nurseries in operation during
the year.

Results and dividends
The results for the year are set out on page 13.

During the year dividends of Enil (2023: £nil) were paid. In addition dividends of £168,163 (2023: £168,163) have
been paid on the Ordinary 'B' shares. The Employee Ownership Trust has agreed to forgo dividends on the shares
they hold.

Directors

The directors who held office during the year and up to the date of signature of the financial statements were as
follows:

M AN Thompson CBE
E P Rooney

S$ LHill

JS Clubb

LJ Wigley

Market value of land and buildings
The directors consider that the market value of the freehold land and buildings is in excess of the amount shown in
the financial statements but, as these assets are used in the company's business, the excess is not quantified.

Disabled persons

Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the
applicant concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their
employment within the company continues and that the appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of the
company that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be
identical to that of other employees.

Employee involvement

The directors do recognise that the success of the company continues as a result of the huge efforts its managers
and staff put into running the nurseries. The directors are always grateful for their continued commitment and
dedication to the company. :

The directors are committed to keeping employees fully informed about current issues within the company and of
future developments. This is achieved through regular staff meetings, a quarterly newsletter and the annual
‘Roadshow’ where the directors present to all employees.

Future developments
The directors do not anticipate that there will be any fundamental change in the development of the company's
business during the coming year.

Auditor
In accordance with the company's articles, a resolution proposing that Ad Valorem Audit Services Limited be
reappointed as auditor of the company will be put at a General Meeting.


CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

Energy and carbon report

During the year the company was responsible for the emission of the following tonnes of CO2e during the course of

its business activities,

2024
Energy consumption kWh
Aggregate of energy consumption in the year 4,450,940
2024
Emissions of CO2 equivalent metric
tonnes

Scope 1 - direct emissions
- Gas combustion 353.00
- Fuel consumed for owned transport 55.00
408.00

Scope 2 - indirect emissions
- Electricity purchased 357.00
Scope 3 - other indirect emissions

- Fuel consumed for transport not owned by the company 112.00
Total gross emissions 877.00
Intensity ratio

Tonnes CO2e peremployee. . . 0.37

Quantification and reporting methodology

2023
kWh

3,920,694

2023
metric
tonnes

362.00
46.00

408.00
375.00
87.00

870.00

We follow the GHG Protocol for Corporate Emission Reporting and The National TOMs Framework for Social Value
Reporting. Refer to Planet Mark Code of Practice for detailed information on the methodology and standards used

in the preparation of this report.

Intensity measurement

The chosen intensity measurement ratio is total gross emissions in metric tonnes CO2e per full time employee, the

recommended ratio for the sector.

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

Measures taken to improve energy efficiency

Childbase has partnered with sustainability consultancy Furthr to continue the process of annual emissions
measurement. The period 1 November 2023 to 31 October 2024 is our seventh year of measurement. Furthr are a
certified B Corp who helps businesses measure, reduce and offset their emissions, as well as offering tools to
engage employees. , . ,

Childbase are working with Furthr to build a full net zero strategy and implementation plan to reach net zero by
2045. This plan outlines the actions required to reduce emissions across all of our activities, focusing on activities to
be performed at site-level. We recognise that each of our settings have unique challenges and constraints, hence
require different approaches to reach net zero. ,

Total energy usage, comprising gas, mobile combustion, purchased electricity and grey fleet was 13.5% higher in
2024 compared to 2023, however, our emissions were 2.2% lower. This is due to reduced natural gas consumption
across facilities and a reduction in the diesel’ and petrol consumption of our fleet vehicles. Emissions from grey fleet
vehicles were higher in 2024 due to increased business travel required. We are actively engaging our team in
initiatives such as Furthr’s Sustainable Travel Challenge to encourage electric vehicle uptake and understand
barriers to adoption.

Through close relationships with our gas and electricity providers, we now have access to monitor direct energy
consumption on a settings-level for all but three settings. Increased visibility via digital platforms making access to
readings easier and more accurate, which can result in higher consumption compared to previous years where
some consumption was estimated. We are actively working with the three settings where this monitoring is not
currently available, to get it implemented this year.

We procure renewable electricity at all of our sites, aside from two, where we lease the space and do not have
direct control over utility providers. However, we are actively encouraging the sites to switch the energy supply to
renewable. In the case that this is not possible, we will explore purchasing renewable energy certificates to cover
our consumption.

Our fleet now comprises 9 fully electric vehicles (+1 from 2023 reporting) and 34 hybrid and plug-in-hybrid vehicles
(+9. from 2023 reporting). Petrol and diesel vehicles now account for only 12% of the fleet. As leases come to an
end, the proportion of diesel and petrol vehicles will continue to decrease as we choose the most sustainable
options.

In addition to fleet upgrades, we are waiting for three new installations of EV charging points as well as an upgrade
to the sub-station at Kingston House, as it is now working at capacity. The new substation will enable us to enlarge
the charging points at Kingston House when required. Currently, we have ten 22kW car chargers installed at six
sites. The existing chargers provide “hubs” for company fleet drivers who have moved to fully electric vehicles. The
subsequent charging points to be installed will be targeted at perimeter locations.

Childbase continues to use only electricity and natural gas to power our sites. Sites heated by natural gas are under
review and the next phase of scope 1 emissions reduction will focus on switching heating sources to electricity and
on-site renewable energy from air/ground source heat pumps and solar panels. We also submitted our ESOS
Phase 3 Compliance Review in August which identified additional efficiency methods for implementation. We are
currently refurbishing some of our existing sites as well as preparing for new developments. In all of these cases,
fossil-fuel-free heating methods are to be implemented.

The Childbase Sustainability Team engages consistently with management and colleagues in settings to share
progress on the sustainability strategy and run sessions relating to net zero and climate science. The focus over the
coming months will be on stakeholder engagement at a settings-level to assign ownership of net zero initiatives to
be implemented. Interested individuals are in the process of being identified, and a sustainability forum for idea
sharing is being set up in early March. Understanding site-specific limitations and sharing knowledge between sites
is critical to the success of Childbase’s net zero strategy. Our people continue to play the most important role in our
journey to net zero.

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

Statement of disclosure to auditor

So far as each person who was a director at the date of approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit
information of which the company’s auditor is unaware. Additionally, the directors individually have taken all the
necessary steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of all relevant audit
information and to establish that the company’s auditor is aware of that information.

Director

Date: gl s [ns


CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law, the directors
must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.

In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:
¢ select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
* make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
* state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
* prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

~

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Childbase Partnership Limited (the 'company') for the year ended 31
October 2024 which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of
Changes in Equity and Notes to the Financial Statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 'The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in
the UK and Republic of Ireland’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion the financial statements:
* give a true and fair view of the state of the company's affairs as at 31 October 2024 and of its profit for the year
then ended;
* have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
* have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of
the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financiat statements in the UK, including the FRC's Ethical
Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe
that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors' use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going
concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information —
The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information in the
Report of the Directors, but does not include the financial statements and our Report of the Auditors thereon.

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise
explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in
doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material
inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a
material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We
have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of our audit:
¢ give the information given in the Strategic Report and the Report of the Directors for the financial year for which
the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
* the Strategic Report and Report of the Directors has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

-10-

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT (CONTINUED)
TO THE MEMBERS OF CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

’

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the
audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Report of the Directors.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to
you if, in our opinion:
* give adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by "us; or
¢ the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
* certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
* we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities set out on page eight, the directors are
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view,
and for such internal control as the directors determine necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements
that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company's ability to continue
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis
of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue a Report of the Auditors that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. ,

The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed
below:

In our process of identifying fraud risks we assessed events or conditions that indicate an incentive or pressure to
commit fraud or provide an opportunity to commit fraud (‘fraud risk factors") to determine how fraud risks are
relevant to our audit. Based on the auditing standards we addressed two fraud risks that were relevant to our audit,
in relation to revenue recognition and management override of controls. Based upon our analysis of fraud risk
factors, we have not identified any additional fraud risks.

Our audit procedures included an evaluation of the design, implementation as well as the operating effectiveness

of internal controls relevant to mitigate these risks. We also performed substantive audit procedures, including
detailed testing of high risk journal entries and procedures to satisfy ourselves that revenue has been properly
recognised in the financial statements in accordance with financial reporting standards and the Company's
accounting policies. Through these procedures, we did not identify any material actual or suspected incidences of
fraud.

We have evaluated facts and circumstances in order to assess laws and regulations relevant to the Company. We
identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the financial
statements from our general and sector experience, through discussion with the Directors and other management
(as required by auditing standards) and discussed with the Directors and other management the policies and
procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations. We communicated identified laws and regulations
throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.

-1-

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT (CONTINUED)
TO THE MEMBERS OF CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.

Firstly, the Company is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including taxation
and financial reporting (including related company legislation) and we assessed the extent of compliance with
these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.

Secondly, the Company is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance
could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the
imposition of fines or litigation. We identified the following areas as those most likely to have such an effect:

- Employment legislation, reflecting the Company's workforce
- Health and safety regulation, reflecting the Company's operating processes
- Data privacy, reflecting the Company's management of personal and corporate data

Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these regulations to enquiry
of the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any. Through
these procedures we did not identify any material actual or suspected non-compliance in any of the above areas.

We note that our audit is not primarily designed to detect non-compliance with laws and regulations and the
Directors and other management are responsible for such internal control as the Directors and other management
of the Company determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to errors or fraud, including compliance with laws and regulations. Additionally,
owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some
material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit
in accordance with auditing standards. We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be
expected to detect non-compliance with ail laws and regulations.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial
Reporting Council's website at www.frc.org. “udaucitorsresponsibiities. This description forms Part of our Report of
the Auditors.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members those
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company's
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

W.Q Merk

Darren Kerins FCCA (Senior Statutory Auditor)

For and on behalf of Ad Valorem Audit Services Limited
Chartered Accountants

Statutory Auditor

2 Manor Farm Court

Old Wolverton Road

Old Wolverton

Milton Keynes

Buckinghamshire

MK12 5NN
Date: 2016}

-12-

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

Notes
Turnover . 3
Cost of sales
Gross profit
Administrative expenses
Operating profit 4
Interest payable and similar expenses ; 8
Profit/(loss) before taxation
Tax on profit/(loss) 9

Profit/(loss) for the financial year

2024
£

_ 82,880,092

(58,129,634)

24,750,458

* (22,408,831)

2,341,627

(1,569,565)
772,062

(520,543)

251,519

2023
£

74,002,985
(52,568,900)

21,434,085
(20,533,855)
900,230
(1,481,819)
(581,589)
(266,308)

(847,897)

The profit and loss account has been prepared on the basis that all operations are continuing operations.

-13-

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 OCTOBER 2024

Fixed assets
Goodwill
Tangible assets

Current assets
Debtors
Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors: amounts falling due within
one year

Net current liabilities

Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due after
more than one year

Provisions for liabilities
Deferred tax liability

Net assets

Capital and reserves
Called up share capital

- Revaluation reserve
Capital redemption reserve
Profit and loss reserves

Total equity

Notes

10
11

12

13

14

16

2024
£ £
3,341,516
29,670,371
33,011,887
5,797,480
1,136,460
6,933,940
(20,389,403)
(13,455,463)
19,556,424

299,022

(14,041,722)

(299,022)

5,215,680

327,996
1,180,242
50,985
3,656,457

5,215,680

2023

£ £

3,694,733.

29,236,127

32,930,860
2,437,722
753,256
3,190,978

(14,595,464)

470,491

(11,404,486)

21,526,374

(16,091,722)

(470,491)

4,964,161

327,996
1,180,242
50,985
3,404,938

4,964,161

Director

Director

Company registration number 02418535 (England and Wales)

-14-

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

Balance at 1 November 2022

Year ended 31 October 2023:
Loss and total comprehensive income

Balance at 31 October 2023

Year ended 31 October 2024:
Profit and total comprehensive income

Balance at 31 October 2024

Share Revaluation Capital Profit and Total
capital reserve redemption loss
reserve _—s reserves
£ £ £ £ £
327,996 1,180,242 50,985 4,252,835 5,812,058
- - - (847,897) (847,897)
327,996 1,180,242 50,985 3,404,938 4,964,161
- - - 251,519 251,519
327,996 1,180,242 50,985 3,656,457 5,215,680

-15-

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

Notes

Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations
Interest paid

Income taxes (paid)/refunded

23

Net cash inflow from operating activities
Investing activities

Purchase of tangible fixed assets

Proceeds from disposal of tangible fixed assets

Net cash used in investing activities

Financing activities
(Repayment)/receipt of bank loans

Net cash (used in)/generated from
financing activities

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

2024

6,933,124
(1,569,565)
(19,589)

5,343,970
(2,910,766)

(2,910,766)
(2,050,000)

(2,050,000)
383,204
753,256

1,136,460

-16-

2023

~ 818,102

(1,481,819)

792,593

128,876
(3,104,872)
11,906

(3,092,966)
3,650,000

3,650,000
685,910
67,346

753,256

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

1

1.1

1.2

1.3

1.4

Accounting policies

Company information

Childbase Partnership Limited is a private company limited by shares incorporated in England and Wales.
The registered office is Kingston House, Northampton Road, Newport Pagnell, Buckinghamshire, MK16 8NJ.

Accounting convention

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland” (“FRS 102”).and the requirements of the Companies
Act 2006.

The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the company. Monetary
amounts in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest £.

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention. The principal accounting
policies adopted are set out below.

The financial statements present information about the company as an individual entity and not about its
group. The company is exempt from the requirement to prepare consolidated financial statements on the
basis that all the subsidiaries are dormant and immaterial to the company.

Going concern

The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. In making this assessment, the
directors have prepared detailed trading and cash flow forecasts to 31 October 2026. The directors have a
reasonable expectation that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence over
this period and have therefore adopted the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial
statements.

Turnover

Revenue is recognised to the extent that the company obtains the right to consideration in exchange for its
performance. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received, excluding value added tax.

Revenue in respect of the provision of nursery care is recognised as the services are provided.

Intangible fixed assets - goodwill

Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of unincorporated businesses over the fair value of
net assets acquired. It is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is considered to have a finite useful
life and is amortised on a systematic basis over its expected life, which varies between 14 and 35 years.

For the purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units expected to benefit
from the acquisition. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment at
least annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable
amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is
allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets
of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.

-17-

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

1.5

1.6

1.7

Accounting policies (Continued)
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost or valuation, net of

depreciation and any impairment losses.

Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets less their residual values over their
useful lives on the following bases:

Freehold land and buildings 1% on cost

Leasehold land and buildings Over the term of the lease
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10% - 33% on cost
Motor vehicles 25% reducing balance

No depreciation is charged on freehold land.

The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale
proceeds and the carrying value of the asset, and is credited or charged to profit or loss.

Impairment of fixed assets

At each reporting period end date, the company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible
assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any
such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the
impairment loss (if any). Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset,
the company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.

Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value tess costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use,
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the
estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying
amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An
impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued
amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.

Recognised impairment losses are reversed if, and only if, the reasons for the impairment loss have ceased
to apply. Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-
generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased
carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment
loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is
recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which
case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.

Cash at bank and in hand

Cash and cash equivalents are basic financial assets and include cash in hand, deposits held at call with
banks, other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank
overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.

-18-

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

1.8

Accounting policies (Continued)

Financial instruments

The company has elected to apply the provisions of Section 11 ‘Basic Financial Instruments’ and Section 12
‘Other Financiat Instruments Issues’ of FRS 102 to all of its financial instruments.

Financial instruments are recognised in the company's balance sheet when the company becomes party to
the contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset, with the net amounts presented in the financial statements, when
there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a
net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

Basic financial assets

Basic financial assets, which include debtors and cash and bank balances, are initially measured at
transaction price including transaction costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the
effective interest method unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the transaction is
measured at the present value of the future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest. Financial assets
classified as receivable within one year are not amortised.

impairment of financial assets
Financial assets, other than those held at fair value through profit and loss, are assessed for indicators of
impairment at each reporting end date.

Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that
occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows have been affected.
If an asset is impaired, the impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and the present
value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the asset's original effective interest rate. The impairment loss

_ is recognised in profit or loss.

If there is a decrease in the impairment loss arising from an event occurring after the impairment was
recognised, the impairment is reversed. The reversal is such that the current carrying amount does not
exceed what the carrying amount would have been, had the impairment not previously been recognised. The
impairment reversal is recognised in profit or loss.

Derecognition of financial assets

Financial assets are derecognised only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or
are settled, or when the company transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership to another entity, or if some significant risks and rewards of ownership are retained but control of
the asset has transferred to another party that is able to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party.

Classification of financial liabilities

Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual
arrangements entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the
assets of the company after deducting all of its liabilities.

-19-

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

1

1.9

1.10

Accounting policies (Continued)

Basic financial liabilities

Basic financial liabilities, including creditors and bank loans, are initially recognised at transaction price unless
the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the debt instrument is measured at the present
value of the future payments discounted at a market rate of interest. Financial liabilities classified as payable
within one year are not amortised.

Debt instruments are subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method. _

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of
business from suppliers. Amounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year
or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Trade creditors are recognised initially at
transaction price and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

Derecognition of financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the company’s contractual obligations expire or are discharged or
cancelled.

Equity instruments

Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of transaction costs.
Dividends payable on equity instruments are recognised as liabilities once they are no longer at the discretion
of the company.

Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.

Current tax

The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as
reported in the profit and loss account because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or
deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The company’s
liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
reporting end date.

Deferred tax

Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all timing differences and deferred tax assets are
recognised to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered against the reversal of deferred tax
liabilities or other future taxable profits. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the timing difference
arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects
neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting end date and reduced to the extent
that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be
recovered. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability
is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the profit and loss account, except
when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with
in equity. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the company has a legally enforceable right to
offset current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the
same tax authority.

-20-

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

1

1.11

Accounting policies ‘ (Continued)

Employee benefits
The costs of short-term employee benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense.

The cost of any unused holiday entitlement is recognised in the period in which the employee's services are
received.

Termination benefits are recognised immediately as an expense when the company is demonstrably
committed to terminate the employment of an employee or to provide termination benefits.

Retirement benefits

The company operates a defined contribution pension scheme. Contributions payable to this scheme are
charged to the profit and loss account in the period to which they relate. These contributions are invested
separately from the company's assets. The assets of the scheme are held in an independently administered
fund.

Leases

Rentals payable under operating leases, including any lease incentives received, are charged to profit or loss
on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease except where another more systematic basis is
more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leases asset are consumed.

Development interest and other related charges

The historic cost of freehold land and buildings includes the interest cost on the financing and other related
costs incurred up to the time the individual developments are completed. Anursery development is treated as
completed when the nursery opens for business.

Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the company’s accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgements,
estimates and assumptions about the carrying amount of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent
from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other
factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised where the revision affects only that
period, or.in the period of the revision and future periods where the revision affects both current and future
periods.

Key sources of estimation uncertainty

The estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying
amount of assets and liabilities are as follows.

Carrying value of goodwill

The directors review the carrying value of goodwill together with the associated impairment provision that may
be required annually using discounted future cash flows.

Turnover

An analysis of the company's turnover is as follows:

2024 2023
£ £
Turnover analysed by class of business

Provision of nursery care 82,880,092 74,002,985

-21-

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

3 Turnover

Turnover analysed by geographical market
United Kingdom
Rest of the world

4 Operating profit
Operating profit for the year is stated after charging/(crediting):
Depreciation of owned tangible fixed assets
Profit on disposal of tangible fixed assets
Amortisation of intangible assets
Operating lease charges
5 Auditor's remuneration
Fees payable to the company's auditor and associates:
For audit services

Audit of the financial statements of the company

6 Employees

(Continued)

2024 2023

£ £
82,103,549 74,002,985
776,543 -
82,880,092 74,002,985
2024 2023

£ £
2,476,522 2,454,248
- (5,666)

353,217 353,217
4,038,102 3,744,929
2024 2023

£ £

- 27,000 26,500 «

The average monthly number of persons (including directors) employed by the company during the year was:

Administration
Nursery

Totat

Their aggregate remuneration, excluding the partnership dividend, comprised:

Wages and salaries
Social security costs
Pension costs

-22-

2024 2023
Number Number
89 95

2,320 2,230
2,409 2,325

2024 2023

£ £
49,251,647 44,800,454
3,778,353 3,345,997
1,429,904 1,239,489
54,459,904 49,385,940


a

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

7 Directors’ remuneration

Remuneration for qualifying services
Company pension contributions to defined contribution schemes

2024
£

1,235,426
68,204

1,303,630

2023
£

1,391,146
63,779

1,454,925

The number of directors for whom retirement benefits are accruing under defined contribution schemes

amounted to 4 (2023 - 4).

Remuneration disclosed above include the following amounts paid to the highest paid director:

Remuneration for qualifying services
8 Interest payable and similar expenses

Interest on financial liabilities measured at amortised cost:
Interest on bank overdrafts and loans
Dividends on redeemable preference shares not classified as equity

Other finance costs:
Interest on finance leases and hire purchase contracts
Other interest

2024 2023

£ £
377,485 370,998
2024 2023

£ £
1,401,004 1,299,269
168,163 168,163
1,569,167 1,467,432
398 -

- 14,387
1,569,565 1,481,819

-23-

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

9 Taxation

Current tax , .

UK corporation tax on profits for the current period
Adjustments in respect of prior periods

Total current tax

Deferred tax

Origination and reversal of timing differences

Adjustment in respect of prior periods

Total deferred tax

Total tax charge

2024
£

" 692,012

692,012

(171,469)

(171,469)

520,543

2023
£

51,890
(16,898)

34,992

131,566
99,750

231,316

266,308

The actual charge for the year can be reconciled to the expected charge/(credit) for the year based on the

profit or loss and the standard rate of tax as follows:

Profit/(loss) before taxation

Expected tax charge/(credit) based on the standard rate of corporation tax in
the UK of 25.00% (2023: 22.45%)

Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit
Adjustments in respect of prior years

Effect of change in corporation tax rate

Depreciation on assets not qualifying for tax allowances

Other permanent differences

Deferred tax adjustments in respect of prior years

Taxation charge for the year

-24-

2024
£

772,062

193,016
98,120

229,407

520,543

2023
£

(581,589)

(130,558)
55,963

(16,898)
40,143
227,918

(10,010)
99,750

266,308


CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

10 Intangible fixed assets

Goodwill
£
Cost . . .
At 1 November 2023 and 31 October 2024 7,022,273
Amortisation and impairment
At 1 November 2023 3,327,540
Amortisation charged for the year . 353,217
At 31 October 2024 3,680,757
Carrying amount
At 31 October 2024 3,341,516
At 31 October 2023 3,694,733
11 Tangible fixed assets
Freehold land Leasehold Fixtures, Motor Total
and buildings land and fittings and vehicles
buildings equipment
£ £. £ £ £
Cost or valuation
At 1 November 2023 12,540,185 30,125,773 5,233,049 43,477 47,942,484
Additions 567,099 2,186,525 117,021 40,121 2,910,766
Transfers 351,341 (378,785) 27,444 - -
At 31 October 2024 13,458,625 31,933,513 5,377,514 83,598 50,853,250
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 November 2023 1,628,102 13,571,047 3,483,192 24,016 18,706,357
Depreciation charged in the year 108,857 1,688,389 671,559 7,717 =2,476,522
At 31 October 2024 1,736,959 15,259,436 4,154,751 31,733 21,182,879
Carrying amount
At 31 October 2024 11,721,666 16,674,077 1,222,763 51,865 29,670,371
At 31 October 2023 10,912,083 16,554,726 1,749,857 19,461 29,236,127

Included in the amounts for land and buildings above are capitalised interest costs of £250,831 (2023:
£250,831). No interest has been capitalised during the year.

-25-

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) :
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

11. Tangible fixed assets (Continued)

On 1 November 2014 the company adopted the transitional provisions of FRS102, with the previous
valuations becoming deemed cost.

The directors perform annual impairment reviews in accordance with the requirements of FRS102 to ensure
that the carrying value is not lower than the recoverable amount.

12 Debtors .
2024 2023
Amounts falling due within one year: £ £
Trade debtors 253,953 75,624
Other debtors 3,673,354 530,443

Prepayments and accrued income 1,870,173 1,831,655

5,797,480 2,437,722

13 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

2024 2023

Notes £ £

Bank loans 15 1,500,000 1,500,000
Trade creditors 1,935,826 2,303,860
Corporation tax 702,180 29,757
Other taxation and social security 855,184 887,411
Other creditors - : . 3,909,834 3,344,638

Accruals and deferred income 11,486,379 6,529,798

20,389,403 14,595,464

14 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year

2024 2023
Notes £ £
Bank loans and overdrafts 15 13,975,000 16,025,000

Ordinary ‘B' shares of 2.5p each 15 66,722 66,722

14,041,722 16,091,722

-26-

" *

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

NOTES To THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

15

16

Loans and overdrafts

2024 2023

£ £

Bank loans and revolving credit facility , , 15,475,000 17,525,000
Ordinary 'B' shares of 2.5p each 66,722 66,722

15,541,722 17,591,722

Payable within one year 1,500,000 1,500,000
Payable after one year 14,041,722 16,094,722

The bank loans and overdraft are secured by a debenture including a fixed and floating charge over all the
assets and undertakings of the company, a fixed charge over the goodwill and intellectual property of the
company and a first legal charge over eight of the company's freehold properties and four of its leasehold
properties.

Details of the loan is as follows:

Bank loan is repayable in quarterly instalments of £375,000 which commenced in April 2022. Interest is
charged at SONIA rate plus 2.9%. :

Deferred taxation

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the company has a legally enforceable right to do so. The
following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes:

Liabilities Liabilities

2024 2023

Balances: £ £
Accelerated capital allowances 423,013 470,430
Other timing differences (123,991) 61
299,022 470,491

2024

Movements in the year: £
Liability at 1 November 2023 470,491
Credit to profit or loss (171,469)

Liability at 31 October 2024 299,022

The deferred tax liability set out above is expected to reverse within the foreseeable future and relates to
accelerated capital allowances that are expected to mature within the same period.

-27-

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

17 Retirement benefit schemes

2024 2023
Defined contribution schemes £ £
Charge to profit or loss in respect of defined contribution schemes 1,429,904 1,239,489 ;

The company operates a defined contribution pension scheme for all qualifying employees. The assets of the
scheme are held separately from those of the company in an independently administered fund.

At the year end contributions of £876,096 (2023 - £233,208) were unpaid.

18 Share capital

2024 2023
£ £
Shares classified as equity
Issued and fully paid
11,969,831 Ordinary shares of 2.5p each 299,246 299,246
1,150,000 Reviewed incentive shares of 2.5p each 28,750 28,750
327,996 327,996
Shares classified as non-equity
Issued and fully paid

2,668,885 Ordinary 'B’ share of 2.5p each 66,722 66,722
The Ordinary ‘B' shares carry no voting rights but are entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend based on the
Bank of England's base rate.

19 Reserves

Share premium
This reserve records the amount above the nominal value received for shares sold, less transaction costs.

Revaluation reserve
This reserve represents the increase in the carrying value of freehold land and buildings to the revalued
amount.

Capital redemption reserve
This reserve records the nominal value of shares repurchased by the company.

- 28 -

CHILDBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

20

21

22

Operating lease commitments

Lessee
At the reporting end date the company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments
under non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:

2024 2023

£ £

Within one year : 3,886,975 3,715,057
Between two and five years 11,480,672 12,070,554
In over five years 26,493,378 28,900,835

41,861,025 44,686,446

Related party transactions

Remuneration of key management personnel
The remuneration of key management personnel is as follows.

2024 2023
£ £
Aggregate compensation 1,993,245 2,125,291
Transactions with related parties
During the year the company entered into the following transactions with related parties:
Purchases
2024 2023
£ £
Other related parties 1,254,409 1,093,648

Ultimate controlling party

Following the establishment of the Employee Ownership Trust the company is now controlled by the Trust.

-29-

CHIL

» demas dy

DBASE PARTNERSHIP LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 OCTOBER 2024

23

24

Cash generated from operations

Profit/(loss) after taxation.

Adjustments for:

Taxation charged

Finance costs

Gain on disposal of tangible fixed assets
Amortisation and impairment of intangible assets

Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets

Movements in working capital:
Increase in debtors
Increase/(decrease) in creditors

Cash generated from operations

Analysis of changes in net debt

Cash at bank and in hand
Borrowings excluding overdrafts

1 November
2023
£

753,256
(17,591,722)

(16,838,466)

2024 2023

£ £

251,519 (847,897)

520,543 266,308

1,569,565 1,481,819

- (5,666)

353,217 353,217

2,476,522 2,454,248

(3,359,758) (346,210)

5,121,516 (2,537,717)

6,933,124 818,102

Cash flows 31 October

2024

£ £

383,204 1,136,460

2,050,000 (15,541,722)
2,433,204

(14,405,262)

-30-

