Registered number: 04237436

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 JULY 2024

’

A

A19 08/01/2025 #163
COMPANIES HOUSE

Page | 1

WEDNESDAY

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMTED

COMPANY INFORMATION

Directors Michael Carver

Andrew Clare

Anthony Medhurst
Registered number 04237436
Registered office Unit 2-3 Meridian Buildings

Nazeing Glass Works Estate
»  Nazeing New Road

Broxbourne

Hertfordshire

EN10 6SX

Independent auditors Buzzacott LLP ‘
Chartered Accountants
130 Wood Street
London
EC2V 6DL

Page | 2

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

CONTENTS

Page
Directors' Report 4-5
Independent Auditor's Report 6-10
Statement of Comprehensive Income 11
Balance Sheet 12
Notes to the Financial Statements 13-17
The following pages do not form part of the statutory financial statements:
Detailed Profit and Loss Account and Summaries 18-19

Page | 3

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

FOR PERIOD ENDED 31 JULY 2024

The Directors present their report and the financial statements for the period ended 31 July 2024.

Directors’ responsibilities statement

The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ Report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under
that law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with applicable
law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice), including Financial Reporting Standard 102 'The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in
the UK and Republic of Ireland. Under Company law the Directors must not approve the financial
statements unless they are satisfied that it gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.

In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:

* — select suitable accounting policies for the Company's financial statements and then apply
them consistently;

* make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

* prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to
presume that the Company will continue in business.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show
and explain the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply
with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities.

Principal activity
The principal activity for the company for the period under review was that of the assessment and
training of mechanical service installers.

Page | 4

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR PERIOD ENDED 31 JULY 2024

Disclosure of information to auditors
The Directors at the time when this Directors’ Report is approved have confirmed that:

* so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's
auditors are unaware, and
* they have taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a Director in order to be aware

of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of
that information.

Auditors

Following a tendering process in February 2024 and the last annual general meeting, Buzzacott has
been appointed as independent auditors.

Small companies note

In preparing this report, the Directors have taken advantage of the small companies exemptions
provided by section 415A of the Companies Act 2006.

This report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf.

Wo 2[2Zo2F

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDI!TOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF CK ASSESSMENT &
TRAINING LIMITED ‘

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements CK Assessment & Training Limited (the ‘company’) for the
year ended 31 July 2024 which comprise Statement of Comprehensive Income and Balance Sheet
and notes to the financial statements, including significant accounting policies. The financial
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:

¢ give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 July 2024 and of its
profit for the year then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice; and

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK}) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of
the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the
financial statements in the United Kingdom, including the Financial Reporting Council’s Ethical
Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the director's use of the going concern
basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to
events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s
ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial
statements are authorised for issue.

Page | 6

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF CK ASSESSMENT &
TRAINING LIMITED (CONTINUED)

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are
described in the relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the Annual report, other than the
financial statements and our Auditor's report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other
information contained within the Annual report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not
cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do
not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other
information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the
course of the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material
inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives
rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we
have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are
required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

e the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
« the Directors’ report has been prepared in accordance with applicable iegal requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

in the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the
course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act
2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

¢ adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not

Page | 7


CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF CK ASSESSMENT &
TRAINING LIMITED (CONTINUED)

been received from branches not visited by us; or

e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

¢ certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

@ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

e the directors were not entitled to prepare the financial statements in accordance with the
small companies regime and take advantage of the small companies’ exemptions in
preparing the Directors’ report and from the requirement to prepare a strategic report.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement on page x, the directors are
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a
true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud
or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the
company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditor's
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financialstatements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in
respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting
irregularities, including fraud is detaited below:

Our approach to identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in respect of
irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, was as follows:

Page | 8

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING
LIMITED (CONTINUED) .

the engagement partner ensured that the engagement team collectively had the appropriate
competence, capabilities and skills to identify or recognise non-compliance with applicable laws
and regulations;

we identified the laws and regulations applicable to the company through discussions with
management, and from our knowledge and experience of the sector;

we assessed the extent of compliance with the laws and regulations identified above through
making enquiries of management and inspecting legal correspondence; and

identified laws and regulations were communicated within the audit team regularly and the team
remained alert to instances of non-compliance throughout the audit.

We assessed the susceptibility of the Company’s financial statements to material misstatement,
including obtaining an understanding of how fraud might occur, by:

« making enquiries of management as to where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud,
their knowledge of actual, suspected and alleged fraud; and

considering the internal controls in place to mitigate risks of fraud and non-compliance with laws
and regulations.

To address the risk of fraud through management bias and override of controls, we:

performed analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships;

tested journal entries to identify unusual transactions; and

assessed whether judgements and assumptions made in determining the accounting estimates
set out in the accounting policies were indicative of potential bias;

In response to the risk of irregularities and non-compliance with laws and regulations, we designed
procedures which included, but were not limited to:

e agreeing financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation;

e reading the minutes of director meetings;

e enquiring of management as to actual and potential litigation and claims; and
reviewing any available correspondence with HMRC and the Company’s legal advisors.


CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING
LIMITED (CONTINUED)

There are inherent limitations in our audit procedures described above. The more removed that laws
and regulations are from financial transactions, the less likely it is that we would become aware of
non-compliance. Auditing standards also limit the audit procedures required to identify non-
compliance with laws and regulations to enquiry of the members of the Corporation and other
management and the inspection of regulatory and lega! correspondence, if any.

Material misstatements that arise due to fraud can be harder to detect than those that arise from
error as they may involve deliberate concealment or collusion.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the
Financial Reporting Council’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description
forms part of our Auditor’s report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to
the company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company's members as a body, for our
audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Shachi Blakemore (Senior Statutory Auditor)

. Brereacd wl
For and on behalf of Buzzacott LLP, Statutory Auditor

1S
Shachi Blackmore (Fri, 20th Dec 2024

130 Wood Street 10:07:15 GMT)
London
EC2V 6DL

20 Dec 2024
Date:

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

STATEMENT OF COMPREHENIVE INCOME
FOR PERIOD ENDED 31 JULY 2024

2023-24 2022-23

£'000 £ ‘000
Turnover 1,340 1,277
Cost of Sales 668 641
Gross Profit 672 636
Administrative Expenses 673 636
Operating Profit/Loss 7 -1 f+)
Interest receivable and similar income 2 0
Profit before tax a __o
Tax on Profit 1 0
Profit for Financial Period a a

Page | 11

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

BALANCE SHEET

FOR PERIOD ENDED 31 JULY 2024

2023-24 2022-23
£'000 £ ‘000

Notes
Fixed Assets
Tangible Assets so ; _ 4
Current Assets Notes
Debtors : Amounts Falling Oue Within One Year , 6 105 150
Cash and Bank 7 283 175
Total Current Assets 388 __ 35
Current Liabilities
Creditors : Amounts Falling Due Within One Year 8 3409 2390
Net Current Assets/ (Liabilities) 39 35.
Net Assets “39 39.
Captial & Reserves
Called up share capital a 1
Profit and loss account 38 38
Total Capital & Reserves 39 39

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the provisions applicable to
companies subject to the small companies’ regime and in accordance with the provisions of FRS 102
Section 1A — smail entities.

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the board and were signed on its
behalf of

Dire We (1 2/e@otsy

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR PERIOD ENDED 31 JULY 2024

.1. General information

The principal activity for the company for the period under review was that of the assessment and
training of mechanical service installers.

The company is limited by shares and incorporated in England and Wales. Its registered office is
given on page 2.

2. Accounting Policies

2.1 Basis of preparation of financial statements

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention unless
otherwise specified within these accounting policies and in accordance with Section 1A of
Financial Reporting Standard 102, the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and the
Republic of Ireland and the Companies Act 2006.

The following principal accounting policies have been applied:

2.2 Going concern

The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. The Directors have
considered relevant information, including the annual budget, forecast future cash flows and the
impact of subsequent events in making their assessment.

The going concern basis has been adopted in these financial statements, which is dependent on
the continued financial support of the parent entity.

Given the result of these assessments including the measures that have been undertaken to
mitigate the current adverse impacts, the Directors are of the position that they can continue to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.

The financial statements do not include any adjustment that may arise in the event that the entity
is unable to realize its assets and discharge its liabilities in the normal course of business.

2.3 Revenue

Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to
the Company and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is measured as the fair value
of the consideration received or receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, value added tax and
other sales taxes. The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR PERIOD ENDED 31 JULY 2024

2.4 Rendering of services

Revenue from a contract to provide services is recognised in the period in which the services are
provided in accordance with the stage of completion of the contract when all of the following
conditions are satisfied:

* the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;

¢ itis probable that the Company will receive the consideration due under the contract;

* the stage of completion of the contract at the end of the reporting period can be
measured reliably; and

* the costs incurred and the costs to complete the contract can be measured reliably.

2.5 Charitable donations

The company assesses the level of excess profits each year and makes appropriate charitable
donations to the parent company, as approved by the directors. These are disclosed as
distributions within operating expenses.

The charitable donation accrued in 2023/24 was £203,101 (2022/23 £163,096).

2.5 Tangible fixed assets

Tangible fixed assets under the cost model are stated at historical cost less accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Historical cost includes expenditure that is
directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be
capable of operating in the manner intended by management.

Depreciation is charged so as to allocate the cost of assets less their residual value over their
estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method.

2.6 Tangible fixed assets (continued)
Depreciation is provided on the following basis:

IT equipment - 33% Straight Line

The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted
prospectively if appropriate, or if there is an indication of a significant change since the last
reporting date.

Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying
amount and are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

2.7 Debtors

Page | 14

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR PERIOD ENDED 31 JULY 2024

Short term debtors are measured at transaction price, less any impairment. Loans receivabie are
measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are measured subsequently at
amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.

2.8 Cash and cash equivalents

Cash is represented by cash in hand and deposits with financial institutions repayable without
penalty on notice of not more than 24 hours. Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments that
mature in no more than three months from the date of acquisition and that are readily
convertible to known amounts of cash with insignificant risk of change in value.

2.9 Financial instruments

The Company only enters into basic financial instruments transactions that result in the
recognition of financial assets and liabilities like trade and other debtors and creditors, loans
from banks and other third parties, loans to related parties and investments in non-puttable
ordinary shares.

2.10 Creditors

Short term creditors are measured at the transaction price. Other financial liabilities, including
bank loans, are measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are measured
subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

2.11 Dividends

Equity dividends are recognised when they become legally payable. Interim equity dividends are
recognised when paid. Final equity dividends are recognised when approved by the shareholders
at an annual general meeting.

2.12 Pensions
Defined contribution pension plan

The Company operates a defined contribution pian for its employees. A defined contribution plan
is a pension plan under which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. Once
the contributions have been paid the Company has no further payment obligations.

The contributions are recognised as an expense in the Statement of Comprehensive Income when
they fall due. Amounts not paid are shown in accruals as a liability in the Balance Sheet. The
assets of the plan are held separately from the Company in independently administered funds.

2.13 Interest income

Interest income is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income using the effective
interest method.

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR PERIOD ENDED 31 JULY 2024

3. Auditor’s remuneration
2023-24 2022-23

£ ‘000 £ ‘000
Fees Payable to the auditor for the audit of the Companies 7 6
annual financial statements
7 6

4. Employees

Staff numbers were as follows:
The average monthly number of employees during the period was 18, including 3 directors.

5. Tangible fixed assets

Fixtures & a Total
Fittings Equipment
£'000 £ '000 £ '000
Cost or valuation
At 1st August 2023 ne: ne oo
At 31 July 24 3 11 19
Depreciation
At 1st August 2023 8 8 16
Charge for the period on owned assets . () 3 3.
At 31 July 24 8 11 19
Net Book Value
At July 2023 oO 3
At July 2024 ty 0. 0
6. Debtors
2023-24 2022-23
£ '000 £'000
Debtors : Amounts Falling Due Within One Year 22 79
Pre Payments & Accrued Income 83 71
105 : 150

Page | 16

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR PERIOD ENDED 31 JULY 2024

7. Cash and cash equivalents

2023-24 2022-23
£ ‘000 £ ‘000

Cash at Bank 283 175
283 75
8. Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year

2023-24 2022-23

£'000 € '000

Creditors 54 42
Accruals & Deferred Income 284 216
Other taxation and social security 11 32

349. ~~ 290”
9. Share capital

£ '000 £ ‘000

Shares clasified as equity
Alloted, called up and fully paid
1,000 ordinary shares of £1 each 1 7 1

1 . 1

10. Related party transactions

As the company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Hertford Regional College the company has taken
advantage of exemption in FRS 102 Section 33 and has therefore not disclosed transactions on
balance which form part of the group headed by Hertford Regional College. The consolidated
financial statements, within which this company is included, can be obtained from this registered
office; Scotts Road, Ware, Hertfordshire, England, SG12 9JF.

No director received any remuneration during 2023/24.
11. Controlling party

The company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Hertford Regional College, whose registered office
address is Scotts Road, Ware, Hertfordshire, England, SG12 9JF.

Page | 17

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

DETAILED PROFIT AND LOSS

FOR PERIOD ENDED 31 JULY 2024

Turnover

Cost of Sales

Gross Profit

Administrative Expenses

Operating Profit/Loss

Interest receivable and similar income
Profit before tax

Tax on Profit

Profit for Financial Period

Turnover
Gross Profit

Cost of sales

Wages and salaries

National Insurance

Staff pension cost - defined contribution scheme
Consumables

2023-24

£'000

1,340

668

672

673

-1

2023-24
£ ‘000

1,340

1,340

2022-23
£ ‘000
1,277

641

636

636

2022-23
£ ‘000

1,277

1,277

CK ASSESSMENT & TRAINING LIMITED

SCHEDULE TO THE DETAILED ACCOUNTS

FOR PERIOD ENDED 31 JULY 2024

Tax

Administrative expenses
Staff Salaries

National Insurance

Staff pension cost - defined contribution scheme
Recruitment cost

Staff training

Canteen

Travel and subsistence
Consultancy

Printing and stationary
Telephone

Advertising and promotion
Trade subscriptions

Legal and professional
Auditors remuneration

Bank charges

Bad debts

Rent - non-operational

Light and heat

Insurance

Repairs and maintenance
Sundry establishment expenses
Depreciation

Water and waste

Computer equipment
Qualifying charitable donation

Corporation Tax

Interest receivable
Bank interest receivable

Page | 19

'
i

2023-24

£ ‘000

672

2023-24
£ ‘000

2023-24
£'000

2022-23

£ ‘000

109

ON FS wun

163
636
2022-23
£ ‘000

0
_0

2022-23
£'000

