Cogent SSC Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Company Registered Number SC129351

HNN

7

THURSDAY

COMPANIES HOUSE

A10 05/09/2024 #210

Cogent SSC Limited
Annual report and financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Contents

Directors and advisers for the year ended 31 December 2023 .........c.ccccescsssesseseessansnenseesseesenesesessesenesseneneeeseeetae
Directors' report for the year ended 31 December 2023 ..........::cce
Independent Auditor's report to the members of Cogent SSC Limited.
Statement of income and retained earnings for the year ended 31 December 2023 ..
Balance sheet as at 31 December 2023..
Statement of accounting policies ...........
Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023

Soon RNG

Cogent SSC Limited

Directors and advisers

Directors

K Gorge

N Durrington
J Fosh

Other directors who served during the financial year:
A Burke resigned 28 March 2023
J Woolf resigned 6 April 2023

Principal Office
First Floor, 720
Mandarin Court
Lakeside Drive
Centre Park
Warrington
WAI 1GG

Registered Office
C/O Cogent SSC Ltd
Blue Square House
272 Bath Street
Glasgow

Scotland

G2 4JR

Chartered Accountants & Statutory Auditors
RSM UK Audit LLP

14th Floor

20 Chapel Street

Liverpool

L3 9AG

Solicitors

GLP Solicitors

4" Floor

8 Haymarket Street
Bury

BL9 0AR

Bankers

Bank of Scotland
31 High Street
Montrose

DD!0 8LT

Cogent SSC Limited
Directors' report for the year ended 31 December 2023

The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023. The
directors’ report has been prepared taking advantage of the smal! companies’ exemption in Section 415a of the
Companies Act 2006.

Principal activities

The principal activities of the company are to promote and provide vocational education, training and re-training to
improve the skills of the science-based workforce. CSSC is the legal entity used for our apprenticeship training
delivery activities.

Results and dividends

The profit for the financial year was £3,000 (2022: loss of £48,000). The company is limited by guarantee and no
dividends are paid but a gift aid payment of £750,000 to the charitable parent company has been made in the year
(2022: £nil).

Net assets at 31 December 2023 were £59,000 (2022: £806,000) and the reserves were £59,000 (2022: £806,000).

Directors
The directors who held office during the year and up to the date of signing the financial statements are detailed on

page 1.

Political and charitable donations
During the year, the company made no political and charitable donations (2022: £nil).

Going concern

Forecasts have been prepared through until December 2026 which take account of the current environment and

possible future developments. The cash balances and available facilities are sufficient to remove any concerns over
- liquidity and the going concern basis of preparation of the accounts.

The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis, which assumes that the company will

continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.

Statement of directors’ responsibilities
The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ Report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law).

Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.

In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to:

a. select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
b. make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
c. _. prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the

company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and
enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible
for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of
fraud and other irregularities.

Cogent SSC Limited
Director’s report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Statement of disclosure to auditor
So far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the company’s auditor is unaware.

Additionally, the directors have taken all the necessary steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to
make themselves aware of all relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s auditor is aware of that
information.

Independent Auditors

The auditors, RSM UK Audit LLP, have indicated their willingness to be reappointed for another term and
appropriate arrangements have been put in place for them to be deemed reappointed as auditors in the absence of an
AGM.

Qualifying third party and pension scheme indemnity provisions

At the time this report is approved, no qualifying third-party indemnity provisions or qualifying pension scheme
indemnity provisions are in place for the benefit of the directors. At no time during the year were any such provisions
in force for the benefit of the directors.

On behalf of the Board

Justine fosh

J Fosh
Director

28/08/24
Registered number: SC129351

Cogent SSC Limited

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Cogent SSC Limited

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Cogent SSC Limited (the ‘company’) for the year ended 31 December
2023 which comprise the Statement of Income and Retained Earnings, the Balance Sheet, and notes to the financial
statements, including significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:
© — give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of its profit for the
year then ended.
e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard,
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting
in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions
that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern
for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant
sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and
our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise
explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements, or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit or otherwise appears
to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are
required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If,
based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
e the information given in the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
e the directors’ report has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

Cogent SSC Limited

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Cogent SSC Limited
(continued)

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the
audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us
to report to you if, in our opinion:

© adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from
branches not visited by us; or
the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or
the directors were not entitled to prepare the financial statements in accordance with the small companies’
regime and take advantage of the small companies’ exemption from the requirement to prepare a strategic
report.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement (set out on page 2), the directors are responsible for
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such
internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of
accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

The extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. The objectives of our audit are to obtain
sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding compliance with laws and regulations that have a direct effect on the
determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, to perform audit procedures to help
identify instances of non-compliance with other laws and regulations that may have a material effect on the financial
statements, and to respond appropriately to identified or suspected non-compliance with laws and regulations
identified during the audit.

In relation to fraud, the objectives of our audit are to identify and assess the risk of material misstatement of the
financial statements due to fraud, to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material
misstatement due to fraud through designing and implementing appropriate responses and to respond appropriately to
fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.

However, it is the primary responsibility of management, with the oversight of those charged with governance, to
ensure that the entity's operations are conducted in accordance with the provisions of laws and regulations and for the
prevention and detection of fraud.

Cogent SSC Limited

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Cogent SSC Limited
(continued)

In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud, the audit
engagement team:,

e obtained an understanding of the nature of the industry and sector, including the legal and regulatory
frameworks that the company operates in and how the company is complying with the legal and regulatory
frameworks.

© — inquired of management, and those charged with governance, about their own identification and assessment
of the risks of irregularities, including any known actual, suspected, or alleged instances of fraud.

e discussed matters about non-compliance with laws and regulations and how fraud might occur r including
assessment of how and where the financial statements may be susceptible to fraud.

As a result of these procedures, we consider the most significant laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the
financial statements are FRS 102, the Companies Act 2006 and tax legislation.

We performed audit procedures to detect non-compliance which may have a material impact on the financial
statements, which included reviewing the financial statements including the directors’ report, remaining alert to new
or unusual transactions which may not be in accordance with the governing documents, inspecting correspondence
with local tax authorities and evaluating advice received from internal/external advisors.

The most significant laws and regulations that have an indirect impact on the financial statements are those in relation
to ESFA funding guidance, the Register of Accredited Training Providers, and Ofsted. Compliance with these
tequirements is required to remain on certain HM Government registers. We performed audit procedures to inquire of
management and those charged with governance whether the company is in compliance with these law and regulations
and inspected correspondence with regulatory authorities.

The audit engagement team identified the risk of management override of controls and the completeness and cut-off
of certain revenue transactions as the areas where the financial statements were most susceptible to material
misstatement due to fraud. Audit procedures performed included but were not limited to testing manual journal entries
and other adjustments and evaluating the business rationale in relation to significant, unusual transactions and
transactions entered into outside the normal course of business. The audit team also performed testing over the
completeness and cut-off of income, including reviewing transactions around the year end to ensure included in the
correct period, and tracing bank receipts through to income.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial
Reporting Council’s website at: http://www. fre.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities This description forms part of our
auditor’s report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted
by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Laura Inglesby FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor)

For and on behalf of RSM UK Audit LLP, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants ~

14th Floor

20 Chapel Street

Liverpool

L3 9AG

Date: 29/08/2024

Cogent SSC Limited

Statement of income and retained earnings for the year ended 31
December 2023

Note Yearended31 = Year ended 31
December 2023 December 2022

£'000 £'000
Turnover 1,089 : 717
Administrative expenses (1,086) (765)
Operating Profit\ (Loss) and Profit\ (Loss) on ordinary ‘3 (48)
activities before taxation
Tax on Profit\ (Loss) on ordinary activities - -
Profit\ (Loss) for the financial year 6 3 (48)
- Retained profit at 1 January 806 854
Gift Aid payment (750) :
Retained profit at 31 December 59 806

There are no recognised gains and losses for the financial years other than those included above. Accordingly, no
separate statement of comprehensive income is presented.

Cogent SSC Limited

Balance sheet as at 31 December 2023

Note Year ended Year ended
31 December 3! December
2023 2022
£'000 £'600
Fixed assets
* Tangible assets 3 9 12
Current assets
Debtors - 4 157 84
Cash at bank and in hand ; 6 783
163 867
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 5 (113) , (73)
Net current assets 50 794
Total assets less current liabilities ; 59 806
Net assets 59 806
Capital and reserves
Profit and loss account 6 59 806
Total shareholders’ funds 9 : 59 806

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the special provisions relating to companies
subject to the small companies’ regime within Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006.

The financial statements on pages 7 to 13 were approved by the board of directors and were signed on its behalf by:

justine fosh

J Fosh
Director
Date: 28/08/24

Cogent SSC Limited
Company Number: SC129351

Cogent SSC Limited

Statement of accounting policies

General Information ;
The company is a private company limited by guarantee and is incorporated in Scotland. The address of its principal
office is First Floor, 720 Mandarin Court, Lakeside Drive, Centre Park, Warrington, Cheshire, United Kingdom,
WAL 1GG.

Statement of compliance

The financial statements of Cogent Skills Services Limited have been prepared in accordance with Financial
Reporting Standard 102 Section 1A smaller entities - “the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the United
Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland” and the Companies Act 2006 (as applicable to companies subject to the small
companies’ regime).

Summary of significant accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These
policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

Basis of preparation
These financial statements are prepared on a going concer basis, under the historical cost convention.

Going concern

Forecasts have been prepared through until December 2026 which take account of the impact of the current
environment, possible future developments and further disruption. The cash balances and available facilities are
sufficient to remove any concerns over liquidity and the going concer basis of preparation of the accounts.

The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis, which assumes that the company will
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.

Employee benefits
The company provides a range of benefits to employees, including paid holiday arrangements and defined
contribution pension plans.

Short term benefits
Short term benefits, including holiday pay and other similar non-monetary benefits, are recognised as an expense in
the period in which the service is received.

Defined contribution plan

The Company operates a salary sacrifice defined contribution pension scheme for the benefit of the employees. The
contributions to the plan are recognised as an expense when they are due. Amounts not paid are shown in accruals in
the balance sheet. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the company in an independently
administered fund.

Turnover
Turnover represents the invoiced value of goods and services. Invoiced value of goods and services, excludes value
added tax and is recognised on the delivery of the goods and service. All turnover derives in the UK.

Tangible fixed assets

Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost includes
the original purchase price and costs directly attributable to bring the asset to its working condition for its intended
use.

Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method to allocate cost to the assets’ residual values over their
estimated useful lives, as follows:

Fixtures and fittings 3-8 years
Computer equipment 3-4 years

The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted, if appropriate, at the end of each reporting
period. The effect of any change is accounted for prospectively.

Cogent SSC Limited

Statement of accounting policies (continued)

Tangible assets are derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected. On disposal, the
difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount is recognised as profit or loss in the statement
of income and retained earnings.

Financial Instruments
The company has elected to apply the provisions of Section 11 ‘Basic Financial Instruments’ and Section 12 ‘Other
Financia! Instruments Issues’ of FRS 102 to all of its financial instruments.

Financial instruments are recognised when the company becomes party to the contractual provisions of the
instrument.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset, with the net amounts presented in the financial statements, when there is a
legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to
realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

Basic financial assets

Basic financial assets, which include trade and other debtors and cash and bank balances, are initially measured at
transaction price including transaction costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective
interest method unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the financial asset is measured at
the present value of the future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest.

Other financial assets

Other financial assets, including trade investments, are initially measured at fair value, which is normally the
transaction price. Such assets are subsequently carried at fair value and the changes in fair value are recognised in
profit or loss, except that investments in equity instruments that are not publicly traded and whose fair values cannot
be measured reliably are measured at cost less impairment.

Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets, other than those held at fair value through profit and loss, are assessed for indicators of impairment
at each reporting end date. ,

Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred
after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows have been affected. If an asset is
impaired, the impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and the present value of the estimated
cash flows discounted at the asset’s original effective interest rate. The impairment loss is recognised in profit or
loss. :

If there is a decrease in the impairment loss arising from an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the
impairment is reversed. The reversal is such that the current carrying amount does not exceed what the carrying
amount would have been, had the impairment not previously been recognised. The impairment reversal is recognised
in profit or loss.

Derecognition of financial assets

Financial assets are derecognised only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or are
settled, or when the company transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to
another entity, or if some significant risks and rewards of ownership are retained but control of the asset has
transferred to another party that is able to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party.

Classification of financial liabilities

Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the company after
deducting all of its liabilities.

Basic financial liabilities

Basic financial liabilities, including trade and other creditors, bank loans, and loans from fellow group companies are
initially recognised at transaction price unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the debt
instrument is measured at the present value of the future payments discounted at a market rate of interest. Debt
instruments are subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.

Cogent SSC Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023

1 Employees

The average monthly number of persons employed by the company during the year was 13 (2022: 10).

2 Operating Profit\ (Loss)

Year ended 31 Year ended 31
December 2023. December 2022
£'000 £'000
Operating Profit\ (Loss) is stated after charging:
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets - owned - 2
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets - owned - 5 4
Auditor’s remuneration — audit 4 3
3 Tangible assets
Fixtures and Computer Total
fittings equipment
£'000 £7000 £'000
Cost
At 1 January 2023 2 15 17
Additions - 2 2
At 31 December 2023 2 17 19
Accumulated depreciation
At | January 2023 - 5 5
Charge for the year 1 4 5
At 31 December 2023 1 9 10
Net book amount
At 31 December 2023 1 8 9
At 31 December 2022 . 2 10 12

Cogent SSC Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023

(continued)
4 Debtors
+
2023 2022
£'000 £000
Trade debtors 69 1
Prepayments and accrued income ; 88 83
157 84
5 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2023 2022
£'000 £000
Trade creditors : 28 26
Taxation and social security 44 “16
Accruals and deferred income 37 28
Other creditors 4 3
113 73

6 Reserves

Profit and loss

account

£7000

At 1 January 2023 806
Profit for the financial year ; , 3

Gift aid payment (750)
At 31 December 2023 59

7 Pension commitments

The company operates a salary sacrifice contribution pension scheme. The assets of the scheme are held separately
from those of the company in an independently administered fund. There was a £4,000 (2022: £3,000) outstanding
contribution at the balance sheet date. ,

Cogent SSC Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023
(continued)

8 Related party disclosures

The company has taken advantage of the exemption contained within FRS102 and not disclosed transactions or
balances with companies that are fellow wholly owned subsidiaries of Cogent Skills Limited. Copies of the Cogent
Skills Limited group consolidated financial statements can be obtained from the Company Secretary, First Floor, 720
Mandarin Court, Lakeside Drive, Centre Park, Warrington, WA] 1GG.

9 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds

2023 2022
£'000 £'000
Opening shareholders’ funds 806 854
Profit\ (Loss) for the financial year 3 (48)
Gift aid payment . (750) -

Closing shareholders’ funds 59 806

10 Status of the company

The company is limited by guarantee and has no share capital. The liability of the directors as members is limited by
guarantee to not more than £1.

11 Ultimate parent undertaking and ultimate controlling party

The immediate and ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party is Cogent Skills Limited, a company
incorporated in England and Wales.

Cogent Skills Limited is the parent undertaking of the smallest and largest group of undertakings to consolidate these
financial statements at 31 December 2023. The consolidated financial statements of Cogent Skills Limited are
available from First Floor, 720 Mandarin Court, Lakeside Drive, Centre Park, Warrington, WAI 1GG.

