Company registration number 05191127 (England and Wales}

COMMUNICATE WELL LIMITED
UNAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

PAGES FOR FILING WITH REGISTRAR


COMMUNICATE WELL LIMITED

CONTENTS

Page

Balance sheet 1-2

Notes to the financial statements 3-7


COMMUNICATE WELL LIMITED

BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 JULY 2024

Notes
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 4

Current assets

Debtors
Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors: amounts falling due within one
year

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due after more
than one year

Provisions for liabilities
Net assets

Capital and reserves
Called up share capital
Share premium account

Profit and loss reserves

Total equity

2024

485,823
98,121

583,944

(140,923)

59,698

443,021

502,719

(37,475)

(14,925)

450,319

2023

902,067
42,441

944,508

(498,337)

58,086

446,171

504,257

(53,787)

(14,522)

435,948

1,000
19,750
415,198

435,948


COMMUNICATE WELL LIMITED

BALANCE SHEET (CONTINUED)
AS AT 31 JULY 2024

For the financial year ended 31 July 2024 the company was entitled to exemption from audit under section 477 of the
Companies Act 2006 relating to small companies.

The members have not required the company to obtain an audit of its financial statements for the year in question in
accordance with section 476.

The directors acknowledge their responsibilities for complying with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 with respect
to accounting records and the preparation of financial statements.

These financial statements have been prepared and delivered in accordance with the provisions applicable to companies
subject to the small companies regime.

In accordance with section 444 of the Companies Act 2006, all of the members of the company have consented to the
preparation of abridged financial statements pursuant to paragraph 1A of Schedule 1 to the Small Companies and Groups
(Accounts and Directors’ Report) Regulations (SI 2008/409}{b).

The directors of the company have elected not to include a copy of the profit and loss account within the financial statements.

The financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on 23 April 2025 and are signed
on its behalf by:

Mrs E A Hider
Director

Company registration number 05191127 (England and Wales)


COMMUNICATE WELL LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

4.1

1.2

1.3

Accounting policies

Company information
Communicate Well Limited is a private company limited by shares incorporated in England and Wales. The registered
office is 15 Home Farm, Luton Hoo Estate, Luton, Bedfordshire, LU1 3TD.

Accounting convention

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland” (“FRS 102") and the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 as
applicable to companies subject to the small companies regime. The disclosure requirements of section 1A of FRS 102
have been applied other than where additional disclosure is required to show a true and fair view.

The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the company. Monetary amounts
in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest £.

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention,. The principal accounting policies
adopted are set out below.

Turnover

Revenue comprises sales of goods or services provided to customers net of value added tax and other sales taxes,
less an appropriate deduction for actual and expected returns and discounts. Revenue is recognised when
performance obligations are satisfied and the contral of goods or services is transferred to the buyer. Where the
performance obligation is satisfied over time, revenue is recognised in accordance with its progress towards complete
satisfaction of that performance obligation.

When cash inflows are deferred and represent a financing arrangement, the promised consideration is adjusted for the
effects of the time value of money, which is recognised as interest income.

The nature, timing of satisfaction of performance obligations and significant payment terms of the company's major
sources of revenue are as follows:

Revenue from contracts for the provision of professional services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion
when the stage of completian, costs incurred and costs to complete can be estimated reliably. The stage of completion
is calculated by comparing costs incurred, mainly in relation to contractual hourly staff rates and materials, as a
proportion of total costs. Where the outcome cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent of
the expenses recognised that are recoverable.

Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost or valuation, net of depreciation
and any impairment losses.

Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets less their residual values over their useful
lives on the following bases:

Fixtures and fittings 20% Reducing Balance
Motor vehicles 20 % Reducing Balance

The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the
carrying value of the asset, and is credited or charged to profit or loss.


COMMUNICATE WELL LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

1

1.4

1.5

1.6

Accounting policies (Continued)

Impairment of fixed assets

At each reporting period end date, the company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible assets to determine
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the
recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where it is
not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the company estimates the recoverable amount
of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.

Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future
cash flaws have not been adjusted.

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the
carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is
recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the
impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.

Recognised impairment losses are reversed if, and only if, the reasons for the impairment loss have ceased to apply.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is
increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed
the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or
cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless
the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a
revaluation increase.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents are basic financial assets and include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other
short-term liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are
shown within borrowings in current liabilities.

Financial instruments
The company has elected to apply the provisions of Section 11 ‘Basic Financial Instruments’ and Section 12 ‘Other
Financial Instruments Issues’ of FRS 102 to all of its financial instruments.

Financial instruments are recognised in the company's balance sheet when the company becomes party to the
contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset, with the net amounts presented in the financial statements, when there is a
legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to realise
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

Basic financial assets

Basic financial assets, which include debtors and cash and bank balances, are initially measured at transaction price
including transaction costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method unless
the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the transaction is measured at the present value of the
future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest. Financial assets classified as receivable within ane year are not
amortised.

Classification of financial liabilities

Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the company after
deducting all of its liabilities.


COMMUNICATE WELL LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

1.7

1.8

1.9

Accounting policies (Continued)

Basic financial liabilities

Basic financial liabilities, including creditors, bank loans, loans from fellow group companies and preference shares that
are classified as debt, are initially recognised at transaction price unless the arrangement constitutes a financing
transaction, where the debt instrument is measured at the present value of the future payments discounted at a market
rate of interest. Financial liabilities classified as payable within one year are not amortised.

Debt instruments are subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business
from suppliers. Amounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they
are presented as non-current liabilities. Trade creditors are recognised initially at transaction price and subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of transaction costs. Dividends
payable on equity instruments are recognised as liabilities once they are no longer at the discretion of the company.

Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.

Current tax

The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the
profit and loss account because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years
and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The company's liability for current tax is calculated
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting end date.

Deferred tax

Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all timing differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the
extent that it is probable that they will be recovered against the reversal of deferred tax liabilities or other future taxable
profits. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the timing difference arises from goodwill or from the initial
recognition of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting end date and reduced to the extent that it is
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered,
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the
asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the profit and loss account, except when it relates to items
charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are offset when the company has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the
deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority.

Employee benefits
The costs of short-term employee benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense, unless those costs are
required to be recognised as part of the cost of stock or fixed assets.

The cost of any unused holiday entitlement is recognised in the period in which the employee's services are received.

Termination benefits are recognised immediately as an expense when the company is demonstrably committed to
terminate the employment of an employee or to provide termination benefits.


COMMUNICATE WELL LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

Accounting policies (Continued)

Retirement benefits
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.

Leases

As lessee

Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the lerms of the lease lansfer substantially all the risks and rewards
of ownership to the lessees. All other leases are classified as operating leases.

Assets held under finance leases are recognised as assets at the lower of the assets fair value at the date of inception
and the present value of the minimum lease payments. The related liability is included in the balance sheet as a
finance lease obligation. Lease payments are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements. The interest is
charged to profit or loss so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.

Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the company's accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and
assumptions about the carrying amount of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The
estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be
relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are

recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised where the revision affects only that period, or in the period of
the revision and future periods where the revision affects both current and future periods.

Employees

The average monthly number of persons (including directors) employed by the company during the year was:

2024 2023
Number Number
Total 2 2


COMMUNICATE WELL LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

4 Tangible fixed assets

Cost

At 1 August 2023

Additions

At 31 July 2024

Depreciation and impairment
At 1 August 2023

Depreciation charged in the year

At 31 July 2024

Carrying amount
At 31 July 2024

At 31 July 2023

Total

117,421
16,537

133,958

59,335
14,925

74,260


This document was delivered using electronic communications and authenticated in accordance with the
registrar's rules relating to electronic form, authentication and manner of delivery under section 1072 of
the Companies Act 2006.

