SHORTHOUSE
MARTINi

Company registration number 8136431 (England and Wales)

DENTAL TRAINING LIMITED
UNAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

PAGES FOR FILING WITH REGISTRAR


DENTAL TRAINING LIMITED

CONTENTS

Page

Balance sheet 4

Notes to the financial statements 2-6


DENTAL TRAINING LIMITED

BALANCE SHEET

AS AT 31 MARCH 2024

2024 2023
Notes £ £ £ £

Fixed assets
Tangible assets 4 5,422 30,877
Current assets
Debtors 5 95,753 64,733
Cash at bank and in hand 23,123 26,574

118,876 91,307
Creditors: amounts falling due within one
year 6 (122,548) (114,863)
Net current liabi (3,672) (23,556)
Total assets less current liabilities 1,750 7,321
Provisions for liabilities - (5,853)
Net assets 1,750 1,468
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 100 100
Profit and loss reserves 1,650 1,368
Total equity 1,750 1,468

The directors of the company have elected not to include a capy of the profit and loss account within the financial statements.
For the financial year ended 31 March 2024 the company was entitled to exemption from audit under section 477 of the
Companies Act 2006 relating to small companies.

The directors acknowledge their responsibilities for complying with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 with respect
to accounting records and the preparation of financial statements.

The members have not required the company to obtain an audit of its financial statements for the year in question in
accordance with section 476.

These financial statements have been prepared and delivered in accordance with the provisions applicable to companies
subject to the small companies regime.

The financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on 12 December 2024 and are
signed on its behalf by:

Mrs T A Hewitt Ms S Doble
Director Director

Company Registration No. 8136431


DENTAL TRAINING LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1

11

1.2

1.3

Accounting policies

Company information
Dental Training Limited is a private company limited by shares incorporated in England and Wales. The registered
office is Worthy House, 14 Winchester Road, Basingstoke, Hampshire, RG21 8UQ.

Accounting convention

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland” ("FRS 102”) and the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 as
applicable to companies subject to the small companies regime. The disclosure requirements of section 1A of FRS 102
have been applied other than where additional disclosure is required to show a true and fair view.

The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the company. Monetary amounts
in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest £.

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost canvention, [modified to include the revaluation
of freehold properties and to include investment properties and certain financial instruments at fair value]. The principal
accounting policies adopted are set out below.

Turnover

Turnover is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods and services provided in
the normal course of business, and is shown net of VAT and other sales related taxes. The fair value of consideration
takes into account trade discounts, settlement discounts and volume rebates.

When cash inflows are deferred and represent a financing arrangement, the fair value of the consideration is the
present value of the future receipts. The difference between the fair value of the consideration and the nominal amount
received is recognised as interest income.

Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have
passed to the buyer (usually on dispatch of the goods), the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, it is probable
that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity and the costs incurred ar to be incurred
in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.

Revenue from contracts for the provision of professional services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion
when the stage of completion, costs incurred and costs to complete can be estimated reliably. The stage of completion
is calculated by comparing costs incurred, mainly in relation to contractual hourly staff rates and materials, as a
proportion of total costs. Where the outcome cannot be estimated reliably. revenue is recognised only to the extent of
the expenses recognised that itis probable will be recovered.

Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost or valuation, net of depreciation
and any impairment losses.

Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets less their residual values over their useful
lives on the following bases:

Plant and equipment 25% on reducing balance
Fixtures and fittings 25% on reducing balance
Computers 25% on reducing balance
Motor vehicles 20% on reducing balance

The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the
carrying value of the asset, and is credited or charged to profit or loss.


DENTAL TRAINING LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1

1.4

1.5

1.6

Accounting policies (Continued)

Impairment of fixed assets

At each reporting period end date, the company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible assets to determine
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. |f any such indication exists, the
recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where it is
not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the company estimates the recoverable amount
of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.

Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future
cash flows have not been adjusted.

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the
carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced ta its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is
recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the
impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.

Recognised impairment losses are reversed if, and only if, the reasons for the impairment loss have ceased to apply.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is
increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed
the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or
cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless
the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a
revaluation increase.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents are basic financial assets and include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other
short-term liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are
shown within borrowings in current liabilities.

Financial instruments
The company has elected to apply the provisions of Section 11 ‘Basic Financial Instruments’ and Section 12 ‘Other
Financial Instruments Issues’ of FRS 102 to all of its financial instruments.

Financial instruments are recagnised in the company’s balance sheet when the company becomes party to the
contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset, with the net amounts presented in the financial statements, when there is a
legally anforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle an a net basis or to realise
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

Basic financial assets

Basic financial assets, which include debtors and cash and bank balances, are initially measured at transaction price
including transaction costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method unless
the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the transaction is measured at the present value of the
future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest. Financial assets classified as receivable within one year are not
amortised.

Classification of financial liabilities

Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the company after
deducting all of its liabilities.


DENTAL TRAINING LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1

1.7

1.8

19

Accounting policies (Continued)

Basic financial liabilities

Basic financial liabilities, including creditors, bank loans, loans fram fellow group companies and preference shares that
are classified as debt. are initially recagnised at transaction price unless the arrangement constitutes a financing
transaction, where the debt instrument is measured at the present value of the future payments discounted at a market
rate of interest. Financial liabilities classified as payable within one year are not amortised.

Debt instruments are subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goads or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business
from suppliers. Amounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they
are presented as nor-current liabilities. Trade creditors are recognised initially at transaction price and subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of transaction costs. Dividends
payable on equity instruments are recognised as liabilities once they are no longer at the discretion of the company.

Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.

Current tax

The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the
profit and loss account because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years
and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The company’s liability for current tax is calculated
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting end date.

Deferred tax

Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all timing differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the
extent that itis probable that they will be recovered against the reversal of deferred tax liabilities or other future taxable
profits. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the timing difference arises from goodwill or fram the initial
recognition of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nar the accounting profit.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting end date and reduced to the extent that it is
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the
asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged ar credited in the profit and loss account, except when it relates to iterns
charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are offset when the company has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the
deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority.

Employee benefits
The costs of short-term employee benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense, unless those costs are
required to be recognised as part of the cost of stock or fixed assets.

The cost of any unused holiday entitlement is recognised in the period in which the employee's services are received.

Termination benefits are recognised immediately as an expense when the company is demonstrably committed to
terminate the employment of an employee or to provide termination benefits.


DENTAL TRAINING LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1

Accounting policies (Continued)

Retirement benefits
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.

Foreign exchange

Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of
the transactions. At each reporting end date. monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies
are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the reporting end date. Gains and losses arising on translation in the period
are included in profit or loss.

Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the company’s accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and
assumptions about the carrying amount of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The

estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be
relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are

recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised where the revision affects only that period, or in the period of
the revision and future periods where the revision affects both current and future periods.

Employees

The average manthly number of persons (including directors) employed by the company during the year was:

2024 2023
Number Number
Total 4 7


DENTAL TRAINING LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

4 Tangible fixed assets

Cost

At1 April 2023

Disposals

At 31 March 2024

Depreciation and impairment
At 1 April 2023

Depreciation charged in the year
Eliminated in respect of disposals

At 31 March 2024

Carrying amount
At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

5 Debtors.
Amounts falling due within one year:

Trade debtors
Other debtors

6 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

Trade creditors
Corporation tax
Other taxation and social security
Other creditors

Plant and
machinery etc

£

56,278
(31,731)

24,547

25,401

9,060
(15,336)

19,125

5,422

30,877

2024 2023
£ £
26,543 36,522
69,210 28,211
95,753 64,733,
2024 2023
£ £
21,192 4,833
6,071 9,948
18,842 23,568
76,443 76,514
122,548 114,863


This document was delivered using electronic communications and authenticated in accordance with the
registrar's rules relating to electronic form, authentication and manner of delivery under section 1072 of
the Companies Act 2006.

