DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

TTL

COMPANIES HOUSE

TUESDAY

Al

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

COMPANY INFORMATION

Directors

Secretary
Company number

Registered office

independent auditors

Bankers

J Doble

AC Shepherd
R Menison

D Fielding

A Kashyap

Y Engel
04160511

66 Grosvenor Street
London
WI1K 3JL

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
4 Embankment Place

London

WC2N 6RH

Santander UK pic
2 Triton Square
Regent's Place
Londen

NW1 3AN

Barclays Bank pic
14 Churchill Place
London

“E14 SHP ~~

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

CONTENTS

Strategic report

Directors’ report

Independent auditor's report

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated statement of financial position
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Consolidated statement of cash flows

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
Parent company balance sheet

Parent company statement of changes in equity
Parent company cash flow statement

Notes to the parent company financial statements

Page

10
13
14
15
16
17
57
58
59

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
STRATEGIC REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

Strategic overview

Dexters London Limited (the “Group’) is principally engaged in providing Estate Agency services related to the
saie, letting and management of residential property in London.

Business performance was better than expected and revenue grew by 23% in the year. Organic growth and
acquisitions, accounted far roughly equal shares of the increase

Management expects further growth in the future as existing offices mature and new ones are opened. There is
considerable opportunity for the company to expand into new markets in Central and Greater London.

Business and financial review

London has a vibrant property market and tha Group anticipates continuing. strong demand for flats and houses to
buy and rent. The business is focused on its customers and is highly rated by both clients and those looking for a
London home.

tn particular, property sellers and landlords value the advice and expertise offered by the Group, which has led to
increased instructions for sale and to jet and in turn higher revenues

These are the headline results for the financial year:

2024 2023

£°000 £000
Revenue 221,854 180,905
Operating profit (before exceptional items) 35,015 31,145
Add back:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3,348 2,725
Share-based payment charge 264 338
Amortisation 8,540 6,151
Underlying operating profit * 47,167 40,359
Profit before tax 32,704 27,674
Underlying cash generated from operations 7 44,324 32,688

‘ Underlying operating profit is one of the KPI measures used by Management to make
operational and investment decisions.

? Underlying cash flow generated from operations is underlying operating profit less
movements in working capital

Key performance indicators (“KPIs”)

In addition to the underlying operating profit (as set out above), the KPls of the business were:
> Revenue growth: 23% (2023: 23%); and

- Underlying Operating Profit margin: 21% (2023: 22%)

These KPls represent an important measure for the directors to monitor the performance of the business. The
directors review and consider these KPIs on a monthly basis, and in board meetings, in order to assess the
performance of the business and make future investment decisions.

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
STRATEGIC REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

Business and financial review (continued)

The property market always has its challenges and is impacted by economic policy, taxation strategy and regulation
amongst other things. Therefore, the Group's customers appreciate reliable advisors, who work hard to achieve
goad results. Revenues were £221.9m in the year ended 30 September 2024, up £41.0m of 23% on the previous
year, due to a greater share of transactions with organic growth as well as the full year impact of the acquisition of
Marsh & Parsons Holdings Limited and the Life at Parliament View Limited acquisition contributing to roughly equal
shares of the increase. Revenue from lettings increased by 31% to £137.2m, accounting for 62% of total revenue
(2023: 58%). Residential sales revenue increasing by 7% to £68.1m, which is a robust performance given the lower
opening sales pipeline.

As well as growing revenue, management is focused on Underlying Operating Profit, as this measure is used to
make operational and investment decisions. Underlying Operating Profit for the year was £47.2m (2023: £40.4m),
an increase of 17%, with Underlying Operating Profit margin of 21% (2023: 22%). The decrease in margin is driven
primarily by continued investment in colleagues as well as investment in new office openings and acquisitions. The
Group has generated strong cashflows with 94% (2023: 81%) of underlying operating profit converting to underlying
operating cash. Profit before tax has increased by £5.0m to £32.7m, primarily driven by strong undeslying
performance and also lower exceptional costs.

Much of the success of the business is the result of the long-term reinvestment of profits, particularly into Dexters’
colleagues; their qualifications, development and career opportunities. The Dexters Academy in Pimlico is the
education and support hub for colleagues and it has a program of continuing professional development. As a firm of
Chartered Surveyors regulated by the Royal Institution (RICS), Dexters’ Management are professionally qualified,
there are 121 RICS members and also 320 members of the Association of Residential Lettings Agents (ARLA).
Dexters Academy is industry-leading, being the only Ofsted registered Employer Provider of an estate agency
apprenticeship program, which has over 400 graduates and a further 310 colleagues currently enrolled.

Dexters are thereby well placed in Prime Central London and in the many focal marketplaces in Greater London, to
deliver expert guidance, whether it be advising landlords on the proposed Renters’ Rights Bill legislation, working
with property sellers, developers of new build and build-to-rent projects, or practical help with all manner of property
searches.

The Group continues to have a long-term view, illustrated by its conservative capital allocation, strong balance
sheet and significant cash reserves. The Group has positive net current assets and low teveis of debt. The
Directors continue to invest for the future and to position the company to take advantage of expansion and
acquisition opportunities.

Qutlook

Now the new Government is in place, there is more certainty around the macro-economic environment and lower
interest rates over the medium term should be beneficial to the residential sales market. However, the Autumn
Budget has reduced the expectation of faster interest rate reductions as increased Government borrowing has
taised the possibility of an increase in inflation. Furthermore, the Renters’ Rights Bill provides additional regulation
to navigate which brings both challenges in the form of the removal of fixed term tenancies, but also an opportunity
for the Group to leverage its expertise in dealing with complex legislation and regulation (o increase the number of
fully managed properties in the portfolio. Management is confident in the resilience of the business underpinned by
cashflows from lettings operations, the strength of the brand and the ability of colleagues to deliver exceptional
levels of customer service in each local market. As such, the Group is well placed to continue its growth story.

Principal risks and uncertainties

Housing market

The Group may be impacted by the cyclical nature of the property market, in particular changes to prices and
transaction Jevels in both the lettings and residential sales markets. The performance of the Group is influenced by
the economic, taxation and regulatory environment, with any policy changes having the potential to result in a
significant impact on the housing market. Management has a track record of steering the business through different
property market cycles including significant changes in applicable legislation and aim to minimise risk, by working in
both residential sales and lettings, expanding into new local markets and making further investments to gain
market share.

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
STRATEGIC REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

Cost inflation

The Group is likety to be impacted by inflationary cost pressures in relation to colleague (e.g. National insurance
Contribution changes) and other costs. Some cost calegories are secured on Jonger term basis (e.g. office rents, fixed
price energy contracts) or are variable in nature. The majority of colleagues are on pay structures with a high
proportion of their earnings being through variable commission rather than a fixed salary. Management is committed
to investing in retaining key colleagues to ensure there is a strong base to enable detivery of future growth plans.

Colleague

The Group is reliant on its colleagues to deliver exceptional customer service. The ability to attract, motivate and
develop the right calibre of colleagues is key to retaining and growing the customer base of the Group. Long-term
incentive schemes including equity participation are in place to align the objectives of colleagues and shareholders.

Management is very focused on training and developing colleagues and have committed considerable resources to
this through the Group's London Academy from where a Coaching and Development Team provide training and, on-
the-job coaching with industry recognised qualifications, including membership of the Royal Institute of Chartered
Surveyors. The Group has obtained Employer Provider status which enables it to deliver its own apprenticeship
scheme to colleagues and thus increase the ability to attract, retain and fast-track talent. The Dexters Academy
achieved an Ofsted ‘Good’ rating at its first inspection as an employer provider, the only Estate Agency to hold this
status, signaling the quality of the education and training on offer.

Competitor

The Group operates in a very competitive marketplace which is routinely challenged by new business models
including online platforms, automated valuations and financial service technologies. in addition to these, the
business continues to face competition from traditional operators who have a high street presence. The business
has invested in technology and infrastructure to improve service delivery and customer experience whilst also
ensuring that colleagues are always engaging with sellers and landlords. Management is confident that the
combination of an online presence and locally based expertise produces the best results for clients.

Reputational

The Group has a significant presence in the London market with high levels of brand recognition. Maintaining a
positive reputation is crucial to the prospects of the business. There is a risk that our reputation could be damaged
through negative press coverage and social media due to customer service falling below expectations. In order to
mitigate this risk, Management strive to ensure that there is a strong culture within the business underpinned by the
right values as well as continually monitoring the quality of our customer service.

Compliance and regulatory

The Group is subject to many laws and regulations, notably regarding data protection, client monies, lettings
iegislation and anti-money laundering. The Group's mortgage business is subject to regulations governed by the
Financial Conduct Authority ("FCA"). Breaches of any of these regulations and laws may resuit in financial penatties
for non-compliance and reputational damage. The Group has a dedicated legal and compliance team which oversees
operations and monitors all regulatory and iegal changes in the marketplace.

fT systems and cyber security

The Group uses IT systems and operations to manage significant internal processes and customer data. The
Group is exposed to an interruption of service, corruption of data or cyber-attacks which could lead to breaches of
regulations or failure of the business to operate. IT systems are closely monitored by an internal specialist team in
accordance with an IT policy which details governance, business continuity and disaster recovery plans and
compliance with regulatory requirements such as General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR’).

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
STRATEGIC REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

Section 172, Companies Act 2006

In governing the Company on behalf of its shareholders and discharging their duties under section 172, the
directors have regard to the factors set out in section 172 and other factors which the Board considers appropriate.
In doing so, section 172 requires directors to have regard to a list of factors, including the interest of employees and
how the actions and behaviours of the Company affect customers, suppliers, the community and the environment,
as well as the Company's reputation.

Matters identified that may affect the company's performance in the long term are set out in the principal risks and
uncertainties disclosed in the above paragraphs.

The Company has engaged with key stakeholders and the outcome of such an engagement has been considered
by the directors during the decision-making process where appropriate. The directors also considered (a) how
conflicts in the interest of its stakeholders can be balanced; and (b) any conflicts between the long-term and short-
term good of the company and the interests of different stakeholder groups can be managed. The directors
promote the long-term success of the Group for the benefit of its stakeholders as a whole.

Colleagues

Directors believe that colleagues are key to the future success of the business. The directors work alongside
colleagues to better understand their views and to ensure that the Group's culture is protected. This enables
colleagues to influence matters that affect them and encourages their participation in shaping strategic initiatives.
The directors engage with colleagues in a number of ways including attending and participating in monthly
meetings, manager conferences and annual business planning meetings.

Customers and suppliers

The directors believe maintaining excellent levels of customer service is critical to the success of each property
transaction we engage in. Furthermore, suppliers to the business help and support to maintain the highest levels of
customer service. Directors review service levels on a regular basis, as well as monitoring the integrity of the way
the business is running. Additionally, directors review supplier payment practices on a regular basis

Community and environment

The directors value and promote the Group's engagement with local communities through local fairs, clubs and
charities. In addition, management considers the impact of operations on the environment and the directors
regularly review the Group's carbon footprint, in particular through the Carbon Reporting framework. The intensity
ratio (CO2 tonnes per colleague) has remained at 0.50 in FY24 (FY23: 0.50) and is still significantly lawer than the
0.93 in FY¥20 (base year).

In accordance with requirements of 172 Companies Act 2006, the directors ensure that the interests of
stakeholders are considered through a combination of the following:
- Specific agenda points and papers presented at execulive management meetings;
- Regular communication with the Group's internal stakeholders, on various topics such as operational
matters and health & safety;
- Regular engagement with the Group's external stakeholders, including, but not limited to, suppliers and
customers; and
- Consideration of the impact of the Group's operations on the community and the environment and how this
can be improved.

On behaif of the board

Hog

A Kashyap
Director
Dated: 16th December 2024

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
DIRECTORS’ REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

The directors present their Annual Report and Audited Consolidated Financial Statements of Dexters London
Limited for the year ended 30 September 2024. The directars of the cormpany who were in office during the year
and up to the date of signing the financial statements were as follows:

J | Doble

AC Shepherd

R Merrison

DA Fielding

A Kashyap
Principal activities

The principal activity of the Group and Company is providing estate agency services related to selling, letting and
management of residential property in London. ‘

Results and dividends

The financial results of the Group for the year are set out on page 13.

The directors do not recommend payment of an ordinary dividend (2023: ENil).
Directors’ indemnity

The Group had qualifying third party indemnity insurance in place for all directors of the Group during the financial
year and at the date of signing the financial statements.

Principal risk and uncertainties
The principal risks and uncertainties are detailed in the Strategic Report on page 3.
Future developments

The future developments of the Group are to continue to grow the business as described in the Outlook section of
the Strategic Report on page 3.

Post balance shaet events
There are no post balance sheet events to report.
Political donations

No political donations were made in the year (2023: £Nil).

Charitable donations
During the year the Group mace the following payments:
2024 2023
£000 £°000
Charitable donations 15 20

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
DIRECTORS’ REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

Research and development

The Group undertakes research and development activity in relation to its investment in and development of lettings
retated software. During the year, the Group incurred £2.3m (2023: £1.8m) of expenditure in relation to this, which
has been capitalised as software and amortised aver five years.

Colleague involvement

The Group provides colleagues with information on the Group's performance and on matters concerning them ona
regular basis primarily via the Group's intranet. Considerable value is placed on the involvement of our colleagues,
which is demonstrated by the Group's London Academy and the existence of a dedicated Coaching and
Development Team to promote the Group's corporate practices and policies.

Disabled persons

The key points to the Company's policy on the employment, training, career development and promotion of disabled
people are as follows.

- To employ disabled persons in the job suited to their aptitudes, abilities and qualifications whenever
practicable;

- To provide disabled colleagues with the same opportunities for promotion, career development and training
as those afforded to other colleagues;

-  Toensure that steps are being taken to avoid disabled people being placed at a substantial disadvantage,
by making reasonabie adjustments;

- To ensure that there is no less favourable treatment on the grounds of disability and that applicants for
employment and promotion in the company are considered according to their ability, skills and
qualifications;

- To promote a working environment in which disabled people are welcomed and supported by their line
managers and colleagues; and

-  Tocreate a culture in which disabled people feel valued, confident and accepted.

Financial risk management

The Group's financial risk management objectives and policies, including the use of financial instruments, are set out
in note 29 to the Group's consolidated financial statements on pages 44 - 47.

Going concem

The financial statements of the Group have been prepared on a going concern basis as the directors have satisfied
themselves that, at the time of approving the financial statements, the Group will have adequate resources to
continue in operation for a period of at least {2 months from the date of approval of the financial statements. The
assessment has taken into consideration the Group's financial position, covenant compliance, liquidity
requirements, recent trading performance, the outcome of reverse stress testing and severe but plausible testing
which determines the point at which the Group could be considered to fail without taking further mitigating actions
or raising additional funds.

Independent Auditors
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that:

- so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s
independent auditors are unaware; and

- the director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in orders to make
themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's
independent auditors are aware of that information

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act
2008.

The auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, are deemed to be reappointed under section 487(2) of the Companies
Act 2006.

7

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
DIRECTORS’ REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

Carbon reporting

The Group's measured Scope 1 and 2 emissions comprised of the following

Carbon emissions Year to 30 Year to 30
September 2024 September 2023

Scope 1

Emissions from combustion of fuel (tonnes CO2 e) 199 128

Emissions from combustion of gas (tonnes CO2 e) 97 132

Scope 2

Emissions from purchased electricity (tonnes CO2 e) 631 564

Scope 3

Emissions from business travel in rental cars or employee- 161 101

owned vehicles where the Company purchases fuel (tonnes COZ

e)

Emissions generated in operations relating to waste and water 10 3

(tonnes CO2 e)

Total GHG emissions (tonnes CO2 e) 1,098 928

Intensity ratio

Average number of full-time employees 2,189 1,860

Tonnes of CO2 e per full time employee 0.50 0.50

Tonnes of CO2 e per £100k of revenue 0.49 0.51

Energy consumption

Aggregate energy consumption (kWh) 5,294,296 4,617,006

The Group quantifies and reports organisational GHG emission in alignment with the World Resources Institute's
Greenhouse Gas Protocal Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and in alignment with the Scope 2
Guidance. The Group consolidates its boundary according to the operational control approach.

The GHG sources that constituted its operational boundary for the year are:

Scope 1: Petro! and diesel company cars and gas combustion in buildings
Scope 2: Electricity combustion in buildings
Scope 3: Emissions from business travel where the Company purchases fuel and from waste and water operations

The intensity ratio has remained at 6.50 in FY24. Compared to the base year of FY20 when CO2 emissions per full
time employee was 0.93 tonnes, the intensity ratio in FY24 continues to be 54% lower. Tonnes of CO2 e per £100k
of revenue has fallen from 0.51 in FY23 to 0.49 in FY24. We have continued our commitment to reducing the carbon
footprint of the Group. Specific actions taken include replacement of single driver company cars with pool cars.
switched to renewable energy electricity suppliers, introduction of salary sacrifice EV scheme, additional fleet bicycles,
installation of smart meters, increasing recycling and improving culture where everyone takes responsibility for reducing
CO2 emissions including making small changes in daily habits.

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
DIRECTORS’ REPORT

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

Statement of directors’ responsibilities

The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Consolidated Financial Statements in
accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
directors have prepared the group financial statements in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting
standards and the company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting
Standard applicable in the UK and Repubtic of Ireland”, and applicable law)

Under company law, directors must not approve the financia) statements unless they are satisfied that they give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and company and of the profit or loss of the group for that year. In
preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to:

select suitable material accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
state whether applicable UK-adopted international accounting standards have been followed for the group
financial statements and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 have been followed
for the campany financial statements, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the
financial statements;

* make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent, and

* prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Group and company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and company and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are also responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the Group's and company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of
the Group and company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements compiy with the Companies Act
2006

Directors’ confirmations
In the case of each director in office at the date the Directors report is approved.

« so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group's and company’s
auditors are unaware: and

* they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware

of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Group's and company’s auditors are aware of that
information

On behalf of the board

Hog

A Kashyap
Director

Dated: 16th December 2024

Independent auditors’ report to the
members of Dexters London Limited

Report on the audit of the financial statements

Opinion
in our opinion:

* Dexters London Limited’s group financial statements and company financial statements (the “financial statements”)
give a true and fair view of the state of the group's and of the company’s affairs as at 30 September 2024 and of the
group's profit and the group’s and company’s cash flows for the year then ended;

*  thegroup financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting
standards as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006;

* the company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of ireland”, and applicable law); and

«the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements (the “Annual
Report"}, which comprise: Consolidated statement of financial position and Parent company balance sheet as at
30 September 2024; Consolidated statement of comprehensive income, Consolidated staternent of changes in equity,
Parent company statement of changes in equity, Consolidated statement of cash flows and Parent company cash flow
statement for the year then ended; and the notes to the financial statements, comprising material accounting policy
information and other explanatory information.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial
statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our opinion.

independence

We remained independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the
financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRC's Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

Conclusions relating to going concern

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions
that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the group's and the company’s ability to continue as a going
concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting
in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this conclusion is not a guarantee as to the group's
and the company's ability to continue as a going concern.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to gaing concern are described in the relevant
sections of this report.

10

Reporting on other information

The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements and our
auditors’ report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements
does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent
otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.

in connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing
so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge
obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an apparent material inconsistency
or material misstatement, we are required to perfarm procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement
of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed,
we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have
nothing to report based on these responsibilities.

With respect to the Strategic report and Directors' Report, we also considered whether the disclosures required by the
UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.

Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 requires us also to report certain
opinions and matters as described below.

Strategic report and Directors’ Report

in our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic report and
Directors’ Report for the year ended 30 September 2024 is consistent with the financial statements and has been
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and company and their environment obtained in the course of
the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors’ Report.

Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit

Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements

As explained more fully in the Statement of directors' responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and
fair view. The directors are also responsibte for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group’s and the company’s abifity to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis
of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the company or to cease operations, or have no
realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs
(UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line
with our responsibilities, outtined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud.
The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.

Based on our understanding of the group and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-compliance with laws

and regulations related to but not limited to the Financial Conduct Authority, Estate Agents Act 1979 and Tenants Act
2019, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect on the financial statements.

WM

We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the financial statements such as Companies
Act 2006, Employment tax regulations, Corporate Tax regulations and Client money regulations. We evaluated
management's incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements {including the risk of
override of controts), and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journals to increase
revenue or manipulate EBITDA and management bias in accounting estimates and judgements such as revenue from
commission on rent managed and fully managed services that is recognised up front; impairment of right of use assets;
and acquisition accounting. Audit procedures performed by the engagement team included:

© Enquiry with management and those charged with governance regarding any litigation or claims arising from non-
compliance with laws and regulations and whether there was any alleged or suspected fraud;

¢ Review of minutes of management and board meetings during the year and up to the date of approval of the financial
statements;

« Auditing the risk of management override of controls, through testing journal entries for appropriateness and
challenging the assumptions used in management's accounting estimates;

« Evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions outside the normal course of business;

¢ Agreeing VAT returns back to supporting documentation, testing PAYE payments and reviewing of tax filings to ensure
compliance with laws and regulations.

There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. We are less likely to become aware of instances
of non-compliance with laws and regulations that are not closely related to events and transactions reflected in the
financial statements. Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not
detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional
misrepresentations, or through collusion.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at:
www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’ report.

Use of this report

This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in accordance
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions,
accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose
hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.

Other required reporting

Companies Act 2006 exception reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

*® we have not obtained all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

* adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or retums adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or

* certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

e the company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.

We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.
.
Ss &! bey
_
Simon Bailey (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London

16 Occemtes 2024

12

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

Note 2024 2023
£000 £000

Revenue 5 221,854 180,905
Cost of sales (121,239) (95,522)
Gross profit 100,615 85,383
Administrative expenses (44,759) (37,724)
Depreciation of right of use assets 17 (8,857) (7,525)
Income from associates 19 168 225
Operating profit before share-based payment,
depreciation of property, plant and equipment and 47,167 40,359
amortisation
Share-based payments charge (264) (338)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 (3,348) (2,725)
Amoitisation 15 (8,540) (6,151)
Operating profit (before exceptional items) 35,045 31,145
Loss on disposal of subsidiary 12 (278) -
Exceptional costs 13 _621) (2,207)
Operating profit (after exceptional items) 34,216 28,938
Investment income 10 4 6
Finance costs 1 (1,516) (1,270)
Profit before tax 32,704 27,674
Income tax expense 14 (7,591) (5,026)
Profit and total comprehensive income for the year 25,113 22,648

The consolidated statement of comprehensive income has been prepared on the basis that all operations are
continuing operations.

3

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

Note 2024 2023
£°000 £'000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Goodwill 15 57,724 50,007
Intangible assets 15 §1,271 40,678
Property, plant and equipment 16 8,515 6,649
Right of use assets 17 38,860 36,487
Investments 18 12 12
Investment in associate 19 3,036, 3,098
189,418 136,931
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 20 38,264 33,872
Taxation - 756
Cash and cash equivalents 29,136 22,276
67,400 56,904
TOTAL ASSETS 226,818 193,835
LIABILITIES
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 33,782 28,941
Taxation 459 -
Lease liabilities 17 9,376 6,189
43,617 35,130
Non-current liabilities
Lease liabilities 17 30,477 34,377
Provisions 22 293 §96
Loans from group undertakings 23 5,000 5,000
35,770 39,973
Deferred tax liabilities 24 13,556 9,970
TOTAL LIABILITIES 92,943 86,073
NET ASSETS 133,875 108,762
EQUITY
Called up share capital 26 1 1
Share premium account 27 1,034 1,034
Other resenes 28 165 165
Retained eamings 132,675 407,562
TOTAL EQUITY 133,875 108,762

The financial statements on pages 13 to 56 were approved by the Board of Directors on 16th December 2024 and
signed on its behalf by

dog

A Kashyap
Director

Company Registration No. 04160511
14

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

Share

Share Premium Other Retained
capital Account Reserves Earnings Total
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £000
Balance at 1 October 2022 1 1,034 165 84,914 86,114
Total profit for the year ~ - - 22,648 22,648
Balance at 30 September 2023 1 1,034 165 107,562 108,762
Total profit for the year - - = 25,113 25,113
Balance at 30 September 2024 1 1,034 165 132,675 133,875

15

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

Cashflows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations

Interest paid
Interest received
Tax paid

Net cashflow generated from operating activities

Cashfiows from investing activities
Purchase of intangible assets

Purchase of property, plant and equipment
Dividends received from associate

Acquisition consideration (net of cash acquired)

Net cash used in investing activities
Cashflows from financing activities

Loans from group undertakings
Payment of lease liabilities

Net cash used in financing activities

Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivelents

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year

16

Note

33

2024 2023
£'000 £000
53,013 39,988
(50) (2)

4 6
(6,352) (4,023)
46,615 36,969
(2,274) (1,816)
(4,244) (4,587)
230 270

(20,480) (26,713)
(26,768) (32,846)

. 5,000
(12,987) (10,274)
(12,987) (5,274)

6,860 (2,151)
22,276 24,427

29,136 22,276

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

2.1

2.2

2.3

General information

Dexters London Limited (the “Company") and its subsidiaries (together the “Graup”) is London's leading
independent estate agency providing services to the residential property market. The Company is
incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdam (registered in Engiand and Wales) under the Companies
Act and the address of the Company's registered office is 66 Grosvenor Street, Mayfair, London, WiK 3JL.
The Company is a private company limited by shares.

Basis of preparation
Accounting basis

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK-adopted International
Accounting Standards (“IFRS”) with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies
reporting under IFRS (except as otherwise stated).

The comparative year is for the year to 30 Septernber 2023.

These consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the currency of the
primary economic environment in which the Group operates.

The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis.

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to make judgements,
estimates and assumptions that affect the application of material accounting policies and the reported
amounts of assets, liabilities income and expenses. Actual! results may differ from estimates.

Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimates are revised and in any future years
affected.

The material accounting policies that have been used in the preparation of these consolidated financial
statements are described below. The particulars Material accounting policies adopted by the directors are
described below and have been applied consistently year on year.

Basis of consolidation

The financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entilies controlled by the
Company made up to 30 September each year. Control is achieved where the Company has the power
over the investee; is exposed or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and
has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.

An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power
to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee, but is not control or joint control
over those policies. Under the equity method, the investment in an associate is initially recognised at cost.
The carrying amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Group's share of new
assets of the associate since the acquisition date.

Business combinations

The Group applies the acquisition method in accounting for business combinations. The consideration
transferred by the Group to obtain control of a subsidiary is caiculated as the sum of the acquisition date
fair values of assets transferred, liabilities incurred, and the equity interests issued by the Group, which
includes the fair value of any asset or liability arising from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition costs are expensed as incurred. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are generally
measured at their acquisition date fair values.

7

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

24

31

3.2

Basis of preparation (continued)
Future accounting developments

There are no amendments to accounting standards, or Intemational Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (‘IF RIC’)
interpretations that the directors interpret to
have a material impact on the Group's financial statements.

Material accounting policies
Going concern

The financial statements of the Group and Company have been prepared on a going concern basis as the
directors have satisfied themselves that, at the time of approving the financial statements, the Group and
Company will have adequate resources to continue in operation for a year of at least 12 months from the
date of approval of the financial statements, The assessment has taken into consideration the Group and
Company’s financial position, covenant compliance, liquidity requirements, recent trading performance, the
outcome of reverse stress testing and severe, but plausible testing which determines the point at which the
Group and Company could be considered to fail without taking further mitigating actions or raising
additional funds.

Revenue

Revenue is recognised to the extent that itis probable that economic benefits will fow to the Group and the
revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration receivable,
net of discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty

Rendering of services

A five-step approach is laken for recognising revenue from contracts, namely to: 1} identify the contract(s)
with customer, 2) identify the performance obligations in the contract, 3) determine the transaction price, 4)
allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract and 5) recognise revenue when
(or as) a performance obligation has been satisfied.

The Group determines the transaction price by evaluating the market in which it provides services and
estimates the price that a customer in the market is willing to pay for those services. The transaction price
may also be influenced by the Group's customary business practices such as discounting.

Commission for tenant introduction services

There is one performance obligation in respect of revenue for this income stream, at the point the Group
finds a tenant for the landlord. As such commission is recognised and received at a point in time, upon
exchange of the Assured Shorthold Tenancy (“AST”) or equivalent and the tenancy commences.

Commission from rent management services

This is a bundled service scenario and, in accordance with IFRS 15, the Group is required to recognise
revenue when each performance obligation is satisfied. Consequently, a portion of the revenue is to be
allocated at the beginning of the contract to recognise the revenue associated with the first obligation (of
finding a tenant and entering into an AST contract) while the remainder (collecting rent) is recognised
evenly over the term of the tenancy.

The Group identifies and allocates a transaction price to the performance obligation of finding a tenant
based on the average historical price associated with tenant introduction services. The Group allocates the
remainder of the transaction price of this service evenly over the term of the tenancy as the landlord is
simultaneously receiving and consuming the benefit of rent collection provided by the Graup which satisfies
one of the conditions per IFRS 15 to recognise revenue over time.

Payment terms for this service stipulate payment on a monthly basis over the course of the tenancy
agreement.

18

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

3.2

Material accounting policies (continued)
Revenue (Continued)

Commission from fully managed services

The performance obligation is satisfied at two points in the contract: 1) once the tenant and landlord sign
the AST or equivaient, and 2) over the course of the tenancy, as rent is collected, and the property is
maintained and managed.

A portion of the revenue is allocated at the beginning of the contract to recognise the revenue associated
with the first obligation (of finding a tenant and entering into an AST contract) while the remainder is
tecognised evenly over the term of the tenancy.

The Group identifies and allocates a transaction price to the performance obligation of finding a tenant
based on the average historical price associated with tenant introduction services. The Group allocates the
remainder of the transaction price of this service evenly over the term of the tenancy as the landlord is
simultaneously receiving and consuming the benefit of property management provided by the Group which
satisfies one of the conditions per IFRS 15 to recognise revenue over time.

Payment terms for this service stipulate payment on a monthly basis over the course of the tenancy
agreement.

Commission for residential property sales

In respect of commission earned for arranging to find buyers to purchase a client's property, there is one
performance obligation. As such commission is recognised at a point in time, upon the exchange of
contracts for such sales. Payment terms stipulate payment upon completion of the transaction.

Commission for referrals of ramoval, conveyancing, mortgages and surveyor services

There is one performance obligation in respect of revenue generated from commissions for referrals. The
performance obligation is satisfied when the third-party supplier completes the service to the client
therefore revenue is recognised and received at a point in time.

Mortgage income

Revenue from the sale of third-party financial service products is recognised at a point in time when the
mortgage is completed. Revenue from policy sales is recognised at a point in time by reference to the date
that the policy is accepted by the insurer.

Interest income

The Group deposits its cash with reputable financial institutions. Interest income is recognised when it is
probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the amount of revenue can be measured
reliably. Interest income is accrued on a timely basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and an
effective interest rate applicable. The Group earns interest on client monies and this interest is included
within lettings revenue.

19

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

3.3

Material accounting policies (continued)

Property, plant and equipment

With the exception of freehotd property, property. plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and any recognised impairment iosses. Depreciation is not pravided on freehold land and
buildings provided that the annual impairment review by the directors indicates that the carrying value is not
materially different from its residual value.

Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets less their residual values over
their useful lives on the following basis:

Freehold building Nil

Leasehold improvements 33% on cost
Fixtures, fittings and computer equipment 25% to 33% on cost
Motor vehicles 25% on cost

The gain or joss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale
proceeds and the carrying value of ihe asset and is recognised in the consolidated statement of
comprehensive income.

20

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

3.4

3.5

3.6

Material accounting policies (continued)

Intangible assets

Intangible assets such as lettings contracts acquired, which are valued at cost, are being written off over
their useful economic life of between 1— 15 years. Sales pipeline is valued at cost and written off over the
year of realisation of the pipeline.

Software assets are initially valued at directly attributable costs used. These costs include software engineer and
office costs. These assets are written off over their useful economic life of 5 years.

intangible assets such as trademarks are valued at cost and are being written off over their useful
economic life, which is 10 years.

Brand is initially valued at cost. The directors are of the opinion that they have an indefinite useful life on
the expectation that there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the assets are expected to
generate net cash inflows to the business. The primary brands are Dexters and Marsh & Parsons.

Goodwill

Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of unincorporated businesses over the fair value
of net assets acquired. It is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost
less impairment losses.

Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that contral is acquired
{the acquisition date). Goodwill is measured as the excess of the Sum of the consideration transferred, the
amount of any non-controliing interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer's previously held
equity interest (if any) in the entity over the net of the acquisition-date fair vatue of the identifiable assets
acquired and the liabilities assumed.

Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually. For the purpose of impairment
testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group's cash-generating units ("CGUs") which are expected to
benefit the synergies of the combination. The CGUs in the Group are the sales and lettings divisions.
CGuUs te which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when
there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. The allocation is made to those cash generating units
or groups of Units that are expected to benefit from the business combination in which the goodwill arose.
The units or groups of units are identified at the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal
management purposes. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent year.

impairment of tangible and intangible assets

At each reporting end date, the Group reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to
determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such
indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the
impairment loss (if any). Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset,
the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.

Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell (FVLCTS") and value in use. in assessing
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount
rate that reflects current markel assessments of the time value of maney and the risks specific to the asset
for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.

Ifthe recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying
amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to ils recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss. unless the relevant asset is carried at a
revalued amount, in which case the impairment foss is treated as a revaluation decrease.

Where an impairment iass subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating
unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying
amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss
been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment ioss is
recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried in at a revalued amount, in
which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.

21

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

3.7

3.8

Material accounting policies (continued)
Investment in associates

An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence. Significant influence is the power
to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not contro! or joint control
over those policies. The Group's investments in its associates are accounted for using the equity method
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate is initially recognised at cost. The carrying amount
of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes in the Group's share of net assets of the associate
since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating to the associate is included in the carrying amount of the
investment and is not tested for impairment individually.

The income statement reflects the Group's share of the results of operations of the associate. in addition,
when there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of an associate, the Group recognises its
share of any changes, when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity. Unreatised gains and losses
rasulting from transactions between the Group and the associate are eliminated to the extent of the interest
in the associate.

The aggregate of the Group's share of profit or loss of an associate is shown on the face of the income
statement within Group operating profit and represents profit or loss after tax and non-controlling interests
in the subsidiaries of the associate.

After application of the equity method, the Group determines whether it is necessary to recognise an
impairment loss on its investment in its associates. At each reporting date, the Group determines whether
there is objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired. If there is such evidence, the
Group calculates the amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the
associate and its carrying value. Upon loss of significant influence over the associate, the Group measures
and recognises any retained investment at its fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the
associate upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from
disposal 1s recognised i profit or loss.

Leases

The Group as a lessee

The Group assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease, at inception of the contract. The Group
recognises a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability with respect to all lease arrangements in
which it is the lessee, except for short-term teases (defined as leases with a lease term of 12 months or
less) and leases for low value assets. For these leases, the Group recognises the lease payments as an
operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless another systematic basis is
more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased assets are consumed.

a) Lease liability: The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that
are not paid at the commencement date, discounted by using an incremental borrowing rate which is
the rate of interest that the lessee would have to pay to borrow over a similar term, and with a similar
security, the funds necessary to obtain an asset of a similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar
economic environment. Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability primarily
comprise fixed lease payments. The lease liability is presented across separate lines (current and
non-current) in the consolidated statement of financial position. The lease liability is subsequently
measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability (using the effective
interest rate method) and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made. The
carrying amount of lease liabilities is re-measured if there is a modification, a change in the lease
term, a change in the in-substance fixed lease payments or a change in the assessment to purchase
the underlying assets.

22

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

3
3.8

3.9

3.10

Material accounting policies (continued)
Leases (continued)

b) Right-of-use assets: Right-of-use assets comprise the initial measurement of the corresponding lease
liability, lease payments made at or before the commencement day and any initial direct costs. They
ate subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Right-of-
use assets ase depreciated over the shorter year of lease term and useful life of the underlying asset
and are presented within property, plant and equipment. The Group applies IAS 36 ta determine
whether a right-of-use asset is impaired and accounts for any identified impairment toss in line with the
Group’s existing impairment accounting policy. Variable rents that do not depend on an index or rate
are not included in the measurement of the lease liability and the right-of-use asset. The related
payments are recognised as an expense in the year in which the event or condition that triggers those
payments occurs and are included in other operating costs in the statement of comprehensive income

Management will assess the triggers of impairment at the individual site level (sales and lettings combined),
as this is the smallest identifiable group of assets that generates independent cash flows, rather than on a
regional or segment basis. The specific trigger will be whether the Earnings Before interest, Tax, Depreciation
and Amortisation (‘EBITDA’) for the combined sales and lettings operation is negative. When considering
whether there is an impairment trigger the following, inter alia, should be considered:

« Management may consciously invest in experienced team members with high salaries in particular
offices to drive long term growth, which may impact short term profitabitity:

* The Group recognise lettings income over time rather than up front, which means a certairy amount of
time is required ta build up a lettings partfolic which can deliver long term site profitability: and

« Specific marketing campaigns including 0% campaigns on sales transactions will impact short term
profitability to enhance local presence.

The Group as a lessor

The Group acts as an intermediate sub-lessor for certain properties. The Group financial statements for the
head lease and the sublease as two separate contracts. The sublease is classified as a finance or
operating lease by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease.

Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant
lease. Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised as receivables at the amount of the
Group's net investment in the leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to
reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Group's net investment outstanding in respect of the leases.

Fair value measurement

IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance for all fair value measurements. IFRS 13 does not change
when an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to measure fair value
under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted. The resulting calculations under IFRS 13 affected the
principles that the Group uses to assess the fair value, but the assessment of fair value under IFRS 13 has
not materially changed the fair values recognised or disclosed. IFRS 13 mainly impacts the disclosures of
the Group. !t requires specific disclosures about fair value measurements and disclosures of fair values,
some of which replace existing disclosure requirements in other standards.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are
shown within borrowings in current liabilities.

23

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

3.41

3.12

Material accounting policies (continued)

Financial assets

The financial assets held by the Group are classified, at initial recognition, and subsequently measured at
amortised cost or fair value through other comprehensive income (“OCi”). All financial assets are
recognised and derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of the financial asset is under a
contract whose terms require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market
concerned.

The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the financial asset's contractual cash
flow characteristics and the Group’s business mode! for managing them. With the exception of trade
teceivables that do not contain a significant financing component, the Group initially measures a financial
asset at its fair value plus transaction costs.

For purposes of subsequent measurement, the financial assets held by the Group are classified in three
categories:
- Financial assets at amortised cost (debt instruments);
- Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI with no recycling of cumulative gains
and losses upon derecognition {equity instruments); and
- All financial assets, other than cash and cash equivalents and investments classified as fair
value through OCI, are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate (‘EIR")
method, except for short-term receivables when ihe recognition of interest would be immaterial
and are subject to impairment.

impairment of financial assets
Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting
end date.

Financial assets are impaired when there is objective evidence thal, as a result of once or more events that
occurred after the initial recognition of the financial assets, the estimated future cash flows of the investment
have been affected.

Derecognition of financial assets

Financial assets are derecagnised only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire,
or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to another
entity.

Financial liabilities
Financiat liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities at fair value through profit of loss or other
financial liabilities.

Other financiat liabilities

Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest
expense recognised on an effective yield basis.

The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of
allocating interest expense over the relevant year. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly
discounts estimated future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability to the net
carrying amount on initial recognition.

Derecognition of financial liabilities

Financial fiabilities are derecognised when, and only when, the Company's obligations are discharged,
cancelled, or they expire.

24

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

3.13

3.14

3.15

3.16

3.17

3.18

Material accounting policies (continued)

Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.

Exceptional costs

The Group classifies certain non-recurring charges or credits in a financial year that are not part of the
underlying trading business, that have a material impact (by size or nature) on the Group's financial results
as “exceptional costs". These costs generally relate to redundancy and re-organisation costs associated
with acquisitions. These are disclosed separately to show the underlying trading of the Group.

Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.

Current tax

The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as
reported in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income because it excludes items of

income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it further excludes items that are
never taxable or deductible. The Group's liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been
enacied or substantively enacted by the reporting end date.

Deferred tax

Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts
of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the
computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax
liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are
recognised to the extent that it is probabte that taxable profits will be available against which deductible
temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary
difference arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition of other assets and fiabilities in a transaction
that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting end date and reduced to the
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the
asset to be recovered. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year
when the liability is settled, or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the consolidated
statement of comprehensive income, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity,
in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when
the Company has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax
assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority.

Employee benefits
Payments to defined contribution ratirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.

Employee Benefit Trust
The Company has made payments to an Employee Benefit Trust, set up for the benefit of its colleagues
and their families. Assets and liabilities of the Trust are inciuded in the Company's financial statements.

Client funds

Client monies and the associated liabilities are not shown on the consolidated statement of financial
position because the Group treats the monies as belonging to clients and not as its own funds. Client
monies are held by the group in specifically designated client accounts and, on that basis, the

Group expects that, in the event of the Group becoming insolvent, such monies would be ring-fenced and
not be available to the Group's creditors as a whole. They are not available for offset against any other
account held with the bank. Treatment of client monies are subject to Association of Residential Lettings
Agency Rules and the RICS rules.

25

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the Group's material accounting policies, which are described in note 3, the directors
are required to make Judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are
based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may
differ fram these estimates.

Critical judgements in applying the Group’s material accounting policies

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year, or
in the year of the revision and future years if the revision affects both current and future years.

The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations (which are dealt with
separately below), that the directors have made in the process of applying the Group’s material accounting
policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.

Brand

The directors use estimates to value the brand and ensure no impairment has taken place. Aiongside
many competitors within the market, the directors consider the Group's brands to have an indefinite
economic life because of their leadership in the market, profitable operations over long years of time and
the Group's commitment to invest and enhance their value.

The directors rely on forecasts to calculate the recoverable amount of the brands and whether an impairment should
be recognised or not.

Impairment of right of use assets

The directors use estimates such as local market analysis, internat trading data and general property market
cycles when considering whether the right of use assets relating io loss making sites should be impaired.
Management apply the following judgements in relation to the period over which sustained losses are incurred
1) two consecutive full years of josses - review site for impairment with supporting cash flow forecasts to
determine whether an impairment is required and 2) three consecutive full years of losses — presumption that
the lease site is impaired, uniess performance improvement plan and cash flow forecasts presented to the
Board can support a case to not impair the site.

26

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

4 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
Key sources of estimation uncertainty

There are no estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next reporting year. Other areas which are of most
significance in the preparation of the Group's financial statements where estimates are required are as
follows:

Revenue

In respect of revenue from commission on rent managed and fully managed services, a proportion is
recognised at the start of the AST. The directors consider the proportion recognised at the start of the
contract as an estimate and is based on historical data.

Business combinations

The directors have used estimates in making fair value adjustments in respect of business combinations
{see note 33}.

27

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

5

Revenue

Residential sales fees
Lettings fees
Other income

Disaggregation of revenue:

Year ended 30'" September 2024

Timing of revenue recognition
Services transferred at a point in time
Services transferred over time

Year ended 30 September 2023

Timing of revenue recognition
Services transferred at a point in time
Services transferred over time

All revenue is generated in the United Kingdom.

Profit for the year

Profit for the year is stated after charging:
Depreciation of property, piant and equipment

Depreciation of right of use assets
Amortisation of intangible assets
Exceptional costs

Share-based payments

Residential _—_ Lettings Other
sales fees fees income
£'000 £'000 £000
68,113 63,832 16,534

: 73,375 :
68,113 137,207 16,534
Residential Lettings Other
sales fees fees income
£000 £'000 £'000
63,529 62,840 12,818

: 41,718 -
63,529 104,558 12,818

28

2024
£'000

68,113
137,207

46,534
221,854

2024
£000

3,348
8,857
8,540
621
264

2023
£000

63,529
104,558
12,818

ae
180,905

Total
£°000

148,479
73,375

221,854

Total
£'000

139,187
41,718

180,905

2023
£°000

2,725
7,925
6,151
2,207

338

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

7 Auditor’s remuneration
2024 2023
£000 £000
The analysis of auditors’ remuneration is as follows:
Fees payable to the Group's auditors for the audit of the Group's
annual financial statements (Company: 2024: £112,000 2023:
£107,000) 278 275
Other serices relating to bank covenants 7 6
Fees payable to the Group’s auditors for the audit of the Group's
subsidiary entities: 2024 2023
£7000 £'000
London Resi Limited 64 61
London Private Finance Limited 29 28

The audit fee of £21k (2023: £20k) for Dexters Topco Limited is borne fully by Dexters London Limited.

29

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

8 Employees

The average monthly number of emptoyees (including non-
executive directors) were:

Fee eaming
Administration

Their aggregate remuneration comprised:

Wages and salaries
Saciat security costs
Other pension costs

This space is intentionally left blank

30

2024
Number

1,836

353
2,189

2024
£000

112,277
11,829

1,695
125,801

2023
Number

1,494
314

1,808

2023
£000

89,447
9,835

1,506

100,788

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

9 Directors’ remuneration
2024 2023
£°000 £°000
Remuneration for qualifying senices 2,319 2,382
Company pension contributions to defined contribution schemes 5 5
2,324 2,387
During the year, £1,968k (2023: £2,057k) of directors’ remuneration was recharged from Dexters Newco Limited to
the Group.
The average number of directors remunerated by the Group in the year was 4 (2623: 4).
Details regarding the highest paid director are below:
2024 2023
£000 £'000
Remuneration for qualifying services 1,066 1,155
The highest paid director did not exercise any share options or receive qualifying service shares under a
long-term incentive scheme.
There was no issue of qualifying service shares to a director during the year.
10 Investmentincome
2024 2023
£°000 £000
Investment income
—___&
oh) Finance costs
2024 2023
£'000 £°000
Interest on lease liabilities 1,466 1.270
Other charges and interest payable 50 =
Totai interest expense 1,516 1,270

31

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

12 Loss on disposal of subsidiary

2024 2023

£000 £000
Loss on disposal of subsidiary 278 :
278 -

On 8 December 2023, the Group disposed 100% of the share capita! of Burlington Estates (London) Limited

13 Exceptional costs

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Exceptional administrative expenses §21 2,207

S21 _2,207.

Exceptional administrative expenses relate to redundancy costs, re-organisation costs associated with
acquisitions and legal expenses within the Group.

This space is intentionally teft blank

32

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

14 Income tax expense

Corporation tax
Currert year

Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences

Total tax charge

The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit before
taxation per the income statement as follows:

Profit before taxation on continued operations

Profit before taxation multiplied by standard rate of UK corporation
tax of 25% (2023 - 22 04%)

Taxation impact of factors affacting tax charge:
Expenses not deductible in determining taxable profit
Tangible fixed asset differences

Group relief losses clairned

Adjustments to tax charges in previous periods
Change ia UK deferred tax rate

Deferred tax not recognised (released)

Other differences

Total adjustnents

Tax charged in the financial statements

2024 2023
£’000 £'000
7,871 5,159
(280) (133)
7,591 5,026

2024 2023
£'000 £'000

32,704 27,674
8.176 6,091
1,461 82
303 -
(1,742) (1,346)
(336) 439
- 70
(314) (347)
43 37

(585) (1,065)

7,591 5,026

Unused tax losses for which no deferred tax asset has been recognised amounted to £9.9m (2023: £12m)
wilh a potential tax benefit of £2.5m (2023: £2.6m). The unused tax losses were incurred by subsidiary
companies which are not likely to generate taxable income in the foreseeable future; they can be carried

forward indefinitely.

33

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

15 Goodwill and intangible assets
Lettings Sales
Goodwill contracts Trademark Software Brand pipeline Total
£'000 £000 £°600 £000 £000 £000 £'000

Cost
At 1 October 2022 41,866 24,254 740 8A77 - - 75,334
Additions 8444 11,559 : 1,816 16,200 1,700 39,416
At 36 September 2023 50,007 35,810 740 10,293 16,200 1,700 114,750
Acquisitions during the year 9,292 16,324 : - - 600 26,216
Adjustments to prior year
acquisitions (1.878) 5) . . (1,640)
Additions : : - 2,274 - : 2,274
At 30 September 2024 $7,724 52,069 740 12,567, 16,200 2,300 441,600
Accumulated amortisation
At 4 October 2022 - 17,526 388 - - - 17,914
Charge forthe year - 4,172 74 205 - 1,700 6,151
At 30 September 2023 - 21,698 462 205 - 1,700 24,065,
Charge for the year - 4,665 74 3,207 - 600 8,540
At 30 September 2024 : 26,363 536 3,406 : 2,300 32,605
Net book value
At 30 September 2024 57,724 25,706 204 9,461 16,200 : 108,995
At 30 September 2023 50,007 14,112 278 10,088 16,200 : 90,685

Cee nn nn nnn eee ee ne NIE eed

Note: adjustments to prior year acquisitions predominantly relate to fair value adjustments made to acquisitions in the
year ended 30 September 2023.

The assumptions used in the annual impairment review are detailed betow:

a) Cash flow assumptions

The key assumptions in determining the cash flows are expected changes in sales and lettings volumes throughout
the forecast years, together with likely changes to associated direct costs incurred during the forecast year. These
assumptions are based upon a combination of past experience of observable trends and expectations of future
changes in the market;

b) Long-term growth rates

To evaluate the recoverable amounts of each CGU, a terminal value has been assumed after the fifth year and
includes a long-term growth rate in the cash flows of 2% into perpetuity. The long-term growth rate is derived from
Management's estimates, which take into account the long-term nature of the market in which each CGU operates,
external industry forecasts of long-term growth in the housing market and inflation rates and with reference to
historical and macro-economic trading performance in the UK;

c) Discount rates

In accordance with IAS 36, the post-tax discount rate applied to the cash flows of each CGU is based on the Group's
Weighted average cost of capital (‘WACC’), and is calculated using a capital asset pricing model. The WACC has
been adjusted to reflect risks specific to each CGU not already reflected in the future cash flows for that CGU. The
Pte-tax discount rate used to discount cash flows used in the assessment of brand and goodwill is 10.72% (2023.
12.8%).

In the opinion of the directors, there could be no reasonable changes to the estimates that would give rise to an
impairment to the value of goodwill and intangible assets.

34

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

16 Property, plant and equipment

Freehold Leasehold Fixtures, fittings and Motor

buildings improvements computer equipment Vehicles Total

£000 £'000 £°000 £000 £'000
Cost
At 1 October 2022 362 9.860 17,713 80 28,015
Additions - 2.370 2,217 - 4,587
Acquisitions - 208 145 - 363
Disposals - : : -
At 30 September 2023 362 12.438 20,075 80 32,955
Acquisitions : 837 86 47 970
Additions 615 4,357, 2,272 - 4,244
At 30 September 2024 977 44,632 22,433 127 38,169
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 October 2022 - 8,305 15.200 76 23 581
Charge for the year : 1.124 . 1.604 : 2,725,
At 30 September 2023 - 9,429 46,801 76 26,306
Charge for the year : 1,498 1,803 47 3,348
At 30 September 2024 : 10,927 18,604 123 29,654
Net book value
At 30 September 2024 977 3,705 3,829 4 8,618
At 30 September 2023 362 3,009 3,274 4 6,649

35

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

17 Leases
Motor
Property Photocopiers Vehicles Total
£000 £'000 £000 £'000

Right of use assets
At 1 October 2022 30.769 3 90 30,862
Acquired 7.758 - 648 8,406
Additions 7,015 - 384 7,399
Disposals (2,525) - (130) (2,685)
Depreciation charge (7,162) (2) (361) (7,525)
At 30 September 2023 35,855 1 631 36,487
Acquired 3,219 - 63 3,282
Additions 7,623 - 912 8,535
Disposals (587) - : (587)
Depreciation charge (8,259) Q) (597) (8,857)
At 30 September 2024 37,851 - 4,009 38,860
Lease liabilities
At 1 October 2022 29,936 4 91 30,031
Acquired 13,982 - 694 14.676
Additions 6,118 - 353 6,471
Disposals (1,477) - (131) (1,608)
interest charge 1,208 2 60 1,270
Payments (9,895) (4) (375} (10,274)
At 30 September 2023 39,872 2 692 40,566
Acquired 3,028 - 65 3,093
Additions 7,373 - 914 8,287
Disposals (572) - - (872)
interest charge 1,426 1 39 1,466
Payments (12,299) (3) (685) (12,987)
At 30 September 2024 38,828 . 1,025 39,853
Net book value
At 30 September 2024 37,851 : 1,089 38,860
At 30 September 2023 35,855 1 631 36,487

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

ahd

Leases (continued)

The maturity of these liabilities is analysed as follows:

Motor
2024 Property Photocopiers Vehicles Total
£'000 £°000 £'000 £000
Current lease jiabilities 8,719 - 657 9,376
Non-current lease liabilities 30,109 - 368 30,477
Total 38,828 : 1,025 39,853
Motor
2023 Property Photocopiers Vehicles Total
£°000 £°000 £000 £000
Current lease liabilities 6,112 2 76 6,189
Non-current lease liabilities 33,760 - 617 34.377
Total 39,872 2 692 40,566

The Group paid £13.0m (2023: £10.3m) during the year in relation ta the above leases. There were no residual
value guarantees.

This space is intentionaity left blank

37

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

18

19

investments
Investments Total
£'000 £'000
Cost
At 1 October 2023 and 30 September 2024 12 12
Net book value oan
At 30 September 2024 and 30 September 2023 12 12

As part of the acquisition of the Benham and Reeves group of companies, £12k of listed equities were
acquired.

investment in associate

2024 2023

£'000 £000
Opening balance 3,098 3,143
Equity accounted profit 168 225
Less dividend received 230) (270)
Clesing balance 3,036 3,098
Share of the associates’ statement of financial position:
Non-current assets 10 aa
Current assets 7 146
Current liabilities (99) (14)

(12) 143

Share of the associates' results:
Revenue 1,031 1,024
Operating expenses 809) 742
Operating profit 222 282
Taxation $4) (57)
Profit after tax 168 225

The Group acquired a minority investment in Capricomm Wealth Management Limited (‘Capricorn’). The
Group has significant influence over Capricorn driven by a right of first refusal option in a future capital
event and by the level of business leads generated from the Group.

38

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

20

21

Trade and other receivables

Trade receivables
Other receivables
Prepayments

2024
£000

5,554
14,625

18,085
38,264

2023
£000

§,597
9,048

19,226
33,872

in respect of trade receivables acquired during the year, the Group expects all contractual cash flows to be
collected. Trade receivables are shown after deduction for expected credit losses of £0.9m (2023: £1.1m).

Trade and other payables

Trade payables
Accruals

Other payables
Deferred consideration

This space is intentionally left blank

39

2024
£'900

3,348
18,766
10,955

713

33,782

2023
£000

3,923
16,686
7,649
683

28,941

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

22 Provisions
Legal
Dilapidations disputes Total
£000 £000 £000
At 1 October 2023 293 303 596
Amounts utilised during the year : 303 303
At 30 September 2024 293 : 293
The provisions at 30 September have been allocated as follows:
Legal
Dilapidations disputes Total
£000 £°000 £000
Current liabilities - - -
Non-current liabilities 293 > 293
At 30 September 2024 293 : 293
Legal
Ditapidations disputes Total
£'000 £000 £°000
Current liabilities - - -
Non-current liabilities 293 303 596
At 30 September 2023 293 303 596
Dilapidations retate to reinstatement costs the Group will incur upon vacating certain leasehold
properties.
23 Loans from Group undertakings
2024 2023
£000 £000
Loans from group undertakings 5,000 5,000

Loans from group undertakings are from Dexters Newco Limited and were utilised to fund the acquisition of

Marsh & Parsons Holdings Limited. It is unsecured and carries no interest.

40

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

24 Deferred tax liabilities

Deferred tax fiability at 1 October 2022

Deferred tax movements in prior year
Deferred tax liability arising on acquisitions and business combinations
Deferred tax credit to in the statement of comprehensive income

Deferred tax liability at 36 September 2023
Deferred tax movements in current year

Deferred tax liability arising on acquisitions and business combinations
Deferred tax credit to in the statement of comprehensive income

Deferred tax liability at 30 September 2024

Deferred tax liability

41

ACAS
£'000

(2,283)

(7,820)
133

(9,978)

(3,866)
280

(13,556)

2024
£°000

(13,556)

Total
£000

(2,283)

(7,820)
133

(9,970)
(3,866)
280

(13,556)

2023
£'000

(9,970)

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

25 Retirement benefit schemes

Defined contribution schemes

The total costs charged to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income in respect of defined
contribution plans is £1.7m (2023: £1.5m).

26 Called up share capital

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Ordinary share capital
Authorised
200,000 Ordinary at 1p each (2023: 200.000) 2 2
issued and fully paid
119,332 Ordinary at 1p each (2023: 119,332) 1 1

The authorised Share Capita! of the Company is £2,000 divided into 200,000 ordinary shares of £0.01
each, The allotted share capital in 2024 was a total of 119,332 ‘Ordinary’ shares of fully issued and paid for
share capital. Ail shares have equal rights on distribution of dividend and repayment of capital.

This space is intentionally left blank

42

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

27 Share premium account

2024 2023
£'000 £000
Opening and closing balance 1,034 1,034
28 Other reserves
2024 2023
£'000 £'000

Opening and closing balance 165 165

The other reserves balance is made up of the own shares reserve and the shares to be issued reserve.

The own shares reserve was created when the Company bought back shares in itself on behaif of its
Employee Benefit Trust.

This space is intentionally left blank

43

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

23 Financial instruments — risk management
29.1 Capita! risk management

The Group manages its capital to ensure that it will be able to continue as a going concern while
maximising the return to stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance.

The capital structure of the Group consists of cash and cash equivalents and equity comprising share
capital, reserves and retained earnings. The Group reviews the capital structure annually and as part of this
review considers that cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.

2024 2023
£000 £'000
Gash and cash equivalents 29 136 22,276
Underlying operating profit 47,167 90,359

The Group was in a net funds position.
Equity includes all capital and reserves of the Group that are managed as capital.
The assets of Dexters London Limited are secured against debt facilites held in Dexters Newco Limited.

Categories of financial instruments

2024 2023
£000 £000
Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents 29,136 22,276
Trade and other receivables 20,179 14,646
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 33,782 28,941
Loans from group undertakings §,000 §,000
The Group closely monitors cash requirements to ensure sufficient funds are held for the operation of the
Group.
29.2 Interest rate risk management

The Group is exposed to interest rate risk because entities in the Group earn interest on client deposits
(see note 37).

The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rate changes on
loans and borrowing held at the consolidated statement of financial position date. With all variables held
Constant, the Group's profit before tax is affected through the following changes to interest rates:

On Deposit balances earning interest 2024 2023

£000 £000
Increase in interest rates by 1% 883 657
Decrease in interest rates by 1% (883) (657)

44

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

29 Financial instruments — risk management (continued)

29.3 Liquidity risk management

The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing the short, medium and long-term funding and
liquidity and actual cash flows and by matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and liabilities.

The table below summarises the undiscounted maturity profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities

at 30 September:

Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Trade and other receivables

Financial liabllities
Trade and other payables
Loans from group undertakings

2023

Financial assets
Cash and cash equivalents
Trade and other receivables

Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables
Loans from group undertakings

Less than 3 3to12

1to§

months months years Total
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
29,136 - - 23,136
20,179 - - 20,179
49,315 : : 43,315
33,069 713 - 33,782
- -____—-§,000 5,000
33,069 713 5,000 38,782
Less than 3 3to 12 1to5 Total
tMmonths months years ota
£'000 £000 £'000 £'000
22,276 - - 22,276
14,646 : : 14,646
36,922 : : 36,922
28,258 683 - 28,941
: - §,000 5,000
28,258 683 §,000 33,941

45

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

29

29.4

29.6

Financial instruments — risk management (continued)
Credit risk management

Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will defauit on its contractual obligations resutting in financial
loss to the Group.

Trade recetvables consist of a large number of customers and are monitored on an ongoing basis. The
receivables due from residential sales are paid from the proceeds realised from the sale of the house by the
vendor's solicitor before the balance of funds is transferred to the vendor. These minimise the risk of the
debt nat being collected.

Any receivables due in respect of the Group's mortgage business are from large financial institutions and
as such the credit risk is not expected to be significant.

Concentration of credit risk to any counterparty did not exceed 1% of gross monetary assets at any time
during the year or in the preceding year. Trade receivable balances are written off when the probability of
recovery is assessed as being remote

The credit risk on fiquid funds is considered to be limited because tha counterparties are banks with high
credit ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies

The carrying amount of financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the Group's
maximum exposure to credit risk as no collateral or other credit enhancements are held.

Client monies (see note 37) are held with financial institutions with high credit ratings assigned by
internationat credit rating agencies. The credit risk of banks cannot be totally eliminated. However, as the
funds are client monies, there is the additionai protection of the Financial Compensation Scheme (“FSCS”)
under which the government guarantees amounts of up to £85,000 each. This quarantee applies to each
individual client deposit. not the sum total on deposit.

Fair values of financiat assets and financial liabilities

The Group does not hold any financial instruments categorised as level 1, 2 or 3 by IFRS 13.

Management considers that the book value of financial asset and liabilities recorded at amortised cost and
their fair value are approximately equal.

The book value and fair value of the Group's financial assets and liabilities are as follows:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 29,136 22,276
‘Trade and other receivables 20,179 14,646
Trade and other payables 33,782 28,941

46

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

30

31

Related party transactions

Related parties of the Company include key management personne! and entities which are controlled,
jointly controlled or significantly influenced, or for which significant voting power is held, by key
management personnel or their close family members. Key management personnel are defined as the
directors.

The following are transactions and outstanding balances related to key management personnel (as defined
by IAS 24 Related Party Disclosure) and all are due within 1 year:

Group:

The Group made payments of £0.3m (2023: £0.1m) to Chantry Securities and £0.3m (2023: £0.3m) to
Chantry Estates, companies under control by J Doble, with respect to properties. Payments of £0.1m
(2023: £0.1m) in respect of properties leased fram Debhouse Mallet, a business in which J Doble has a
50% interest. At the year end, the Group was owed ENil (2022: ENil} by J Doble. The Company owed
£0.0004m (2023: £0.04m) to Chantry Securities, £Nil (2023: £0.001m) to Chantry Estates and £Nil (2023:
ENil) to Dobhouse Mallet.

J Doble is statutory director of Dexters London Limited and hence is considered a retated party to the
Group.

Controlling party

In the opinion of the directors, as at the date of the approval of these financial statements the ultimate
controlling party is Oakley Capital IV S.a.rl. as General Partner to Oakley Capital Fund IV. The immediate
parent of the Company is Dexters Newco Limited.

Dexters Topco Limited is the parent undertaking of the largest group of undertakings for which group
financial statements are prepared for the year ended to 30 September 2024. The group financial

statements for Dexters Topco Limited are available on application to the Company Secretary, 3 Park
Road, Teddington, England, TW11 OAP.

This space is intentionally left blank

47

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

32 Subsidiaries

The results of the following subsidiaries are included within the consolidated financial statements at 30

September 2024:
Dexters London Dexters London Proportion of Nature
Name of Address of Limited Limited nominal value of
subsidiary company registered holding shareholder of shares held business
office %
B&C London Investment j Dexters London
- re
Solutions Limited Footnote 1 Direct Limited 100 Estate agency
Beaney Pearce Limited Footnote 1 Indirect Chard (London) 100 Dormant
Limited company
Beldhamland Limited Footnote 1 indirect Marsh & ieee 100 Estate agency
BR DLL Holdings Limited . BDexters London Oomant
(Formerly Benhams Footnote 1 Diract Limited 100 compan
Holdings Limited) oid
BR DLL Limited
. BR DLL Holdings Dormant
{Formedy Benhams Footnote 4 Indirect 100
Li
Limited) imited company
Chard (London) Limited Footnote 1 Direct Dexters London sop © Dormant
imited company
JM Group of
City Docklands Limited Footnote 1 Indirect Companes 100 Estate agency
Limited
Colin Dean Limited Footnote 1 Direct Dexters London 100 Estate agency
Limited
Cotin Dean Residential Limited Footnote 1 Duect Dexters neon 100 Estate agency
Courtenay Estate Dexters Londen
Agencies Limited Footnote 1 Direct Limited 100 Estate agency
DAA Residential Limited Footnote 4 Direct Dexters London 100 Domant
Limited company
. rae . Dexters London Dormant
Dexters Holdings Limited Footnote 1 Direct Limited 100 company
a London Resi
EA2 Limited Footnote 1 Indirect Limited 100 Estate agency
Frank Haris and Footnote 1 Indirect "Residential 106 Domant
Company Limited Limited company
H&PCE Limited Footnote 1 Direct Dexters London 100 Estate agency
Limited
te London Resi Sofiware
Howsy Limited Footnote 1 Indirect Limited 100 development
Ingarangi Limited Footnote 1 Indirect London Res) 100 Estate agenc
garang! Limi Limited gency

48

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

32 Subsidiaries (continued)

Dexters London Dexters London Proportion of

Name of Address of Limited Limited nominal value
subsidiary company registered holding sharehoider of shares held
office %

JSS (London

vackson-Stops & Staff

(Country Houses) Limited Footnote 1 Indirect Residential) 100

Limited
JM Group of Companies Dexters London

Limited Footnote 1 Drect Limited 100
JSS (London Residential) ' London Resi

Limited Foatnote 1 Indrect Limited 100
JSS (London

JSS Mayfair Limited Footnote 1 Indirect Residential) 100
Limited

Life at Parliament View Limited — Footnote 1 Indirect London Resi 100
Limited

London Pnvate Finance Limited Footnote 1 Indirect Dexters Holdings 100
Limited

London Res: Limited Footnote 1 Direct Dexters tondon 400
Limited
Marsh & Parsons London Resi

. 7 Fi t a

(Holdings) Limited sotnote 1 Indirect Limited 100
Marsh & Parsons

Marsh & Parsons Limited Footnote 1 Indirect (Holdings) 100
Limited

Marsh & Parsons

Ma i imi F.

tsheroft Properties Limited ‘ootnote 1 Indirect Limited 100
Penny & Lisa Lettings . Dexters London

and Management Limited Footnete 1 Direct Limited 100

Peter James

Pe a -

ter James Estates Limited Footnote 1 Indirect Holdings Limited 100

Peter James Holdings Limited Footnote 1 Indirect London Resi 100
Limited

Roy Brooks Limited Footnote 1 Direct Dexters Lancon 400
Limited

Sebastian Roche Ltd Footnote 1 Direct Dexters London 100
Limited

he Happy Tenant Foatnete 1 Indirect Howsy Limited 100

Company Limited

Ul ,

than Sales and Lettings Footnote 1 indirect Howsy Limited 100

Limited

4g

Nature
of
business

Estate agency

Dormant
company

Estate agency

Dormant
company

Estate agency

independent
financial
advisors

Estate agency

Estate agency

Estate agency

Estate agency

Estate agency

Estate agency
Estate agency
Estate agency
Estate agency
Estate agency

Estate agency

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

32 Subsidiaries (continued)
Dexters London DextersLondon Proportion of Nature
Name of Address of Limited Limited nominal value of
subsidiary company registered holding shareholder of shares held business
office %

Vanstons (Bames) Limited Footnote 1 Indirect Marsh & Parsons 100 Estate agency
Vanstons Commercial Limited Footnote 1 Indirect Marsh & farses 100 Estate agency
Vanstons Lettings Limited Footnote 4 Indirect Marsh & Persons 100 Estate agency
Vanstons Limited Footnote 7 Indirect Marsh & Parsons 100 Estate agency

Limited
Wetherell & Co. (Mayfair) Foatnote 2 (Indirect London Resi 400 Estate agency
Limited Limited

4-3 Park Road. Teddington, Mxidiesex, TW41 GAP
2 102 Mount Sieel Loncon, Wik 2TH

The classes of shares held in each company is Ordinary shares other than’

. Beaney Pearce Limited - A, B, C and D Ordinary

. Ingarangi Limited -- Redeemable Preference

. Penny & Lisa Lettings and Management Limited 9 Ordinary A and B
The class of shares is Ordinary in addition to the below:

. Howsy Limited - Ordinary A

. H&PCE Limited — Ordinary B

All subsiciaries (with the exception of London Resi Limited and London Private Finance Limited) are
exempt from the requirements of the Companies Act relating to the audit of their financial statements by
virtue of s479A of the Companies Act 2006. There are no subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures of
Dexters London Limited that are not included in the consolidated financial statements.

This space is intentionally left blank

50

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED}
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

33 Acquisitions
Acquisitions during the year ended 30 September 2024

The entire share capital of Life at Partiament View Limited was acquired on 8th October 2023.

The Group seeks to continue to grow the business and benefit from synergies of operating under a bigger
business.

The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities as at the date of the above acquisitions has been
determined below:

Fair value
Fair value recognised on
Cost adjustment acquisition

Life at Parliament View Limited Notes £'000 £000 £'000
Lettings contracts 15 - 13,500 13,500
Sales pipeline - 600 600
Property, plant and equipment 1,259 - 1,259
Right of use assets 2,749 (26} 2,723
Trade and other receivables 1,045, (95) 950
Cash and cash equivalents 2,171 - 2,171
Trade and other payables (3,996) (84) (4,080)
Lease liabilities (2,649) - (2,649)
Deferred taxation - (3,375) (3,375)
Total identifiable net assets acquired 579 10,520 11,099
Purchase consideration 19,908
Goodwill 8,809

Purchase consideration discharged by:
Cash 49,908

19,908

Anaiysis of cashflow on acquisition:

Transaction costs 75
Net cash acquired (2,171)
Purchase consideration discharged in cash 19,833
Net cash outflow on acquisition 17,737

From the date of above acquisition, the contribution to Group revenue and underlying profit has been £19.6m
and £4.3m respectively. There is no matenal dfference in revenue or profit if the acquisition had taken place on

1 October 2023

51

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

33

Acquisitions (continued)

As part of our growth plan, we have also made the following acquisitions:
i The trade and assets of Marlowe Estates on 30th November 2023;

«The entire share capital of Colin Dean Residential Limited on 15th December 2023:
i: The trade and assets of London Property Management and Consultancy Ltd on ist March 2024:

a The entire share capital of EA2 Limited on 9th July 2024;

» The trade and assets of Home-Made UK Properties Limited on 26th July 2024; and
o The entire share capital of B&C London investment Solutions Limited on 26th September 2024.

The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities as at the date of the above acquisitions has been

determined below

Lettings contracts

Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets

Right of use assets

Trade and other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Trade and other payables
Lease liabilities

Deferred tax

Total identifiable net assets acquired
Purchase consideration

Goodwill
Purchase consideration discharged by:

Cash
Deferred consideration

Analysis of cashflow on acquisition:
Net cash acquired
Purchase consideration discharged in cash

Net cash outflow on acquisition

Notes
15

Falr value

Fair vaiue recognised on

Cost adjustment
£'000 £'000
- 2,824
71 -
122 .
- 559
4 -
1,063 .
(196) ~
- (444)
- (479)

acquisition
£'000
2,824
71
122
589
4
1,063
(196)
(444)
(479)

1,064 2,460

3,524
4,007

483

3,806
201

4,007

(1,063)
3,806

2,743

From the date of above various acquisitions, the contribution to Group revenue and underlying profit has been

£0.9m and £0. 1m respectively.

ifthe above acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of the year, revenue from continuing operations would

have been £3.2m and the underlying profit would have been £0.4m.

52

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

33 Acquisitions (continued)
Acquisitions during the year ended 30 September 2023

As part of our growth plan, we have made the following acquisitions:
The trade and assets of Let's Talk Property Limited (lettings portfolio) on 8" December 2022;
The trade and assets of Maritime Properties Lirruted (lettings portfatio) on 2 February 2023;
The trade and assets of David Birkett Estate Agents (lettings portfolio) on 15" February 2023; and
« The entire share capital of Courtenay Estate Agencies Limited on 4% July 2023.

The fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities as at the date of the above acquisitions has been
determined below:
Fair value
Fairvalue recognised on
Cost adjustment acquisition

Notes £7000 £000 £'000
Lettings contracts 15 - 1,259 1,259
Property, plant and equipment 14 - 14
Right of use assets - 10 10
Trade and other receivables 2 - 2
Cash and cash equivalents 72 - 72
Trade and ather payables (78) . (78)
Lease liabilities - (40) {10)
Deferred tax - (431) (431)
Total identifiable net assets acquired 10 1,128 41,138
Purchase consideration 4,808
Goodwill $70
Purchase consideration discharged by:
Cash 1,585
Deferred consideration 223
Eam out -
Stamp duty -

1,808

Analysis of cashflow on acquisition:
Transaction costs -
Net cash acquired (72)

Purchase consideration discharged in cash 1,585
Net cash outflow on acquisition 1,543

Fram the date of above various acquisitions, the contribution to Group revenue and underlying profit has been
£0.6m and £0. 1m respectively.

If the above acquisitions had taken place at the beginning of the year, revenue from continuing operations would
have been £1.2m and the underlying profit would have been £0. 1m.

53

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

33

Acquisitions (continued)

The entire share capital of the Marsh & Parsons Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries, Marsh & Parsons Limited,
Beldhamland Limited, Marshcroft Properties Limitad, Vanstons Limited, Vanstons Lettings Limited, Vanstons

(Barnes) Limited & Vanstons Commercial Limited. were acquired on 26th January 2023.

The Group seeks to continue to graw the business and benefit from synergies of operating under a bigger business

The provisional fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities as at the date of acquisition have been determined

below:

Marsh & Parsons Holdings
Limited & its subsidiaries
Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets

Lettings contracts

Brand

Sales pipeline

Right of use assets

Trade and other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents
Trade and other payables
Lease liabilities

Deferred tax

Total identifiable net assets acquired
Purchase consideration

Goodwill

Purchase consideration discharged by.
Cash

Deferred consideration

Stamp duty

Analysis of cashffow on acquisition
Transaction costs

Net cash acquired

Purchase consideration discharged in cash

Net cash outfiow on acquisition

e000
2,598
4,326

15 -

15
15 :
12,559
6,299
1,145
(4,620)
(14,677)

4,630

Fair value

Fair value recognised on
Cost adjustment

£'000
(2,259)
(1,326)
10,300
16,200
1,700
(4,163)
(793)

(6,625)

13,034

acquisition
£'000
339

10,300
16,200
4,700
8,396
5,506
4,145
(4,620)
(14,677)
(6,625)

17,664
26,245

8,581

26,100

145
26,245

100
(4,145)
26,245

25,200

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED}

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

33

Acquisitions (continued)
Fair value adjustments in relation to the impairment of property, plant and equipment and right of use assets
relating to store closures as pari of the re-organisation of the business.

The fair value of acquired intangible assets is deemed to be ENil. The fair value of the lettings contracts and brand
have been calculated using the below key estimates:

Royalty rate 5.11%
Forecasted average EBITDA margin 28%
Corporation tax rate 25%

From the date of acquisition, the above acquisition contributed £18.5m of revenue and £1.9m af underlying profit
from continuing operations,

{f the acquisition had taken place at the beginning of the year, revenue from continuing operations would have
been £26m and the underlying profit would have been £1.5m.

This space is intentionally left blank

53

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

34 Cash generated from operations
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Profit for the year 25,113 22,648
Adjustments for:
Income tax expense 7,591 §,025
Finance costs 1,616 1,270
investment income (4) (6)
Exceptional costs §21 2,207
Loss on disposal of subsidiary 278 -
Share-based payments 264 338
Share of investment in associate (168) (225)
Amortisation of intangible assets 8,540 6,151
Depreciation of right of use assets 8,857 7,825
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 3,348 2,725
Movements in working capital: .
Increase in trade and other receivables (3,555) (2,697)
Increas e/{decrease) in trade and other payables 712 (4,973)

53,013 39,988

3 Capital commitments

The Group had no capital commitments at the year-end date (2023: ENil).

36 Events after the statement of financial position date

There are no post balance sheet events to report.

a7 Client monies

At 30 September 2024, client monies (all held by Dexters London Limited and subsidiaries) in approved
bank and building society accounts amounted to £176.6m (2023: £131.4m). Neither this amount nor the
matching liabilities to the clients concerned is included in the consolidated statement of financial position.
The Group's terms and conditions provide that interest income on these deposits accrues to the respective
entities within the Group which is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income as revenue.

Client funds are protected by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme ("FSCS") under which the

government guarantees amount up to £85,000 each. This guarantee applies to each individual clients’
deposit monies, not the sum total on deposit.

56

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET

AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

Fixed assets
Intangible assets
Tangible assets
Investments

Investment in associate

Current assets
Debtors
Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors: amounts falling due

within one year

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due

after more than one year

Loans from group undertakings

Provisions

Provisions for liabilities
Net assets

Capital and reserves
Calted up share capital
Share premium account
Other reserves

Profit and toss account

Total Shareholders’ funds

Note

Coann

16

"1

12
13

14

16
17
18

*See note 6 for further details of the restatement.

2024 2024
£'000 £'000
5,485
6,121
4,830
3,036
19,472
101,600
25,893
127,493
(58,840)
68,653
88,125
(5,000)
293 (6,293)
405)
82,427
1
1,034
165
84,227
82,427

2023 2023

*Restated

£'000 £'000

7,626

5,138

2,690

3,098

18,552
64,532
19,520
84,052
(31,400)

52,652

71,204
(5,000)

(596) (5,596)

(1,091)

64,517

1

1,034

165

63,317

64,517

The Parent Company made a profit for the year of £17.9m (2023: Restated profit of £11.8m). In accordance with
section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Parent Company's individual profit and loss account is not included in
these financial statements.

The financial statements on pages 57 to 69 were approved by the Board of Directors an 16th December 2024 and
Signed on its behalf by

A Kashyap
Director
Company Registration No. 04160514

57

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

Balance at 1 October 2022
Impact of restatement
Balance at1 October 2022 (restated)

Total profit for the year
Impact of restatement

Balance at 30 September 2023 (restated)
Total profit for the year

Balance at 30 September 2024

“See note 6 for further details of the restatement

Share
capital

£000

§8

4

1

Share

Premium
Account
£'000

1,034

1,034

Other
Reserves

£000

165

165

Retained
Earnings
*Restated
£'000
51,517
(1,763)
49,754

15,602
(2,039)

63,317

17,911

81,227

Total
£°000
$2,717
(1,763)
50,954

15,602
(2,039)

64,517

17,914

82,427

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

2024 2023

Note £'000 £000
Cashflows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 45 19,832 4,232
Interest paid : (5) (1)
Interest received 4 6
Tax paid (6.381) (3,907)
Net cashflow generated from in operating activities 13,450 330
Cashflows from investing activities
Purchase of intangible assets (1,473) (2,545)
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (3,464) (3,881)
Purchase of subsidiaries (2,140) :
Net cash (used) in/generating investing activities (7,077) (6,426)
Cashflows from financing activities
Loans from group undertaking x §,000
Net cash used in financing activities - 5,000
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 6,373 (1,096)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 19,520 20,616
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 25,893 19,520

§9

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

1 Material accounting policies
The material accounting policies set out betow have been applied in preparing the financial statements for
the years ended 30 September 2024 and 2023. The principal Material accounting policies, estimates and
judgements adopted are the same as those set out in note 2, 3 and 4 to the consolidated financiat
statements except as noted below.

The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from the financial instrument disclosures, required
under FRS 102 paragraphs 11.41 (b), 11.41 (cj, 11.41 (e), 11.41 (f), 11.42, 11.44, 11.45, 11.47, 11.48 (a)
(ii), 11.48 (a) (iv), 11.48 (b), 11.48 (Cc), 12.26, 12.27, 12.29 (a), 12.29 (b) and 12.29A.

Accounting convention

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of ireland” (‘FRS 102") and the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006.

The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the company.
Monetary amounts in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest £’000.

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, modified to include the
Tevaluation of freehold properties and to include investment properties and certain financiai instruments at
fair value. The principal material accounting policies adopted are set out below.

These financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024 are the financial statements of
Dexters London Limited prepared in accordance with FRS 102, The Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland. The date of transition to FRS 102 was 1 October 2014. The
reported financial position and financial performance for the previous year are not affected by the
transition to FRS 102.

Goodwill

Goodwill, amounts paid in connection with the acquisition of businesses, is being written off evenly over
its estimated useful economic fife. {t is valued at cost. The useful economic life is estimated at 5 years for
each new acquisition (2 years where brands are not retained), as this is the year for which benefits are .
expected to continue fo be gained from the goodwill.

investments

Fixed asset investments are stated at cost less provision for diminution in value. The directors consider
annually whether there is a diminution in value by assessing the value of the net assets of the investment
compared to the carrying value, Where the net assets of the investment are less than that investment, a
diminution in value is recognised.

intercompany debtors
The directors consider whether there should be any provision in piace for intercompany debtors by
reviewing the net current assets of the intercompany debtors.

2 Profit for the year
2024 2023
*Restated
£°000 £000
Parent company's profit for the financial year 17,907 13,563

“See note 6 for further details of the restatement

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

3 Employees
2024 2023
Number Number
The average monthly number of employees {including non-
executive directors) were:
Fee earning 1,836 1,494
Administration 353 314
2,189 1,808
2024 2023
£000 £000
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
Wages and salaries 112,277 89,447
Social security costs 11,829 9,835
Other pension costs 1,695 4,506
125,801 100,788

The following table details the aggregate compensation paid in respect of key management personnel:

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Wages and salaries 2,535 2,637
Short term non-monetary benefits 9 9
2,544 2,646

This space is intentionally left blank

61

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

4 Auditor's remuneration

Auditors’ remuneration of £112k (2023 £107k) was charged in the year. The fees were paid by Dexters
London Limited for the Group in both the current and prior year and no recharge was made.

5 Directors’ remuneration

Remuneration for qualifying serices
Company pension contributions to defined contribution schemes

The average number of directors was 4 (2023: 4).

Details regarding the highest paid director are below:

Remuneration for qualifying serices

2024
£000

2,319

2,324

2024
£000

1,066

2023
£'000

2,382

2,387

2023
£000

1,155

The highest paid director did not exercise any share options or receive qualifying service shares under a

long-term incentive scheme

There was no issue of qualifying service shares to a director during the year.

During the year, £1,968k (2023: £2,057k) of directors’ remuneration was recharged from Dexters Newco Limited to

the Company.

This space is intentionally lef blank

62

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

6 Intangible assets
Lettings
Goodwill contracts Total
*Restated
£000 £000 £000

Cast
At 1 October 2023 36,947 14,191 51,138
Additions 539 934 1,473
At 30 September 2024 37,486 15,125 52,611
Accumulated amortisation
Restated at 1 October 2023 30,856 12,656 43,512
Charge for the year 2,128 1,486 3,614
At 30 September 2024 32,984 14,142 47,126
Net book value
At 30 September 2024 4,502 983 5,485
At 30 September 2023 6,091 1,535 7,626

“it has been noted in the year that goodwill was not amortised in FY22 and FY23 as required under FRS 102. The
comparative period has been restated to reduce goodwill and profit for the year by £2.0m. The impact at t October
2022 is to reduce goodwill and retained earnings by £1.8m.

7 Tangible assets
Leasehold Fixtures, fittings and Motor
improvements computer equipment Vehicles Total
£000 £000 £'000 £'000

Cost
At 1 October 2023 10,979 18,303 49 28,331
Additions 834 2,630 : 3,464
At 30 September 2024 11,813 20,933 49 32,795
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 October 2023 8,772 15,372 49 24,193
Charge for the year 831 1,650 : 2,481
At 30 September 2024 9,603 17,022 49 26,674
Net book value
At 30 September 2024 2,210 3,911 : 6,121
At 30 September 2023 2,207 2,931 - §,138

63

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

8 Investments

Cost
At 1 October 2023
Additions

At 30 September 2024

Net book value
At 30 September 2024

At 30 September 2023

Company

B&C London Investment Solutions Limited
BR DLL Holdings Limited

(Formerly Benhams

Holdings Limited)

Chard (London) Limited

Colin Dean Limited

Colin Dean Residential Limited
Courtenay Estate Agenices Limited
DAA Residential Limited

Dexters Holdings Limited

Douglas Martin Estate Agents Limited
East London New Homes Limited
H&PCE Limited

JM Group of Companies Limited
Knightsbridge Apartments

Limited

London Resi Limited

Penny & Lisa Lettings and
Management Limited

Roy Brooks Limited

Sebastian Roche Ltd

84

Country of
registration or

Class of

incorporation shares held

England and Wales
England and Wales

England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Waites
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales

England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales

England and Wales
England and Wales

Ordinary
Ordinary

Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary

Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary

Ordinary
Ordinary

Share in
subsidiary
undertaking
£000

2,690
2.140
4.830

4,830

2,680

100
100

100
100
100
100
100
100
100

25
100
100

100
100
1400

100
100

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

8 favestments (continued)

Company
Indirectly held

Beaney Pearce Limited
Beldhamiand Limited

BR DLL Limited (Formerly Benhams Limited)
City Dockiands Limited

EA2 Limited

Frank Haris and Company Limited
Howsy Limited

Ingarangi Limited

Jackson-Stops & Staff (Country Houses) Limited
JSS (London Residential) Limited
JSS Mayfair Limited

Life at Parliament View Limited
London Private Finance Limited
Marsh & Parsons (Holdings) Limited
Marsh & Parsons Limited
Marshcroft Properties Limited

Peter James Estates Limited

Peter James Holdings Limited

The Happy Tenant Company Limited
Urban Sales and Lettings Limited
Vanstons (Barnes) Limited
Vanstons Commercial Limited
Vanstons Lettings Limited
Vanstons Limited

Wethereli & Co. (Mayfair) Limited

65

Country of
registration or
incorporation

England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales
England and Wales

Class of
shares held

Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary

%

100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
400
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100
100

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED

NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

9 Investment in associate

Opening balance
Equity accounted profit
Less dividend received

Closing balance

Share of the associates’ statement of financial position:

Non-current assets
Current assets
Current liabilities

Share of the associates’ results:
Revenue

Operating expenses

Operating profit

Taxation

Profit after tax

10 Debtors

Trade debtors

Amounts owed by group undertakings
Other debtors

Corporation tax

Prepayments and accrued income

2024
£'000

3,098
168

(230)
3,036

10
77

(12)

1,031

(809)
222

168

2024
£'000

3,338
74,985
1,468
5,206
16,603

101,600

2023
£'000

3,143
225

(270)
3,098

11
146

—_—__-114)
143

1,024
(742)

282
{57)

225

2023
£'000

2,536
43,906
868
1,867
15,355

$4,532

Trade debtors are shown after deduction of a bad debt provision of £0.6m (2023: £0.5m). Amounts owed
from group undertakings are unsecured, interest free, have no fixed date of repayment and are repayable

on demand.

66

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

11 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

2024 2023

£000 £000

Trade creditors 2,956 3,161
Amounts owed to group undertakings 27,735 5,348
Taxation and social security costs 12,384 9,659
Other creditors 934 1,878
Accruals and deferred income 14,864 11,354
58,840 31,400

Amounts owed to group undertakings are unsecured, interest free, nave no fixed date of repayment and
are repayable on demand.

12 Loans from Group undertakings
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Loans from group undertakings 5,000 5,000
13 Provisions
Legal

Dilapidations disputes Total
£000 £'000 £°000

At 1 October 2023 293 303 596
Amounts utilised during the year = 303) 303;
At 30 September 2024 293 : 233

The provisions at 30 September have been allocated as follows:

Legal
Dilapidations disputes Total
£'000 £'000 £'000

Current lease liabilities : - -

Non-current lease liabitities 293 : 293
At 30 September 2024 293 > 293
Legal

Dilapidations disputes Total
£000 £'006 £000

Current lease liabilities - ~ -

Non-current lease liabilities 293 303 596
At 30 September 2023 293 303 §96

87

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

14 Provisions for liabilities
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Deferred tax liabilities 405 1,089
15 Cash generated from operations
2024 2623
*Restated
£'000 £'000
Profit for the year 17,907 13,563
Adjustments for:
Income tax charged 2,326 4,820
Finance costs 5 4
Investment income (4) &)
Amortisation of intangible assets 3.614 3,722
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 2,481 2,376
Movements in working capital:
(increase) in receivables (33,634) (23,346)
Increase in payables 27,137 3,101
Cash generated from operations 19,832 4,232
6 Called up share capital
2024 2023
£°000 £'000
Ordinary share capital
Authorised
200,000 Ordinary at 1p each (2023: 200,000) 2 2
Issued and fully paid
119,332 Ordinary at 1p each (2023: 119,332) 1 1
7 Share premium account
2023 2022
£000 £'000
Opening balance 1,034 1,034
Premium on issue of new shares - -
Closing balance 1,034 1,034

68

DEXTERS LONDON LIMITED
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2024

18 Other reserves
2024 2023
£°000 £000
Opening and closing balance 165 165

19 Related party transactions

Related parties of the Company include key management personnel and entities which are controlled,
jointly controlled or significantly influenced, or for which significant voling pawer is held, by key
management personnel. Key management personnel are defined as the directors.

The following are transactions and outstanding balances related to key management personnel (as defined
by IAS 24 Related Party Disclosure) and all are due within 1 year:

Company:

The Group made payments of £0.3m (2023: £0.1m) to Chantry Securities and £0.3m (2023: £0.3m) to
Chantry Estates, companies under control by J Doble, with respect to properties. Payments of £0.1m
(2023: £0.1m) in respect of properties leased from Dabhouse Mallet, a business in which J Doble has a
50% interest. At the year end, the Group was owed ENil (2023: Nil) by J Doble. The Company owed
£0.0004m (2023: £0.04m) to Chantry Securities, ENil (2023: £0.001m) to Chantry Estates and £Nil (2023:
ENil) to Dobhouse Mallet.

J Doble is statutory director of Dexters London Limited and hence is considered a related party to the
Group.
20 Events after the statement of financial position date

There are no post balance sheet events to report.

24 Lease commitments

2024 2023
Property £7000 £'000
Within one year 6,238 6,112
Between one and five years 16,467 9,684
Greater than five years 6,936 42,652
29,641 28,428

22 Financial risk management

The financial risks and uncertainties the Company faces are the same as those of the Group. These are set
out on pages 44 to 46.

69

