DR CHALLONER’S GRAMMAR SCHOOL
(A Company Limited by Guarantee)

ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

*ADY99Z2G*

A15 13/03/2025 #102
COMPANIES HOUSE

THURSDAY

Company Limited by Guarantee
Registration Number:
07451811 (England and Wales)

1|Page

CONTENTS

Reference and Administrative Information

Trustees’ Report

Governance Statement

Statement on Regularity, Propriety and Compliance

Statement of Trustees’ Responsibilities

Independent Auditors' Report on the Financial Statements
Independent Reporting Accountant's Assurance Report on Regularity
Statement of Financial Activities Incorporating Income and Expenditure Account
Balance sheet

Cash flow statement

Notes to the Financial Statements incorporating:

e Statement of Accounting Policies
e Other Notes to the Financial Statements

Page
03
04

29

35
36
39
41
42
43

44

2|Page


REFERENCE AND ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION

Members

Trustees in office
(Also known as Governors or
Directors):

Denotes member of the Finance, Audit and
Risk Committee during the year (*)

Company Secretary
Senior managers
Headteacher:

Chief Financial and
Strategy Officer:

Deputy Headteacher:
Deputy Headteacher:

Registered Office

Company Registration Number

Dr Mark Pegg

Mrs Carol Bevins

Mrs Stephanie Horrocks
Mr Matthew Lawrence
Mrs Stephanie Hyde

Mr Paul Serkis (Chairman)

Or Mark Pegg (Vice Chairman)

Mrs Stephanie Hyde* (Chair of Finance, Audit and Risk
Committee)

Mr David Atkinson* (Headteacher and Accounting Officer)
Mrs Isobel Darby*

Mr Jonathan Pearson* (Responsible Officer)

Mr Leon Glenister

Mrs Alison Davis

Mrs Emma Westcott

Mrs Katy Munn

Mr Tom Shinner*

Mrs Ursula Baumann

Dr Budgie Dhanda

Mrs Del Cooke

Ms Alyson Coates

Mr Tom Batty

Dr Clare Gabe

Mr Andrew Atkinson (Staff Trustee — resigned 31 August
2024)

Ms Gabriella Grant (Staff Trustee — resigned 31 August
2024) :

Mr Sean Kennedy

Mr David Atkinson
Mr Sean Kennedy

Ms Stephanie Rodgers
Mr Adam Killeya (from 1 September 2023 until 30 April
2024)

Dr Challoner’s Grammar School
Chesham Road

Amersham

Buckinghamshire HP6 SHA

07451811 (England and Wales)

Independent Auditors: Bankers: ~ Solicitors:

BKL Audit LLP Barclays Bank PLC ; Stone King LLP
35 Ballards Lane 90-93 Broad Street, Reading —_16 St John’s Lane
London : Berkshire London

N3 1XW RG1 2aP EC1M4BS

3|Page


REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES FOR YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

The trustees present their annual report together with the financial statements and auditors’ report of
the charitable company for the year ended 31 August 2024. The annual report serves the purposes of
both a trustees’ report, and a directors’ report under company law.

The trust operates an academy for pupils aged 11 to 18 based in Amersham. It was the first school in
Buckinghamshire to convert to an academy under the powers of the Academies Act 2010. The
operation of the academy commenced on 1 January 2011. The independent school replaced the
existing foundation school (also called Dr Challoner’s Grammar School) that was maintained by
Buckinghamshire County Council.

The total students in the year ended 31st August 2024 numbered 1370 (2023: 1369).
STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT
Constitution

Dr Challoner’'s Grammar School is a company limited by guarantee with no share capital (registration
no. 07451811) and an exempt charity. The company's memorandum and articles of association are
the primary governing documents of the company. The trustees of Dr Challoner’s Grammar School are
also directors of the charitable company for the purposes of company law. The charitable company
operates as Dr Challoner’s Grammar School. It also operates under the name “Astra” in operations as
a SCITT and Teaching School Hub.

Details of the trustees who served throughout the year are detailed in the Reference and Administration
information on page 3.

Members’ liability

Each Member of the charitable company undertakes to contribute to the assets of the charitable
company in the event of it being wound up while they are a member, or within one year after they cease
to be a member, such amount as may be required, not exceeding £10, for the debts and liabilities
contracted before they ceased to be a member.

Trustees’ Indemnities

The Articles of Association state that every trustee shall be indemnified out of the assets of the Academy
Trust against any liability by them in that capacity in defending any proceedings, whether civil or
criminal, in which judgment is given in favour or in which he is acquitted or in connection with any
application in which relief is granted to him by the court from liability for negligence, default, breach of
duty or breach of trust in relation to the affairs of the Academy Trust.

The Academy also has entered into the Department for Education’s Risk Protection Arrangement which
reimburses the Academy in the event of a loss under the RPA membership rules including employer's
liability, public liability and professional indemnity risks.

Method of Recruitment and Appointment or Election of Trustees

The Trustees last updated the Articles of Association on 14 January 2022. The Articles of Association
require the makeup of the trustees to be as follows: :
« Upto 9 trustees appointed by the Members (including the option for the Headteacher to be a

trustee)
A minimum of 2 parent trustees elected by parents of registered pupils of the Academy
Trustees can appoint an unlimited number of co-opted trustees
Employees of the Academy Trust (including the Headteacher) can be appointed as Trustees
provided the number of directly employed trustees does not exceed one third of the total

4|Page


number of Members.

The structure of the board of trustees that was in place at the start of the year was as follows:

1 September 2023
Member Appointed Trustees: Non Employed
Member Appointed Trustees: Employed - including Headteacher

a
Elected Parent Trustee 2
Co-opted Trustees: Non Employed 7
Co-opted Trustees: Employed Staff trustee a
a  (-

The structure of the board of trustees that was in place at the end of the year was as follows:

[Trusteetype Cd 8 August 2024
Elected Parent Trustee

Co-opted Trustees: Non Employed
DT

In addition to the above, to further enhance the skill sets of the non-executive committee structures the
FGB made a non-trustee appointment of Ms Cat Scutt, Chartered College of Teaching to the Astra
Committee. Ms Scutt has voting rights pertaining only to the Astra committee.

The term of office for any trustee shall be four years excepting:

e x officio appointments (Headteacher and Employed Trustees)
« The term of office can be less than four years for any trustee other than an elected parent
trustee.

In general trustees are replaced as and when they reach the end of the term of their office. Subject to
remaining eligible to be a particular type of trustee, any trustee may be re-appointed or re-elected.

Policies and Procedures Adopted for the Induction and Training of Trustees

The training and induction provided for new trustees will depend on their existing experience. Where
necessary induction will include training on charity and educational, legal and financial matters. All
trustees undergo annual training on safeguarding and cybersecurity.

All new trustees will be given a tour of the school and the chance to meet with staff and students. All
trustees are provided with copies of policies, procedures, minutes, accounts, budgets, plans and other
documents that they will need to undertake their role as trustees.

As there are normally only two or three new trustees a year, induction tends to be done informally and
is taitored specifically to the individual.

Organisational Structure

The structure consists of three levels: Trustees, the Leadership Group and Budget Holders. The aim
of the management structure is to devolve responsibility and encourage involvement in decision making
at all levels.

Operationally the organisation is split into 2. The first of these is that of operating Dr Challoner’s
Grammar School operating on the school site on Chesham Road. The second is acting as the lead
school of the Astra Teaching School Hub and Astra SCITT.

5|Page


Trustees are responsible for the whole organisation, setting general policy, adopting an annual plan
and budget, monitoring the Academy using budgets and making major decisions about the direction of
the Academy, capital expenditure and senior staff appointments. The trustees are also responsible for
approving the Finance Manual under which the school's finances operate.

, The Leadership Group comprise the staff that control the Academy at an executive level implementing
the policies laid down by the trustees and reporting back to them.

The Headteacher has overall executive responsibility for the academy's activities including financial
activities. Much of the responsibility for financial activities has been delegated to the Chief Financial
and Strategy Officer. The Headteacher is responsible for the appointment of all staff except for the
Chief Financial and Strategy Officer and Deputy Headteachers which is done in conjunction with the
trustees. Within the Leadership Group, this group of staff comprise the “senior managers”

In addition to the Senior Managers the Leadership Group also includes 4 assistant headteachers
focussed on the education provided at Dr Challoner's Grammar School, 2 staff members focussed on
the education provided by the Astra business unit and 1 member of staff providing tactical infrastructure
support to both aspects of the business.

The Leadership Group is collectively responsible for the day-to-day operation of both aspects of the
organisation, organising the staff, facilities and students. Spending contro! is devolved to budget
holders, with expenditure above certain limits needing additional authorisation from either the senior
managers or the trustees (or both).

Arrangements for setting pay and remuneration of key management personnel

The key management personnel for the academy trust comprise the members, trustees and the four
senior managers as outlined on page 3 of these accounts. The only individuals within these groups
who receive pay and remuneration are the staff trustees and four senior managers (Headteacher, Chief
Financial and Strategy Officer and Deputy Headteachers).

All staff trustees are members of teaching staff. The Governing Body follows the requirements of the
current School Teachers’ Pay and Conditions Document (“the Document”) in implementing the pay
policy for teaching staff at the academy. The Pay Policy of Dr Challoner’s Grammar School mandates
that the Governing Body will ensure that every teacher's salary is reviewed with effect from 1 September
each year and no later than 31 October each year with the exception of the Headteacher where the
review must be carried out by 31 December.

Setting pay ranges for Senior Managers

All four senior manager posts are part of the school’s Leadership Group as defined in the Academy’s
Pay Policy. The Personnel committee has established appropriate pay ranges for each member of the
Leadership Group. These individual ranges are reviewed on a regular basis, but not more than once
per year. In setting the ranges the Personnel Committee has regard to the following:

The Personnel Committee has established the school group size in accordance with the provisions of
the Document. Due to consistent pupil numbers the schoo! group remains constant. By carrying out
this exercise the Personnel Committee provides itself with a benchmark Headteacher pay range
(‘benchmark range”) for consideration when setting the Headteacher’s pay range. When setting the
Headteacher’s pay range, the Personnel Committee ensures that there is appropriate scope within the
range to allow for performance related process over time.

In the case of setting a range for a new Headteacher appointment, the Personnel Committee considers
the requirements of the post and the extent to which the preferred candidate meets those requirements
are such that it would be appropriate to set the starting point of the Headteacher’s pay range above the
minimum outlined in the benchmark range.

The Personnel Committee also has discretion to set a pay range in excess of the maximum outlined in
the benchmark range where it considers that circumstances specific to the role or candidate warrant

6|Page


this. In making this determination, except in exceptional circumstances the Personnel Committee would
ensure that the maximum point on the Headteacher’s pay range did not exceed the maximum point on
the benchmark pay range by more than 25%. Where exceptional circumstances apply the Personnel
Committee seeks external advice and supports the decision with a business case.

In setting the pay ranges for the Chief Financial and Strategy Officer and the Deputy Headteachers the
Personnel Committee ensures that the maximum of their ranges do not exceed the maximum of the
benchmark range above. In addition, the Personnel committee would only set a pay range for these
roles that overlapped with the Headteacher’s pay range in exceptional circumstances.

Pay progression of Senior Managers

Members of the Leadership Group are not entitled to receive automatic annual increments. The
Governing Body ensures that a review against performance objectives is undertaken annually in
accordance with the school's performance management policy. Members of the Leadership Group
must demonstrate sustained high quality of performance, with particular regard to leadership and
management, and pupil progress at the school. The Personnel Committee will consider
recommendations made to it following the performance review and will award a maximum progression
of two points within the range where there has been sustained high quality of performance considering
the performance objectives.

7|Page


Trade Union Facility Time

Under the provisions of the Trade Union (Facility Time Publication Requirements) Regulations 2017,
where an academy trust has more than 49 full time equivalent employees throughout any 7 months
within the reporting period, it must include the following information in its accounts.

Relevant Union Officials

Number of employees who were relevant Full-time equivalent employee number
union officials during the relevant period
Po

Percentage of time spent on facility time
Percentage of time Number of employees

0%
1%-50%
51%-99%

Percentage of pay bill spent_on facility time

There was no trade union facility time during the year.

Connected Organisations and Related Party Relationships

Dr Challoner’s Grammar School is not controlled in how it manages its operations in delivering its
objectives by a third party.

Although it does not have a controlling or ownership interest, Dr Challoner’s Grammar School has
strong links with the following organisations:

e Or Challoner’s School Educational Trust (charity no: 298550)
e The Friends of Dr Challoner’s Grammar School (charity no: 310621)

Further details of the relationship with these organisations are given in note 28 to the financial
statements. Dr Challoner’s Grammar School operates as Astra in its role as a SCITT, and as the lead
school of a Teaching School Hub. In relation to this function the Academy works in partnership with
many local schools and organisations in the Buckinghamshire and surrounding areas to advance for
the public benefit education in the United Kingdom.


OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES

Objects and aims

The principal object and activity of the charitable company is “advancing for the public benefit, education
in the United Kingdom, in particular but without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing by
establishing, maintaining, carrying on, managing and developing a school [the Academy] offering a
broad and balanced curriculum”

“Excellence with Integrity” underpins the Academies Vision and Values that we seek to apply across
the whole school community:

Values:

At DCGS we value in all our actions and intentions:
e = Aspiration;

e Kindness; and

e Resilience

Vision:

At DCGS we:

Work hard to help everyone feel safe and valued as part of our school
Are determined to give our best to everything that we do

Are prepared for the opportunities and challenges of today and the future
Serve the wider community

Objectives, Strategies and Activities

The Academy's strategy of achieving this is that at DCGS everyone learns through:

Teaching that is rigorous, engaging and high quality
Developing leadership at all levels

Maintaining a culture of high expectations

Being committee to each other's wellbeing and safety
Providing a first class learning environment

Ensuring a breadth of opportunities for all

Promoting an open and outward facing attitude
Engaging with the global potential of technology
Exploring innovative and sustainable approaches

To ensure that these goals are met the school sets strategic objectives within its School Improvement
Plan. The headline objectives in the School Improvement Plan for 2023-24 were:

Primary Objectives
e Character Education

fe)

°°

fe}

fe]

°

New DSL Team and Safeguarding Governors Committee to be established to further
enhance safeguarding practices

Research into new rewards and sanctions structure ready to inform implementation in
2024-25

A school-wide approach to DEI including publishing and embedding the Challoner’s
Charter.

Continued assessment of how the school can continue to support the community
through the cost of living challenges

Improving local outreach to disadvantaged families through working with primary
schools and charities, to ultimately increase applications to grammar schools from
disadvantaged families.

e Improve student learning by:

fo}

implementing departmental approaches to oracy in line with the school’s Learning &
Teaching Policy

9|Page


o professional development for all teaching staff using Walkthrough methodology.
o Research into the emerging changes being brought about by Al to inform practice for
2024-25.

Other objectives 2023-24:

To ensure that the school's physical, digital and HR infrastructures are optimally structured to
deliver all pastoral and learning and teaching aims, and represent value for money for the public
purse.

To develop the role and capacity of the Astra Teaching School Hub, Buckinghamshire to deliver
the identified Teaching School Hub priorities in partnership with other identified providers and
gain reaccreditation for 2024 onwards. To provide and maintain high quality ITT and AO
provision via the Astra SCITT. To prepare for the DfE Quality Requirements for ITE from
September 2024, following successful reaccreditation in May 2022. To maintain financial
sustainability through all Astra activities.

Students achieve the best results they are capable of in all subjects meaning that the school's
GCSE and A Level Attainment and Progress figures compare positively with Bucks Grammar
Schools, BASS, YELLIS and ALIS data.

Through the development of a ‘Lifelong Challoner's' Mindset amongst our student, alumni and
parent body, to be achieved by the enhancement of community and commercial activities which
align with the Academy's Vision, Values and Strategy, create a virtuous circle that benefits all
stakeholders including generating significant additional resources (time and money) from
sources independent from government policy to provide the future financial security required to
support the Academy's prime objectives.

Each objective has specific, detailed success criteria defined, together with more detailed tactics to
ensure that they are achieved. Responsibility for achievement of these success criteria is owned by
members of the Leadership Group and progress against these criteria is monitored throughout the year.

Public Benefit

The trustees have complied with their duty to have due regard to the Charity Commission's guidance
on Public Benefit in exercising their powers of duties.


STRATEGIC REPORT
ACHIEVEMENTS AND PERFORMANCE
Supporting Students and Staff

Leadership is a key part of delivering successful education to students and this year has been one of
leadership change. A restructuring of the Senior Leadership Team during the second half of the year
allowed us to become more efficient and provide a new focus on Behaviour and Character within the
leadership team. This will allow us to even better support our students to develop their academic
excellence and their personal qualities. It provides clear lines of responsibility within the Senior team
and through the middle leadership of the school. We have also introduced a new governor committee,
focussing on Safeguarding and Wellbeing, to oversee this important area of school life.

Our work supporting staff and student mental health and wellbeing continues. This year the introduction
of the Challoner’s Charter codified how we expect people to treat each other, providing a clear structure
that can be understood by everyone. This helps us support each other and understand how to challenge
unacceptable behaviour if we witness it, from a common framework.

Staff wellbeing remains a focus. The work we began with TES Pulse last year has continued, providing
a useful feedback mechanism from staff to leadership and governors. As last year the feedback has
informed decisions, both operational and strategic. The new Rewards & Sanctions structure is an
example of that, as is the provision of behaviour management training from an external specialist.

Staff exit interviews indicate that the school is highly thought of as an employer. Total turnover for the
year was 14.25%. Female turnover was 16% and male turnover was 11.02%. The UK average
employee turnover statistics vary greatly depending on the source, 15-17% seeming to be a general
average, although this differs widely between industries. Given the widely recognised difficulties in
education recruitment and retention, our overall turnover rate does not give particular cause for concern,
although we remain committed to maintaining employee satisfaction and stability.

Quotes from staff exit interviews - response to question about how you rate the school as an
employer:

| have really loved teaching here. The students are amazing and | will really miss the daily
interaction in the classroom.

The constant stimulation and challenge of teaching some of the brightest students | have
taught through over 30 years of teaching particularly in the Key Stage 4 and 5 classes.
Line manager very supportive, patient, gave regular feedback. She saw where my
strengths were and enabled me to be involved in areas that played to them. The induction
programme was excellent, especially shadowing a student.

Staff development is an important aspect of the school’s work. To help prioritise it across the whole
staff we have restructured and enlarged our HR provision to ensure that there is always an appropriate
focus on it, and that it is smoothly and effectively organised. This was part of an overall plan to focus
our resources on our highest priorities at a time of financial challenge.

Of the 13 Heads of Bucks Grammar Schools, the number previously employed at DCGS: 5

Students are supported to develop through the curriculum and through the school's values & culture.
For example, delivering the Penn Resilience Program in year 7 PSHE lessons supports the
development of resilience in the student community. This is revisited periodically through the age
groups. a

An external ‘critical friend’ safeguarding review was conducted in 2023, providing a useful focus on the

strengths and areas for improvement in our safeguarding practice. The DSL, new to the role in Spring
2024, is leading the outputs from that review. This has included improvements to staff training, the

11|Page


expansion of the safeguarding team and some operational changes. A second toilet block has been
refurbished to provide better and safer facilities, and plans are in place to do the same to another block
this year, funds allowing.

For our students we have continued to ensure that they have access to a range of activities that develop
their character in ways that may not be so easily achieved in the classroom. This has involved a very
large range of activities. Our second junior musical Oliver! was performed to packed houses over four
nights in March 2024, with two casts so that every student who wanted to take part could do so. A
senior production of 12 Angry Men took place in autumn 2023, while a Summer Play (400 - a
dramatisation of the school's history) involved large numbers of junior school students with direction
from Sixth Form students. A joint concert with DCHS, Cabaret Evening, a formal Carol Service and
Founder's Day services formed the backbone of our musical activities. A significant highlight was the
Service of Thanksgiving held in St George's Chapel, Windsor to mark the school’s 400th anniversary.
This is reported more fully later in this statement. Rock Club provision has flourished, and led to an
impressive concert and performance platform in the summer. Our sports fields hummed with activity all
year. The volume of teams and students representing the school remains extremely high, with a culture
of ‘Sport for all’ driving participation. Elite performances grow out of that, and teams reached the final
stages of a number of national competitions this year, most notably being crowned National Champions
in the intermediate swimming relay. On the football field we were finalists in the County Cup in 4 age
groups, and the 1st XI won that title for the second year in a row.

Photo: Students performing in ‘Oliver’
Character Education:

Character Education remains at the forefront of our culture. Providing an experience that allows
students to develop in a way which encourages academic aspiration, while also fostering the personal
character traits to contribute positively to their community today and in the future. This is closely aligned
with one of our vision statements “we are prepared for the opportunities and challenges of today and
the future”. The cultural work on positive relationships that formed the bedrock of our professional
development 3 years ago has become normalised, with staff and students demonstrating thoughtful
relationships towards each other. A major piece of work in 2023-2024 was a review of our Rewards &
Sanctions approach, in the context of our behaviour policy. Staff feedback, in line with that experienced
at many schools, is that student behaviour has deteriorated somewhat in recent years. As a result, we
undertook a significant piece of work to understand what the strengths and weaknesses of our structure
and systems are. This included student, staff and parent feedback, and resulted in the creation of a new
approach. This has simplified both rewards and sanctions, and embedded communication with parents
about rewards into our processes.

12|Page


A key focus of this is to connect rewards students receive with our values of Aspiration, Kindness and
Resilience so that they develop their understanding of how they demonstrate those characteristics.

Outstanding Achievement
Awards
Silver Challoner's Certificate +
5 Bronze Certificates
Bronzé'Challoner's Certificate
20 merits .
F >)
Verbal warning

Private/Subject detention
20-20 minutes at break of lunch

Q
Bs}
g
5
3
oO
n
@
ast)

"School detention — }
30 minutes alter school on Tussdays &

Sanctions

Our Sixth Form students follow our bespoke Character Challenge (introduced in 2023) throughout their
curriculum. This brings together their academic studies, leadership opportunities and co-curricular
activities in a way which helps them develop a sophisticated understanding of their own character.

During the year we renewed our Association of Character Education Quality Mark, a mechanism
for evaluating and celebrating school’s progress in this area of education. The report received noted
the positives: outlined below and areas for development that were undertaken (e.g. the rewards and
sanctions work above).

Excerpts from the Association of Character Education Quality Mark Report:

“Purposeful, carefully planned and research-informed whole-school approach

Leaders have a very clear sense of mission and articulate the central significance of
character with clarity and conviction.

The school’s emphasis on character and ‘doing good’ through educational advantage is an
explicit part of the transition programme as well as staff recruitment and induction.
Comprehensive co-curricular programme which is increasingly well linked to dialogue about
character development, including student-led assemblies

Opportunities for further discussion about and reflection upon aspects of good character
feature as part of the school's well-established PSHE programme, tutor time and in the use
of student planners.

Exceptional range of student leadership and student voice opportunities which are explicitly
linked to character development and role-modelling.

Training of student senior school officials in mentoring younger pupils incorporates an
explicit focus on values.

Proactive and authentic approach to parental engagement with the school’s mission,
including the involvement of a parent research group involved in the creation of the DEI
charter.”

13|Page


Diversity Equity and Inclusion (“DEI”)

A major development in 2023-2024 was the introduction of the Challoner’s Charter. This document
provides a framework for everyone involved in the schoo! community to understand our shared
responsibilities.

“At Chalfoner's we strive to create a safe environment where everyone feels like they belong, and
kindness, respect and equity inform everything we do. Our school is a rich and diverse community,
so we must develop thinking and attitudes appropriate for the global society in which we live.

This charter is for current and prospective students and staff, as well as the wider community, to
understand the commitments of our school in the vital area, and to outline the expectations of all
members of the school community”.

Preface from the Challoner’s Charter

The charter goes on to articulate our commitment to a positive ethos, to curiosity, to accountability
and to a stand against discrimination. The process of devising it involved students, staff, governors
and parents, and it met with a widely positive reception from our community. Our student leadership
team continues to play a prominent role in this, as representatives of our diverse student body.

Students’ Educational Performance

Students’ Educational Performance potential can only be maximised if the school provides the wellbeing
support above whilst continuing to ensure our teaching staff are supported to deliver academic
excellence to the students

Supporting this, to ensure that standards are continually raised, the school operates a comprehensive  -— - ~
self-evaluation programme which includes observation of lessons, scrutiny of students’ work, subject
reviews, questionnaires and focus groups. A key focus of professional development in 2023-2024 was

the introduction of the Walkthrus mechanism as a way of encouraging teaching staff to reflect in a
structured way on an aspect of their teaching. By adopting a model that is common to all staff we are

able to have better professional conversations about pedagogy and learning.

Public examination results published in August 2024 were very pleasing indeed.

At GCSE:

e 99.5% of students achieved 5 grade 9-4

qualifications, including a strong pass

(grade 5 or better) in English and Maths.

e 74.1% of qualifications taken were

graded 7-9, compared to 70.7% in 2019

e 29.6% of qualifications were graded 9
compared to 26.4% in 2019

At A level:

© 60% of exams were graded A*/A,
compared to 57% in 2019.
© 85% were graded A*/B, higher than in
2019
e Around 90% of the cohort successfully
accessed one of their first choice
destinations for Higher Education,
training or employment. These included
many of the UK’s competitive
universities, foreign universities and
highly sought-after degree
apprenticeships. Overall, this set of
results demonstrated the quality,
aspiration and resilience of our school
and our students.


At the start of academic year 2022-2023 we accepted two Ukrainian refugees into our Sixth Form.
These two remarkable young people have been very successful over the last two years. One will read
Politics & Economics at Bath while the other has a place at Cambridge to read engineering. More
importantly they became settled and valued members of our school community.

"We are the parents of [Student] and wanted to say sincerely thank you for accepting our child to
the school 2 years ago. We really appreciate that you believed in her and allowed her to become a
part of a big and lovely Challoner’s family in the toughest time for our family time. Thank you for all
the support shown, her teachers were absolutely amazing, their expertise and teaching approach

were one of the things that helped her get into her firm choice university, also thank you for alf the
moral support, small questions like “how are you?” meant a lot. All students were so welcoming and
kind, she has never felt that she was not in her place thanks to the efforts made by the school staff
to create a safe and caring environment among the peers” KS5 Parent

Improvements to the School Facilities:

The most significant aspect of our 2023-24 capital programme delivered in 2023-24 (£187K) was the
refurbishment and remodelling of our sports hall changing room and toilet spaces. In addition to this
the school, in conjunction with Dr Challoner’s School Educational Trust has carried out significant planning
on its 2024 project, details of which can be found in the ptans for the future section of this report below.

Co-curricular Activities:

Trips and visits play a significant part in the overall experience of our students across their time as part
of our school community. Day trips included Geography fieldwork, theatre and musical visits, study
days and competitions of various kinds. A full programme of language exchanges took place, with
reciprocal trips to our partner schools in Bensheim, and Marseille.

Year 9 Activities week saw all boys in the year group take part in a residential trip, and we also ran a
successful ski trip to Austria. Each humanity ran a KS4 trip (History to Berlin, RS to Krakow &
Auschwitz, and Geography to Sicily), while a yr 10 Art trip to Liverpool also took place. A level overseas
trips to Washington DC (History & Politics) and CERN in Geneva (Physics) also took place.

Pupil premium funds are used to support students to access these trips, and the hardship fund is also
used where appropriate, to meet requests from families experiencing financial difficulties.

In 2023-24 the cost of visits ran through the academy was £665K (2022-23: £828k).
In addition, we offer a broad range of co-curricular activities to provide students’ opportunities and

experience with the aim that all students feel included in the wider school society. The diagram overleaf
provides an example of the activities on offer.

15|Page


EDUCATIONAL JOURNEY PLANNER

Co-curricular activities improve mental health and increase aGademic achievernéent

400" Anniversary, Alumni Relations and Longitudinat Study

Since 2024 is our 400th Anniversary we have had a particularly busy year of activities. Highlights so
far have included:

e In January Dr Challoner’s Grammar School - the first 400 years was published. Written by
former Headmaster Mark Fenton and illustrated with material from our archive, this book is a
wonderful record of the history of the school, education and Amersham.

e The Summer Play, ‘400! was a dramatisation of events drawn from the history of the school.
Written by Brigitte Flower it consisted of several vignettes set through history and performed
in different parts of the school. Casts drawn from across the school for each vignette were
directed by Sixth Form students.

e The annual fixture against the MCC was very well attended by alumni. To mark the
anniversary the MCC team, captained by Richard Knudsen, was made up entirely of alumni
who are playing members of the MCC. The match was drawn, but in very exciting
circumstances with the school team a handful of runs short of victory.

In March we were privileged to hold a
Thanksgiving Service at St George’s Chapel,
Windsor. Our founder, Robert Chaloner, was
also a Canon of St George’s and the Dean
and Chapter were very generous in hosting
us for this event. Attended by staff, students,

former students, governors and diverse
friends of the school this memorable event
featured music and readings from members
of our community. The school choirs and
brass quintet performed beautifully, and the
event was a fitting tribute to the whole
school.

We have continued with our programme of City drinks and entrepreneur evenings in London,
inctuding an event hosted at the Worshipful Company of Information Technologists. These events are
proving popular, and networks between alumni of different ages are emerging.

16|Page

Old Challoner Dominic Storey, now an officer in the British Army, was the guest of honour and
speaker at Junior Prizegiving in October 2023, while Tom Shinner, alumni, governor, former civil
servant and now COO of EntrepreneurFirst filled the same role at Senior Prizegiving in November
2023. Alumni play a role on our Governing Board and as trustees for Dr Challoner’s School
Educational Trust.

The third iteration of the longitudinal study into the impact of a Challoner’s education was completed
this year. The findings of last year’s work around diversity and inclusion were echoed, and provided a
robust evidence base for the development of the thinking behind the Challoner’s Charter.

17|Page


Astra Teaching School Hub and SCITT

Astra is the business unit within the School that is responsible for the work in contributing to the wider
schools’ community with a specific focus on increasing the number of excellent teachers across the
local area. As the Teaching School Hub for Buckinghamshire Astra has responsibility for providing all
schools within the county with access to the ‘golden thread’ of professional development as part of the
government's Teacher Recruitment and Retention strategy including but not limited to:

Initial Teacher Training and QTS awarding body (delivered mainly through its SCITT)
Early Career Framework implementation

Appropriate Body Induction

National Professional Qualifications and other professional development

Astra met all key performance indicators as set by the Department for Education in the delivery of the
above services. The above achievements have only been able to happen through prioritising effective
engagement with all partners regarding the rapidly changing landscapes in both ITT and Teaching
School Hub

Celebrating our 10-year anniversary

Astra SCITT has now been in operation for ten years and is a significant contributor to the teaching
workforce in Buckinghamshire, an area with long term challenges in teacher recruitment.

Over the last ten years, Astra has:

Trained and awarded QTS to over 550 new teachers.

Expanded its provision to be able to offer a broad range of routes into teaching, including
salaried, unsalaried, apprenticeship and full and part time options, as well as offering an
Assessment Only route.

e Focussed on providing education and training for new entrants to the teaching profession which
is characterised by a commitment to Inclusive Professionalism and tackling educational
disadvantage in Buckinghamshire.

e Established a partnership of over sixty over sixty primary, secondary and special schools, both
maintained and independent, and primarily in Buckinghamshire to deliver high quality teacher
training.

e In any given year, worked with approximately 140 mentors and tutors drawn from across
partnership schools, offering professional development opportunities to all involved and
contributing to teacher retention.

e Provides for approximately 15 members of the teaching staff at Dr Challoner’s Grammar School
opportunities to work as lead mentors, visiting tutors and subject tutors.

10 Year Celebration

The achievements of Astra were recognised at a
special ten-year anniversary celebration event in
September 2023, with presentations made to a
number of individuals who had most contributed
to the development of Astra SCITT from the start.
Awards were presented by Lady Howe, His
Majesty’s Lord Lieutenant for Buckinghamshire,
and the evening included contributions from
school musicians

18|Page


Teaching School Hub Reaccreditation

The DfE launched the Teaching School Hub re-accreditation process in September. Hubs that are re-
accredited will continue their work for a further four years (2024-2028) with confirmed funding.

The re-accreditation bid required responses to questions on experience and local context, building ITT
capacity and capability and building Appropriate Body capacity and capability. As Astra has continually
delivered on all of these areas it was able to submit a strong bid. We were delighted to be confirmed
as the Teaching School Hub for Buckinghamshire in February 2024 and look forward to delivering on
our remit during the current accreditation period (2024-2028) and beyond.

Initial Teacher Training (SCITT): - Preparation for 2024

The Astra SCITT trains and awards Qualified Teacher Status to 45-70 new career entrants in primary
and secondary education per year and with retention and employment rates above national
benchmarking figures, with in a typical year over 80% of Astra graduates gaining teaching positions in
Buckinghamshire at focal state schools and over 90% employed within Buckinghamshire and
neighbouring authorities.

Following the announcement of the ITT Market Review in December 2021 and an exceptionally difficult
re-accreditation process for all providers, Astra submitted a bid to gain accreditation from delivery from
September 2024 and was one of only 80 providers to gain accreditation in round ane of the process.

The implementation of the Market Review meant that the course curriculum, delivery models and
business models change significantly from September 2024. During 2023-24 Astra redesigned the
course structure in full and this was reviewed and approved by the DFE that it met all the requirements
of the Market Review. We look forward to delivering the enhanced course to our trainees from
September.

A significant barrier to entrants into the primary teacher training is the lack of bursary for applicants and
the cost to schools in offering a salaried placement route. To help mitigate the cost to schools of this
route in December 2023 Astra bid to be accredited as an apprenticeship provider for awarding qualified
teacher status. Primary schools using this route will be able to draw down on their Apprenticeship Levy
to help defray the costs of the course to the school, meaning that in the future there will be more primary
school places available for those wishing to consider primary teaching as a profession. We are
delighted to have been accredited as an apprenticeship provider and having our first 3 apprenticeship
trainees start the course in September 2024 with an aim to expanding this programme in future years.

Initial Teacher Training (SCITT): - Cohort Performance

Astra continued to deliver on its course for 2023-24 and recruit to its course for 2024-25 with key
performance metrics as follows:

2023-24 Cohort:

For the 2023/24 academic year, the Astra SCITT recruited 56 primary and secondary trainees,
13 of which are on the salaried route. The SCITT also had 1 part time trainee from 2022-23
completing their training in 2023-24, and 2 trainees from the 2022-23 cohort on course
extensions. These trainees have been placed across 34 local partnership schools, mainly in
Buckinghamshire.

Historically, all Astra SCITT cohorts have enjoyed high completion and employment rates,
above national benchmarking data. To date, 98% of the 2023-24 trainees secured employment
for September 2024, with 61% being employed in a partnership school.

19|Page

“| would like to say a big thank you to you all for a successful and enjoyable year. The level of
professionalism and support from initial contact down to the final day of training has been impressive.

The course was well designed and sequenced, the organisation and communication fantastic. The
presenters and subject tutors were highly knowledgeable and visibly passionate. The training
sessions were always relevant and impactful.” Astra graduate, 2023-24

2024-25 Cohort

For the 2024/25 academic year, the Astra SCITT recruited 59 primary and secondary
trainees, 6 of which are on the salaried route and 3 on the new apprenticeship route. The
trainees have been placed across local partnership schools, mainly in Buckinghamshire. This
includes 3 trainees on placement at DCGS (Art, Biology and Spanish)

Assessment Only QTS Route:

As well as offering QTS courses for Initial Teacher Training, the Astra SCITT is also an
accredited provider of the Assessment Only route to QTS and accredited 36 candidates with
QTS in 2023/24 (25 in 2022/23), including three candidates from the UK independent sector.

ITT Strategic Role (Recommendation 10)

In addition to acting as a SCITT and AO provider to increase the number of new teachers into
Buckinghamshire, in its role as a Teaching School Hub Astra also supports schools in Buckinghamshire
to engage with ITT and support other local ITT providers to recruit trainees through regional recruitment
events, advertising on the Astra TSH website, updating school leaders about changes to ITT and
chairing local ITT provider meetings. A large piece of work was also carried out to survey all schools in
Buckinghamshire to assess their current level of engagement with ITT and potential barriers.

Early Career Framework

Astra has entered into a partnership with Best Practice Network (BPN) who have acted as Astra’s
Lead Provider for both the new two-year statutory Early Career Framework and revised National
Professional Qualifications.

BPN were rated as Outstanding by OFSTED in their inspection in May 2023 and an outstanding NPQ
provider in June 2024.

For the 2023/2024 academic year, Astra has worked with Best Practice to deliver the two year ECF
programme to 330 ECTs and 241 Early Career Mentors across schools in Bucks. Astra has also worked
with Best Practice to recruit and train over 40 expert colleagues to date as facilitators to both the ECF
and suite of NPQs.

Appropriate Body:

For the 2023/2024 academic year, Astra has been responsible for the induction of 346 Early Career
Teachers (two-year induction programme) across 143 schools in its role as an ECT Appropriate Body.
Astra has also worked collaboratively with Buckinghamshire Council on the Appropriate Body induction
provision for Buckinghamshire, with Buckinghamshire Council AB providing induction services for those
ECTs who gained QTS with the Astra SCITT. However, from September 2024, Local Authorities will no
longer be able to act as ABs with this being the final year (2023-2024) that Bucks Council can support
ECTs. Astra has established a new partnership with Alban TSH in Hertfordshire who will take on those
ECTs who gained QTS from Astra SCITT moving forwards.


National Professional Qualifications: (NPQ's):

Since September 2021, Astra has recruited the following number of delegates on to each of the NPQs:

[CNPC 21/2022 | 2022/2023 2023/24

Leading Teaching
Leading Teacher Development

| Leading Literacy | |
| Early earsLeadershio | =| |
| Leading Primary Maths | 0 | OT
es

ng Tea

[senor teadertip | Po
velesieaip | 0 | 4 [7 |
Tr

21|Page

FINANCIAL REVIEW
Going Concern

After making appropriate enquiries, the trustees have a reasonable expectation that the academy trust
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason,
it continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. Further details
regarding the adoption of the going concern basis can be found in the Statement of Accounting Policies.

Financial report for the year

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies disclosed in
note 1 of the attached financial statements, and comply with the charitable company’s memorandum
and articles of association, the Companies Act 2006, and the requirements of the Statement of
Recommended Practice “Accounting and Reporting by Charities - FRS 102” (‘SORP 2019’) and
Academies: Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024.

Most of the Academy's income is obtained from the ESFA / DfE in the form of recurrent grants, the use
of which is restricted to particular purposes. The grants received from the ESFA / DfE during the period
ended 31 August 2024 and the associated expenditure are shown as restricted funds in the statement
of financial activities.

The Academy also receives grants for fixed assets from the ESFA / DfE and other donors. In
accordance with SORP 2019, such grants are shown in the Statement of Financial Activities as
restricted income in the fixed asset fund. The restricted fixed asset fund balance is reduced by annual
depreciation charges over the expected useful life of the assets concerned.

During the period ended 31 August 2024, total expenditure of £10,893K was covered by recurrent grant
funding from the ESFA / Df€ together with other incoming resources and a planned use of existing
reserves. The excess of income over expenditure for the period (excluding restricted fixed asset funds
and pension funds) was £192K.

At 31 August 2024 the net book value of fixed assets was £18,586K and movements in tangible fixed
assets are shown in note 13 to the financial statements. The assets were used exclusively for providing
education and the associated support services in accordance with the Trusts objectives.

Key Financial Performance Indicators

At the start of the year the Academy sets it budget based on total reserves readily available to spend
(i.e. excluding the fixed asset reserve and the pension reserve) by considering likely future trends in
income and expenditure. The budget is then split between cost centres for which budget holders are
given responsibility to manage.

The major source of budgeted income is from General Annual Grant, but other sources of income
become available to the Academy throughout the year.

When determining the medium term financial plan and specific year's budgets the trustees have specific
regard to the following key financial measures that provide indications of sustainability

KPI 1: Reserve levels to be above £200K at the end of the year

KPI 2: Recurring staffing and non-staffing costs should not exceed recurring base income
KPI 3: Recurring staffing costs should ideally not exceed 80% of recurring income

KPI 4: The Astra Business Unit should be self-financing

When determining an individual year’s budget, the key figure that the trustees consider is the net surplus
or deficit. A net surplus is where expected income exceeds expected expenditure and a net deficit is
where expected expenditure exceeds expected income.

For 2023-24 the Full Governing body initially set a budget a net surplus budget of £53K.

22|Page


Performance against budget at a cost centre level is monitored by the Headteacher and Chief Financial
and Strategy Officer via monthly management reports that are also circulated to all Trustees and
scrutinised by the Finance, Audit and Risk Committee at its meetings. The management reports
contain a forecast out-turn position that include the likely variance from budget at the end of the year.
If appropriate, the budget may be adjusted throughout the year in accordance with the Academy’s
Financial Regulations. During 2023-24 the budget was adjusted to a net surplus budget of £103K as
more information became available to the Academy throughout the year.

Unless income is ring-fenced for a specific purpose, the decision as to exactly which items of
expenditure are funded by which items of income is not made until the end of the financial year. The
reasons for this are as follows:

e The final decisions regarding capitalising expenditure only occur at the year end, once such
expenditure has been shown to meet the capitalisation criteria as laid down in the accounting
policies.

« The matching of capital income, such as Devolved Formula Capital Grant, to this expenditure
can therefore only be formalised at the year end.

e The decision as to which items of expenditure to capitalise for accounting purposes does not
impact on the Academy's “total reserves readily available to spend”

e Budgets are set based on estimates of likely donations from other parties, including the
Educational Trust and the Friends. If the actual donations received vary from that budgeted
then the Academy will fund the expenditure incurred from alternate reserves.

Because of this the management information presented throughout the year takes a different format to
that shown in the final accounts. However, they do reconcile to the final accounts if the impact of the
pension reserve and fixed asset reserve are excluded (accounting items that do not affect budgeting).

In 2023-24 the Academy's outturn position was a surplus of £192K broken down as follows:

e Restricted Funds: £1K use of reserves
e Unrestricted Funds: £193K addition to reserves

The most significant reason for the £89K favourable variance against budget related to savings and
slippage on the IT investment programme.

Staffing is the single biggest item of expenditure budget that the academy has. These budgets are
monitored particularly closely and for 2023-24 the variance from budget was an adverse favourable
variance of 1.7%. — mainly due Teacher Pension contribution rates increasing from Apri! 2024.

Reserves policy

The trustees review the reserve levels of the Academy annually. This review encompasses the nature
of income and expenditure streams, the need to match income with commitments and the nature of
reserves.

In reviewing the levels of reserves the trustees have particular regard to:

e Revenue: the likely levels of future income to be received from the ESFA / DfE given the new
national funding formula guidance and demand for services, balanced against the likely
increase in staffing and other costs due to inflation.

e Capital: The need to use free reserves to help support the planned capital programme

The trustees have set budgets and reserve levels based on a 3 year medium term plan that ensures
that the Academy can continue to provide excellent education across the period whilst ensuring that it
has sufficient cashable reserves to provide a buffer to enable the Academy to effectively manage
reductions in spending across the period in which its funding will be cut, in order to minimise the future
impact of these reductions on the education of the pupils.

In June 2024 as part of setting the budget, the trustees determined that the level of cashable reserves
by the end of 2024-25 should be at least £200K as outlined in the KPI's

23|Page


Financial position

The Academy held fund balances at 31 August 2024 of £19,317K comprising:

Unrestricted £869K
Restricted £9K
Total reserves readily available for spend £878K
Restricted (Fixed Assets) £18,586K
Restricted (Pensions) £0K
Total reserves £19,464K

In addition, the Academy held less than £1K in relation to acting as an agent in administering the VI
form bursary scheme.

The pension reserve is in relation to any surplus or deficit in relation to the local government pension
scheme. Upon advice from the actuary the school contributes the equivalent of 22.1% of the payroll of
employees who are members of the local government pension scheme. Of this amount 1.6% is used
to reduce the deficit directly.

Investment policy

The Trustees’ investment powers are set down in the Memorandum and Articles of Association which
permit the investment of monies of the School that are not immediately required for its purposes in such
investments as may be thought fit subject to any restrictions which may from time to time be imposed
or required by law.

The School's current policy is to invest surplus funds in interest bearing accounts (including in 32 day
and 95 day call off accounts) with banks approved by the Finance Audit and Risk Committee.

Principal Financial Risks and Uncertainties

The nature of the academy is such that the main financial instruments that it deals in are mainly bank
balances, cash, trade creditors and limited trade debtors. The Academy has not made any investments
in the period other than holding the cash in its bank accounts and 32-day and 95-day notice accounts.
As such there is limited risk in the nature of the academy's transactions.

The academy currently has healthy levels of reserves and the liquidity risk, credit risk and cashflow risk
to the academy for the next 12 months is low.

The most significant risk that the Academy now faces relates to its potential inability for its income to
rise as fast as inflationary expenditure pressures in future years.

These are expanded upon in the financial risks section below.

Any surplus or deficit on the pension fund is not seen to provide any significant risk to the Academy
(see note 27).

Risk Management
The Academy manages its most significant risks via the Corporate Risk Register.

The DFE requires the Academy to have regard to its obligations to ensure that the school site is safe,
well maintained and complies with relevant legislation. The Academy takes these obligations very
seriously. The Academy, through its Property and Services Committee continues to review and further
improve all its Health and safety procedures each year (including those relating to the school site). The
Academy proactively monitors its estate via a strategic estates management plan (based on the
principles of Good Estates Management for Schools) and uses the various condition surveys to plan its
capital maintenance programme utilising the principles outlined. This risk is included in the Health and
Safety section of the Corporate Risk Register.

24|Page

The Corporate Risk Register is formally reviewed by the Full Governing Body at least once a year at
which it will select at least three risks that it would like scrutinised in more detail throughout the year
(together with how this will most effectively be carried out). The items selected would be those that
governor committees do not usually scrutinise as part of their ongoing terms of reference (although a
committee may be asked to carry out a specific scrutiny piece of work). Scrutiny reports are made back
to the Finance, Audit and Risk Committee.

The Full Governing Body understand that the programme of work may be subject to change in the
event, that other more significant risks materialise in the meantime. The planned areas for scrutiny
from the corporate risk register during 2023-24 were:
Continued increase in quantity, diversity and severity of student needs

e Financial Risks - this were scrutinised by all committees through the year

e Staff Wellbeing - is the organisation doing what it can, within its contro! to manage this as
effectively as practicable?
External review of safeguarding processes in place at the school
Embedding of H&S Policy
School's response to Cyber risks
Phase 2 of governor fed review of DEI

During the year, the senior leadership team has been working on and reviewing the above risks. These
were taken through the various sub committees of the full governing body and the budget for 2024-25
has been set with regards to the risks involved.

Financial Risks

The financial risks to the Academy of have been reviewed in detail by the Finance, Audit and Risk
Committee as well as the Full Governing Body as part of setting the 2024-25 budget in 2023-24.

The biggest risk relates to the dual uncertainty for planning in relation to:

e Government Policy in relation to funding rates for schoo! activities (for DCGS this is particularly
problematic as despite being one of the lowest funded schools per pupil in the country it is also
more likely to have its increase in funding per year via the national funding formula capped);

e Uncertain inflation in future years — particularly linked to government policy decisions on
staffing that are outside of the school’s control — e.g. teacher pay, teacher pensions, national
living wage rates etc.

In preparation for the 2025-26 budget setting process, during the first half of 2024-25 the Senior
Leadership Team and the relevant governor sub committees will be undertaking an exercise to
prepare options that can be taken in the event that there is a need to balance affordability uncertainty
with managing the critical risk on the risk register and ensuring service delivery and improvements as
outlined on the School Improvement Plan can continue to happen.

It is envisaged that by carrying out this exercise, the school will be able to implement changes to
these structures as and when either financial need dictates or natural staffing changes allow. By
doing this in a planned way we aim to reduce unnecessary disruption and maximises the opportunity
of any changes to reduce other risks on the risk register.

Via this methodology the Full Governing Body has been able to satisfy itself that the school is managing
the scenario in a way that provides Value for Money.

25|Page

FUNDRAISING

Most of the fundraising associated with the Academy is carried out by one of 2 closely connected
organisations (further details can be seen in the related parties note):

e Dr Challoners School Education Trust (“DCSET”)
e The Friends of Dr Challoner’s Grammar School (“the Friends”)

DCSET is a separate charity with its own Trustees and carries out the majority of Fundraising on behalf
of the school. The objects of DCSET are “the provision of scholarships, prizes, grants, equipment,
buildings, playing fields and other assistance for the benefit of Dr Challoner's Grammar School (or “the
Schoo!” and its pupils”.

The Trustees of DCSET confirm annually that they have referred to the Charity Commission's guidance
on public benefit when reviewing the DCSET's aims and objectives, in planning future activities, and
making grants to the school.

The DCSET Trustees oversee the directing and controlling of the charity together with its running and
operations (including fundraising practices). To minimise the administrative burden on DCSET, the
DCSET Trustees have authorised Dr Challoner’s Grammar School and its staff to carry out the
operational decisions of the Trustees under authority delegated in a document agreed by both the Trust
and the School that incorporates a data sharing agreement and the delegation of financial authorities
to the School. This agreement defines the responsibilities of each person and organisation involved in
the administration of the Trust's affairs to avoid the duplication or omission of functions and to provide
a framework of accountability for Trustees and Dr Challoner’s Grammar School Staff.

With regards to fundraising activities the DCSET Trustees approve the Fundraising Strategy which has
been drafted by the School's Officers, taking into account all relevant guidance including the Charity
Commission publication “Charity fundraising : a guide to trustee duties (CC20)”.

To ensure that the Trustees have access to the appropriate expertise in this area the school employs a
Development Director, who is a specialist in fundraising and fundraising regulations. The Fundraising
Strategy is written to ensure all fundraising activities and approaches to constituents for funds meet the
guidelines issued by the Charity Commission, GDPR and PECR legislation. The Development Director
co-ordinates all fundraising activities carried out through DCSET. The majority of these activities are
controlled by the Development Office. Those that are not (such as pupils collecting for charity days)
have been risk assessed to ensure that they are suitable.

DCSET is aware of the potential sensitivities in asking donors for money during this time and will only
make approaches where it is appropriate to do so. The majority of donors give to an annual fund by
monthly standing order. During 2023-24 DCSET provided £27K of funding to DCGS.

We continue to monitor the wider economic climate on donors’ willingness to give to DCSET via this
method. The current threat to donors’ willingness to give is the cost of living crisis. This situation is
kept under constant review.

The Friends is an unincorporated association, registered with the charity commission that provides
financial assistance with the cost of educational facilities provided by Dr Challoner’s Grammar School.
The Friends Fundraising Activities involve running various events associated with the school (e.g.
school discos, quiz nights etc. to which those wishing to participate buy tickets). The school makes its
parent body aware of these events via its website and weekly email to which parents can subscribe.

The majority of the Friends income is generated from school community events. For 2023-24 the
Friends were able to pass across £45K of funding to the school.

26|Page


PLANS FOR FUTURE PERIODS
School Improvement Plan

The plans for future periods are managed via the Annual School Improvement Plan. The 2024-25
School Improvement Plan was ratified by the Full Governing Body at its meeting in June 2024 and
contained the following:

Primary Objectives:
Character Education:

« Improve behaviour and character through the successful and consistent implementation of the
school's new Rewards and Sanctions structure

e« Re-enforce the school's culture of safeguarding through the implementation of
recommendations from the critical friend safeguarding review (CFSR)

Learning:

Improve student learning by:
¢ ensuring a consistently high quality provision for students with additional needs across the
schoo!
e embedding the use of Walkthrus as a valuable method of evaluating and developing teaching
practice at an individual and team level

Other Objectives:
Student Outcomes:

e¢ Students achieve the best results they are capable of in all subjects meaning that the school’s
GCSE and A Level Attainment and Progress figures compare positively with Bucks Grammar
Schools, BASS, YELLIS and ALIS data.

Astra:

e To deliver the identified Teaching Schoo! Hub priorities to Bucks schools in partnership with
other identified providers.

¢ To provide and maintain high quality ITT and AO provision via the Astra SCITT. To deliver a
course that fully meets DfE Quality Requirements for ITE from September 2024.

¢ Tomaintain financial sustainability through all Astra activities.

Infrastructure:

Ensure that the school's physical, digital and HR infrastructures are optimally structured to deliver all
pastoral and learning and teaching aims, and represent value for money for the public purse.

e All projects in the 2024-25 capital programme delivered on time and on budget. The most
significant item relates to the 2024 project (see below) .

¢ The chances of a cyber attack or data breach are reduced to a level the ICO would consider
reasonably acceptable via the proactive design and implementation of IT infrastructure and
staff training during 2024-25, together with reducing the burden of responding to SAR's and
FOl's.

« Business Structures and Processes are regularly updated to meet the objectives contained in
the school improvement plan and corporate risk register

e The school can set a balanced budget for 2025-26

27|Page

Lifelong Challoner’s Mindset

e Through the development of a ‘Lifelong Challoner's Mindset amongst our student, alumni and
parent body, to be achieved by the enhancement of community and commercial activities which
align with the Academy's Vision, Values and Strategy, create a virtuous circle that benefits all
stakeholders including generating significant additional resources (time and money) from
sources independent from government policy to provide the future financial security required to
support the Academy's prime objectives.

2024 Project

The wellbeing of our community is at the forefront of our teaching and learning strategy. We recognise
the vital role that high-quality pastoral support plays in enabling our students to reach for the stars. We
also know that the physical environment has an enormous part to play in the delivery of support
programmes. Challoner’s is extremely fortunate to have a skilled team of practitioners to help our
students. However, our current student support services are situated in disparate areas across the
school site and is now becoming a barrier to students receiving the very best support that they deserve.

Our original plans (for which we achieved planning consent in January 2024) would have involved the
construction of a new building on the school site. However, in February 2024 DCSET was presented
with an opportunity to purchase a property very close to school (149 Station Road, Amersham). By
leasing this property back to the school DCSET would be able to support the realisation of the above
aims by allowing the school to relocate some of our administrative functions away from the current
school site without the need to undertake major building work, and by using our existing buildings, allow
us to provide an even better pastoral support centre than originally planned.

By working in partnership with DCSET on this project we have been able to accelerate progress on this
project to allow our students to benefit sooner.

Planned milestones on this project are:

1. A lease between the school and DCSET for 149 Station Road was entered into in September
2024

2. Relevant modifications to 149 Station Road will place by December 2024. Administrative staff
will then relocate to 149 Station Road, freeing up space on the school site.

3. Works on the school site to create the new pastoral support centre will commence in early
January 2025.

4. New pastoral centre becomes operational April 2025

AUDITORS
The Academy has appointed Berg Kaprow Lewis LLP as the Academy Trust's auditors for 2023-24.
In so far as the trustees are aware:

e There is no relevant audit information of which the charitable company’s auditor is unaware;
and

e The trustees have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of
any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.

Approved by order of the board of trustees and signed on its behalf by:
Paul Serkis

Mr Paul Serkis
Trustee

07/11/2024


GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
Scope of Responsibility

As trustees, we acknowledge that we have overall responsibility for ensuring that Dr Challoner’s
Grammar School has an effective and appropriate system of control, financial and otherwise. However,
such a system is designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement
or loss.

The board of trustees has delegated the day-to-day responsibility to the Headteacher, as Accounting
Officer, for ensuring financial controls conform with the requirements of both propriety and good
financial management and in accordance with the requirements and responsibilities assigned to it in
the funding agreement between Dr Challoner’s Grammar School and the Secretary of State for
Education. The Headteacher is also responsible for reporting to the Governing Body any material
weaknesses or breakdowns in internal control.

Governance

The information on governance included here supplements that described in the trustees’ report and in
the statement of trustees’ responsibilities. The board of trustees (full governing body) has formally met
4 times during the year. The Full Governing Body carries out a review of the governance framework
on an annual basis. Attendance during the year at meetings of the board of trustees was as follows:

re
Trustee possible

The following trustee movements had no adverse impact on the operation of the board of trustees:

e Appointments: There were no new appointments made during the year. Reappointments
made during the year were Mr Leon Glenister (31 October 2024), Ms Stephanie Hyde (27
February 2024), and Mr Jonathan Pearson (27 February 2024).

e Resignations: Mr Andrew Atkinson and Ms Gabriella Grant resigned as staff governors at the

end of 31 August 2024 but were in post for the whole of 2023-24.

Meetings Attended

29|Page

Board of Trustees Assessment of Own Performance, Challenges Faced and the Effective
Scrutiny of Data Provided by Key Management Personnel

In discharging its duties the Full Governing Body has particular regard to assessing its own
effectiveness including reflecting on key challenges faced and ensuring that the data presented to it by
key management personnel, upon which it bases its decisions is complete and robust.

The Full Governing Body continually reviews the skill sets to identify whether there are any skills gaps
that if filled could add further value to the governance of the Academy. At the point that a Trustee
leaves, this skills gap is assessed and used to inform the appointment of any replacement Trustee.

Having the appropriate skills on the Full Governing Body enables it to effectively challenge key
management personnel regarding the running of the school. The Full Governing Body review the
outcomes of key decision made to ensure that the outcome is as intended.

Good examples for 2023-24 regarding ensuring it has the skills to carry out its functions include the
work of the Development Governor who introduced of a governors training strategy and ensured that
all governors undertook a self-assessment exercise against a governors competency framework to
identify training needs.

The detailed scrutiny of data presented to the Full Governing Body (be that financial data or data related
to teaching and learning), is carried out at both specific committee level and, where appropriate an
individual governor may be charged with carrying out work on behalf of that committee to provide the
relevant assurance to that committee. The role of the responsible officer is a key example of this.
Further to this, management data presented to the committee is reconciled at points during the year to
statutory sources (e.g. to audited statement of accounts or national school performance data). In
addition to receiving reports from key management personnel the Trustees regularly attend parent
consultation evenings so that they can hear of any issues directly from parents, students and teachers.

Using the above methodologies, the Full Governing Body continues to conclude that it remains a
reflective and effective vehicle for the trustees to exercise their governance responsibilities.

Managing Conflicts of Interest:

The Academy manages the potential conflict of interest by maintaining and publishing on its website a
register of pecuniary interests of all trustees and members. Trustees and members are also asked to
declare any interests at each meeting insofar as they pertain to business being discussed to ensure
that no unnecessary conflicts arise.

Below trustee level and following a recommendation made by the Responsible Officer any member of
staff that requests that a new supplier is set up on the finance system against which purchase orders
may be raised is asked to sign a declaration confirming that neither they, a member of their family nor
a member of their household will directly benefit from the school using the proposed supplier before this
is set up on the system.

Role of the Finance, Audit and Risk Committee

The Finance, Audit and Risk Committee is a sub-committee of the main board of trustees. Its main
purposes are:

1. To analyse and review the financial risks and opportunities in the medium and longer term for
the Academy and advise the Full Governing Body on their potential implications and potential
responses.

2. Toprepare and recommend the annual financial plan, for ratification by the full Governing Body,
having taken account of the priorities determined by other committees and set down in the
School Improvement Plan.

3. To have authority to approve any virements made by the Chief Financial and Strategy Officer
and Headteacher up to values outlined in Financial Regulations.

4. To have authority to agree the use of any planned carry forward having regard to the priorities
established in the School Improvement Plan within limits outlined in Financial Regulations.

30|Page

5. To receive and review budget monitoring reports from the Chief Financial and Strategy Officer.
The report should show:
a. actual and committed spend against budget
b. outturn forecast
c. any recommended corrective/remedial action where significant variances from planned
d. income/expenditure arise.
e. any virements for authorisation
The Committee will report back any such virements to the Full Governing Body
6. To review the corporate risk register on an annual basis and recommend to the Full Governing
Body the areas of internal scrutiny review to be carried out, together with the work to be carried
out by the Responsible Officer
7. Toreceive reports from the Responsible Officer and any other person carrying out risk reviews
identified by the FGB. Reports should reflect the scope of works as outlined in the Financia
Regulations and as the committee requests. :
8. To arrange for an audit/independent examination of the academy accounts and any subsidiary
accounts, in line with regulatory timetables.
9. To ensure, if appropriate, that the Academy and any associated entities are registered with the
appropriate regulatory bodies (e.g. the Charity Commission, Companies House).
10. To confirm annually the authorised signatories for the academy's banking transactions.
11. To ensure that the latest Financial Regulations are followed carefully within school and that any
recommendations from the auditors or the Responsible Officer are considered.
12. To review and approve policies in accordance with the policy schedule
13. To review annually the Financial Regulations and recommend to the Full Governing Body for
approval. When recommending the Financial Regulations, the committee will have specific
regard to the level of financial authority to be delegated to the Headteacher for the day-to-day
management of the school
14. To review on an annual basis all contracts with a lifetime value of greater than £100,000 that
the school has entered into
15. To receive confirmation that the Chair of Governors, Chair of the Finance Committee and
Headteacher are monitoring finances by receiving monthly reports from the Chief Financial and
Strategy Officer

The committee members, together with attendance at meetings during the year was as follows:

Meetings Attended Out of a possible
Mr David Atkinson
Ms Alyson Coates

Or Budgie Dhanda
Mrs Stephanie Hyde
Mr Jonathan Pearson

Review of Value for Money

As accounting officer, the Headteacher has responsibility for ensuring that the academy trust delivers
good value in the use of public resources. The Headteacher understands that value for money refers
to the educational and wider societal outcome, as well as estates safety and management, achieved in
return for the taxpayer resources received.

The Headteacher considers how the Trust's use of its resources has provided good value for money
during each academic year, and reports to the board of trustees where value for money can be
improved, including the use of benchmarking data where appropriate. The Headteacher for the
academy trust has delivered improved value for money during the year as can be demonstrated by
ensuring that the Academy's cost base continued to be delivered on budget whilst securing excellent
exam results for students and making significant improvements to the school site.

In addition, the school’s proactive approach in planning in the area of maintaining site safety include
during 2023-24:
« The undertaking of the 5 year electrical condition survey across the school site

31|Page


¢ The school's initial considerations to the DFE April 2024 publication “Protective security and
preparedness for education settings (with further work planned for 2024-25)

The Purpose of the System of Internal Control

The system of internal control is designed to manage risk to a reasonable level rather than to eliminate
all risk of failure to achieve policies, aims and objectives; it can therefore only provide reasonable and
not absolute assurance of effectiveness.

The system of internal control is based on an ongoing process designed to identify and prioritise the
risks to the achievement of the school's policies aims and objectives, to evaluate the likelihood of those
risks being realised, the impact should they be realised, and to manage them efficiently, effectively and
economically.

The system of internal control has been in place in Dr Challoner’s Grammar School for the whole year
ended 31 August 2024 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.

Capacity to Handle Risk

The board of trustees has reviewed the key risks to which Dr Chalioner’s Grammar School is exposed
together with the operating, financial and compliance controls that have been implemented to mitigate
those risks. The board of trustees is of the view that there is a formal on-going process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the Academy's significant risks that has been in place for the period 1
September 2023 — 31 August 2024 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial
statements.

Throughout the year, where risks are identified, these are discussed at weekly senior management
meetings. Where significant, these are brought to the trustees’ attention via the various committees
and actions agreed. The process is regularly reviewed by the board of trustees.

The Risk and Control Framework

The School's system of internal financial control is based on a framework of regular management
information and administrative procedures including the segregation of duties and a system of
delegation and accountability. In particular it includes:

¢ Comprehensive budgeting and monitoring systems with an annual budget and periodic financial

reports which are reviewed and agreed by the board of trustees

e Regular reviews by the finance audit and risk committee of reports that indicate financial
performance against the forecasts and of major purchase plans, capital works and expenditure
programmes.
Setting targets to measure financial performance;
Clearly defined purchasing (asset purchase or capital investment) guidelines
Delegation of authority and segregation of duties;
Identification and management of risks

Internal Scrutiny Reviews and the Role of the Responsible Officer

The board of trustees have considered the need for a specific internal audit function and have decided
not to appoint an internal auditor. However, the board of trustees have appointed a trustee (Mr Jonathan
Pearson) to act as Responsible Officer (RO).

The RO's role includes giving advice on financial matters and performing a range of checks on the
Academy’s financial systems.

The checks carried out in the current period included but were not limited to:
testing of payroll systems

testing of purchasing systems

testing of income systems

testing of contro! account / bank reconciliations

32|Page

On a termly basis the RO reports to the finance, audit and risk committee on the operation of the
systems of control and on the discharge of the governing body's financial responsibilities as per his
planned schedule of works.

The RO may be asked to look at specific risks on the corporate risk register and report findings on these
items to the Finance, Audit and Risk Committee. . During this year no such review was required as these
were carried out via other means. .

During 2023-24 the Academy replaced its main accounting system, moving from Civia’s Res 32000 to
Hoge. Given the importance of this change, in addition to the Finance Audit and Risk Committee asking
the for the interim audit visit to look at the migration of balances and transactions from the old system
to the new, the RO was also asked to review the project methodology, to provide additional assurance
to the Full Governing Body that the migration was carried out in an effective manner

No significant issues have been identified from the work of the Responsible Officer.
Review of effectiveness

As Accounting Officer, the Headteacher has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the system
of internal control. During the year in question the review has been informed by:

The work of the Responsible Officer

The work of regarding Internal Scrutiny reviewed by the Finance, Audit and Risk Committee
The work of the Finance, Audit and Risk Committee

The work of the external auditor

The work of the Leadership Group who have responsibility for the development and
maintenance of the internal control framework.

« Areview of the agenda and minutes of full governing body and committee minutes

eoeeee

The Accounting Officer has been advised of the implications of the result of their review of the system
of internal control and, where relevant, plans to address weaknesses and ensure continuous
improvement of the system are in place.

Conclusion
Based on the advice of the audit and risk committee and the accounting officer, the board of trustees is

of the opinion that the academy trust has an adequate and effective framework for governance, risk
management and control.

Approved by order of the members of the board of trustees and signed on its behalf by:

Paul Serkis David Atkinson
Mr Paul Serkis Mr David Atkinson

Trustee : Accounting Officer
07/11/2024

33 |Page

STATEMENT ON REGULARITY, PROPRIETY AND COMPLIANCE

As accounting officer of Dr Challoner’s Grammar School Academy Trust | have considered my
responsibility to notify the academy trust board of trustees and the Education and Skills Funding
Agency (ESFA) of material irregularity, impropriety and non-compliance with terms and conditions of
all funding, including for estates safety and management, under the funding agreement received by
the academy trust, under the funding agreement in place between the academy trust and the
Secretary of State for Education. As part of my consideration | have had due regard to the
requirements of the Academy Trust Handbook 2023, including responsibilities for estates safety and
management.

| confirm that | and the academy trust board of trustees are able to identify any material irregular or
improper use of all funds by the academy trust, or material non-compliance with the terms and
conditions of funding under the academy trust's funding agreement and the Academy Trust Handbook
2023.

| confirm that no instances of material irregularity, impropriety or funding non-compliance have been

discovered to date. If any instances are identified after the date of this statement, these will be notified
to the board of trustees and ESFA.

david Atkinson

Mr David Atkinson
Accounting Officer

08/11/2024

34|Page

STATEMENT OF TRUSTEES’ RESPONSIBILITIES

The trustees (who act as governors of Dr Challoner’s Grammar School and are also the directors of the
charitable company for the purposes of company law) are responsible for preparing the Trustees’
Report and the financial statements in accordance with the Annual Accounts Direction published by the
Education and Skills Funding Agency, United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) and applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the trustees to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under
company law the trustees must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the charitable company and of its incoming resources
and application of resources, including its income’ and expenditure, for that period. In preparing these
financial statements, the trustees are required to:

e select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

© observe the methods and principles in the Charities SORP 2019 and the Academies Accounts
Direction 2023 to 2024;
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

e prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to
presume that the charitable company will continue in business.

The trustees are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and
explain the charitable company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the charitable company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
charitable company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud
and other irregularities.

The trustees are responsible for ensuring that in its conduct and operation the charitable company
applies financial and other controls, which conform with the requirements both of propriety and of good
financial management. They are also responsible for ensuring grants received from ESFA/DfE have
been applied for the purposes intended.

The trustees are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information
included on the charitable company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Approved by order of the members of the board of trustees and signed on its behalf by:
Paut Sorkis

Mr Paul Serkis
Trustee

07/11/2024

35|Page

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS TO
THE MEMBERS OF DR CHALLONER’S GRAMMAR SCHOOL

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Dr Challoner’s Grammar School (the 'academy’) for the
year ended 31 August 2024 which comprise the Statement of financial activities, the Balance sheet,
the Statement of cash flows and the related notes, including a summary of significant accounting
policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law,
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice),
including Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK
and Republic of Ireland’, the Charities SORP 2019 and the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to
2024 issued by the Education and Skills Funding Agency.

In our opinion the financial statements:

e give a true and fair view of the state of the academy's affairs as at 31 August 2024 and of its
incoming resources and application of resources, including its income and expenditure for the
year then ended;

« have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice; and

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the
Charities SORP 2019 and the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024 issued by the
Education and Skills Funding Agency.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of
the academy in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial
statements in the United Kingdom, including the Financial Reporting Council's Ethical Standard, and
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe
that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the trustees’ use of the going concern
basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to
events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the academy's
ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial
statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the trustees with respect to going concern are
described in the relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the Annual report other than the financial
statements and our Auditors’ report thereon. The trustees are responsible for the other information
contained within the Annual report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other
information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon. Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing
so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or
our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If
we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to
determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves.

36|Page


If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this
other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

* the information given in the Trustees' report for the financial year for which the financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
« the Trustees' report has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of our knowledge and understanding of the academy and its environment obtained in the
course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Trustees’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act
2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

« adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not
been received from branches not visited by us; or
the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of trustees' remuneration specified by law are not made; or
we have not received ail the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of trustees

As explained more fully in the Statement of trustees' responsibilities, the trustees (who are also the
directors of the academy for the purposes of company law) are responsible for the preparation of the
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal
control as the trustees determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the trustees are responsible for assessing the academy's ability
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using
the going concern basis of accounting unless the trustees either intend to liquidate the academy or to
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors’ report
that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee
that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users
taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in
respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting
irregularities, including fraud is detailed below:

We considered the nature of the industry and its control environment, and reviewed the academy's
documentation of their policies and procedures relating to fraud and compliance with laws and
regulations. We also enquired of management about their own identification and assessment of the
risks of irregularities. We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the
academy's operates in, and identified the key laws and regulations that:

37|Page


e had a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. These included the UK Companies Act and tax legislation; and

e donot have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which may be
fundamental to the charitable company’s ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty.

e We discussed among the audit engagement team regarding the opportunities and incentives
that may exist within the organisation for fraud and how and where fraud might occur in the
financial statements.

In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also required to perform specific procedures to
respond to the risk of management override. In addressing the risk of fraud through management
override of controls, we tested the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments; assessed
whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and
evaluated the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal
course of business.

In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to the risks identified included the following:

e reviewing financial statement disclosures by testing to supporting documentation to assess
compliance with provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct
effect on the financial statements;

¢ performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may
indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud;

e enquiring of management, and external legal counsel concerning actual and potential
litigation and claims, and instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations; and

* reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the
Financial Reporting Council's website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description
forms part of our Auditors’ report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the academy's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
academy's members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors’ report and for no
other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to
anyone other than the academy and its members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for
the opinions we have formed.

Jake Lew

Jake Lew (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of

BKL Audit LLP
Chartered Accountants
Statutory Auditors

35 Ballards Lane
London

N3 1XW

08/11/2024

38|Page


INDEPENDENT REPORTING ACCOUNTANTS’ ASSURANCE REPORT ON
REGULARITY TO DR CHALLONER’S GRAMMAR SCHOOL AND THE
EDUCATION AND SKILLS FUNDING AGENCY

In accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated 2 August 2023 and further to the
requirements of the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) as included in the Academies
Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024, we have carried out an engagement to obtain limited assurance
about whether the expenditure disbursed and income received by Dr Challoner’s Grammar School
during the year 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 have been applied to the purposes identified by
Parliament and the financial transactions conform to the authorities which govern them.

This report is made solely to Dr Challoner’s Grammar School and the ESFA in accordance with the
terms of our engagement letter. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to Dr
Challoner’s Grammar School and the ESFA those matters we are required to state in a report and for
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to
anyone other than Dr Challoner’s Grammar School and the ESFA, for our work, for this report, or for
the conclusion we have formed.

RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DR CHALLONER’S GRAMMAR SCHOOL'S ACCOUNTING
OFFICER AND THE REPORTING ACCOUNTANT

The Accounting Officer is responsible, under the requirements of Dr Challoner’s Grammar School's
funding agreement with the Secretary of State for Education dated 25 May 2012, and the Academies
Financial Handbook extant from 1 September 2023, for ensuring that expenditure disbursed and
income received is applied for the purposes intended by Parliament and the financial transactions
conform to the authorities which govern them.

Our responsibilities for this engagement are established in the United Kingdom by our profession's
ethical guidance and are to obtain limited assurance and report in accordance with our engagement
letter and the requirements of the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024. We report to you
whether anything has come to our attention in carrying out our work which suggests that in all material
respects, expenditure disbursed and income received during the year 1 September 2023 to 31 August
2024 have not been applied to purposes intended by Parliament or that the financial transactions do
not conform to the authorities which govern them.

APPROACH

We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Framework and Guide for External Auditors
and Reporting Accountant of Academy Trusts issued by ESFA. We performed a limited assurance
engagement as defined in our engagement letter.

The objective of a limited assurance engagement is to perform such procedures as to obtain
information and explanations in order to provide us with sufficient appropriate evidence to express a
negative conclusion on regularity.

A limited assurance engagement is more limited in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement
and consequently does not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all
significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we
do not express a positive opinion.

Our engagement includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the regularity and
propriety of the academy's income and expenditure.

The work undertaken to draw to our conclusion includes:

¢ review of management reporting documents;

e review of Trustees/Governors meeting minutes;

¢ consideration of whether any personal benefit has been derived from the Academy Trust's
transactions by staff or related parties;

39|Page


¢ consideration of the Academies Trust Handbook regularity requirements and related
documents; and
e review of internal controls.

CONCLUSION
In the course of our work, nothing has come to our attention which suggests that in all material
respects the expenditure disbursed and income received during the year 1 September 2023 to 31

August 2024 have not been applied to purposes intended by Parliament and the financial transactions
do not conform to the authorities which govern them.

BAL Mud LLP

Reporting Accountant

BKL Audit LLP
Chartered Accountants
Statutory Auditors

35 Ballards Lane

London
N3 1XW

08/11/2024

40|Page


STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES
(including income and expenditure account)

Restricted
Unrestricted Restricted Fixed Asset Yearto31 Year to 31
Funds General Funds Funds Aug 2024 = Aug 2023
Note £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Income and endowments from
Donations and Capital Grants 3 £0 £28 £75 £103 £335
Other Trading Activities > 5 £120 £0 £0 £120 £89
Investments 6 £41 £0 - £0 £41 £12
Charitable Activities:
- Funding for the Academy Trust's
Educational Operations 4 £357 — £9,344 £0 £9,701 £9,344
Teaching School Activities 4 £510 £528 £0 £1,038 £927
Total 17 £1,028 £9,900 £75 £11,003 £10,707
Expenditure On
Raising Funds 7 £16 £171 £17 £204 £189
Charitable activities
Academy Trust's educational

operations 8 £203 £9,236 £320 £9,759 £9,258
Teaching Schools 7 £402 £528 £0 £930 £887
Total 17 £621 £9,935 £337 £10,893 £10,334
Net Income / (Expenditure) £407 £35 £262 £110 £373
Transfers between funds 17 -£214 £102 £112 £0 £0
Net movement in resources
before other recognised gains : .
and losses £193 £67 £150 £110 £373
Other recognised (losses) /
gains
Actuarial (losses) / gains on
defined benefit pension schemes 17,27 £0 £79 £0 £79 £830
Other recognised (losses) / gains £0 £0 £0 £0 £0
Net Movement in Funds £193 £146 £150 £189 £1,203
Reconciliation of Funds
Total funds brought forward 17 £676 -£137 £18,736 £19,275 £18,072
Total funds carried forward 17 £869 £9 £18,586 £19,464 £19,275

Further details regarding prior year comparatives (including the split between unrestricted and
restricted funds) can be found in notes 3-8 of the accounts.

41|Page

BALANCE SHEET as at 31 August 2024

Fixed Assets
Tangible Assets

Current assets
Investments

Stock

Debtors

Cash in bank and in hand

Current Liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

Net Current Assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Net assets excluding pension asset / liability
Pension scheme asset / (liability)
Total Net Assets

Funds of the Academy Trust:
Restricted funds
Restricted fixed asset fund
Restricted general fund
Pension Reserve

Unrestricted Funds
General Fund

Total Funds

Note

13

14

15

16

27

17

17

Company number: 07451811

£18,586

£527

£0
£664
£732

31-Aug-24 31-Aug-23

£000

£000

£18,736

£18,586 £18,736

£1,923

-£1,045

£1,045

£252
£0
£498
£856
£1,606

-£920
£920

£878 £686

£19,464 £19,422

£19,464 £19,422

£0 -£147

£19,464 £19,275

£18,595

£869

£869

£18,736
£10
-£147
£18,599

£676
£676

£19,464 £19,275

The financial statements on pages 41 to 74 were approved by Trustees and authorised for issue and
are signed on their behalf by Mr Paul Serkis, Trustee.

Paul Serkis

Mr Paul Serkis
Trustee

07/11/2024

42|Page


STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities

Change in cash and cash equivalents in the reporting period

Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 September 2023
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 August 2024

Notes

21

22

24

2024

. £000

-£53
-£71
£0
£124

£856
£732

2023

£000
-£68
-£364
£0
£432

£1,288
£856

43|Page

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 Principal Accounting Policies

A summary of the principal accounting policies, (which have been applied consistently, except where
noted), judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty is set out below.

411 Basis of preparation

The financial statements of the academy trust, which is a public benefit entity as defined under FRS
102, have been prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with the Financial
Reporting Standard Applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS102), the Accounting and
Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their
accounts in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of
Ireland (FRS 102) (Charities SORP 2019 (FRS102)), the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024
issued by ESFA, the Charities Act 2011 and the Companies Act 2006.

1.2 Going Concern

The trustees assess whether the use of going concern is appropriate i.e. whether there are any material
uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the company
to continue as a going concern. The trustees make this assessment in respect of a period of at least
one year from the date of authorisation for issue of the financial statements and have concluded that
the academy trust has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future and there are no material uncertainties about the academy trust's ability to continue as a going
concern, thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial
statements.

1.3 Income

All incoming resources are recognised when the academy trust has entitlement to the funds, the receipt
is probable and the amount can be measured reliably.

1.3.1. Grants

Grants are included in the Statement of Financial Activities on a receivable basis. The balance
of income received for specific purposes but not expended during the period is shown in the
relevant funds on the balance sheet. Where income is received in advance of meeting any
performance-related conditions there is not unconditional entitlement to the income and its
recognition is deferred and included in creditors as deferred income until the performance-
related conditions are met. Where entitlement occurs before income is received, the income is
accrued.

General Annual Grant is recognised in full in the Statement of Financial Activities in the year
for which it is receivable and any abatement in respect of the period is deducted from income
and recognised as a liability.

Capital grants are recognised in full when there is an unconditional entitlement to the grant.
Unspent amounts of capital grant are reflected in the balance in the restricted fixed asset fund.
Capital grants are recognised when there is entitlement and are not deferred over the life of the
asset on which they are expended.

1.3.2. Donations

Donations are recognised on a receivable basis (where there are no performance-related
conditions) where the receipt is probable and the amount can be reliably measured.

44|Page

1.3.3 Other income

Other income, including the hire of facilities, is recognised in the period it is receivable and to
the extent the academy trust has provided the goods or services.

1.3.4 Donated goods, facilities and services

Goods donated for resale are included at fair value, being the expected proceeds from sale
less the expected cost of sale. If it is practical to recognise the fair value at receipt, it is
recognised in stock and “Income from other trading activities’. Upon sale, the value of the stock
is charged against “Income from other trading activities’ and the proceeds are recognised as
“income from other trading activities’. Where it is impractical to fair value the items due to the
volume of low value items they are not recognised in the financial statements until they are
sold. This income is recognised within “Income from other trading activities”.

1.3.5 Donated fixed assets

Where the donated good is a fixed asset it is measured at fair value unless, unless it is
impractical to measure this reliably in which case the cost of the item to the donor should be
used. The gain is recognised as income from donations and a corresponding amount is
included in the appropriate fixed asset category and depreciated over the useful economic life
in accordance with the academy trust's accounting policies.

1.4 Expenditure

Expenditure is recognised once there is a legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic benefit
to a third party, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required in settlement and the
amount of the obligation can be measured reliably. Expenditure is classified by activity. The costs of
each activity are made up of the total of direct costs and shared costs, including support costs involved
in undertaking each activity. Direct costs attributable to a single activity are allocated directly to that
activity. Shared costs which contribute to more than one activity and support costs which are not
attributable to a single activity are apportioned between those activities on a basis consistent with the
use of resources. Central staff costs are allocated on the basis of time spent, and depreciation charges
allocated on the portion of the asset's use.

1.4.1. Expenditure on raising funds

This includes all expenditure incurred by the academy trust to raise funds for its charitable
purposes and includes costs of all fundraising activities events and non-charitable trading.

1.4.2. Charitable activities
These are costs incurred on the academy trust's educational operations, including support
costs and costs relating to the governance of the academy trust apportioned to charitable
activities.

All resources expended are inclusive of irrecoverable VAT.

1.5 Tangible fixed assets

1.5.1 Recognition:

Assets costing £2,000 or more are capitalised as tangible fixed assets and are carried at cost,
net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.

For clarification, where the academy makes bulk purchases of similar items that meet the
definition of capital expenditure and individually are below the capitalisation threshold but
collectively amount to more than the capitalisation threshold these are capitalised in the year
of acquisition.

45|Page

1.5.2 Funding:

Where tangible fixed assets have been acquired with the aid of specific grants, either from the
government or from the private sector, they are included in the Balance Sheet at cost and
depreciated over their expected useful economic life.

Where there are specific conditions attached to the funding requiring the continued use of the
asset, the related grants are credited to a restricted fixed asset fund in the Statement of
Financial Activities and carried forward in the Balance Sheet. Depreciation on the relevant
assets is charged directly to the restricted fixed asset fund in the Statement of Financial
Activities. Where tangible fixed assets have been acquired with unrestricted funds, depreciation
on such assets is charged to the unrestricted fund.

1.5.3 Depreciation:
Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets other than freehold land and assets under

construction, at rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight line basis over
its expected economic life as follows:

Freehold buildings 2%
Furniture and equipment 20%
Motor Vehicles 20%
Computer equipment and software 33.33%

Depreciation is not charged in the year of acquisition but is charged in the year of disposal.

Assets in the course of construction are included at cost. Depreciation on these assets is not
charged until they are brought into use.

1.5.4 Impairment:
A review for impairment of a fixed asset is carried out if events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of any fixed asset may not be recoverable. Shortfalls between
the carrying value of fixed assets and their recoverable amounts are recognised as
impairments. Impairment losses are recognised in the Statement of Financial activities.

1.6 Debtors

Trade and other debtors are recognised at the settlement amount after any trade discount offered.
Prepayments are valued at the amount prepaid net of any trade discounts due.

1.7 Cash at bank and in hand

Cash at bank and in hand includes cash and short-term highly liquid investments with a short maturity
of three months or less from the date of acquisition or opening of the deposit or similar account.

1.8 Liabilities

Liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation at the balance sheet date as a result of a past
event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be required in settlement, and the amount
of the settlement can be estimated reliably. Liabilities are recognised at the amount that the academy
trust anticipates it will pay to settle the debt or the amount it has received as advanced payments for
the goods of services it must provide.

1.9 Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the academy trust has an obligation at the reporting date as a result of

a past event which it is probable will result in the transfer of economic benefits and the obligation can
be estimated reliably.

46|Page

Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the amounts required to settle the obligation. Where
the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is based on the present value of those
amounts, discounted at the pre-tax discount rate that reflects the risks specific to the liability, The
unwinding of the discount is recognised within interest payable and similar charges.

1.10 Leased assets
Rents under operating leases are charged on a straight line basis over the lease term.
1.11 Investments

The academy invested part of its cash into a 95-day notice deposit account. As a simple financial
instrument this is valued at book value.

1.12 Financial Instruments

The academy trust only holds basic financial instruments as defined in FRS 102. The financial assets
and financial liabilities of the academy trust and their measurement basis are as follows:

e Financial assets — trade and other debtors are basic financial instruments and are debt
instruments measured at amortised cost as detailed in note 15. Prepayments are not financial
instruments.

Cash at bank — is classified as a basic financial instrument and is measured at face value.
Financial liabilities — trade creditors, accruals and other creditors are financial instruments, and
are measured at amortised cost as detailed in note 16 . Taxation and social security are not
included in the financial instruments disclosure definition. Deferred income is not deemed to be
a financial liability, as the cash settlement has already taken place and there is an obligation to
deliver services rather than cash or another financial instrument.

1.13. Stock
The Academy holds no stock.
1.14 Taxation

Dr Challoner’s Grammar School is considered to pass the tests set out in Paragraph 1 Schedule 6 of
the Finance Act 2010 and therefore meets the definition of a charitable company for UK corporation tax
purposes. Accordingly, the Academy is potentially exempt from taxation in respect of income or capital
gains received within the categories covered by Part 11, Chapter 3 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 or
Section 256 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992, to the extent that income or gains are
applied exclusively to charitable purposes.

1.15 Pensions

Retirement benefits to employees of the Academy are provided by the Teachers’ Pension Scheme
("TPS") and the Local Government Pension Scheme ("LGPS"). These are defined benefits schemes

1.15.1 Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS)

The TPS is an unfunded scheme and contributions are calculated so as to spread the cost of
pensions over employees’ working lives with the academy trust in such a way that the pension
cost is a substantially level percentage of current and future pensionable payroll. The
contributions are determined by the Government Actuary on the basis of quadrennial valuations
using a prospective unit credit method. As stated in note 27, the TPS is an unfunded multi-
employer scheme with no underlying assets to assign between employers. The TPS is
therefore treated as a defined contribution scheme for accounting purposes and the
contributions recognised in the period to which they relate.

47|Page

1.15.2 Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS)

The LGPS is a funded scheme and the assets are held separately from those of the academy
trust in separate trustee administered funds. Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value
and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and
discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of
equivalent term and currency to the liabilities. The actuarial valuations are obtained at least
triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date. The amounts charged to operating
surplus are the current service costs and the costs of scheme introductions, benefit changes,
settlements and curtailments. They are included as part of staff costs as incurred. Net interest
on the net defined benefit liability/asset is also recognised in the Statement of Financial
Activities and comprises the interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and interest income
on the scheme assets, calculated by multiplying the fair value of the scheme assets at the
beginning of the period by the rate used to discount the benefit obligations. The difference
between the interest income on the scheme assets and the actual return on the scheme assets
is recognised in other recognised gains and losses.

Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other gains and losses.
1.16 Fund Accounting
1.16.1 Unrestricted Funds

Unrestricted Funds represent those resources which may be used towards meeting any of the
charitable objectives of the Academy at the discretion of the trustees.

1.16.2 Restricted Fixed Asset Funds

Restricted fixed asset funds are resources which are to be applied to specific capital purposes
imposed by funders where the asset acquired or created is held for a specific purpose.

1.16.3 Restricted Pension Reserve
The Restricted Pension Reserve is the value of the local government pension scheme deficit.
1.16.4 Restricted General Funds

Restricted General Funds comprise all other restricted funds received with restrictions imposed
by the funder / donor and include grants from the Education and Skills Funding Agency
(“ESFA”)

1.17 Critical Accounting Estimates and Areas of Judgement

Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other
factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances.

The academy trust makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting
estimates and assumptions will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates
and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.

The present value of the Local Government Pension Scheme defined benefit liability depends on a
number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a variety of assumptions. The
assumptions used in determining the net cost (income) for pensions include the discount rate. Any
changes in these assumptions, which are disclosed in note 27, will impact the carrying amount of the
pension liability. Furthermore a roll forward approach which projects results from the latest full actuarial
valuation performed at 31 March 2023 has been used by the actuary in valuing the pensions liability at
31 August 2024. Any differences between the figures derived from the roll forward approach and a full
actuarial valuation would impact on the carrying amount of the pension liability.

48|Page


The LGPS pension scheme shows a net surplus position. FRS102 section 28.22 states that a surplus
can be recognised as a defined benefit plan asset only to the extent that an entity is able to recover the
surplus, either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the plan. Due to the
lack of detail on how to interpret this statement, the trust has chosen to follow FRS102 section 10.6 and
look to the requirements of IFRS, in particular FRIC14 which sets out more details.

However, no additional liability is considered in line with FRS102 section 28.15A. For the purposes of
accounting for the surplus, the trust does not consider that it has a right to a refund due to its ongoing
participation in the LGPS. The trust also considers that its commitment to make contributions to the
LGPS constitutes a minimum funding requirement, both for the period of the current Rates and
Adjustments Certificate and beyond that. The actuary has calculated the economic value from a
reduction in contributions as the present value of the service cost less the present value of primary
contributions at the prevailing rate, over an indefinite period. This economic value is calculated to be
zero, meaning that no net pension asset is recognised.

1.18 Agency Funds and Income and Expenditure
The academy trust acts as an agent in the following areas:

« Disbursing 16-19 bursary funds from ESFA. Payments received from ESFA and subsequent
disbursements to students are excluded from the statement of financial activities as the trust
does not have control over the charitable application of the funds. The trust can use up to 5%
of the allocation towards its own administration costs and this is recognised in the statement of
financial activities. :

« Disbursing salary grants to partner schools and bursaries to trainees on the Astra SCITT course
as the trust does not have control over the charitable application of the funds.

« Other items of pass through costs including the collection of exam remark fees from parents to
pass across to exam boards.

Where a balance of such funds is held at the end of the year this is shown as a receipt in advance
(creditor) on the balance sheet.

2 General Annual Grant (“GAG”)
The Academy entered into an updated Funding Agreement with the Secretary of State on 30 June 2022.

Under this funding the academy trust was not subject to limits at 31 August 2024 on the amount of GAG
that could be carried forward from one year to the next.

49|Page


3 Donations and Capital Grants

Restricted
Fixed
Unrestricted Restricted Asset
Funds Funds Funds 31-Aug-24 31-Aug-23
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Capital Grants £0 £0 £30 £30 £85
Other Donations £0 £28 £45 £73 £250
£0 £28 £75 £103 £335
2023 Total £0 £74 £261 £335

Prior Year Comparator Information:

Unrestricted

Funds

£000
Capital Grants £0
Other Donations £0
£0
£0

Restricted
Funds
£000

£0
£74
£74

£51

Restricted

Fixed
Asset
Funds
£000
£85
£176
£261

£507

31-Aug-23

31-Aug-22
£000 £000
£85 £29
£250 £529
£335 £558 |
£558

50|Page


4 Funding for the Academy Trust’s Charitable Activities

Restricted
Unrestricted Restricted Fixed Asset
Funds Funds Funds 31-Aug-24 31-Aug-23
. £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Educational Operations:
DfE / ESFA Grants
General Annual Grant (GAG): 11-16 £0 £5,269 £0 £5,269 £5,072
General Annual Grant (GAG): 16-19 £0 £2,781 £0 £2,781 £2,599
Teachers’ Pension Grant £0 £163 £0 £163 £86
Teachers’ Pay Grant £0 £92 £0 £92 £0
Pupil Premium Grant : £0 £26 £0 £26 £30
Maintained Schoo! Additional Grant £0 £179 £0 £179 £75
Supplementary Grant £0 £0 £0 £0 £163
Other DFE / ESFA Grants £0 £65 £0 £65 £71
£0 £8,575 £0 £8,575 £8,096
Other Government and Public Sector
Grants
Local Authority Grants £0 £96 £0 £96 : £87
£0 £8,671 £0 £8,671 £8,183

Other income from the academy trust's
educational operations: Other £357 £673 £0 £1,030 £1,161

£357 £9,344 £0 £9,701 £9,344
Teaching School Hub and SCITT Operations
Teaching Schools Hub Grant £0 £200 £0 £200 £200
Teaching Schools Rec 10 Grant £0 £47 £0 £47 £0
SCITT 2024 Set Up Grant £0 £0 £0 £0 £25
Other DFE Group Grants £0 £281 £0 £281 £239
Other income from the academy trust's
educational operations: Astra £510 £0 £0 £510 £463

£510 £528 £0 £1,038 £927
TOTAL INCOME £867 £9,872 £0 £10,739 £10,271
2023 Total £1,008 £9,263 £0 £10,271

51|Page

Prior Year Comparator Information:

Restricted

Unrestricted —_ Restricted Fixed Asset
Funds Funds Funds 31-Aug-23 31-Aug-22
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
DfE / ESFA Grants
General Annual Grant (GAG) £0 £7,671 £0 £7,671 £7,343
Teachers’ Pension Grant £0 £86 £0 £86 £87
Pupil Premium Grant £0 £30 - £0 £30 £35
Supplementary Grant £0 £163 . £0 £163 £68
Maintained School Additional Grant £0 £75 £0 £75 £0
Other DFE / ESFA Grants £0 £71 £0 £71 £108
£0 £8,096 £0 £8,096 £7,641 |
Other Government and Public Sector ;
Grants
Local Authority Grants £0 £87 £0 £87 £55
£0 £8,183 £0 £8,183 £7,696 |
Other income from the academy trust's
educational operations: Other £306 £855 £0 £1,161 £592
£306 £9,038 £0 £9,344 £8,288 |
Teaching School Hub and SCITT
Teaching Schools Hub Grant £0 £200 £0 £200 £200
SCITT 2024 Set Up Grant £0 £25 £0 £25 £0
Other income from the academy trust's
educational operations: Astra £702 £0 £0 £702 £739
£702 £225 £0 £927 £939 |
. {
TOTAL INCOME £1,008 £9,263 £0 £10,271 £9,227 |
2022 Total £987 £8,240 £0 £9,227
5 Other Trading Activities
Restricted
Fixed
Unrestricted Restricted Asset
Funds Funds Funds 31-Aug-24 31-Aug-23
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Hire of Facilities £76 £0 £0 £76 £59
Other Trading Activities £44 £0 £0 £44 £30
Total £120 £0 £0 £120 £89
2023 Total £89 £0 £0 £89

52|Page


Prior Year Comparator Information:

Restricted
Fixed

Unrestricted Restricted Asset
Funds Funds Funds 31-Aug-23 31-Aug-22
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Hire of Facilities £59 £0 £0 » £59 £55
Other Trading Activities £30 £0 £0 £30 £11
Total £89 £0 £0 £89 £66 |
2022 Total £66 £0 £0 £66
6 Investment Income
Restricted
Fixed
Unrestricted Restricted Asset 31-Aug- 31-Aug-
Funds Funds Funds 24 23
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Investment Income
Interest on Bank Balances £41 £0 £0 £41 £12
£41 £0 £0 £41 £12
2023 Total £12 £0 £0 £12

Prior Year Comparator Information:

Restricted
Fixed
Unrestricted Restricted Asset 31-Aug- 31-Aug-

Funds Funds Funds 23 22

£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Investment Income
Interest on Bank Balances £12 £0 £0 £12 £4

“£12 £0 £0 £12 £4 |

2022 Total £4 £0" £0 £4

53|Page

7 Expenditure

Staff Non Pay
Costs Premises Other 31-Aug-24 = 31-Aug-23
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Expenditure on raising funds £148 £17 £39 £204 £189
Academy's educational operations:
Direct costs £5,802 £252 £448 £6,502 £5,937
Allocated support costs £1,541 £508 £1,208 £3,257 £3,321
Teaching Schools
Direct costs £265 £0 £386 £651 £656
Allocated support costs £198 £0 £81 £279 £231
£7,954 £777 £2,162 £10,893 £10,334
2023 Total £7,502 £702 £2,130 £10,334
Net incoming resources for the period are stated after: 31-Aug-24 31-Aug-23
£000 £000
Depreciation £337 £342
Fees Payable to Auditor:
Audit Fees £5 £5
Other Advice £5 £3
Gain on Disposal of Fixed Assets £0 £1

Included within expenditure are £349 of gifts (2023: £898) made by the Trust.

Prior Year Comparator Information:

Staff

31-Aug-23
£000
£342

Net incoming resources for the period are stated after:

Depreciation
Fees Payable to Auditor:
Audit Fees £5
Other Advice . . £3
Gain on Disposal of Fixed Assets £1

Non Pay

Included within expenditure are £898 of gifts (2022: £277) made, by the_Trust:

Costs Premises Other 31-Aug-23 31-Aug-22
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Expenditure on raising funds £140 £17 £32 £189 £176
Academy's educational operations:
Direct costs £5,274 £256 £407 £5,937 £5,594
Allocated support costs £1,608 £429 £1,284 £3,321 £3,178
Teaching Schools
Direct costs £307 £0 £349 £656 £670
Allocated support costs £173 £0 £58 £231 £228
£7,502 £702 £2,130 £10,334 £9,846 |
2022 Total £7,430 £844 £1,572 £9,846

31-Aug-22
£000
£375

£5
£3
£0

54|Page


8 Charitable Activities

Academy Educational Operations
Direct Costs - Educational Operations
Support Costs - Educational Operations

2023 Total

Astra Hub Operations
Direct Costs - Educational Operations
Support Costs - Educational Operations

2023 Total

Analysis of Support Costs
Support Staff Costs
Depreciation

Technology Costs

Premises Costs

Other Support Costs
Governance Costs

Total Support Costs

2023 Total

Unrestricted Restricted
Funds Funds 31-Aug-24 31-Aug-23
£000 £000 £000 £000
£176 £6,326 £6,502 £5,937
£27 £3,230 £3,257 £3,321
£203 £9,556 £9,759 £9,258
£200 £9,058 £9,258
Unrestricted Restricted
Funds Funds 31-Aug-24 31-Aug-23
£000 £000 £000 £000
£223 £428 £651 £656
£179 £100 £279 £231
£402 £528 £930 £887
£662 £225 £887
Academy
Astra Hub Educational
Operations Operations 31-Aug-24 31-Aug-23
£000 £000 £000 £000
£198 £1,541 £1,739 £1,781
£0 £67 £67 £68
£0 £83 £83 £63
£0 £219 £219 £115
£81 £1,279 £1,360 £1,480
£0 £68 £68 £45
£279 £3,257 £3,536 £3,552
£231 £3,321 £3,552

55|/Page

Prior Year Comparator Information

Unrestricted —_ Restricted

. ' Funds Funds * 31-Aug-23 ~ 31-Aug-22
Academy Educational Operations £000 £000 £000 £000
Direct Costs.- Educational Operations ~ - £167 £5,770 £5,937 £5,594
Support Costs - Educational Operations £33 £3,288 £3,321 £3,177
. £200 £9,058 £9,258 £8,771 |
2022 Total - " . £189 £8,582 £8,771.

Unrestricted —_ Restricted

Funds Funds 31-Aug-23 31-Aug-22
Astra Hub Operations £000 £000 £000 £000
Direct Costs - Educational Operations £431 £225 £656 £670
Support Costs - Educational Operations £231 £0 £231 £228
£662 £225 £887 £898 |
2022 Total £690 £208 £898

Academy
Astra Hub Educational
Operations Operations 31-Aug-23 31-Aug-22
Analysis of Support Costs £000 £000 £000 £000
Support Staff Costs £173 £1,608 £1,781 £2,085
Depreciation £0 £68 £68 £75
Technology Costs £1 £62 £63 £76-
Premises Costs £0 £115 £115 £230
Other Support Costs £57 £1,423 £1,480 £915
Governance Costs £0 £45 £45 £24
Total Support Costs £231 £3,321 £3,552 £3,405 |

£228 £3,177 £3,405 |

2022 Total


9 Staff

9a Staff Costs (to update for pensions)

31-Aug-24 31-Aug-23

£000 £000

Wages and Salaries £5,912 £5,553
Social Security Costs £601 £557
Pension Costs £1,376 £1,369
Other Employee Benefits £0 £0
Apprenticeship Levy £15 £13
: £7,904 £7,492
Agency Staff Costs £20 £0
Staff Restructuring Costs £30 £10
£7,954 £7,502

Staff restructuring costs comprise:
Redundancy Payment £1 £0
Severance Payment £29 £10

The Academy Trust made 1 severance payment in the year in the band: £25K-£50K

Included within severance payment is £22,750 paid to 1 individual that is classified as a special staff
severance payment.

9b Staff Numbers:

The average number of persons (headcount) employed by the academy during the period was as
follows: ,

31-Aug-24 31-Aug-23

No No.
Teachers 88 88
Administration and Support 94 94
Managers 1 12
193 194

The majority of Administrative and Support staff included in the figures above work part time.
9c Higher Paid Staff

The number of employees whose employee benefits (excluding employer pension costs) exceeded
£60,000 was:

31-Aug-24 = 31-Aug-23
£60,001 - £70,000 8 6
£70,001 - £80,000 4 4
£80,001 - £90,000 1 2
£90,001 - £100,000 1 4
£100,001 - £110,000 4
£110,001 - £120,000
£120,001 - £130,000 1
£130,001 - £140,000 “1

57|Page

9d Key Management Personnel

The key management personnel of the academy trust comprise the trustees and the senior managers
as listed on page 3. The total amount of employee benefits (including employer pension contributions
and employer national insurance contributions) received by key management personnel for their
services to the academy trust for the year ended 31 August 2024 was £659K (2023: £729K).

10 Related Party Transactions — Trustees’ remuneration and expenses

One or more trustees has been paid remuneration or has received other benefits from an employment
with the academy trust. The Headteacher and other staff trustees only receive remuneration in respect
of services they provide undertaking the roles of Headteacher and staff under their contract of
employments.

The value of trustees’ remuneration and other benefits for the year ended August 2024 was:

« Mr D Atkinson (Headteacher and trustee):
o Remuneration: £130K - £135K (2023: £120K - £125K)
o Employer's Pension Contribution Paid: £30K-£35K (2023: £25K - £30K)
e MrA Atkinson (staff trustee):
o Remuneration: £45K - £50K (2023: £40K-£45K)
o Employer's Pension Contribution Paid: £10K-£15K (2023: £10K-£15K)
e Mrs G Grant (staff trustee):
o Remuneration: £25K - £30K (2023: £20K-£25K)
o Employer's Pension Contribution Paid: £5K-£10K (2023: £0K-£5K)

During the year ended 31 August 2024, travel and subsistence expenses totalling £1,085 were
reimbursed or paid directly to 3 trustees (2023: £478 to 3 trustees).

11 Trustees’ and Officers’ Insurance

In December 2014 the Academy entered into the Department for Education’s Risk Protection
Arrangement which protects officers and trustees from claims arising from negligent acts, errors or
omissions occurring whilst on academy business. The insurance provides cover of up to £5,000,000
on any one claim. The cost for this cover is not separately identifiable from the RPA charging
mechanism.

12 Intangible Fixed Assets

The academy did not hold any intangible fixed assets at the balance sheet date.


13 Tangible Fixed Assets

Freehold Furniture Assets

Land and and Computer Motor - Under

Buildings Equipment Equipment Vehicles Construction TOTAL

£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000

Cost
As at 1 September 2023 £19,275 £552 £138 £75 £0 £20,040
Additions £0 £147 £40 £0 £0 £187
Disposals £0 -£71 -£39 £0 £0 £110
Transfers £0 £0 £0 £0 £0 £0
At 31 August 2024 £19,275 £628 £139 £75 £0 £20,117
Depreciation
As at 1 September 2023 -£1,019 -£158 -£56 -£71 £0 £1,304
Charged in Year -£177 -£111 -£45 -£4 £0 £337
Disposals £0 £71 £39 £0 £0 £110
Transfers £0 £0 £0 £0 £0 £0
At 31 August 2024 £1,196 £198 £62 475 £0 £1,531
Net Book Value
At 31 August 2024 £18,079 £430 £77 £0 £0 £18,586
As at 1 September 2023 £18,256 £394 £82 £4 £0 £18,736

The value of land disclosed within Freehold Land and Buildings is £10,216K and the value of this asset
is not depreciated.

There were no transactions in in relation to additions to land and buildings and assets under
construction relating to land and buildings during the year.

Prior to conversion, the playing fields and other pieces of land for the school were formally owned by
the governing body of the predecessor school. The academy is the beneficial owner of this land.

Prior to conversion, the footprint of the buildings and other pieces of land for the school was held
pursuant to certain historic charitable trusts. The land was permanent endowment (meaning that the
capital value of the land must be retained and cannot be disposed of — only income from that capital
may be expendable). Permanently endowed property cannot be held by an incorporated charity such
as the Academy.

As such this element of land continues to be “held” by its historic trust (which is not itself a company,
but just a historic type of arrangement for holding charitable assets). The Charity Commission has
created an order that made Dr Challoner’s Grammar School the sole corporate trustee of that Land
Trust.

For legal reasons a lease has been put in place between the Academy (in its role as corporate trustee)
and the Academy (as occupier of the land). For the purpose of these accounts these land and buildings
have been consolidated as freehold land and buildings in the Academy's accounts.

59|Page

Prior Year Comparator Information

Freehold Furniture Assets
woe - Land and and . Computer Motor _Under aed :
Buildings Equipment Equipment Vehicles Construction TOTAL
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
As at 1 September 2022 £18,596 £676 £198 £75 £213 £19,758
Additions £466 £155 £16 £0 £0 £637
Disposals £0 -£279 -£76 £0 £0 £355
Transfers £213 £0 £0 £0 -£213 £0
At 31 August 2023 £19,275 £552 £138 £75 £0 £20,040 {
Depreciation
As at 1 September 2022 “£851 £323 £82 -£62 £0 -£1,318
Charged in Year -£168 -£115 -£50 -£9 £0 £342
Disposals £0 £280 £76 £0 £0 £356
Transfers £0 £0 £0 £0 £0 £0
At 31 August 2023 -£1,019 -£158 -£56 -£71 £0 -£1,304 |
Net Book Value
At 31 August 2023 £18,256 £394 £82 £4 £0 £18,736 |
As_at 1 September 2022 £17,745 £353 £116 £13 £213___ £18,440

Land and Buildings:

Assets under construction:
December 2022
14 Stock

The academy did not carry any stock at the balance sheet date.

The trust's transactions in relation to additions to land and buildings and assets under construction
relating to land and buildings included the following significant transactions:

lo £445K in relation to the completion of phase 1 of the Science Matters project
‘© ©=£21K in relation to the car parking and landscaping works

£213K in relation to phase 2 of the Science Matters project that started in 2021-22 concluded in in

60|Page

15 Debtors

£000 £000
Trade Debtors £147 £111
VAT Debtor £67 £57
Prepayments and accrued
income £450 £330
£664 £498
16 Creditors: Amount falling due within 1 year
31-Aug-24 31-Aug-23
£000 £000
Trade creditors £57 £34
Taxation and Social Security £154 £146
Accruals and Deferred Income £656 £571
Other Creditors £178 £169
£1,045 £920

The accruals / deferred income of £656K constitutes:
Expenditure Accruals: £201K

Deferred income of £455K comprised:
« £281K income received for visits taking place in 2024-25
e £119K income invoiced in relation to SCITT fees for 2024-25
e £53K music fees for lessons taking place in Autumn 2024
e £2K other income received in advance

Deferred Income 2024 2023

£000 £000
Deferred Income at 1 September 2023 £367 £397
Released from previous years -£367 -£397
Resources deferred in the year £455 £367
Deferred Income at 31 August 2024 £455 £367

Prior Year Comparator Information

The accruals / deferred income of £571K constitutes:

Expenditure Accruals: £204K

Deferred income of £367K comprised:
¢ £179K income received for visits taking place in 2023-24
£118K income invoiced in relation to SCITT fees for 2023-24
£45K music fees for lessons taking place in Autumn 2023
£25K other income received in advance

61|Page

17 Funds

Gains Balance
Balance as at Losses as at 31
1 September Incoming Resources and August
2023 Resources Expended Transfers 2024
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Restricted General Funds
DFE / ESFA Grants :
General Annual Grant (GAG): 11-16 £0 £5,269 -£5,371 £102 £0
General Annual Grant (GAG): 16-19 £0 £2,781 -£2,781 £0 £0
Teachers’ Pension Grant £0 £163 -£163 £0 £0
Teachers’ Pay Grant £0 £92 -£92 £0 £0
Pupil Premium Grant £0 £26 £26 ~ £0 £0
Maintained School Additional Grant £0 £179 -£179 £0 £0
Other DFE / EFA Grants £0 £65 -£65 £0 £0
Other Public Sector Grants £0 £96 -£96 £0 £0
Educational Visits Contingency Fund £10 £656 -£657 £0 £9
Other restricted income funds £0 £45 -£45 £0 £0
Astra:
Teaching Schools Grant £0 £200 -£200 £0 £0
Teaching Schools Rec 10 Grant £0 £47 -£47 £0 £0
Other DFE Group Grants £0 £281 -£281 £0 £0
Pension Fund £147 £0 £68 £79 £0
£137 £9,900 £9,935 £181 £9
Restricted Fixed Asset Funds
Donation from predecessor school £10,923 £0 -£18 £0 £10,905
DfE / EFA Capital Grants £1,731 £30 -£48 £0 £1,713
3rd party donations £3,095 £45 -£63 £0 £3,077
Capital expenditure financed from GAG £2,987 £0 -£208 £112 £2,891
£18,736 £75 £337 £112 £18,586
Total Restricted Funds £18,599 £9,975 £10,272 £293 £18,595
Unrestricted Funds
Unrestricted Funds - Earmarked for Teaching
School £84 £510 -£402 -£192 £0
Unrestricted Funds £592 £518 -£219 -£22 £869
Total Unrestricted Funds £676 £1,028 £621 £214 £869
Total Funds £19,275 £11,003 £10,893 £79 £19,464

As outlined in the Trustees’ report the reserves readily available for spend exclude the restricted fixed
asset fund, the pension fund and agency funds held. The reserves readily available for spend at the
end of August 2024 were: £878K (2023: £686K)

Analysis of Restricted General Funds held at 31 August 2024:
General Annual Grant:
This is the main funding the Academy received under its funding agreement with the Secretary of State

for Education. Under the funding agreement with the Secretary of State, the academy trust was not
subject to a limit on the amount of GAG that it could carry forward at 31 August 2024.

62|Page


Astra Restricted Grants

This fund represents transactions in relation to the Astra Business Unit which encompasses all teaching
school activities and the SCITT funded from restricted grant sources. All grant was spent in-year.

Pupil and Service Premium Fund:

At Dr Challoner’s Grammar School we aim to use this funding to narrow the disadvantage gap by
addressing inequalities and raising the attainment of those pupils in low-income families. The Student
Development Office ("SDO") offers a range of services including those that provide support for students
with relatively low prior attainment to help ‘close the gap’. It also provides specific staff time to help
monitor progress and attainment, to help ensure students have every opportunity to access the wider
school curriculum and to support transition planning as the students consider GCSE, A Level and
careers options. :

In addition to this general support, we develop, for those pupils who attract the premium, an individual
funding support package tailored to their needs.

This plan is developed with the active involvement of parents who are asked annually to help the school
identify any specific needs that this funding could help directly support so as to make the biggest impact
for their child in one of the following areas:

«have full access to our curriculum
* access our extra-curricular provision
© improve their levels of attainment and progress

Examples of how this funding has been used include the provision of computer equipment and enabling
pupils to attend an enriching educational visit.

The fund has been set up so that it is possible that all the funding is spent directly on individual plans. In
this instance the funding of the SDO staffing time will be financed by the school’s general reserves. This
provides us with the most flexibility to meet our most disadvantaged student's needs.

Educational Visits Contingency Fund (“EVCF”)

The cost of each visit has a budget. The voluntary contribution from parents is based on the premise
that each visit’s costs will match exactly to the budget. Whilst most trips come in on budget there will
always be some that vary. Where costs are not as great as anticipated and small surpluses occur, these
are transferred to this fund. (Where large surpluses occur on an individual trip the surplus is refunded
to the parent and not transferred to the EVCF). For visits ran in 2023-24 there was a £1K use of this
this fund (2023: £2K use of this fund).

The EVCF is primarily used to fund any small unavoidable overspends on those trips whose costs
slightly exceed budget. It can also be used in relation to miscellaneous expenditure relating to
educational visits generally and for making contributions or remitting charges in relation to the cost of a
visit as outlined in the Charging and Remissions Policy.

Pension Fund

This reserve represents the surplus or deficit in relation to the local government pension scheme. Note
27 contains more details.

63|Page

Comparative information in respect of the preceding period is as follows:

Gains Balance
Balance as at Losses as at 31
‘1 September Incoming Resources and August
2022 Resources Expended Transfers 2023
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Restricted General Funds
General Annual Grant (GAG) ; £0 £7,671 -£7,354 -£317 £0
Astra Restricted Grants £0 £225 £225 £0 £0
Teachers' Pension Grant £0 £86 -£86 £0 £0
Pupil and Service Premium Fund £0 £30 -£30 £0 £0
Other DFE / ESFA Grants £0 £309 -£309 £0 £0
Other Public Sector Grants £0 £87 -£87 £0 £0
Educational Visits Contingency Fund £12 £827 -£829 £0 £10
Pension Fund -£881 £0 -£96 £830 -£147
Other Restricted Income Funds £0 £102 -£102 £0 £0
-£869 £9,337 “£9,118 £513 -£137 |
Restricted Fixed Asset Funds
Donation from predecessor school £10,947 £0 -£18 £0 £10,923
DfE / EFA Capital Grants £1,698 £85 -£52 £0 £1,731
3rd party donations £2,982 £176 -£63 £0 £3,095
Capital expenditure financed from GAG £2,819 £0 -£208 £376 £2,987
I £18,440 £261 -£341 £376 £18,736 |
}
| Total Restricted Funds £17,571 £9,598 -£9,459 £889 £18,599 |
Unrestricted Funds
Unrestricted Funds - Earmarked for Teaching
School £46 £702 -£662 £2 £84

Unrestricted Funds £592
| Total Unrestricted Funds £501 £1,109 -£875 -£59 £676 |
{

| Total Funds £18,072 £10,707 -£10,334 £830 £19,275 |

64|Page

18 Analysis of net assets between funds

Restricted
Fixed
Unrestricted Restricted Asset 31-Aug-
Funds Funds Funds 24
£000 £000 £000 £000
Tangible Fixed Assets £18,586 £18,586
Investments £0 £0 £0
Current Assets £869 £1,054 £1,923
Current Liabilities -£1,045 -£1,045
Pension Scheme Liability £0 £0
£869 £9 £18,586 £19,464

Comparative information for the preceding period is as follows:

Restricted

: Fixed
Unrestricted Restricted Asset 31-Aug-

Funds Funds - Funds 23 31-Aug-22

£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Tangible Fixed Assets £18,736 £18,736 £18,440
Investments £0 £0 £0 £0°
Current Assets £676 £930 £1,606 £1,769
Current Liabilities -£920 -£920 -£1,256
Pension Scheme Liability -£147 -£147 -£881

£676 -£137 £18,736 £19,275 £18,072 |

19 Capital Commitments

The school did does not have any capital commitments at the balance sheet date.
20 Financial Commitments

Operating Leases

As at 31 August 2024 the total of the Academy's future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable
operating leases was £0 (2023: £0)

65|Page

21 Reconciliation of net income / (expenditure) to net cash inflow from operating activities

2024 2023
£000 £000
Net income / (expenditure) as per the SOFA £110 £373
Adjusted for:
Investment Acquisition -£275 £252
Investment Disposal £0 £0
Depreciation (note 13) £337 £342
Disposal of Fixed Assets £0 -£1
Capital Grants and Capital Income -£75 -£261
Interest Receivable (note 6) -£41 -£12
Defined Benefit Pension cost less contributions payable (note 27) -£67 £66
Defined Benefit pension finance cost (note 27) -£1 £30
(increase) / decrease in stocks £0 £0
(increase) / decrease in debtors -£166 -£17
increase / (decrease) in creditors £125 -£336
Net cash provided by / (used in) operating activities £53 £68
22 Cash flows from financing activities
2024 2023
£000 £000
Repayments of borrowing £0 £0
Cash inflows from new borrowing £0 £0
Net cash provided by / (used in) financing activities £0 £0
23 Cash flows from investing activities
2024 2023
£000 £000
Investment Income £41 £12
Proceeds from investment disposal £0 £0
Proceeds from sale of fixed assets £0 £0
Purchase of fixed assets -£187 -£637
Capital Grants from DfE / EFA £30 £85
Capital funding from other sources £45 £176
Net cash provided by / (used in) investing activities £71 £364
24 Analysis of cash and cash equivalents
2024 2023
£000 £000
Cash in hand and at bank £366 £604
Notice deposits (less than 3 months) £366 £252
Total cash and cash equivalents £732 £856

25 Contingent Liabilities

The Academy has no contingent liabilities

66|Page

26 Members’ liability

Each Member of the charitable company undertakes to contribute to the assets of the company in the
event of it being wound up while he / she is a member, or within one year after he / she ceases to be a
member, such amount as may be required, not exceeding £10 for the debts and liabilities contracted
before he / she ceases to be a member.

27 Pension and Similar Obligations

The Academy's employees belong to one of two principal pension schemes; the Teachers’ Pension
Scheme England and Wales (TPS) for academic and related staff; and the Local Government Pension
Scheme (LGPS) for non-teaching staff which is managed by Buckinghamshire Council. Both are multi-
employer defined benefit pension schemes

The pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries. The
latest actuarial valuation of the TPS was 31 March 2020 and of the LGPS 31 March 2022. At 31 August
2024 there was £139K outstanding contributions in relation to the TPS (2023: £112K) and £39K
outstanding contributions in relation to the LGPS (2023: £37k).

27.1 Teachers’ Pension Scheme
27.1.1 Introduction

The Teachers' Pension Scheme (TPS) is a statutory, contributory, defined benefit scheme, governed
by the Teachers’ Pensions Regulations 2014. Membership is automatic for teachers in academies. All
teachers have the option to opt-out of the TPS following enrolment.

The TPS is an unfunded scheme to which both the member and employer makes contributions, as a
percentage of salary. These contributions are credited to the Exchequer. Retirement and other pension
benefits are paid by public funds provided by Parliament.

27.1.2 Valuation of the Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Government Actuary, using normal actuarial principles, conducts a formal actuarial review of the
TPS in accordance with the Public Service Pensions (Valuations and Employer Cost Cap) Directions
2014 published by HM Treasury every 4 years. The aim of the review is to ensure scheme costs are
recognised and managed appropriately and the review specifies the level of future contributions.

Actuarial scheme valuations are dependent on assumptions about the value of future costs, design of
benefits and many other factors. The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS was carried out as at 31
March 2020. The valuation report was published by the Department for Education on 27 October 2023,
with the SCAPE rate, set by HMT, applying a notional investment return based on 1.7% above the rate
of CPI. The key elements of the valuation outcome are:

« Employer contribution rates set at 28.68% of pensionable pay (including a 0.08% administration
levy). This is an increase of 5% in employer contributions and the cost control result is such
that no change in member benefits is needed.

« Total scheme liabilities (pensions currently in payment and the estimated cost of future
benefits) for service to the effective date of £262,000 million and notional assets (estimated
future contributions together with the notional investments held at the valuation date) of
£222,200 million, giving a notional past service deficit of £39,800 million.

The result of this valuation will be implemented from 1 April 2024.The next valuation result is due to be
implemented from 1 April 2028.

67|Page

The pension costs paid to TPS in the period amounted to £1,491K (2023: £1,300K) of which £405K
(2023: £377K) was paid by employees and £1,086K (2023: £923K) was paid by the Academy.

A copy of the valuation report and supporting documentation is on the Teachers’ Pensions website.

Under the definitions set out in Financial Reporting Standard 102 (FRS 102), the TPS is an unfunded
multi-employer pension scheme. The academy trust is unable to identify its share of the underlying
assets and liabilities of the plan. Accordingly, the academy trust has taken advantage of the exemption
in FRS 102 and has accounted for its contributions to the scheme as if it were a defined contribution
scheme. The trust has set out above the information available on the scheme.

27.2 Local Government Pension Scheme

The LGPS is a funded defined benefit pension scheme, with the assets held in separate trustee-
administered funds. The total contribution made for the year ended 31 August 2024 was £459K (2023:
£441K), of which employer's contributions totalled £362K (2023: £349K) and employees’ contributions
totalled £97K (2023: £91K). The agreed contribution rates for the period 1 April 2023 - 31 Mar 2026
is 22.1%

The pension reserve deficit is in relation to the local government pension scheme. Parliament has
agreed, at the request of the Secretary of State for Education, to a guarantee that, in the event of
academy closure, outstanding Local Government Pension Scheme liabilities would be met by the
Department for Education. The guarantee came into force on 18 July 2013 and on 21 July 2022, the
Department for Education reaffirmed its commitment to the guarantee, with a parliamentary minute
published on GOV.UK.

The deficit is being tackled by the school contributing to the pension fund. Upon advice from the actuary
up until 31 March 2023 the school contributed 22.1% of the payroll of employees who are members of
the local government pension scheme. Of this amount 1.6% is being used to reduce the deficit directly.

Employee contribution rates are set dependent on their estimated earnings. It is the Academy's policy
to set and review employee contribution rates as at 1 April each year. For each employee the
contribution rate is set based on the Academy's estimate of the employee’s likely total earnings for the
forthcoming year. When carrying out this estimate the Academy takes into account the employee's
expected level of overtime or additional hours (based on total overtime paid in the preceding 12
months). The contribution rates for employees were as follows:

For the period 1 September 2023 — 31 March 2024:

Contribution Rate

5.5% 275%

£42,101 to £53,300 6.8% 3.40%
£53,301 to £74,700 8.5% 4.25%

£74,701 to £105,900 9.9% 4.95%
£105,901 to £124,800 10.5% 5.25%
More than £187,201

68|Page

For the period 1 April 2024 — 31 August 2025:

nd_| Estimated Earnings Main LGPS Section | 50/50 LGPS Section

Up to £17,600 2.75%
£17,601 to £27,600 2.90%
£27,601 to £44,900 3.25%

£44,901 to £56,800
£56,801 to £79,700
£79,701 to £112,900
£112,901 to £133,100
£133,101 to £199,700
More than £199,701

27.2.1 Principal Actuarial Assumptions

Financial assumptions as at 31-Aug-24 31-Aug-23
Rate of increase in salaries 3.80% 3.85%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment / inflation 2.80% 2.85%
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.10% 5.30%
Inflation assumption (CPI) 2.80% 2.85%
Commutations of pensions to lump sums 50.00% 50.00%

The current mortality assumptions include sufficient allowance for future improvements in mortality
rates. The assumed life expectations on retirement age 65 are:

Mortality assumptions as at 31-Aug-24 31-Aug-23
retiring today
Males 20.7 20.7
Females 24.3 24.3
retiring in 20 years
Males 22.0 22.0
Females 25.7 25.7
Sensitivity Analysis:

The tables below show how the measurement of scheme liabilities would have been affected by
changes in the relevant assumption that were reasonably possible at the balance sheet date.
: 31-Aug-24 31-Aug-23

£000 £000
Discount Rate + 0.1% -£120 -£107
Discount Rate - 0.1% £123 £110
Mortality Assumption - 1 year increase £182 £154
Mortality Assumption - 1 year decrease -£176 -£150
CPI Rate + 0.1% £116 £104
CPI Rate - 0.1% -£113 -£101

69|Page

27.2.2 Assets and Liabilities

The Academy’s share of the assets and liabilities in the scheme was:

Fair value as at 31 August 2024

Fair value as at 31 August 2023
% of total

£000 % of total £000

Gilts £569 9% £399
Equities £3,131 50% £3,063
Other Bonds £730 12% £534
Property £332 5% £307
Cash £109 2% £68
Alternative Assets £1,349 22% £1,031
Hedge Funds £0 0% £0
Absolute Return Portfolio - £0 0% £0
Total Market Value of Assets £6,220 100% £5,402
Present value of scheme
liabilities:

funded £6,114 £5,549
Impact of asset ceiling £106 £0
Surplus (deficit) in the scheme £0 100% £147

27.2.3, Amounts Recognised in the Statement of Financial Activities

9%
55%
14%

6%

1%

1%

5%

9%

100%

100%

Current Service cost

Net interest on the defined liability (asset)
Administration expenses

Total Operating Charge

At 31 August
2024
£000
£291

-£1
£5
£295

27.2.4 Movements in the present value of defined benefit obligations

At 31 August

At 31 August
2023
£000
£410

£30
£5
£445

At 31 August

2024 2023

£000 £000
Opening defined benefit obligation £5,549 £6,013
Current Service Cost £291 £410
Interest Cost £290 £256
Change in Financial Assumptions £294 -£1,498
Change in Demographic Assumptions -£13 -£146
Experience loss / (gain) on defined benefit obligation ~£25 £487
Liabilities assumed / (extinguished) on settlements. £0 £0
Estimated benefits paid net of transfers in ~£266 -£67
Past service cost including curtailments £0 £0
Contributions by scheme participants and other employers £100 £94
Unfunded pension payments : :
Ctosing defined benefit obligation £6,220 £5,549 .

70|Page

27.2.5 Movement in the fair value of the Academy's share of scheme assets

At 31 August At 31 August

2024 2023
£000 £000

Opening fair value of scheme assets £5,402 £5,132
Interest on assets £291 £226
Return on assets less interest £335 -£188
Other actuarial gains / (losses) £0 -£139
Administration expenses -£5 -£5
Contributions by employer including unfunded £363 £349
Contributions by scheme participants and other employers £100 £94
Estimated benefits paid plus unfunded net of transfers in -£266 -£67
Settlement prices received / (paid) - :
Closing fair value of scheme assets £6,220 £5,402

27.2.6 Net Pension Scheme Liability
At 31 August At 31 August

2024 2023
£000 £000
Net Pension Scheme Liability £0 -£147

71|Page


28 Connected Organisations

Dr Challoner’s Grammar School has strong connections with the following organisations.

28.1 Dr Challoner’s School Educational Trust (charity registration 298550)

Dr Challoner’s School Educational Trust (“DCSET”) is a charity that has been set up under a

Trust Deed in 1987 and gained charitable status in March 1988. The objects of the DCSET are the
provision of scholarships, prizes, grants, equipment, buildings, playing fields, and other assistance for
the benefit of Dr Challoner’s Grammar school and its pupils. As such DCSET makes regular donations
to the School under the direction of its trustees.

Although Dr Challoner’s Grammar School is not a corporate trustee of DCSET, of DCSET’s 6 trustees,
3 also act as existing trustees of the school and 1 is a member of the school staff.

DCSET’s statement of accounts can be viewed online at the Charity Commission’s website:
http://www. charity-commission.gov.uk/

Dr Challoner’s Grammar School administers the finances of DCSET on its behalf.

During 2023-24 the Academy received £26,852 (2023: £227,624) from DCSET.

28.2 ‘Friends of Dr Challoner’s Grammar School (charity registration 310621)

Friends of Dr Challoner’s Grammar School (the Friends) is an unincorporated association, registered
with the charity commission that provides financial assistance with the cost of educational facilities
provided by Dr Challoner’s Grammar School.

Although Dr Challoner’s Grammar School is not a corporate trustee of the Friends, the Headteacher
acts as President of the Friends and one of the Academy’s Assistant Headteachers is heavily involved
in the day to day running of the Friends.

The Friends’ statement of accounts can be viewed online at the Charity Commission’s website:
http://www.charity-commission.gov.uk/

Dr Challoner’s Grammar School does not administer the finances of the Friends.

During 2023-24 the Academy received £45,000 (2023: £22,361) from the Friends.

72|Page

29 Related Party Transactions

Owing to the nature of the academy trust and the composition of the board of trustees being drawn from
local public and private sector organisations, transactions may take place with organisations in which
the trustees have an interest.

All transactions involving such organisations are conducted in accordance with the requirements of the
Academies Trust Handbook, including notifying the ESFA of all transactions made on or after 1 April
2019 and obtaining their approval where required, and with the academy trust's financial regulations
and normal procurement procedures relating to connected and related party transactions.

Other than certain trustees’ remuneration and expenses already disclosed in note 10 the following were
the only related party transactions that took place in the financial period:

Expenditure Related Party Transactions:

Clare Atkinson:

Clare Atkinson, spouse of David Atkinson, a trustee and Accounting Officer, is employed by the
academy trust as a Development Director and also acts at the Trusts Data Protection Officer.
Clare Atkinson was employed by the predecessor school of the Academy Trust and transferred
to the Academy Trust on 1 January 2011. This was many years prior to David Atkinson
becoming Accounting Officer of the Academy.

Clare Atkinson is paid within the normal pay scale for her role and receives no special treatment
as a result of her relationship to a trustee. In the event that there is a review of Clare Atkinson's
hours or responsibilities that may impact on her future pay David Atkinson is completely
removed from this process. Any review is carried out by the Chief Financial and Strategy
Officer. Where such a review results in a recommendation for a change in pay this
recommendation is also reviewed by a Deputy Headteacher prior to any recommendation being
presented to the Pay and Personnel Committee for consideration and approval.

Income Related Party Transactions:

There were no income related party transactions during 2023-24.

73|Page

30 Agency Arrangements
VI form bursary grant

The purpose of this grant is to remove financial barriers for students in the 16-19 stage of education.
Essentially the Academy receives funding from the DFE to pass to those students most in need in line
with the rules of the scheme. The balance on this fund represents the balance regarding discretionary
bursaries not distributed in 2023-24. This funding will be added to the funding received in 2024-25 for
consideration when assessing students applying to the scheme next academic year.

The academy trust distributes 16-19 bursary funds to students as an agent for ESFA. In the year ended
31 August 2024 the trust received £4K (2023: £4K) and disbursed £4K (2023: £4K) from the fund. LOK
is held in cash / creditors at the end of the year (2023: £1K).

SCITT Bursaries and SCITT Salaried Grants

The SCITT administers the grants paid direct to students (bursaries and scholarships) and schools
employing salaried students (School Direct Salary Grants) help them meet the living costs / costs of
paying a salary whilst they train with the Astra SCITT. Although these budgets should be net neutral,
the amount of monies passed through Astra to the end parties is significant.

The amounts of grant paid across depend on various factors including the subject studied, whether the
employing school is a Fringe School etc. The total amounts passed through were:

[| __GrantType |] 2023-24 2022-23
[TOTAL] OK PK

Other arrangements

The school also acts as an agent in collecting monies to be passed across to other organisations.
Examples include collecting income from parents for exam remarks and the instrument purchase
scheme. £32K of income was collected in this manner in 2023-24 (2023: £32K). All income was
passed across (2023: All income was passed across).

74|Page

