East Coast Trains Limited
Registered number: 08765536

Annual report and financial
statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024

TUESDAY

*ADGO8D9M*
ag #246 ©

26/11/2024
COMPANIES HOUSE

East Coast Trains Limited

Contents

Page
Strategic report 1
Directors’ report 6
Directors’ responsibilities statement 8
Independent auditors’ report 9
Profit and loss account : 13
Statement of comprehensive income ; 13
Balance sheet 14
Statement of changes in equity 15

Notes to the financial statements 16

East Coast Trains Limited

Strategic report

The directors, in preparing this strategic report, have complied with s414C of the Companies Act 2006.

Principal activities

East Coast Trains Limited (“Lumo”) is a non-franchised, open access intercity train company, which from October
2021 started to operate a high-speed service between London King’s Cross and Edinburgh, calling at Stevenage,
Newcastle and Morpeth, using a new fleet of five, five-car, all-electric Hitachi class 803 trains. It operates under the
brand name Lumo.

Business review and future prospects

Lumo has now carried more than 2.5m passengers since its October 2021 launch. It has consistently recorded some of
the lowest levels of operator-related cancellations in the industry, which was recognised by a gold award for minimising
delay minutes at the Modern Railways ‘Golden Whistle’ awards in March 2024.

Lumo continues to offer competitive fares and value to customers, many of whom would otherwise have flown between
London and Newcastle or Edinburgh at a far greater environmental cost. Lumo’s services result in 95% fewer carbon
emissions than when people fly between the two capital cities and a journey on Lumo emits 21 times less carbon than a
journey by petro! car. Its passenger revenues increased by 28.5% in the year ended 31 March 2024, driven by effective
yield and demand management.

Lumo has developed a culture of innovation and customer focus. It launched the UK’s first semi-flex ticket in August
2023, which parallels the freedom and flexibility often given by airline tickets including a fee-free change of journey
and a pre-departure refund if plans change, which is another step towards encouraging a greener alternative to flying.

Lumo is trialling new ways to promote accessibility. It has embraced digitalisation to improve accessibility through the
publishing of an interactive 360° virtual tour of its train carriages to support customers who may require additional
support or wish to familiarise themselves with the carriage environment ahead of their travels.

Lumo carries out regular Your Voice surveys giving employees the opportunity to share their views on the way they
are managed, and how likely they are to recommend FirstGroup as an employer. Lumo achieved a 100% response rate
and an engagement score of 79%. .

The company is a member of an industry buying group in order to mitigate the long-term impact of electricity costs.
Electricity costs represent a material proportion of the company’s total costs and these increased in the year ended 31
March 2024, which explains why the Network Rail charges in note 6 increased from £5.9m to £10.0m. Electricity costs
will fall in year ending 31 March 2025 reflecting the market price falls.

Lumo continues to work with Network Rail to deliver consistent and reliable services to our customers. This includes
working together on the East Coast digital re-signalling programme.

Network Rail’s engineering work in the current year has again triggered the thresholds for sustained planned disruption
set out in Lumo’s track access agreement. This has resulted in £4,05 1k (2023: £5,665k) in compensation from Network
Rail for revenue losses, net of costs, due to operating amended passenger service timetables.

Lumo supported The People’s Kitchen this year. The charity provides meals for vulnerable people in Newcastle and
Lumo delivered volunteering days to support the efforts of the kitchen. In the forthcoming year, Lumo will be
supporting the charity, The Charlie and Carter Foundation, which provides financial support to the parents of children
with life-limiting illnesses.

The directors are satisfied with the performance of the company for the year.

Lumo has submitted formal applications to the Office of Rail and Road for the extension of some of its services to
Glasgow, an additional sixth return service from Newcastle to London King’s Cross and six new daily return services
between Rochdale and London. This would restore a direct link from Rochdale to London, via Manchester Victoria
which last ran in 2000. It is estimated that this new service would provide 1.6m people in the North West with a
convenient and competitively priced direct rail service to London from stations that are more local to them. If the
application is approved, it is anticipated that services could begin in calendar year 2027.

Financial matters

The results for the year are given in the profit and loss account on page 13, which shows an overall profit for the
financial year of £14,767k (2023: £11,948k) on turnover of £50,509k (2023: £39,673k). The directors declared and paid
an interim dividend of £14,500k (2023: £nil) and no final dividend was recommended (2023: £nil). Net assets on the
balance sheet at 31 March 2024 were £1,739k (2023: £1,472k).

East Coast Trains Limited

Strategic report

Key performance indicators

The key financial performance indicators are shown above in the paragraph on Financial matters. The Performance
Punctuality Monitor (PPM) moving annual average was 76.1% (2023: 79.7%). PPM is the percentage of trains reaching
destination within 9 minutes 59 seconds of the timetabled arrival time. The company commissioned a passenger survey
led by the TAS Partnership transport consultancy. Lumo achieved a 96% overall satisfaction rate among its passengers.
Principal risks and uncertainties

We have a well-established risk management methodology which we use throughout the business to allow us to identify
and manage the principal risks which could:

adversely impact the safety and security of Lumo’s employees, customers and assets;

have a material impact on the financial or operational performance of the company;

impede achievement of our strategic objectives and financial targets; and/or

adversely impact the company’s reputation or stakeholder expectations.

Lumo’s principal risks are set out below; these risks have been assessed considering their potential impact’ (both
financial and reputational), the likelihood of occurrence and any change to this compared to the prior year and the
residual risk after the implementation of controls.

Environment and sustainability

The key risk facing the company in this area relates to reducing the environmental impact of the business with a
focus on reducing waste and energy usage across its trains and office. A number of initiatives are in place, which
are being led by the Safety Management Group to meet our customers’ requirements in this area. The key initiative
has been the investment in a fleet of five electric only Hitachi trains. An emissions avoidance study conducted by
Lumo found that travelling on their 100% electric network rather than flying, saves up to 95% of emissions on
certain routes. A one-way Lumo trip between Edinburgh and London emits approximately 7 kgCO2e while the
equivalent journey flying emits 149 kgCO,¢.

Compliance, litigation and claims, health and safety

Lumo’s operations are subject to a wide range of legislation and regulation. Failure to comply can lead to litigation,
claims, damages, fines and penalties. The company has three main risks: third party injury and other claims arising
from general operations, employee injuries and property damage. A higher volume of litigation and claims can lead to
increased costs and reputational impact.

We have a very strong focus on safety, and it is one of our five values. The company self-insures third party and
employee injury claims up to a certain level commensurate with the predicted risk profile. We purchase insurance above
these limits from reputable global insurance firms. Claims are managed by experienced claims handlers. Non-insured
claims are managed by FirstGroup ple’s dedicated in-house legal teams with external assistance as appropriate.

The company successfully secured a 5 year safety certificate from the Office of Rail and Road, the maximum permitted
period, which will need to be renewed in 2026.

Employee engagement, retention and capability

The company employed an average of 107 employees during the year. Our employees are critical to the success of our
business. Maintaining good relations with employees and investing in their training and development is essential to the
efficiency and sustainability of the company’s operations. The company’s employment policies and remuneration and
benefits packages are regularly reviewed and designed to be competitive with other companies, as well as providing
employees with fulfilling career opportunities. Employee surveys, performance reviews and regular communication of
business activities are some of the methods the company uses to understand and respond to employees’ needs. Processes
are also in place to identify talent and actively manage succession planning throughout the business. The 2024 employee
engagement survey saw a 100% response rate and an engagement score of 79%, The emotional climate of the survey
demonstrated that the majority of staff felt positive with the dominant emotions of feeling committed and happy.
Economic conditions

Changing economic conditions affect our business in different ways. A less positive economic outlook affects the
number of train journeys taken by passengers in the UK. Changes in economic activity may impact upon the passenger
numbers and hence our operations. Improving economic conditions may result in a tightening of labour markets,
resulting in employee shortages, pressure to increase pay, or affect the availability of public funding for transport
services. The same factors could also affect our key suppliers.

To mitigate these risks, we continue to focus on building revenue streams and controlling costs to ensure we remain
competitive.

East Coast Trains Limited

Strategic report

Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

Competition

Lumo’s main competitors include domestic airlines, coach, private car and other public and private transport operators
across our network. Increased competition can result in lost business, revenue and reduced profitability. To mitigate
this risk the company will focus on service quality, performance and innovation as priorities in making our service
attractive to passengers and other customers. We have a dedicated Customer Experience Team focused on improving
our service to customers and improving access to our services.

Information technology

The company relies on information technology in all aspects of its business. Any significant disruption or failure, caused
by external factors, denial of service, computer viruses or human error, could result in a service interruption, accident
or misappropriation of confidential information (including credit card data). Process failure, security breach or other
operational difficulties may also lead to revenue loss. Extensive security controls are in place, which, in conjunction
with policy and procedures, are designed to enhance the resilience and security of the company's information technology
systems and the data they contain.

The company has made a substantial investment in digital systems to improve the customer and employee experience
and assist in driving a lower cost operation through automation.

Data security (including cyber security and GDPR)

All business sectors are targeted by increasingly sophisticated cyber security attacks. Across our business we are seeing
increased use of mobile and internet sales channels which gather large amounts of data and therefore the risk of
unauthorised access to, or loss of, data in respect of employees or our customers is growing. A failure to comply with
the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which came into force in May 2018, could result in significant
penalties and could have an adverse impact on consumer confidence in our business.

We have threat detection systems across our business but continue to remain vigilant to security improvements when
identified.

Political and regulatory issues

Our business is subject to numerous laws and regulations covering a wide range of matters including health and safety,
equipment, employment (including working time, wage and hour, mandatory breaks and holiday pay), competition and
anti-trust, data protection and security, bribery and corruption, environment, insurance coverage, consumer protection,
and other operational issues. Failure to comply could have financial or reputational implications, could result in
increased litigation and claims and have a negative impact on the company. These laws and regulations are constantly
subject to change, the impact of which could include increased compliance costs and/or a reduction in operational
flexibility and efficiency.

To help mitigate the risk of legislative or regulatory changes the company and FirstGroup plc have embedded operating
policies and procedures to ensure compliance with existing legislation and regulation. FirstGroup plc actively engages
with the relevant bodies and policy makers to help ensure that we are properly positioned to respond to any proposed
changes.

Disruption to infrastructure/operations

Across our network, we are experiencing greater and more frequent disruption due to adverse weather conditions which
impacts our service levels. Severe weather can reduce profits, for example, through lower demand for our services,
increased costs and business disruption. We have severe weather action plans and procedures to manage the impact on
our operations.

The threat from terrorism is enduring and continues to exist. Public transport continues to be regarded as an attractive
and viable target. Across our business, we take all reasonable steps to help guard against such activity on the services
we operate. An attack, or threat of attack, could lead to reduced public confidence in public transportation, and/or our
security and safety record. This could reduce demand for our services, increase costs and security requirements and
cause operational disruption.

The company has a Head of Safety who is responsible for improved security awareness, the application of good practice
in the implementation of security measures, and the development and training of our employees so that they can respond -
effectively to any perceived threat or incident.

Customer service

The company's revenues are at risk if it does not continue to provide the level of service expected by customers. Relevant
customer facing staff undertake intensive training programmes to ensure they are aware of and abide by the levels of
service that are required by our customers. The company’s ethos is built around giving the customer the very best
service possible.

East Coast Trains Limited

Strategic report

Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

Electricity costs

Electricity prices can be influenced significantly by international, political and economic circumstances. Higher
electricity prices could adversely impact the company’s operating results. To mitigate the risks of rising electricity costs
the company works with its key supplier, Network Rail, to buy electricity at fixed prices. In addition, the company
seeks to limit the impact of unexpected electricity price rises through efficiency measures.

Financial risk management objectives and policies

The company’s activities expose it to a number of financial risks including credit risk, cash flow risk and liquidity risk.
The use of financial derivatives is governed by the company’s policies approved by the board of directors, which
provide written principles on the use of financial derivatives to manage these risks. The company does not use derivative
financial instruments for speculative purposes.

Cash flow and liquidity risk

The company continues to have an acceptable level of liquidity as, in the rail industry, the vast majority of turnover
transactions are paid for in advance.

The company undertakes detailed regular cash re-forecasting processes and considers that the group facilities it has
access to, and the letter of support provided by FirstGroup ple detailed in the going concern section on pages 6 to 7 of
the Directors’ report, provide sufficient liquidity to meet its obligations.

Credit risk

The company’s principal financial assets are trade and other debtors.

The company’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet
are net of allowances for doubtful receivables. An allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss
event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.

The company has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties
and customers.

Companies Act 2006 Section 172(1) Statement ;
The directors have a duty to promote the success of the company for the benefit of its members as a whole. The Board

understands the need to act fairly between the members of the company when assessing the consequences of a decision
over the longer term. The Board believes that its key stakeholders are:

Customers
Investors (First Rait Holdings Limited and, ultimately, FirstGroup plc)
Government and political stakeholders
Our People
Communities
« Strategic partners and suppliers
The Board believe that strong engagement, collaboration and dialogue are critical to the effectiveness of our long-term
relationships with key stakeholders. The Board has adopted the FirstGroup processes, policies and governance
structures that are relevant to our business and contributes to their development and refinement.

Engaging ethically

In line with our values and the expectations of our customers and partners, we are committed to conducting our
relationships with our stakeholders with high ethical and moral standards in all our interactions. Our values and ethical
commitment shape not only what we do, but also how we do it.

The company has adopted the FirstGroup Code of Ethics which applies to everybody working for, or on behalf of, the
company. The code sets out the standards that our customers and stakeholders expect of us, and which we expect of
each other. It is supported by detailed policies and procedures which are implemented and managed by the senior
management team, including our Code of Conduct on Anti-Slavery and Human Trafficking Prevention and our Anti-
Bribery Policy.

We are committed to recognising human rights. We are committed to the prevention of modern slavery and human
trafficking in all its forms, which extends to all business dealings and transactions in which we are involved. We have
a zero-tolerance approach to any violations within the company or by business partners.

We have a zero-tolerance approach to bribery, and never offer or accept any form of payment or incentive intended to
improperly influence a business decision. Equally, we support free and open competition, gaining our competitive
advantage by providing the highest level of service, not through unethical or illegal business practices. We have internal
control systems and procedures in place to counter bribery and corruption.

East Coast Trains Limited

Strategic report
Companies Act 2006 Section 172(1) Statement (continued)
Engaging ethically (continued)
Similarly, we respect and protect the privacy of our customers, employees and stakeholders, and are committed to
conducting our business in accordance with all applicable data protection legislation, including the General Data
Protection Regulation and the UK Data Protection Act. We have an externally managed whistleblowing service for
colleagues available with a helpline (online and phone-based) for the anonymous reporting of suspected wrongdoing
or dangers at work. All reported issues or concerns to the hotline are taken seriously and investigated as appropriate,
ensuring that confidentiality is respected at all times.
The primary methods in which the company engages with its stakeholders are outlined below:
Customers
e Regular customer and passenger satisfaction surveys to identify what we do well and where we can improve
¢ Robust customer feedback processes through online and traditional channels
¢ Ongoing dialogue with customer representative groups

Investors

¢ Alignment of strategy and the governance structure to deliver the strategy
« Agreement on budgets and forecasts and the reporting of actual performance

Government and political stakeholders

¢ Engagement with industry forums
¢ Direct engagement with policymakers
¢ — Strong links with regional governments
Our People
Regular ‘Your Voice’ employee engagement surveys
Dialogue with employee representatives
Inductions, onboarding sessions and employee handbooks
Multiple internal communications channels, including our intranet, briefings, newsletters and our employee

mobile apps
« Individual performance reviews and development discussions or Time with Your Manager meetings

Communities

¢ Targeted engagement plans and activities
¢ Regular dialogue, events and direct engagement activities
© Community investment, charitable engagement and employee volunteering

Strategic partners and suppliers

e Regular dialogue with key partners, including Network Rail and Hitachi
¢ Collaboration in cross-industry forums

¢ Certified systems for collaborative supplier relationships

¢ Clear ethical and sustainability standards

Below we describe the effect of having regard to Section 172(1) on the company’s decisions and strategies during the
financial year:
« Having sufficient room to stow luggage on board has been an issue for our customers. Installations of floor
mounted luggage racks were completed over summer 2024, which has improved their comfort and safety.
« Lumo continues to closely manage its yield strategy to maximise revenue per train.
Lumo has submitted applications to the ORR to extend its services to Glasgow, add an additional return service
between Newcastle and London and introduce new services between Rochdale and London.
e  Arail safety awareness campaign has been launched at Gateshead’s Metrocentre to educate people to stay safe
by staying behind the yellow line at railway stations when trains arrive and depart.

Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:

M Gilbert A | {

Director
25 October 2024
8th Floor, The Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London W2 1AF

East Coast Trains Limited

Directors’ report

The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31
March 2024. A review of the business and the future developments are set out in the Strategic report, along with the
key performance indicators and principal risks and uncertainties.

Directors

The directors who held office throughout the year and up to the date of signing, except as noted, were as follows:

H Clancy (resigned 4 August 2023)

M Gilbert

A James

A Mellors (resigned 20 November 2023)

S Montgomery (appointed 16 May 2024)

D Statham (appointed 19 June 2023 and resigned 16 May 2024))

Dividends

During the year, the company declared and paid an interim dividend to its parent company, First Rail Holdings Limited,
of £14,500k (2023: £nil). No final dividend is proposed (2023: £nil).

Going concern

At 31 March 2024 the company had cash at bank of £13,455k (2023: £5,189k) and net assets of £1,739k (2023:
£1,472k). Amounts owed to group undertakings increased year on year to £9,670k at 31 March 2024 (2023: £6,012k).
The company directors are required to state whether they consider it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of
accounting in preparing the financial statements and identify any material uncertainties to the company’s ability to
continue to do so over a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
Background for going concern

As explained in the Strategic report, passenger revenues in the current year showed strong growth of 28.5%. Where
engineering works restricted passenger services, the company’s track access agreement with Network Rail compensated
it for lost revenue, net of cost savings, of £4,051k (2023: £5,665k) (see note 7). This positive trading position has
enabled the company to report in the current year another strong profit after tax margin of 29.2% (2023: 30.1%).

The company participates in a notional cash pool arrangement and overdraft facility with its ultimate parent company,
FirstGroup plc, and other group companies. The company has jointly and severally guaranteed the liabilities of the other
parties under these arrangements. Due to these arrangements, the company is dependent on its ultimate parent,
FirstGroup plc, for support.

The company is focussed predominantly on the leisure market, which has remained buoyant since 31 March 2024.
The directors used the financial forecasts prepared for business modelling and liquidity purposes as the basis for their
assessment of the company’s ability to continue as a going concern for the twelve months from the date of the financial
statements. .

The major assumptions and key areas of judgement incorporated in the modelling included:

+ the potential impacts on financial and trading performance given the current economic backdrop; and

+ the timing of working capital flows

These financial forecasts assume continued support from FirstGroup plc due to the cash pooling arrangements. Given
the extent to which current FirstGroup ple support underpins the business, it was not considered necessary to run
alternative stress tests.

The company is dependent on its ultimate parent company, FirstGroup ple, for ongoing financial support. This has
been taken into account in the going concern assessment for the company (see below).

Significant going concern judgements

In using these financial forecasts for the going concern assessment, the company directors have made significant
judgements in the passenger revenue forecasts, which are based on demand growing in line with the general economy
and yields reflecting longer term inflation forecasts.

FirstGroup ple has provided the directors of the company with a letter confirming that it will provide support to the
company, such that it is able to meet its obligations for a period of at least 12 months from the date of signing of these
financial statements. The directors have made enquiries and understand that the parent company has adequate resources
to be able to provide this financial support.

East Coast Trains Limited

Directors’ report

Going concern (continued)

Going concern statement

Based on their review of the financial forecasts, the support to the company from FirstGroup ple and having regard to
the risks and uncertainties to which the company is exposed, the company directors believe that the company has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the 12-month period from the date on which the financial
statements were approved. Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Financial risk management

Financial risk management has been considered by the directors within the Strategic report on page 4.

Employee involvement

Communication with employees is effected mainly through regular briefing and meetings between the directors, the
senior management and employee representatives. The briefing meetings enable senior management to consult
employees and to ascertain their views on matters likely to affect their interests. An official forum, “Vox”, for
employees to raise and discuss issues has been established and includes a panel of employee and management
representatives.

Disabled persons

The company recognises its obligations to give disabled people full and fair consideration for all vacancies within the
statutory medical requirement, which have to be met for certain grades of staff. Wherever reasonable and practicable,
the company will retain newly disabled employees and at the same time provide full and fair opportunities for the career
development of disabled people.

Directors’ indemnity

The company’s parent company, FirstGroup plc, has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit
of the company’s directors which were made during the year and remain in force at the date of this report.

Audit information
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of the approval of this report confirms that:

e So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the company’s auditors are
unaware; and

e the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of
any relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s auditors are aware of that information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act
2006.

Independent Auditors

The auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution
concerning their re-appointment was passed at FirstGroup ple’s Annual General Meeting on 26 July 2024.

Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:

AIL

M Gilbert

Director

25 October 2024

8th Floor, The Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London W2 1AF

East Coast Trains Limited
Directors’ responsibilities statement

The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable
law and regulation. ‘

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors
have prepared the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK
and Republic of Ireland”, and applicable law).

‘ Under company law, directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period. In preparing
the financial statements, the directors are required to:

e — select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

e state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

« make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and

¢ prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are also responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and
enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.

Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by:

MUL

M Gilbert

Director

25 October 2024

8th Floor, The Point, 37 North Wharf Road, London W2 1AF

East Coast Trains Limited
Independent auditors’ report

Independent auditors’ report to the

members of East Coast Trains Limited
Report on the audit of the financial statements

Opinion
In our opinion, East Coast Trains Limited’s financial statements:

e give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 March 2024 and of its profit for
the year then ended;

e ‘have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of treland”, and applicable law); and

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual report and financial statements (the

“Annual Report”), which comprise: the Balance sheet as at 31 March 2024; the Profit and loss Account, the

Statement of comprehensive income and Statement of changes in equity for the year then ended; and the

notes to the financial statements, which include a description of the significant accounting policies.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities
for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence :

We remained independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant
to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

Conclusions relating to going concern

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events
or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to
continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are
authorised for issue.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis
of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this conclusion is not a guarantee
as to the company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in
the relevant sections of this report.

East Coast Trains Limited

Independent auditors’ report

Reporting on other information

The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial
statements and our auditors’ report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. Our
opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not
express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of
assurance thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we
identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform
procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material
misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there
is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing
to report based on these responsibilities.

With respect to the Strategic report and Directors’ report, we also considered whether the disclosures
required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.

Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 requires us also to report
certain opinions and matters as described below.

Strategic report and Directors’ report

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the
Strategic report and Directors’ report for the year ended 31 March 2024 is consistent with the financial
statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course
of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic report and Directors’ report.

Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit

Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements

As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements in accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied
that they give a true and fair view. The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

10

East Coast Trains Limited

Independent auditors’ report

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit
conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of
irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities,
including fraud, is detailed below.

Based on our understanding of the company and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-
compliance with laws and regulations related to employment legislation, environmental legislation, data
protection legislation, health and safety regulations under the Health and Safety at Work Act and The
Railway Safety Levy Regulations 2006, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have
a material effect on the financial statements. We also considered those laws and regulations that have a
direct impact on the financial statements such as Companies Act 2006 and UK tax regulations. We
evaluated management's incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial
statements (including the risk of override of controls), and determined that the principal risks were related
to posting manual journal entries to manipulate financial performance. Audit procedures performed by the-
engagement team included:

e Enquiry with management and those charged with governance around any known or suspected
instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations or fraud;

e Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries posted with unusual account
combinations in relation to revenue and cash;

® Understanding of management's tax compliance controls along with review of correspondence with
tax authorities and understanding of the applicable tax laws;

e Reviewing minutes of meetings of those charged with governance;

e Reviewing financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation, where
appropriate, to assess compliance with applicable laws and regulations; and

e Incorporating unpredictable procedures.

There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. We are less likely to become aware

of instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations that are not closely related to events and

transactions reflected in the financial statements. Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement

due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate

concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s
website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’ report.

Use of this report

This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not,
in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to
whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior
consent in writing.

1

East Coast Trains Limited
Independent auditors’ report

Other required reporting

Companies Act 2006 exception reporting
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

© we have not obtained all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

® adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit
have not been received from branches not visited by us; or

¢ certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.

We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.

5,

Sophie Pearce (Senior Statutory Auditor)

for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Southampton

25 October 2024

East Coast Trains Limited
Profit and loss account
Year ended 31 March 2024

Notes 2024 2023
: £000. ____ £000
Turnover 5 50,509 39,673
Operating costs . 6 (36,865) (31,398)
Other operating income 7 6,063 6,428
Operating profit [ 19,707 14,703 ]
Profit before tax . 10 19,707, 14,703
Tax on profit 11 (4,940) (2,755)
Profit for the financial year [ 14,767 11,948 ]
Statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 March 2024
2024 2023
£'000 £000
Profit for the financial year 14,767 11,948

Total comprehensive income for the financial year | 14,767 11,948 |

East Coast Trains Limited
Balance sheet
As at 31 March 2024

Fixed assets
Intangible assets
Tangible assets

Current assets
Debtors
Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Provisions for liabilities

Net assets

Capital and reserves

Called up share capital
Profit and loss account

Total shareholder’s funds

Notes

12

13

14

15

15

17

18

2024 2023
£000 £000.
95 27
1,069 791
1,164 1,064
7,771 10,434
13,455. «5,189
21,232 15,623

(19,722) : (14,986)

1,510 637
(496) -
(439) (229)

[ 1,739 1,472]

1,739 1,472

[ 1,739 1,472]

The accompanying notes on pages 16 to 24 are an integral part of these financial statements.

These financial statements of East Coast Trains Limited on pages 13 to 24, registered number 08765536 were approved
by the Board of Directors on 25 October 2024 and were signed on its behalf by:

ML

M Gilbert
Director

14

East Coast Trains Limited
Statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Called up
share
capital

£°000

Balance at 1 April 2022 -

Profit and total comprehensive income for the financial year -

Balance at 31 March 2023 -

Profit and total comprehensive income for the financial year -
Dividends paid (note 18) -

Balance at 31 March 2024 -

Profit and
loss
account
£7000

(10,476)
11,948

1,472

14,767
(14,500)

1,739

(10,476)
14,948

1,472

14,767
(14,500)

1,739

15

East Coast Trains Limited
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024

1. General information

East Coast Trains Limited is a private company limited by shares, incorporated in the United Kingdom under the
Companies Act 2006 and registered in England. The registered office address is 8th Floor, The Point, 37 North Wharf
Road, London W2 1 AF. The nature of the company’s operations and its principal activities are set out in the Strategic
report on page 1.

2. Statement of compliance

The financial statements of East Coast Trains Limited have been prepared in compliance with United Kingdom
Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102, ‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in
the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland’ (‘FRS 102’) and the Companies Act 2006.

3. Principal accounting policies

The following accounting policies have been applied consistently throughout the current and preceding year.

a. Basis of preparation

These financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, under the historical cost convention, modified to
include certain items at fair value in accordance with FRS 102.

The functional currency of East Coast Trains Limited is considered to be pounds sterling because that is the currency
of the primary economic environment in which the company operates.

b. Going concern

The company currently meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank overdraft and support from
its ultimate parent, FirstGroup plc. The company’s business modelling forecasts and projections, taking account of
reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the company is able to operate within the level of its
current facilities. After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The company therefore continues to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.

c. Exemptions for qualifying entities under FRS 102

The company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS102 and has therefore taken advantage of the
disclosure exemptions in relation to share-based payments (Section 26 of FRS102 and paragraphs 26.18(b), 26.19-
26.21, 26.23), financial instruments (Sections 11 and 12 of FRS102 and paragraphs 11.42, 11.44, 11.45, 11.47,
11.48(a)(iii), 11.48(a)(iv), 11.48(b), 11.48(c), 12.26, 12.27, 12.29(a), 12.29(b) and 12.29A), intra-group transactions
(Section 33 of FRS102 paragraph 33.1A), remuneration of key management personnel (Section 33 of FRS102 and
paragraph 33.7) and presentation of a cash flow statement (Section 7 of FRS102 and paragraph 3.17(d)), which have
been disclosed in FirstGroup plc’s financial statements.

The company is included in the consolidated financial statements of FirstGroup ple which can be obtained on request
from its registered office 395 King Street, Aberdeen AB24 5RP.

d. Tangible and intangible fixed assets

Tangible and intangible fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation/amortisation and any provision for
impairment. Depreciation/amortisation is provided to write off the cost less residual value of fixed assets over their
estimated useful economic lives:

Leasehold improvements - 5 years straight-line
Other plant and equipment - 3 to 5 years straight-line
Computer software - 3 years straight-line

Assets under construction are stated at cost. These assets are not depreciated until they are available for use.

The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted, if appropriate, at the end of each reporting
period. The effect of any change is accounted for prospectively.

16

East Coast Trains Limited
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024

3. Principal accounting policies (continued)
e. Impairment of intangible and tangible fixed assets

At each balance sheet date, the company reviews the carrying amounts of its fixed assets to determine whether there is
any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount
of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any).

If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than the carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset
is reduced to the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an expense immediately.

If an impairment loss is subsequently reversed, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of
its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the revised carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount
that would have been determined (net of depreciation or amortisation) had no impairment loss been recognised in prior
periods. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the profit and loss account.

f. Leases and hire purchase

All leases are operating leases and the rental charges are taken to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis
over the life of the lease.

g. Grants

Grants relating to assets are recognised in “other operating income” within profit or loss on a systematic basis over the
expected useful life of the assets concerned. All other grants are recognised in “other operating income” within profit
or loss in the same period as the related expenditure.

h. Financial assets and liabilities

All financial assets and liabilities are measured at transaction price (including transaction cost). All the financial assets
and liabilities are classified as ‘basic’ under Section 1] and Section 12 of FRS 102. Instruments classified as ‘basic’
financial instruments are measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

i. Taxation

UK corporation tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using tax rates and laws that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.

The taxation liability is reduced wholly or in part by the surrender of losses by group undertakings. The tax benefits
arising from group relief are recognised in the financial statements of the surrendering undertaking.

The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and takes into account taxation deferred because of timing
differences between the treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes. Deferred tax assets are
recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are not discounted.

j. Impairment of financial assets

For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of an impairment is the difference between the asset’s carrying ©
amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest
rate.

Where indicators exist for a decrease in impairment loss, and the decrease can be related objectively to an event
occurring after the impairment was recognised, the prior impairment loss is tested to determine reversal. An impairment
loss is reversed on an individual impaired financial asset to the extent that the revised recoverable value does not lead
to a revised carrying amount higher than the carrying value had no impairment been recognised.

k. Turnover

Turnover (Revenue) is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for services provided in
the normal course of business and is shown net of VAT where appropriate.

Passenger revenue

The company has one principal class of business, namely, the provision of passenger transport services. Passenger
revenues primarily relate to ticket sales and is attributable to the company predominantly based on models of route
usage, by the Railway Settlement Plan. Passenger revenue is recognised at both a point in time and over time. Ticket
sales for season tickets, travel cards and open-return tickets are initially deferred then recognised over the period
covered by the relevant ticket. Concessionary amounts are recognised in the period in which the service is provided.

17

East Coast Trains Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024
3. Principal accounting policies (continued)

k. Turnover (continued)

Other revenue

The company recognises other revenue when (a) the significant risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred
to the buyer; (b) the company retains no continuing involvement or control over the goods; (c) the amount of revenue
can be measured reliably; (d) it is probable that future economic benefits will flow to the entity; and (e) when the
specific criteria relating to the each of company’s sales channels have been met.

Turnover from non-passenger receipts include commission on ticket sales, catering income and other sundry income.
1. Future ticket deferral ‘

Where season tickets or railcards are issued in excess of one week’s duration, the attributable share of income is deferred
within creditors and is recognised in the profit and loss account over the period covered by the season ticket or railcard.
Income from advanced purchase and other ticket types is recognised in the profit and loss account on the date of travel.
m. Pension costs

Company specific scheme

The company operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those
of the company in an independently administered fund. The amount charged to the profit and loss account represents
the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting period.

n. Share-based payments

The company’s parent issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based
payments are measured at fair value at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled
share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, based on the group’s estimate of
share that will eventually vest and is adjusted for the effects of non-market based vesting conditions.

Fair value is measured by use of a Black-Scholes model or other appropriate valuation models. The expected life used
in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise
restrictions, and behavioural considerations.

o. Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the company has a present obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that
the company will be required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to present value where
the effect is material.

4. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the process of applying the company’s accounting policies as described above, management have made no critical
accounting judgements. There are no key sources of estimation uncertainty.

5. Turnover

Passenger revenue : . 49,484 38,504

Catering income 767 757
Commission from ticket sales . 246 258

Other income 12 154

[ 50,509 39,673, ]

18

East Coast Trains Limited
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024

6. Operating costs

2024 2023
£1000. £000
Raw materials and consumables 720 690
Staff costs Note 8 8,227 6,787
Network Rail charges 9,972 5,873
Rolling stock charges 4,801 5,299
Train maintenance 5,002 4,080
Other external charges 7,669 8,084
Depreciation Note 13 296 190
Amortisation Note 12 178 395
36,865, 31,398

7. Other operating income
2024 2023
£:000. £000
Off-charging of operating costs 1,911 763
Restriction of use claims 4,051 5,665
Grant income 101 -

6,063, 6,428

Off-charging of operating costs of £1,911k (2023: £763k) results from various recharges to Network Rail in relation to
their East Coast digital programme and to fellow group undertakings. Restriction of use claims of £4,051k (2023:
£5,665k) is compensation from Network Rail for revenue losses, net of costs, for engineering possessions, which result
in amended passenger service timetables. Grant income of £101k (2023: £nil) is amortisation of a capital grant received
from Network Rail in relation to their East Coast digital programme.

8. Employee numbers and costs

The monthly average number of persons employed by the company (including directors) during the year was as follows:

2024 2023
Number_____ Number

Operations . 87 88
Administration 20 13

107 101
The aggregate. payroll costs of these persons were as follows: £000 £'000
Wages and salaries 6,987 5,828
Social security costs 843 645
Other pension costs Note 20 397 314

[ 8,227 6,787

9. Directors’ remuneration

Four (2023: three) directors received remuneration from another group company, First Rail Holdings Limited, details
of which are disclosed in their financial statements. To the extent they are employed by First Rail Holdings Limited as
an employee, their remuneration is included in that company’s wages and salaries. Services provided by those directors
are considered incidental to East Coast Trains Limited.

2024 2023
£'000 £1000.

The remuneration of the other director, the highest paid during the year, was as follows:

Aggregate emoluments (excluding pension contributions) 130 89
Company pension contributions 5 4
135 93,

19

East Coast Trains Limited
Notes to the financial statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024
10. Profit before tax

2024 2023
£000. £'000,
Profit before tax is stated after charging:
Auditors’ remuneration for audit of the annual financial statements 76 25
Depreciation charge on own assets Note 13 296 190
Amortisation of intangible assets Note 12 178 395
Rentals payable under operating leases
- plant and machinery 4,801 5,299
- other operating leases 252 213
11. Tax on profit
2024 2023
£'000. £000.
Current taxation .
Group relief payable 5,027 2,892
Adjustment in respect of prior years (4) (249)

Total current taxation [ 5,023 2,643. ]

Deferred taxation

Origination and reversal of timing differences . (h15) (123)
Adjustment in respect of prior years 32 235
Total deferred taxation (83) 112

Total tax charge [ 4,940 2,755,

The standard rate of taxation for the year, based on the UK standard rate of corporation tax, is 25% (2023: 19%).
Deferred tax has been provided for at 25% (2023: 25%).

There may be an impact, from 2025 onwards, of the UK’s enactment of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development’s Global Anti-Base Erosion Model Rules (Pillar Two). The company has applied the temporary
exemption issued by the Financial Reporting Council from the accounting for deferred taxes under FRS 102.
Accordingly, the company neither recognises nor discloses information about deferred tax assets and liabilities related
to Pillar Two income taxes.

In the period commencing | April 2024, the reduction in the deferred tax liability is expected to increase the corporation
tax charge for the period by £59,000. This is primarily due to depreciation and capital allowances.

The tax charge for the current year differed from the standard rate for the reasons set out in the following reconciliation:

2024 2023
£000 £1000
Profit before tax ’ 19,707 14,703
Profit before tax multiplied by the standard rate of Corporation Tax in the UK
of 25% (2023: 19%) 4,927 2,794
Factors affecting charge
- Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 5 5
- Tax rélief on employee share awards (20) -
- Impact of rate change on origination and reversal of timing differences - (30)
- Adjustment in respect of prior years 28 (14)

Total tax charge on profit . [ 4,940 2,755.

20

East Coast Trains Limited
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024

12. Intangible assets

Computer Computer

software software
2024 2023
£000 £'000,

Cost
At 1 April 788 788
Additions - :
At 31 March 788 788

Accumulated amortisation

At 1 April 515 120
Charge for year 178 395

At 31 March 693 515

Net book value

At 31 March ; 95, 273
Computer software is recognised separately as an intangible asset and is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation.
Costs include software licences, website development, costs attributable to the development, design and implementation
of the computer software and internal costs directly attributable to software.

13. Tangible assets

ther Other
. Leasehold plant and Total . Leasehold plant and
improvements . improvements . Total
equipment equipment
2024 2024 2024 2023 2023 2023
£000 £:000 £7000 £000. £000 £1000.
Cost
At 1 April 504 565 1,069 487 - 296 783
Additions 298 276 | 574 17 269 286
At 31 March 802 841 1,643 504 565 1,069
Accumulated
depreciation
At 1 April 143 135 278 45 43 88
Charge for year 183 113 296 98 92 190
At31 March 326 248 574 143 135 278
Net book value
At 31 March 476. 593, 1,069. 361 430 791

14. Debtors

2024 2023
£1000 £1000

Amounts due within one year

Trade debtors 3,408 3,196
Amounts owed by group undertakings 64 ~ 230
Other debtors 3,900 5,587
Prepayments and accrued income 405 1,421

[ 4111 10,434 |

Amounts owed by group undertakings are unsecured, repayable on demand and do not attract interest.

Other debtors includes £357k (2023: £673k) in respect of VAT and £3,543k (2023: £4,914k) in respect of amounts due
from Network Rail.

21

East Coast Trains Limited
Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024

15. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

2024 2023

£000 £000.
Trade creditors 1,279 1,749
Amounts owed to group undertakings 9,670 6,012
Taxation and social security 228 163
Other creditors 51 -
Capital grants 245 -
Accruals and deferred income 8,249 7,062

[ 19,722 14,986

Amounts owed to group undertakings are unsecured, repayable on demand and do not attract interest.
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year

2024 2023
£000 £000
Capital grants 496 -

Capital grants have been received from Network Rail in relation to their East Coast digital programme.
16. Deferred tax

2024 2023
£000 £000.
At I April . 104 (8)
(Credited) / charged to the profit and loss account (83) 112

At31 March

Deferred tax breakdown:

Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 37 104
Other timing differences (16) -
Total included in Provisions for liabilities Note 17 21 104
17. Provisions for liabilities
Deferred tax Dilapidations aes Total
£000 £000. £1000 £000
At 1 April 2023 . 104 - 125 229
(Credited) / charged to the profit and loss account (83) 311 - 228
Utilised during the year : : (18) (18)
At 31 March 2024 21 311 107 439

Dilapidations are in respect of rolling stock and office facilities and are expected to crystallise at the end of the lease
terms — see note 19. Legal and other liabilities relate to insurance claims, which are expected to be settled by 31 March
2025.

22

East Coast Trains Limited
Notes to the financial statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024
18. Called up share capital

2024 2023
£ £
Authorised:
1 (2023: 1) ordinary share of £1 each
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
1 (2023: 1) ordinary share of £1 each
The share carries no right to fixed income nor confers any rights of redemption.
2024 2023
£:000, £000

Dividend
Interim dividend paid of £14,500,000 (2023: £nil) per ordinary share . [ 14,500 : ]
19. Operating leases

The total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases for each of the following periods
are as follows:

2024 2023
Land & Land &

Buildings Other Buildings
£'000, £'000. £000

Less than one year 189 4,788 4,788
Between one and five years 758 19,151 19,151
Over five years 442 13,165 17,954

1,389, 37,104 41,893

20. Pension scheme
Defined contribution scheme

The company operates a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme for all qualifying employees. The total expense
charged to the profit and loss account in the year ended 31 March 2024 was £397k (2023: £3 14k). Included within other
creditors for defined contribution payments payable was £nil (2023: £nil).

21. Share based payments

Share-based payment expense comprises costs arising from FirstGroup plc shares schemes including Save as you earn,
Buy as you earn, Executive Share Plan, Deferred Bonus Shares and Long-Term Incentive Plan. Further details on
these share schemes can be found in the FirstGroup plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024.

Save as you earn (SAYE)

FirstGroup plc operates an HMRC approved savings-related share option scheme and at the start of the year there were
no outstanding options. The scheme is based on eligible employees being granted options and their agreement to
opening a Sharesave account with a nominated savings carrier and to save weekly or monthly over a specified period.
Sharesave accounts are held with Computershare. The right to exercise the option is at the employee’s discretion at the
end of the period previously chosen for a period of six months. The plan rules set out the treatment of those who leave
employment before the end of the savings contract. Details of the share options outstanding are disclosed in the
published Annual Report and Accounts of FirstGroup plc.

Buy as you earn (BAYE)

BAYE enables eligible employees to purchase shares from their gross income. The company provides two matching
shares for every three shares bought by employees, subject to a maximum company contribution of shares to the value
of.£20 per employee per month. If the shares are held in trust for five years or more, no income tax and national
insurance will be payable. The matching shares will be forfeited if the corresponding partnership shares are removed
from trust within three years of award.

The group has allocated the expense amongst its trading subsidiary undertakings based on the number of employees
participating in the scheme. The company has recognised a total expense of £63k (2023: £nil) relating to equity-settled
share-based payment transactions.

23

East Coast Trains Limited
Notes to the financial statements

For the year ended 31 March 2024
21. Share based payments (continued)

2024 2023

£2000 £000.

Total expense recognised in the profit and loss account : 63. =
Contribution paid to First Rail Holdings Limited (parent company) (63) -

Credited to shareholder’s funds Cc]

22. Contingent liabilities

The company participates in a notional cash pool arrangement and overdraft facility with its ultimate parent company,
FirstGroup ple, and other group companies. The company has jointly and severally guaranteed the liabilities of the other
parties under these arrangements.

23. Ultimate parent company and controlling party

The directors regard FirstGroup ple, a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in Scotland, as the
ultimate parent and controlling company, which is the smallest and d largest group that includes the company’s results
and for which group financial statements are prepared.

The company’s immediate controlling party is First Rail Holdings Limited.

Copies of the financial statements of FirstGroup plc can be obtained on request from 8th Floor, The Point, 37 North
Wharf Road, London W2 1AF. .

24

