a
or
¥" © EBOR ACADEMY TRUST

Annual Report and Financial Statements
Year ended 31 August 2024

Ebor Academy Trust is a company limited by guarantee.

*ADXU3V4)*

A08 07/03/2025 #231
COMPANIES HOUSE

FRIDAY

Company Registration Number: 08806335 (England and Wales)

1

Ebor Academy Trust
Trustees’ report

Reference and administrative details

[Trustees

Andrew Smith (Resigned 315t August 2024)
Dr Caroline Elbra-Ramsey

Janet Mountain (Appointed 19 January 2024)

Rev'd Martin Harrison (Resigned 31% December 2023)
Right Rev'd Paul Ferguson (Resigned 31% July 2024)
Richard Thompson

Yvonne Methley (Appointed 1st September 2024)
Debbie Clinton (Chair)

Rachel Totton (Vice-Chair)

Andrew Winters

Barbara Nicholas

Christopher Chambers

Duncan Fraser

Jonathan Cook

Karen Fieldhouse

Patricia Ellison

Richard Thompson (Appointed 1s Sept 2023)
Tracey Dennison

ompany Secretary

Andrew Robinson (FD)

enior Management Team:
Chief Executive Officer & Accounting Officer
Director of Communications & IT Lead
Director of Education

Director of Finance

Director of Operations
Director of People and Culture

ompany Name

Principal and Registered Office

Gail Brown

Tim Moat

David Barber
Andrew Robinson
Richard Swain
David Wheeler (Appointed 1st Sept 2023)

Ebor Academy Trust

Ebor Business and Training Centre, The Leyes,
Osbaldwick, York, YO10 3PR

ompany Registration Number
Independent Auditor

08806335 (England and Wales)
Wbg (Audit) Limited
168 Bath Street, Glasgow, G2 4TP.

Lloyds Bank
2 Pavement, York, YO1 9UP

Browne Jacobson LLP, Mowbray House, Castle
Meadow Road, Nottingham, NG2 1BL
Hymans Robertson LLP, 20 Waterloo Street,
Glasgow, G2, 6DB

Aon Hewitt Ltd, The Aon Centre, The Leadenhall
Building, 122 Leadenhall Street, London, EC3V 4AN

Stephensons Rural LLP, York Auction Centre,
Murton, York, YO19 5GF

sf

Ebor Academy Trust
Trustees’ Report (continued)

The trustees present their annual report together with the financial statements and auditor's report of the
charitable company for the year 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024. The annual report serves the
purposes of both a trustees’ report, and a directors’ report and strategic report under company law.

The academy trust operates 24 primary academies and one special school, for pupils aged 2 to 11 across
North Yorkshire and the East Riding of Yorkshire. it has a pupil capacity of 6,540 (6,399:2023) and had a roll
of 4,858 (4,892:2023) in the school census on 3rd October 2024.

Structure, governance and management
Constitution

The academy trust is a company limited by guarantee and an exempt charity. The charitable company’s
memorandum and articles of association are the primary governing documents of the academy trust. The
trustees of Ebor Academy Trust are also the directors of the charitable company for the purposes of

~ company law. The charitable company operates as Ebor Academy.

‘Details of the trustees who served during the year, and to the date these accounts are approved are included
in the Reference and Administrative Details on page 2.

Members’ liability

Each member of the charitable company undertakes to contribute to the assets of the charitable company in
the event of it being wound up while they are a member, or within one year after they cease to be a member,
such amount as may be required, not exceeding £10, for the debts and liabilities contracted before they
ceased to be a member.

Method of recruitment and appointment or election of trustees
The term of office for any Trustee shall be four years, subject to remaining eligible to be a particular type of
Trustee, any Trustee may be reappointed or reelected.

The Board of Trustees comprises 11 individuals: none of whom may be employees of Ebor Academy Trust.
Eight Trustees are appointed by members, four Trustees directly by the Board of Trustees, one Trustee by
the Wilkinson, Cobb and Hodgson Trust and one Trustee is appointed by the Diocese of York. ,

Two new Trustees are due to join early 2025 subject to final approval from members. There is currently one
vacancy. :

The Board of Trustees works closely with the Senior Executive Team to provide strategic direction and as
such both challenges and supports the academies within the trust. Responsibilities include setting the budget
for the trust, reviewing the trust's risk register, reviewing and setting the CEO's performance and
remuneration, in our church schools ensuring that the schools’ Christian vision is established and promoted,
helping to decide the priorities for improving the trust when the academies’ development plans are being
drawn up, ensuring the appropriate curriculum is taught to all pupils, setting targets for pupil achievement,
comparing the performance of academies to other similar schools and academies, receiving information and
acting on the quality of teaching in the trust and ensuring that the academies comply with a wide range of
statutory legisiation.

Ebor Academy Trust
Trustees’ Report (continued)

Policies and procedures adopted for the induction and training of trustees

The latest review of Trustees’ skills evidenced that there was a broad range of skills that enabled the Board
to appropriately deliver its responsibilities, with recruitment opportunities used to add to the Board's skill
base. Access to training during the period was through peer-to-peer support and mentoring, local authority
training and communications, the National Governance Association and the Confederation of School Trusts.

Organisational structure
The governance of the academy trust is defined in the Memorandum and Articles of Association together
with the funding agreement with the Department of Education.

The Board of Trustees has established a number of committees to provide support and expertise in the
areas of Audit & Risk, Finance & Resources, Standards, People, Pay & Performance and Admissions. Local
Governing Body’s (LGB), which have some delegated responsibilities from the Trustees, operate in all of the
academies either individually or where appropriate as a joint LGB with another trust academy.

The organisational structure consists of four levels: the Trustees, the Heads’ Strategy Group, Trustee
Scrutiny Committees and the LGBs. The aim of the management structure is to devolve responsibility and
encourage involvement in decision making at all levels. Information from these groups is fed into the Board
of Trustees’ meetings which are held roughly every half term.

The Trustees are responsible for review of statutory policies and ensuring they are relevant and reflect
practice. The annual and revised budgets are set and monitored by the Board of Trustees through the
Resources Committee with the internal controls and risk management monitored by the Audit & Risk’
Committee. The Trustees are also responsible for making major decisions about the strategic direction of the
trust, capital expenditure and senior staff appointments.

The Heads’ Strategy Group consists of the CEO, Executive Headteachers, Directors and the Head of each
school within the trust. These managers control the trust at an executive level implementing the policies laid
down by the Trustees. Headteachers have budgets devolved to their control.

The work of the individual academy leadership teams encompasses both day to day leadership and
management of their schools, strategic leadership through development planning with the Heads’ Strategic
Group. All members of the leadership team lead by example in all they do. In terms of teaching and learning
there is an expectation that all lessons will be ‘good or better’.

Arrangements for setting pay and remuneration of key management personnel

The remuneration of the Senior Executive Team, and the Senior Leadership in each academy is reviewed
annually. These are considered on an individual basis taking into account performance, relevant
benchmarking, current responsibilities and parity across the trust.

Ebor Academy Trust
Trustees’ Report (continued)

Trade union facility time

Under the provisions of the Trade Union (Facility Time Publication Requirements) Regulations 2017, where

an academy trust has more than 49 full time equivalent employees throughout any seven months within the

reporting period, it must include information included in Schedule 2 of the Regulations. The information to be
published consists of four tables covering the period starting from 1 April each year and as follows:

Relevant union officials

Number of employees who were Full-time equivalent employee

relevant union number officials during

the relevant period
9

6.5

Percentage of time spent on facility time
Percentage of time
0%

1%-50%

51%-99%

100%

Number of employees

Percentage of pay bill spent on facility time
Total cost of facility time

Total pay bill £30,437k
The percentage of the total pay bill 0.01%
spent on facility time.

Paid trade union activities
Time spent on paid trade union 0%

activities as a percentage of total paid
facility time hours.

Related parties and other connected charities and organisations

Owing to the nature of the trust's operations and the composition of the Board of Trustees being drawn from
local diocesan, public and private sector organisations, it is possible that transactions will take place with
organisations in which a member of the Board of Trustees may have an interest. All transactions involving
such organisations are conducted at arm’s length and in accordance with the trust's financial regulations and
normal procurement procedures. Working with our external partners we have also demonstrated our
commitment to supporting the future teaching workforce. Working closely with local Teaching Schools and
providing training employees from other schools and academies via our outstanding apprenticeship
programmes. Full details of the related party transactions are listed in Note 13 & 31.

The trust is a member of the local schools and academies boards coordinating and sharing best practice in
the local area with other Multi Academy Trusts and Local Authority schools. Nationally the trust is also an
active member of the Confederation of School Trusts, the Queen Street Group and the National Governance
Association.

The trust is lead member of the York schools’ business professional network working closely with other local
Multi Academy Trusts, the Local Authority and the Department for Education’s commercial buying team to
improve value for money through the use of joint tenders and sharing of best practice.

Ebor Academy Trust
Trustees’ Report (continued)

Engagement with employees

The Bugle is an email newsletter distributed regularly during term time to all staff within Ebor Academy Trust.
It contains a mixture of news and information concerning the trust and its schools. Staff and pupil
achievements are celebrated, together with details of staff movement, training and continuous professional
development and job opportunities elsewhere throughout the trust. The trust makes many of its
announcements through The Bugle, which is also a forum to encourage participation in particular projects.

Ebor’s email system allows the trust’s chief executive and communications director the ability to issue direct
email communications to all staff. A weekly e-mail called the Red Box is also sent to all school! leadership
teams during term time.

Feedback from employees is obtained via the Better Place to Work system, a formal staff development
reviews process and face-to-face meetings with the academy leaders and the senior leadership team visiting
academies on a regular basis.

On the 24 September 2024 the Trust held its first ever conference, Ebor Together, where over 600 members
of staff were brought together to emphasise the importance of everyone in the Trust, irrespective of their role.

The day was the formal launch of the Year of Our People initiative along with guest speakers who talked
about their life stories and experiences. The whole event was deemed a great success and allowed the Trust
to galvanise the priorities, underpinning them with a whole team approach and with the backing of our people
to bring success in the year to come.

Equal opportunities policy

The directors recognise that equal opportunities should be an integral part of good practice within the
workplace. The trust is striving to be an inclusive and diverse organisation, where everyone feels able to be
themselves and experiences a strong sense of belonging. The trust wholeheartedly supports the principle of
equality and diversity in employment and opposes all forms of unfair or unlawful discrimination on the
grounds of age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity,
tace, religion or belief, or sex.

We encourage and support the recruitment, retention and career development of people from as wide a
range as possible of ethnic, cultural and social backgrounds and seek to develop a community of staff that
accurately represents society as a whole. All applications for employment with the trust will be considered
against the criteria outlined in the person specification for the position advertised.

Disabled persons

Lifts, ramps and disabled toilets are installed and door widths are adequate to enable wheelchair access to
all the main areas within the academy trust, however some sites contain listed buildings so appropriate
adaptions are made. The policy of the trust is to support recruitment and retention of students and
employees with disabilities. The trust does this by adapting the physical environment, by making support
resources available and through training and career development wherever possible.

Staff mental wellbeing is also an important area of focus for the trust, with the Better Place to Work system
running throughout the year to identify the needs of the employees and free access for all staff to confidential
wellbeing consultations, webinars on managing stress and anxiety, mindfulness podcasts and courses, GP
and Nurse appointments along with physiotherapy and weight management advice via the Ebor Staff
Absence Scheme provider.

Engagement with suppliers, customers and others in a business relationship with the trust

The trust recognises the importance of dealing fairly and equitably with its business relationship with its
customers, suppliers and key stakeholders. As a government-funded organization, the trust aims to pay all
suppliers within 30 days of their invoice date and during this year has continued to reduce this period.

The trust’s facilities are available for use by the community and we actively encourage the use of our
facilities outside of the normal school day. The trust charges a market rate to hire our facilities to commercial
organisations and a nominal rate for local community groups to cover our costs.

The trust engages with its customers, suppliers and key stakeholders on a regular basis to ensure that any
issues are resolved quickly and amicably.

6

Ebor Academy Trust
Trustees’ Report (continued)

Objectives and activities
Objects and aims

In accordance with the Articles of Association the charitable company has adopted a funding agreement
approved by the Secretary of State for Education. The funding agreement specifies, amongst other things,
the basis for admitting students to the academy trust.

Our vision is to deliver high quality, rich and engaging education at the heart of our diverse communities. To
do this, we are committed to building professional collaborations of best practice across and beyond the
trust. In this way, we seek to enable all our learners to flourish and open doors to their best futures.

The main objectives of the academy trust are summarised below:

School Improvement: Increasing and maintaining the high quality of provision in all our schools;

To create an inclusive and diverse culture of one trust with many schools, interacting with our
communities at every opportunity.

Develop our people and recruiting the best staff who are driven by a moral purpose to improve the life
chances of children and adults through education;

Ensure that the trust, at all levels, delivers sustained improvement, value for money and has capacity
for potential growth. 7

Further strengthen practice and provision by strengthening relationships with Central Government, the
Diocese of York, Local Authorities, other Multi Academy Trusts, schools and community groups.

Our values

Ebor Academy Trust seeks to live its values for all learners — children, adults and the wider community.
These values underpin all we do.

Excellence - All those who are part of Ebor, whether children or adults, will be supported to achieve
excellence in all they do.

Belonging - We act as one organisation, responsible for supporting each other to achieve the best
we can.

Opportunity - We provide learning that is relevant, motivating and engaging and that releases a
child's curiosity and creativity. We provide career pathways for the adults in our organisation so that
everyone can achieve their aspirations and fulfil their potential.

Respect - We acknowledge and celebrate that all people are different and can play a role in the
Ebor family, whatever their background or ways in which they learn. We celebrate the diversity within
our localities and the unique characteristics within each setting.

Who we are and what we stand for, in the words of our Headteachers and Governors:

e

This is a trust that invests in its people and develops talent — it grows leaders.
It has quality specialists who are current practitioners and practice is shared across the trust. There
are opportunities for all, we feel valued.

Ebor is about forward-thinking, innovative, creative solutions, about collaborative partnerships and
shared responsibility. We're not competitors — we are a support network, a genuine family of schools
that want to help each other.

The trust values the diversity of its schools and celebrates their uniqueness. Wider links are part of
Ebor's cultural capital.

Ebor has high aspirations for its pupils, it has morals and a heart. It is driven by education and not
business or profit.

Ebor Academy Trust
Trustees’ Report (continued)

Public benefit

The charity's aims and achievements are set out within this report. The activities set out in this report have
been undertaken to further the Charity’s charitable purposes for the public benefit. Trustees have complied
with their duty, under Section 4 of the Charities Act 2006 to have due regard to public benefit guidance
published by the Charities Commission and Trustees have paid due regard to this guidance in deciding what
activities the charity should undertake.

Strategic report
Achievements and performance

2023/2024 End of Year = es Ebor seo | Trust Summary

senor
senor
i f a

67% 70% — 68%"
Year 1 Phonics [
Screening 79% 84% 80%* | 80%
48% 34%" =| 42%

u
40% | 29%
j _!

i
3
i
i
é
f
i
t
I
i

i

|
65% Sic. 73%

|

il

| Year 6 Reading 72%

| Year 6 (TA) _ , “po
Writing | | 76%

[Year6Maths [79% | 76% [71% | 63% [a

| Year6GPS | - |- 72% 58% —- 72%

[YearsRwm | - [-. .] 59% “bene. ice

Our key achievements during the year were:

e bor celebrated its tenth anniversary with an event for trustees past and present in January 2024. Children
across schools participated by recording a special ‘Ebor song’ all about belonging and the future and by
taking part in a drawing competition. The trust also produced a podcast, including key people in Ebor’s
development over the decade.

e —Luttons Primary Academy and Sherburn CoE Primary Academy joined the Trust on the 1 July 2024, to bring
the total number of schools within the Trust to 25.

« Seven of the schools within the trust completed Ofsted inspections with all of them achieving a grading of
Good. Three of these schools were an improvement on the previous grading.

« Anew social media policy was created in response to the increased use of Tik Tok by our staff, which has
been shown to be highly successful in promoting parental engagement and an innovative way of securing
sponsorship for our schools and increasing potential recruitment.

e Appointment of our first Procurement Officer helping to centralise the procurement process, improve
compliance and generate savings and discounts on our major procurement projects. The role is already well
on its way to be self-funding.

e Leadership coaching provided for all school leaders.

8

Ebor Academy Trust
Trustees’ Report (continued)

e The Trust has developed long term strategies and plans to cope with the falling rolls across our schools, from
the sharing of curriculum planning for split classes and the deployment of leadership and support costs
across schools.

e Inthe face of significant inflationary financial pressures and the lack of government funding to compensate
the trust has continued to manage its finances, through the use of ICFP metrics, to ensure it is financially
viable and remains a going concern.

e Energy consumption and our carbon footprint has continued to fall across the trust with a further 10% fall in
our carbon footprint in addition to the previous year’s 22% reduction.

. Multi Factor Authentication has been introduced on all e-mail accounts throughout the Trust to minimise the
risk of cyber attack.

« Two Ebor staff attended a Google sponsored event in Madrid to explore the impact of Artificial Intelligence on
education, for more effective working for staff and an enriched, future focused education for pupils.

e The Trust CEO visited Singapore as part of a Department for Education & British Council visit to make
recommendations for UK education practice and policy.

¢ National education sector issues, such as children’s readiness for school and the number starting school in
nappies, highlighted in articles written by CEO Gail Brown in the TES. Early Years is a focus of the incoming
Labour government.

e Trustee Development Day in June 2024 focused on developing early years, children’s wellbeing and
community.

e The Trust was awarded £182,000 from the government's Trust Capacity Fund to help develop central
capacity and expand into the Scarborough area.

e The Trust completed an 18 month repair programme to the swimming pool at Braeburn Primary and Nursery
Academy allowing for a new contract to be established with an external organisation to allow the pool to be
used for pupil lessons and wider community use.

e Haxby Road Primary Academy has won the title Primary School of the Year at an awards ceremony in
Manchester. The school’s Assistant Headteacher was pronounced Hero of the Year.

e Year 3 pupils from Robert Wilkinson Primary Academy injected some patriotic cheer in the build-up to the
finals of the Euros, by recording their own version of classic England football hit Three Lions in British Sign
Language, making local and national news with their rendition.

e bor conducted its first-ever parents’ survey. Analysis of the results will help the trust and schools to
successfully and proactively support parents leading to engagement-driven decision making, higher
achievement and wellbeing whilst reinforcing to parents that they matter. The Trust's expanded annual report
for members is a tangible outcome from the survey, as is a new attendance newsletter for all parents, called
Aspirations, detailing the positive benefits on children of regular attendance at school.

e The Trust's three-year People Strategy and Year of Our People commitment was launched at our first whole
team Ebor Together event, held at York Barbican in September 2024. Guest speakers provided motivation for
the start of the new academic year and Ebor’s three key priorities - Early Years, wellbeing and community —
were also discussed.

Ebor Academy Trust
Trustees’ Report (continued)

Going concern

After making appropriate enquiries, the board of trustees has a reasonable expectation that the academy
trust has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this
reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. Further details
regarding the adoption of the going concern basis can be found in the Statement of Accounting Policies.

The trustees have noted that the balance sheet at the 31st August 2024 shows a net current liability of
£366k. This is caused by the use of the trust cash assets to fund the replacement of the entire roof of the
trusts largest school in 2022 for a total cost of £1.4 million. The trust is recouping this expenditure from its
annual School Condition Allocation capital funding over a 5-6 year period.

Promoting the success of the company

The Trustees have acted in accordance with their duties codified in law, which include their duty to act in the
way in which they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for
the benefit of its members, stakeholders and the matters set out in section 172(1) of the Companies Act
2006. The Charities Commission has issued guidance which explains that charitable companies should take
“promoting the success of the company” to mean “promoting the success of the charity to achieve its
charitable purposes.”

Ebor Academy Trust is governed by its charitable objects. These charitable objects set out the purpose of
the charity. The consequences of all decisions and activities of the charity are assessed by how they drive us
towards achieving that long-term purpose, including by reference to the charity’s strategy, vision and values.
As an educational charity, we are accountable not only to our funders and direct beneficiaries (our pupils) but
also our parents and wider community. These stakeholders support us, engage with us, and challenge us.
They ensure that the decisions we make as a charity, from the ground level through to the Board, are for
their benefit.

We are a values-driven organisation and our values mean that we are informed, shaped and powered by our
determination to uphold our vision and values. Well-established involvement and consultation mechanisms,
both direct, through parent and staff surveys, and indirect, through the involvement of parents and local
people on our Local Governing Bodies and Trust Board, ensure that decisions made by the Trustees are
informed by the needs of the organisation's stakeholders and consideration of the following factors:

e the likely consequences of any decision in the long term

e the interests of the company’s employees

e the need to foster the company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others
e the impact of the company’s operations on the community and the environment

e the desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct
« the need to act fairly as between members of the company.

All matters reserved for decision by the Trustees are presented at Board or Committee meetings as
appropriate. Trustees are briefed on any identified potential impacts and risks for our stakeholders and how
they are to be managed. The Trustees take these factors into account before making a final decision which
together they believe is in the best interests of the trust and its stakeholders.

10

Ebor Academy Trust
Trustees’ Report (continued)

Financial review

The financial performance of the trust is included in the financial statements below. This can be summarised
as total income (excluding donated assets) for the period being £41,926k (£39,187k 2023) and expenditure
(excluding Actuarial Gains / Losses) as £42,469k (£40,578k 2022) for the same period.

The trust held a surplus fund balance, excluding pension deficits and fixed assets, of £515k (£727k 2023).
The pension deficit of nil (£(1,176)k 2023) has been added to the restricted reserves. The trust is holding a
fixed asset reserve of £55,573k (£56,200k 2023), this is largely the donation of fixed assets from the local
authorities to the trust upon the conversion of each school to academy status.

Total reserves held at the end of the period are £56,088k (£55,751k 2023).

The underlying surplus fund balance reduced during the year due to unfunded teacher and support staff pay
rises and a rise in staffing costs due to increased Special Educational needs within the schools. Trust total
reserves have improved due to the addition of Sherburn & Luttons schools and a reduction to the pension
deficit reserve following better than expected investment returns. Both schemes are now in a surplus position
under the FRS102 valuation but the surpluses are not recognised in the accounts as they are unlikely to ever
be realised.

The long-term funding for the education sector is under significant financial pressure due to funding not
increasing and while the 2024 autumn budget confirmed a £2.3 billion increase in school funding most of this
will be utilised in covering the ongoing cost of the 2024 pay awards and the deficits in the High Needs
budget.

‘Added to this is a dilapidated national school estate. While the £6.7 billion of additional capital funding
announced in the 2024 autumn budget is welcomed it will only scratch the surface of the requirement of the
national school estate.

The 2024 autumn budget only provided us with certainty of funding for the next year. The April 25 spending
review is expected to give us much more certainty over the long term level of investment the new
government is prepared to allocate to the education sector.

Reserves policy

Trustees review the reserve levels of the academy trust annually. This review encompasses the nature of
income and expenditure streams, the need to match income with commitments and the nature of reserves.

It is the trust’s policy not to carry deficits and where they have arisen to put in place actions to recover these
over future periods. Where unrestricted deficits exist these are also recovered in the following period, any
surplus on unrestricted activities is reinvested in restricted reserves for the purposes of education. Disclosure
of the funds in surplus and deficit can be seen in note 19.

Restricted and unrestricted reserves total £515k (£727k 2023) at the end of the period. These are below the
Trusts targeted level of reserves at 1.23% of charitable income vs a targeted level of 3%-5%. The Trust is
working to return the overall reserves back above the 3% minimum threshold by the end of 2025 through the
use of Integrated Curriculum Financial Planning ratios.

Investment policy

The academy trust aims to manage its cash balances to provide for the day-to-day working capital
requirements of its operations, whilst protecting the real long term value of any surplus cash balances
against inflation. The academy trust does not consider the investment of funds as a primary activity, rather as
a result of good stewardship as and when circumstances allow.

11

Ebor Academy Trust
Trustees’ Report (continued)

Principal risks and uncertainties

The principal risks to the trust and associated mitigation are summarised below. The trust does not view
cash flow, liquidity or any pension scheme deficit to be a strategic risk.

Financial Viability

Risk - Sufficient funds are unavailable to meet the strategic requirements. Areas of risk include a reduction in
income or increased costs from government funding policy changes, reduced pupil numbers, the use of
ancillary services, poor spending decisions, additional costs for repairing buildings or fraud.

Mitigation - Continuous short-term reforecasting is completed with monthly financial reporting updating for
any changes in government policy and funding. Long term planning is completed for capital expenditure and
ensuring the trust has adequate reserves.

Strategic Outcomes
Risk - The ability to achieve strategic outcomes due to a lack of accountability and workload.

Mitigation - The executive team work with Trustees to set and deliver a strategic plan to enable objectives to
be set prioritising the raising of outcomes and achievement for all children, ensuring the sustainability of the
trust as a going concern and proactively seeking growth and partnership opportunities.

Statutory Compliance

Risk - Compliance with statutory requirements is not achieved due to lack of resource and skills in
completing the work or through lack of monitoring of these areas.

Mitigation - A risk management strategy and plans are in place to monitor all statutory compliance, with the
addition of new systems and resource to complete this. Skills gaps and training are identified and provided to
employees to ensure statutory compliance work is completed.

Insufficient skills and / or people to deliver

Risk - Employees within the orgainsation do not have the right skills or we do not have enough people to
deliver the required objectives.

Mitigation - Monitoring and reviewing of the skills and objectives by the executive team is ongoing with
annual appraisals and continuous CPD across all roles in the trust.

Changes in political direction impact strategy and outcomes

Risk - Changes to political direction and priorities change direction and impact on the trust’s funds and
strategy, increased by the uncertainty surrounding the change in government in July 2024 and its long term
plans and funding strategy.

Mitigation - The executive team will continue to monitor the risk via the trust risk register with specific
recovery plans implemented at each academy and across the trust.

12

Ebor Academy Trust
Trustees’ Report (continued)

Fundraising

The majority of the income for the trust is in the form of grants provided for education from the Education
Skills Funding Agency and called the General Annual Grant. This funding is used directly to provide
education for the pupils of the academies in the trust. Additional types of funding also covering education
include those for less advantaged pupils (Pupil Premium), Special Educational Needs (SEN), funding for
specialist provision, being the Enhanced Resource Provision for speech and language and autism at Haxby
Road and Lakeside and the Hob Moor Oaks primary specia! school, which caters for children who have
significant special educational needs. These funding types are all expended covering the need for which they
are granted.

The trust received income in the year for Start-Up Grants from the Education Skills Funding Agency for
activities relating to converting new academies. Where these conversions have not yet been realised, the
conversion activities were already taking place and the income recognised in accordance with the SORP.

Other additional sources of income, for example nursery provision, school dinners, lettings, training, wrap
around care and consultancy are all expended delivering those services. Any surplus generated through
these activities is reinvested in teaching and learning in that particular school.

Trustees are committed to ensuring that any fundraising activities are carried out in an ethical manner.
In doing so, the organisation will adhere to the following standards:

e The Trustees will have regard to the Charity Commission’s publication ‘Charity Fundraising’
(CC20).

e Fundraising activities carried out by the academy trust will comply with all relevant laws.

e« Any communications to the public made in the course of carrying out a fundraising activity shall be
truthful and non-deceptive.

e All monies raised via fundraising activities will be for the stated purpose of the appeal and will
comply with the trust’s stated mission and purpose.

e All personal information collected by the school is confidential and is not for sale or to be given
away or disclosed to any third party without consent.

e Nobody directly or indirectly employed by or volunteering for the school shall accept commissions,
bonuses or payments for fundraising activities on behalf of the organisation.

e No general solicitations shall be undertaken by telephone or door-to-door.

e Fundraising activities should not be undertaken if they may be detrimental to the good name or
community standing of the academies or trust.

e Financial contributions will only be accepted from companies, organisations and individuals the
Trustees consider ethical.

e All Trustees and employees, casual, permanent and contract staff and volunteers are responsible
for adhering to these procedures.

e Fundraising activities should not be undertaken if they will expose the trust to significant financial
risk.

e Complaints will be dealt with in accordance with the Charity Commission’s guide CC20.

13

Ebor Academy Trust
Trustees’ Report (continued)

Streamlined energy and carbon reporting

UK Greenhouse gas emissions and energy use data for the 1 September 2023 | 1 September 2022
period : to 31 August 2024 | to 31 August 2023

Energy consumption used to calculate emissions (kWh) 5,228,575 5,734,569

| Scope 1 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e Gas

consumption 663 731

Oil Consumption 45 64

Owned transport — mini-buses 4 4

Total scope 1 712 829
—__|_

Scope 2 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e

Purchased electricity 267

Scope 3 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e

Business travel in employee-owned vehicles 23

Total gross emissions in metric tonnes CO2e

Intensity ratio

Tonnes CQ2e per pupil

. ficati IR ing Methodology -
We have followed the 2019 HM Government Environmental Reporting Guidelines. We have also used the GHG
Reporting Protocol — Corporate Standard and have used the 2022 UK Government's Conversion Factors for
Company Reporting.

Intensity measurement

The chosen intensity measurement ratio is total gross emissions in metric tonnes CO2e per pupil, the
recommended ratio for the sector.

M k . ffici

' Following the significant increase in prices we have continued to focus on reducing consumption within the
schools. The Trust is progressing with an installation programme for heating control systems across all of our
schools and have installed solar panels at three of our schools.

This has led to an annual 9% reduction in kWh’s and a 10% reduction in Co2e.

This summer we have been awarded a decarbonisation grant to explore the possibility of installing air source heat
pumps to replace oil fired boilers and inefficient gas boilers.

14

Ebor Academy Trust
Trustees’ Report (continued)
Plans for future periods

Our Trust has a clear mission and moral purpose in developing a group of high-performing academies that
have outstanding outcomes for everyone, sit at the heart of our communities and are great places to work and
learn.

We are developing strong networks and partnerships and have an excellent track record in identifying areas
for improvement and instigating clear actions to impact positively on our schools.

We are unafraid of taking on schools which are on a downward trajectory and are committed to arresting that
decline and securing improvement, even when this might initially result in a less favorable inspection
judgement in the short term. We are, thereby, committed to the long-term improvement of our schools and
raising the outcomes and achievement for all.

Although we experienced a period of rapid growth, we have in recent times worked to consolidate practice and
provision ensuring our vision for all children in our schools can be reached. As a result, we know all of our
academies well and are in a strong position to extend our family of schools further in order to improve the trust
as a whole. We are delighted that two more schools, Sherburn Church of England Primary Academy and
Luttons Primary Academy joined our Trust on the 1% July 2024. We continue to work with all stakeholders with
the view to welcoming further schools over the next few years in order to consolidate our hub based operating
model.

We retain and celebrate the uniqueness of each school within its own community whilst ensuring that our

strategic direction of the central support team, policy alignment, and appropriate areas of conformity, adds
value to the local offer in both community and church led schools.

We are committed to ensuring that all children and young people receive an excellent quality of education and
stress test all potential change against this moral purpose, while also recruiting; looking after and developing
excellent people. Talent management, staff wellbeing and leadership development are integral to our values.

Auditor
Insofar as the trustees are aware:

e there is no relevant audit information of which the charitable company’s auditor is unaware
e the trustees have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.

The trustees’ report, incorporating a strategic report, was approved by order of the board of trustees, as the
company directors, on 11! December 2024 and signed on the board’s behalf by:

¢
Debbie Clinton
Chair of Trustees

11" December 20

15

Ebor Academy Trust
Governance statement

Scope of responsibility

As trustees, we acknowledge we have overall responsibility for ensuring that Ebor Academy Trust has an
effective and appropriate system of control, financial and otherwise. However, such a system is designed
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.

As trustees, we have reviewed and taken account of the guidance in DfE’s Governance Handbook and
competency framework for governance.

The board of trustees has delegated the day-to-day responsibility to the Chief Executive Officer, as
accounting officer, for ensuring financial controls conform with the requirements of both propriety and
good financial management and in accordance with the requirements and responsibilities assigned to it in
the funding agreement between Ebor Academy Trust and the Secretary of State for Education. They are
also responsible for reporting to the board of trustees any material weaknesses or breakdowns in internal
control.

Governance

The information on governance included here supplements that described in the Trustees’ Report and in
the Statement of Trustees’ Responsibilities. The board of trustees has formally met 6 times during the
year. Attendance during the year at meetings of the board of trustees was as follows:

Trustee Meetings attended Out of a possible

Rachel Totton (Chair) 6
Debbie Clinton (Vice-Chair)

Andrew Winters

Barbara Nicholas

Chris Chambers

Duncan Fraser

Jonathon Cook

Karen Fieldhouse

Patricia Ellison

Richard Thompson (appointed 1s September 2023)

Tracey Dennison 5 6
During the year Richard Thompson joined the Board of Trustees. At the end of the year Rachel Totton ended
her tenure as Chair of the Board of Trustees and has remained as Vice-Chair of Trustees.

FanNnansh AL
DADA DA AA HD WH

Post the year end Debbie Clinton has taken over the position of Chair of the Board of Trustees. Two new
Trustees are due to join the board in early 2025.

The trust is continually conducting a self-evaluation of its governance structures to ensure’ the ‘effectiveness
of its Trustees and Local Governing Bodies. The next self-evaluation is scheduled for Spring 2025.

16

Ebor Academy Trust
Governance Statement (continued)

The annual review covers the following key areas:
e Governance Structures, Roles and Procedures
Strategic Planning for the Trust
Risk Management processes
Resources to deliver best possible outcomes and value for money
Stakeholder Engagement
Trustee induction, training and development
Statutory duties and responsibilities

During the year the Trustees reviewed and updated the trusts Articles of Association and new articles were
adopted and filed at Companies House on the 15" June 2024.

The finance & resources committee is a sub-committee of the main Board of Trustees. Its purpose is to:

e Review and monitor the financial performance of the trust, advising LGBs of actions as necessary;
¢ Hold the Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director to account regarding financial management,
e Agree the Financial Scheme of Delegation;

Attendance at meetings in the year was as follows:

Meetings Out of a
Trustee attended possible
Karen Fieldhouse (Chair)
Barbara Nicholas
Chris Chambers
Duncan Fraser
Jonathan Cook
Richard Thompson

WARNNNND
pAHDHRAL

The Audit & Risk committee is a sub-Committee of the main Board of Trustees. Its purpose is:

e Oversight of Internal and External audit;
e Assurances relating to the management of risk and corporate governance requirements
e Review anti-fraud policies, whistle-blowing processes, and arrangements for special investigations

Attendance at meetings in the year was as follows:

Meetings Out of a
Trustee attended possible
Andrew Winters (Chair) 3 4
Barbara Nicholas 3 4
Debbie Clinton 2 4
Patricia Ellison 4 4
Tracey Dennison 2 4

17

Ebor Academy Trust
Governance Statement (continued)

Review of value for money

As accounting officer, the Chief Executive Officer has responsibility for ensuring that the academy trust
delivers good value in the use of public resources. The accounting officer understands that value for money
refers to the educational and wider societal outcomes achieved in return for the taxpayer resourcesreceived.

The accounting officer considers how the academy trust's use of its resources has provided good value for
money during each academic year, and reports to the Board of Trustees where value for money can be
improved, including the use of benchmarking data or by using a framework where appropriate. The
accounting officer for the academy trust has delivered improved value for money during the year by:

e Appointment of a procurement officer to increase the amount of centralised purchasing of trust
wide contracts for services and equipment using national frameworks such as Crown Commercial
Services or the Crescent Purchasing Consortium. Working with other Multi Academy Trusts on
joint tenders and standardising systems and suppliers across the trust.

e Within this year major tenders have included supply staff services, educational software &
licences, recruitment management systems and major building works to repair and extend our
facilities.

e Purchasing IT equipment outright instead of leasing enabling the trust to benefit from an extended
useful life of the equipment, specifically in relation to Chromebooks, allowing more pupils to
access the equipment for teaching and learning.

e The redeployment of positions across the trust to match skills and experience with the needs of
the individual academies. This has allowed the trust to retain staff who may otherwise have left
and balance the budgets of academies who were overspending on staffing cost.

e Continued employment of apprentices within our academies in order to grow and develop a
pipeline of support staff. .

e The deployment of Executive Heads, Academy Specialists and Curriculum Champions across the
trust for particular subjects and school improvement. These staff are already employed by the
trust and are utilised as a shared resource for particular areas of weakness or individual projects.
These specialisms and support would need to have been bought in otherwise at an additional
expense.

e The continued development of the back office functions systems and service, including finance, in
house payroll, human resources, legal advice and facilities management. This allows for a more
focused use of resources across the trust meaning that individual schools are not having to
purchase services they do not use.

18

Ebor Academy Trust

Governance Statement (continued)
The purpose of the system of internal control

The system of internal control is designed to manage risk to a reasonable level rather than to eliminate all
risk of failure to achieve policies, aims and objectives. It can, therefore, only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance of effectiveness. The system of internal control is based on an on-going process
designed to identify and prioritise the risks to the achievement of academy trust policies, aims and
objectives, to evaluate the likelihood of those risks being realised and the impact should they be realised,
and to manage them efficiently, effectively and economically. The system of internal control has been in
place in Ebor Academy Trust for the period 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 and up to the date of
approval of the annual report and financial statements.

Capacity to handle risk

The board of trustees has reviewed the key risks to which the academy trust is exposed, together with the
operating, financial and compliance controls that have been implemented to mitigate those risks. The board
of trustees is of the view that there is a formal on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing
the academy trust's significant risks that has been in place for the period 1 September 2023 to 31 August
2024 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements. This process is regularly
reviewed by the board of trustees.

The risk and control framework

The academy trust’s system of internal financial control is based on a framework of regular management
information and administrative procedures including the segregation of duties and a system of
delegation and accountability. In particular, it includes:
« comprehensive budgeting, forecasting and monitoring systems with an annual budget and
periodic financial reports which are reviewed and agreed by the Board of Trustees
« regular reviews by the finance committee of reports which indicate financial performance against
the forecasts and of major purchase plans, capital works and expenditure programme
e setting targets to measure financial and other performance
¢ clearly defined purchasing (asset purchase or capital investment) guidelines
e delegation of authority and segregation of duties
e identification and management of risks

The Board of Trustees has considered the need for a specific internal audit function and have purchased an
internal audit service from Veritau Limited.

The internal auditor's role includes giving.advice on financial matters and performing a range of checks on
the academy trust’s systems and processes. Along with a follow up to previous recommendations, the checks
carried out in the current period included:

* testing of the Budget Management systems
* testing of the Trust's Energy procurement and usage
* — testing of the Trust's payroll and HR systems.

19

Ebor Academy Trust
Governance Statement (continued)

Following the audits, the auditor reports to the Board of Trustees, through the Audit committee on the operation of
the systems of control and on the discharge of the Board of Trustees financial responsibilities.

On an annual basis the auditors prepare a summary report to the committee outlining the areas reviewed,

key findings, recommendations and conclusions to help the committee consider actions and assess year on

year progress.

Review of effectiveness

As accounting officer, the Chief Executive Officer has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the
system of internal control. During the year in question the review has been informed by:

° the work of the internal auditor

e the financial management and governance self-assessment process or the school
resource management self-assessment tool

e the work of the executive managers within the academy trust who have responsibility for
the development and maintenance of the internal control framework ‘

. the work of the external auditor

. correspondence from ESFA e.g. FNtl/Ntl and ‘minded to’ letters.

The accounting officer has been advised of the implications of the result of their review of the system of
internal control by the audit and risk committee and a plan to address weaknesses and ensure continuous
improvement of the system is in place.

Approved by order of the members of the board of trustees on 11th December 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

—
\
Debbie Clinton Gail Brown
Chair of Trustees Accounting Officer

20

Ebor Academy Trust

Statement of regularity, propriety and compliance

As accounting officer of Ebor Academy Trust, | have considered my responsibility to notify the academy
trust board of trustees and the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) of material irregularity,
impropriety and non-compliance with terms and conditions of all funding, including for estates safety and
management, under the funding agreement between the academy trust and the Secretary of State for
Education. As part of my consideration | have had due regard to the requirements of the Academy Trust
Handbook 2023, including responsibilities for estates safety and management.

| confirm that | and the academy trust board of trustees are able to identify any material irregular or
improper use of all funds by the academy trust, or material non-compliance with the terms and conditions of
funding under the academy trust's funding agreement and the Academy Trust Handbook 2023.

| confirm that no instances of material irregularity, impropriety or funding non-compliance have been
discovered to date. If any instances are identified after the date of this statement, these will be notified to
the board of trustees and ESFA.

Gail Brown
Accounting Officer

11th December 2024

21

Ebor Academy Trust

Statement of trustees’ responsibilities

The trustees (who are also the directors of the charitable company for the purposes of company law) are
responsible for preparing the Trustees’ Report and the financial statements in accordance with the
Academies Accounts Direction published by the Education and Skills Funding Agency, United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) and applicable law and
regulations.

Company law requires the trustees to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under company
law, the trustees must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the charitable company and of its incoming resources and application
of resources, including its income and expenditure, for that period. In preparing these financial statements,
the trustees are required to:

e select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently

e observe the methods and principles in the Charities SORP 2019 and the Academies Accounts
Direction 2023 to 2024

e make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent

e state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements

« prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that
the charitable company will continue in business.

The trustees are responsible for Keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and
explain the charitable company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the charitable company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply
with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the charitable
company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities.

The trustees are responsible for ensuring that in its conduct and operation the charitable company applies
financial and other controls which conform with the requirements both of propriety and of good financial
management. They are also responsible for ensuring grants received from ESFA/DfE have been applied
for the purposes intended.

The trustees are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information
included on the charitable company's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation

and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Approved by order of the members of the board of trustees on 11th December 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

Yepou CLE
Debbie Clinton

[oo

22

Ebor Academy Trust

Independent auditor’s report on the financial statements to the members of Ebor
Academy Trust

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Ebor Academy Trust (the ‘charitable company’) for the year ended 31
August 2024 which comprise the Statement of Financial Activities, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Cash Flows
and the notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. The financial
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting
Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and
Republic of Ireland (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), the Charities Statement of
Recommended Practice (SORP 2019) and the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024 issued by the Education
& Skills Funding Agency.

In our opinion the accounts:

e give a true and fair view of the state of the charitable company’s affairs as at 31 August 2024, and of its incoming
resources and application of resources for the year then ended;

« have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice;
e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006; and

e have been prepared in accordance with Charities Statement of Recommended Practice (SORP 2019) and the
Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of
the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the charitable company in accordance with
the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s
Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to Going Concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the Trustees’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the charity's ability to continue as a going
concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Trustees with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other Information

The other information comprises the information included in the report and financial statements, other than the
financial statements and our auditor's report thereon. The Trustees are responsible for the other information. Our
opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly
stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. !n connection with our audit of
the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the
other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements
or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to
report in this regard.

23

Ebor Academy Trust

Independent auditor’s report on the financial statements to the members of Ebor
Academy Trust

Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of our audit:

e the information given in the Trustees Report, which includes the directors’ report prepared for the purposes of
company law, for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the
financial statements; and :

e the Trustees’ Report has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of our knowledge and understanding of the academy trust and its environment obtained in the course of
the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Trustees’ Report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires
us to report to you if, in our opinion:

e adequate accounting records have not been kept; or
e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records; or
e certain disclosures of Trustees’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

e we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Responsibilities of Trustees

As explained more fully in the Trustees’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 22, the Trustees, who are also
the directors of Ebor Academy Trust for the purposes of company law, are responsible for the preparation of financial
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Trustees
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the Trusteesare responsible for assessing the charitable company’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern
basis of accounting unless the Trustees either intend to liquidate the charitable company or to cease operations, or
have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance
with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in
line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including
fraud. The specific procedures for this engagement and the extent to which these are capable of detecting
irregularities, including fraud is detailed below:

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities including fraud

We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error,
and then design and perform audit procedures response to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

In identifying and assessing the risks or material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-
compliance with laws and regulations we considered the following;

24

Ebor Academy Trust

Independent auditor’s report on the financial statements to the members of Ebor
Academy Trust

‘e = The nature of the academy, the environment in which it operates, and the control procedures implemented by
management and the Trustees; and

* Our enquiries of management and Trustees about their identification and assessment of the risks of
irregularities.

Based on our understanding of the academy and the sector we identified that the principal risks of non-
compliance with laws and regulations related to, but were not limited to;

e Regulations and legislation pertinent to the academy’s operations

_We considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material impact on the financial statements.
We also considered those laws and regulations which have a direct impact on the preparation of the financial
statements, such as the Financial Reporting Standard Applicable in UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102), the
Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing
their accounts in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland
(FRS102) (Charities SORP (FRS102)), the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024 issued by ESFA, the
Charities Act 2011 and the Companies Act 2006.

We evaluated management and Trustees’ incentives and opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the
financial statements (including the risk of management override of controls), and determined that the principal
risks were related to;

e Posting inappropriate journal entries.
Audit response to the risks identified;
Our procedures to respond to the risks identified included the following;

e Gaining an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework applicable to the academy and the sector in
which it operates;

e Reviewing financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with
provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct effect on the financial statements;

e Enquiring of management, Trustees and legal advisors concerning actual and potential litigation and claims;

e Reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing
correspondence with the Department for Education and Education & Skills Funding Agency,

« In addressing the risk of fraud as a result of management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of
journal entries and other adjustments; evaluating rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or
outside the normal course of business.

e In testing journal entries, we looked at the following areas:

a) Fixed assets
b) Debtors

c) Creditors

d) Wages

We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team
members, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout
the audit.

Because of the inherent limitations of an audit, there is a risk that we will not detect all irregularities, including those
leading to a material misstatement in the financial statements or non-compliance with regulation. This risk increases
the more that compliance with a law or regulation is removed from the events and transactions reflected in the
financial statements, as we will be less likely to become aware of instances of non-compliance. The risk is also
greater regarding irregularities occurring due to fraud rather than error, as fraud involves intentional concealment,
forgery, collusion, omission or misrepresentation.

25

_Ebor Academy Trust

Independent auditor’s report on the financial statements to the members of Ebor
Academy Trust

A further description of our responsibilities is available on the Financial Reporting Council's website at
https://www. frc.org.uk/library/standards-codes-policy/audit-assurance-and-ethics/auditors-responsibilities-for-the-
audit/. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the academy trust's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of
the Companies Act 2006 and in respect of the separate opinion in relation to compliance with the Academies
Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024 issued by the Education & Skills Funding Agency on terms that have been agreed.

Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the academy trust's members those matters we are
required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the academy trust and its members as a body, for our

audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
7 >
J \
(Ay) h td
jons) FCCA, CA (Senior Statutory Auditor)

lon BAH
For and on betialf of Wbg (Audit) Limited
Statutory Auditor

168 Bath Street, Glasgow, G2 4TP 11 December 2024

26

Ebor Academy Trust

Independent reporting accountant’s assurance report on regularity to Ebor
Academy Trust and the Education and Skills Funding Agency

Regularity Report

In accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated 8 October 2024 and further to the requirements of the
Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) as included in the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024, we
have carried out an engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the expenditure disbursed and income
received by Ebor Academy Trust during the period 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 have been applied to the
purposes identified by Parliament and the financial transactions conform to the authorities which govern them.

This report is made solely to Ebor Academy Trust and ESFA in accordance with the terms of our engagement letter.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to Ebor Academy Trust and the ESFA those matters we are
required to state in a report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or
assume responsibility to anyone other than Ebor Academy Trust and the ESFA, for our work, for this report, or for
the conclusion we have formed.

Respective responsibilities of Ebor Academy Trust’s accounting officer and the reporting accountant

The accounting officer is responsible, under the requirements of Ebor Academy Trust's funding agreement with the
Secretary of State for Education and the Academy Trust Handbook, extant from 1 September 2023, for ensuring
that expenditure disbursed and income received is applied for the purposes intended by Parliament and the financial
transactions conform to the authorities which govern them.

Our responsibilities for this engagement are established in the United Kingdom by our profession's ethical guidance
and are to obtain limited assurance and report in accordance with our engagement letter and the requirements of
the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024. We report to you whether anything has come to our attention in
carrying out our work which suggests that in all material respects, expenditure disbursed and income received during
the period 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 have not been applied to purposes intended by Parliament or that
the financial transactions do not conform to the authorities which govern them. -

Approach

We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Framework and Guide for External Auditors and Reporting
Accountant of Academy Trusts issued by ESFA. We performed a limited assurance engagement as defined in our
engagement letter.

The objective of a limited assurance engagement is to perform such procedures as to obtain information and
explanations in order to provide us with sufficient appropriate evidence to express a negative conclusion on
regularity.

A limited assurance engagement is more limited in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement and
consequently does not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that
might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a positive opinion.

Our engagement includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the regularity and propriety of the
academy trust’s income and expenditure.

The work undertaken to draw to our conclusion includes
e Direct consideration and corroboration of evidence used to inform the accounting officer's statements;

e Procedures to assess compliance with the funding agreement and Academies Financial Handbook from those
already performed as part of the audit;

e Consideration of whether expenditure outside of the academies delegated authorities has received
departmental approval;

e Evaluation and assessment of the operating effectiveness of the general control environment and operational
level which are intended to reduce the risk of irregularity;

27

Ebor Academy Trust

Independent reporting accountant’s assurance report on regularity to Ebor
Academy Trust and the Education and Skills Funding Agency

e« Assessment of adequacy of policies and procedures to ensure compliance with the framework of authorities;

e Testing transactions with connected parties to determine whether the Academy Trust has complied with the ‘at
cost’ requirement of the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024;

« Consideration of whether the absence of a control represents a breach of authorities;

« Review of accounts or transactions susceptible to a greater risk of impropriety such as credit cards and cash
accounts.

This list is not exhaustive and we performed additional procedures designed to provide us with additional appropriate
evidence to express a conclusion on regularity consistent with the requirements of Part 9 of the Academies Accounts
Direction 2023 to 2024.

Conclusion

In the course of our work, nothing has come to our attention which suggests that in all material respects the
expenditure disbursed and income received during the period 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 has not been
applied to purposes intended by Parliament and the financial transactions do not conform to the authorities which
govern them.

Scott Gillon BA(Hons), FCCA, CA
Reporting Accountant
Whg (Audit) Limited

Dated 11 December 2024

28

Ebor Academy Trust

Statement of Financial Activities for the year ended 31 August 2024 (including

Income and Expenditure Account)

Income and endowments from:

Donations and capital grants
Transfer from local authority on
conversion

Other trading activities

Investments

Charitable activities:
Funding for the academy trust's
educational operations

Total

Expenditure on:
Academy trust educational
operations

Other - LGPS

Total
Net income / (expenditure)
Transfers between funds

Other recognised gains /
(losses):

Actuarial gains on defined benefit
pension schemes

Net movement in funds

Reconciliation of funds
Total funds brought forward
Total funds carried forward

Note

NOD

19

29

Unrestricted
Funds
£000

118

706
24

848

848

848

29

Restricted
General
Funds
£000

29

39,337
39,366

38,990
(298)

38,694
671

(588)

880

964

(449)
515

Restricted
Fixed

Asset
Funds
£000

916

796

1,712

2,927

2,927

(1,215)

588

(627)

56,200
55,573

2023/24

Total
£000

1,034
825

706
24

39,337
41,926

42,765
(296)
42,469

(543)

880
337

55,751
56,088

2022/23

Total
£000

2,658

531

35,998
39,187

39,945
633
40,578

(1,391)

3,525
2,134

55,751

Ebor Academy Trust
Balance Sheet as at 31 August 2024

Company Number 08806335

Fixed assets
Tangible assets

Current assets
Debtors
Cash at bank and in hand

Liabilities
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year

Net current (liabilities)/ assets
Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than
one year

Net assets excluding pension asset! liability

Defined benefit pension scheme asset (liability)

Total net assets

Funds of the academy trust:
Restricted funds
Fixed asset fund
Restricted income fund
Pension reserve

Total restricted funds

Unrestricted income funds

Total funds

Note

16
26

17

18

29

19

19

19

(3,439)

2024 2024
£000 £000
56,636
1,970
1,103
3,073
(366)
56,270
(182)
56,088
56,088
55.573
515
56,088
56,088

2023 2023
- £000 £000
57,171
1,626
1,172
2,798
(2,778)
20
57,191
(264)
56,927
(1,176)
55,751
56,200
727
(1,176)
55,751
55,751

The financial statements on pages 29 to 59 were approved by the trustees and authorised for issue on
11th December 2024 and are signed on their behalf by:

Vp.

Debbie Clinton
Chair of Trustees

30

Ebor Academy Trust

Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended 31 August 2024

Cash flows from operating activities
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities
Cash flows from investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities

Change in cash and cash equivalents in the reporting period

Cash and cash equivalents at 1 September 2023

Cash and cash equivalents at 31 August 2024

31

Note

23

25

24

26/27

2024
£000

985
(972)
(82)
69
1,172

1,103

2023
£000

(1,169)
486
(78)

(761)
1,933

1,172

Ebor Academy Trust

Notes to the financial statements

1 Accounting policies
A summary of the principal accounting policies adopted (which have been applied consistently, except

where noted), judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty is set out below.
Basis of preparation

__ The financial statements of the academy trust, which is a public benefit entity under FRS 102, have been
prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard
Applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102), the Accounting and Reporting by Charities:
Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with
the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (Charities SORP (FRS
102)), the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024 issued by ESFA, the Charities Act 2011 and the
Companies Act 2006.

Going concern

The trustees assess whether the use of going concern is appropriate i.e. whether there are any material
uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the company to
continue as a going concern. The trustees make this assessment in respect of a period of at least one year
from the date of authorisation for issue of the financial statements and have concluded that the academy
trust has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and there are
no material uncertainties about the academy trust's ability to continue as a going concern, thus they
continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.

Income
All incoming resources are recognised when the academy trust has entitlement to the funds, the receipt is
probable and the amount can be measured reliably.

Grants

Grants are included in the Statement of Financial Activities on a receivable basis. The balance of income
received for specific purposes but not expended during the period is shown in the relevant funds on the
balance sheet. Where income is received in advance of meeting any performance- related conditions,
there is not unconditional entitlement to the income and its recognition is deferred and included in creditors
as deferred income until the performance-related conditions are met. Where entitlement occurs before
income is received, the income is accrued.

General Annual Grant is recognised in full in the Statement of Financial Activities in the year for which it is
receivable and any abatement in respect of the period is deducted from income and recognised as a
liability. .

Capital grants are recognised in full when there is an unconditional entitlement to the grant. Unspent
amounts of capital grants are reflected in the balance sheet in the restricted fixed asset fund. Capital _
grants are recognised when there is entitlement and are not deferred over the life of the asset on which
they are expended.

Sponsorship income

Sponsorship income provided to the academy trust which amounts to a donation is recognised in the
Statement of Financial Activities in the period in which it is receivable (where there are no performance-
telated conditions), where the receipt is probable and it can be measured reliably.

32

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

Donations
Donations are recognised on a receivable basis (where there are no performance-related conditions) where
the receipt is probable and the amount can be reliably measured.

Other income
Other income, including the hire of facilities, is recognised in the period it is receivable and to the extent the
academy trust has provided the goods or services.

Donated goods, facilities and services

Goods donated for resale are included at fair value, being the expected proceeds from sale less the
expected costs of sale. If it is practical to assess the fair value at receipt, it is recognised in stock and
‘Income from other trading activities’. Upon sale, the value of the stock is charged against ‘Income from
other trading activities’ and the proceeds are recognised as ‘Income from other trading activities’. Where it
is impractical to fair value the items due to the volume of low value items, they are not recognised in the
financial statements until they are sold. This income is recognised within ‘Income from other trading
activities’.

Transfer on conversion

Where assets and liabilities are received by the academy trust on conversion to an academy, the
transferred assets are measured at fair value and recognised in the balance sheet at the point when the
risks and rewards of ownership pass to the academy trust. An equa! amount of income is recognised as
transfer on conversion within donations and capital grant income to the net assets received.

Donated fixed assets (excluding transfers on conversion/into the academy trust)

Where the donated good is a fixed asset, it is measured at fair value, unless it is impractical to measure this
reliably, in which case the cost of the item to the donor is used. The gain is recognised as income from
donations and a corresponding amount is included in the appropriate fixed asset category and depreciated
over the useful economic life in accordance with the academy trust's accounting policies.

Expenditure

Expenditure is recognised once there is a legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic benefit to a
third party, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required in settlement and the amount
of the obligation can be measured reliably. Expenditure is classified by activity. The costs of each activity
are made up of the total of direct costs and shared costs, including support costs involved in undertaking
each activity. Direct costs attributable to a single activity are allocated directly to that activity. Shared costs
which contribute to more than one activity and support costs which are not attributable to a single activity
are apportioned between those activities on a basis consistent with the use of resources. Central staff costs
are allocated on the basis of time spent, and depreciation charges allocated on the portion of the asset's
use.

e Expenditure on raising funds
This includes all expenditure incurred by the academy trust to raise funds for its charitable
purposes and includes costs of all fundraising activities events and non-charitable trading.

e Charitable activities
These are costs incurred on the academy trust's educational operations, including support costs
and costs relating to the governance of the academy trust apportioned to charitable activities.

All resources expended are inclusive of irrecoverable VAT.

33

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

Tangible fixed assets
Assets costing £5,000 or more are capitalised as tangible fixed assets and are carried at cost, net of
depreciation and any provision for impairment.

Where tangible fixed assets have been acquired with the aid of specific grants, either from the government
or from the private sector, they are included in the Balance Sheet at cost and depreciated over their
expected useful economic life. Where there are specific conditions attached to the funding requiring the
continued use of the asset, the related grants are credited to a restricted fixed asset fund in the Statement
of Financial Activities and carried forward in the Balance Sheet. Depreciation on the relevant assets is
charged directly to the restricted fixed asset fund in the Statement of Financial Activities. Where tangible
fixed assets have been acquired with unrestricted funds, depreciation on such assets is charged to the
unrestricted fund.

Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets other than land and assets under construction, at rates
calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows:

*° Freehold buildings — 26 Years
e Leasehold buildings 26 Years
e Furniture and equipment 5 Years
e Plant and machinery 5 Years

Assets in the course of construction are included at cost. Depreciation on these assets is not charged until
they are brought into use and reclassified to freehold or leasehold land and buildings.

A review for impairment of a fixed asset is carried out if events or changes in circumstances indicate that
the carrying value of any fixed asset may not be recoverable. Shortfalls between the carrying value of fixed
assets and their recoverable amounts are recognised as impairments. Impairment losses are recognised in
the Statement of Financial Activities.

Liabilities

Liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation at the balance sheet date as a result of a past event, it
is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be required in settlement, and the amount of the
settlement can be estimated reliably. Liabilities are recognised at the amount that the academy trust
anticipates it will pay to settle the debt or the amount it has received as advanced payments for the goods
or services it must provide.

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the academy trust has an obligation at the reporting date as a result of a
past event which it is probable will result in the transfer of economic benefits and the obligation can be
estimated reliably. :

Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the amounts required to settle the obligation. Where the
effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is based on the present value of those amounts,
discounted at the pre-tax discount rate that reflects the risks specific to the liability. The unwinding of the
discount is recognised within interest payable and similar charges.

34

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

Leased assets
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Financial instruments
The academy trust only holds basic financial instruments as defined in FRS 102. The financial assets and
financial liabilities of the academy trust and their measurement basis are as follows:

Financial assets — trade and other debtors are basic financial instruments and are debt instruments
measured at amortised cost as detailed in note 16. Prepayments are not financial instruments. Amounts
due to the charity's wholly owned subsidiary are held at face value less any impairment.

Cash at bank — is classified as a basic financial instrument and is measured at face value.

Financial liabilities — trade creditors, accruals and other creditors are financial instruments, and are
measured at amortised cost as detailed in notes 17 and 18. Taxation and social security are not included in
the financial instruments disclosure definition. Deferred income is not deemed to be a financial liability, as
the cash settlement has already taken place and there is an obligation to deliver services rather than cash
or another financial instrument. Amounts due to charity’s wholly owned subsidiary are held at face value
less any impairment.

Taxation
The academy trust is considered to pass the tests set out in Paragraph 1 Schedule 6 of the Finance Act
2010 and therefore it meets the definition of a charitable company for UK corporation tax purposes.

Accordingly, the academy trust is potentially exempt from taxation in respect of income or capital gains
received within categories covered by part 11, chapter 3 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 or Section 256 of
the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992, to the extent that such income or gains are applied exclusively
to charitable purposes.

Pensions benefits
Retirement benefits to employees of the academy trust are provided by the Teachers’ Pension Scheme
(‘TPS’) and the Local Government Pension Scheme (‘LGPS’). These are defined benefit schemes.

The TPS is an unfunded scheme and contributions are calculated to spread the cost of pensions over
employees’ working lives with the academy trust in such a way that the pension cost is a substantially level
percentage of current and future pensionable payroll. The contributions are determined by the Government
Actuary based on quadrennial valuations using a prospective unit credit method. TPS is an unfunded multi-
employer scheme with no underlying assets to assign between employers. Consequently, the TPS is
treated as a defined contribution scheme for accounting purposes and the contributions recognised in the
period to which they relate.

The LGPS is a funded multi-employer scheme, and the assets are held separately from those of the
academy trust in separate trustee administered funds. Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value
and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and discounted at
a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and
currency to the liabilities. The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each
balance sheet date. The amounts charged to net income/(expenditure) are the current service costs and
the costs of scheme introductions, benefit changes, settlements and curtailments. They are included as
part of staff costs as incurred. Net interest on the net defined benefit liability/asset is also recognised in the
Statement of Financial Activities and comprises the interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and

35

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

interest income on the scheme assets, calculated by multiplying the fair value of the scheme assets at the
beginning of the period by the rate used to discount the benefit obligations. The difference between the
interest income on the scheme assets and the actual return on the scheme assets is recognised in other
recognised gains and losses.

Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other recognised gains and losses.

Fund accounting
Unrestricted income funds represent those resources which may be used towards meeting any of the
charitable objects of the academy trust at the discretion of the trustees.

Restricted fixed asset funds are resources, which are to be applied to specific capital purposes imposed by
funders, where the asset acquired or created is held for a specific purpose.

Restricted general funds comprise all other restricted funds received with restrictions imposed by the
funder/donor and include grants from the Department for Education (Group).

Critical accounting estimates and areas of judgement
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other
factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.

Critical accounting estimates and assumptions

The academy trust makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates
and assumptions will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the
next financial year are discussed below.

The present value of the Local Government Pension Scheme defined benefit liability depends on a number of
factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a variety of assumptions. The assumptions used in
determining the net cost (income) for pensions include the discount rate. Any changes in these assumptions,
which are disclosed in note 30, will impact on the carrying amount of the pension liability. Furthermore, a roll
forward approach which projects results from the latest full actuarial valuation performed at 31 March 2022 has
been used by the actuary in valuing the pensions liability at 31 August 2024. Any differences between the figures
derived from the roll forward approach and a full actuarial valuation would impact on the carrying amount of the
pension liability. Any surplus calculated on the schemes is not recognised as the economic benefits are deemed
not to be recoverable.

Critical areas of judgement

Upon the conversion of a Church academy, where the trust is party to a short-term lease of the property for little or
no consideration, any assets which remain controlled by the Diocese are not recognised in the trust's balance
sheet. Trustees judge that this applies to church school buildings but not church school land.

Where the trust has made, post conversion, site improvements from capital grant funding the trust will recognise
that asset on its balance sheet as the equivalent of a leasehold improvement. Disclosed in note 9.

36.

Ebor Academy Trust

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

2 General Annual Grant (GAG) [if required]

Under the funding agreement with the Secretary of State, the academy trust was not subject to limits at 31
August 2024 on the amount of GAG that could be carried forward from one year to the next.

3 Donations and capital grants

: 2023/24 2022/23
Unrestricted Restricted
funds funds Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Capital grants. - 903 903 2,538
Donated fixed assets - 13 13 -
Other donations 118 - 118 120°
118 916 1,034 2,658
4 Transfer of academies from Local Authorities
2023/24 2022/23
Unrestricted Restricted

funds funds Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Gain on Transfer of fixed - 725 725 -

assets .
Revenue Surplus - 29 29 -
Devolved Capital Surplus : 71 71 -
Gain/({Loss) on transfer of - - - -

pension liability

: 825 825 -

As the schools were graded inadequate at the point of conversion North Yorkshire Council chose to retain
the historic revenue reserves of the schoo! for their own use. The revenue surplus transferred on conversion
relates to funding received by North Yorkshire Council but which relates to the periods following conversion.

(see note 32)

37

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

5 Funding for the academy trust’s charitable activities

Educational operations 2023/24 2022/23
Unrestricted Restricted
funds funds Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
DfE / ESFA grants
General Annual Grant (GAG) - 25,613 25,613 24,108
Start Up Grants - 180 180 -
Trust Level Grants - 221 221 -
Other DfE / ESFA grants -
UIFSM - 757 757 714
Pupil Premium - 2,011 2,011 1,962
PE Grant - 410 410 410
Supplementary Grant 7 - - 665
Main Stream Additional Grant - 795 795 331
Recovery Premium - 219 219 217
Tutoring Grant - 50 50 201
RPA Refunds - 324 324 445
Others . - 881 881 294
Other DfE Group grants - 5,448 5,448 5,239
- 31,462 31,762 29,347
Other Government grants
Local authority grants - 6,249 6,249 5,276
Other central government grants 45 45 40

Other income from the academy
trust’s educational operations - 1,581 1,581 1,335

- 39,337 39,337 35,998

6 Other trading activities

2023/24 2022/23
Unrestricted Restricted
funds funds Total Total
£000 £000 £000 _ £000
Hire of facilities 185 - 185 151
Before and After School Clubs 494 - 494 355
Income from ancillary trading activities 27 - 27 25
706 - 706 531
7 Investment income
2023/24 2022/23
Unrestricted Restricted
funds funds Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Short term deposits 24 - 24 -
24 - 24 -

38

Ebor Academy Trust

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued) —

8 Expenditure

Non-Pay Expenditure

Total Total
Staff : 2023/24 2022/23
costs Premises Other
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Academy's educational operations:
Direct costs 26,283 - 1,407 27,690 24,488
Allocated support costs 5,841 5,070 4,164 15,075 15,457
32,124 5,070 5,571 42,765 39,945
Net income/(expenditure) for the period includes:
2023/24 2022/23
£000 £000
Operating lease rentals 52 55
Depreciation 2,409 2,334
(Gain)/loss on disposal of fixed assets - -
Amortisation of intangible fixed assets (included within Charitable Activities —
Academy trust educational operations) -
Fees payable to auditor for:
- audit 26 21
- other services - -
9 Analysis of grant expenditure
Unrestricted Restricted 2023/24 2022/23
funds funds Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Improvements to diocesan property
occupied by the academy trust 152 152 477
152 152 477

39

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

10 Charitable activities

2023/24 2022/23
£000 £000
Direct costs — educational
operations 27,690 24,488
Support costs — educational
operations _ 16,075 15,457
42,765 39,945
Analysis of support costs
Educational 2023/24 2022/23
operations Total Total
£000 £000 £000
Support staff costs 5,770 5,770 5.974
Other staff costs 71 71 352
Depreciation 2,409 2,409 2,334
Maintenance of Premises 905 905 1,044
Special Facilities 35 35 11
Cleaning & Caretaking 125 125 124
Business Rates 117 117 53
Water Rates 70 70 105
Energy . 1,040 1,040 1,280
RPA Fees 118 118 109
Security 15 15 10
Catering 1,514 1,514 1,488
Technology Costs . 970 970 1,064
Operating Leases 52 52 55
Other Premises Costs : 164 164 86
PFI Costs to LA’s 1,332 1,332 979
Non Educational Consultancy 245 245 96
Legal & Professional fees 29 29 20
Auditor costs Stat Accounts 26 26 26
Other support costs 67 67 247
Total support costs 15,075 15,075 15,457

40

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

11 Staff
a. Staff costs and employee benefits

Staff costs during the period were:

2023/24 2022/23

£000 £000

Wages and salaries 23,139 21,624
Social security costs 2,076 1,830
Pension costs 5,225 4,667
Apprenticeship Levy . 102 96
30,542 28,217

Agency staff costs 889 673
Staff restructuring costs 20. 68
31,451 28,958

Staff restructuring costs comprise:
Redundancy payments - -
Severance payments 20 68
. Other restructuring costs - -
20 68

b. Severance payments

The academy trust paid 4 severance payments in the year, disclosed in the following bands:

0 - £25,000 4
£25,001 - £50,000 0
£50,001 - £100,000 0
£100,001 - £150,000 )
£150,000+ 0

Included in staff restructuring costs are severance payments totaling £20k (2023: £68k). Individually, the
payments were: £12,744, £6,180, £1,005 and £555.

c. Staff numbers

The average number of persons employed by the academy trust during the year/period was as

follows:
2023/24 2022/23
No. No.
Teachers 318 326
Administration and support 697 701
Management 6 5
1,021 1,032

41

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued) —
d. Higher paid staff

The number of employees whose employee benefits (excluding employer pension costs and employer
national insurance contributions) exceeded £60,000 was:

2023/24 2022/23

No. No.

£60,001 - £70,000 16 9
£70,001 - £80,000 7 8
£80,001 - £90,000 4 1
£90,001 - £100,000 1 -
£100,001 - £110,000 - -
£110,001 - £120,000 - -
£120,001 - £130,000 - 1
£130,001 - £140,000 - -
£140,001 - £150,000 1 -

e. Key management personnel

The key management personnel of the academy trust comprise the trustees and the senior °
management team as listed on page 2. The total amount of key management personnel benefits
(including employer pension contributions and employer national insurance contributions) received by
key management personnel for their services to the academy trust was £656, 135 (2023 £530,000).

12 Central services

The academy trust has provided the following central services to its academies during the year:

Human Resources

Payroll

Financial Services
Procurement Services
Admissions Services

Legal Services

Facilities Management and Health & Safety Services
Compliance Services

Date Protection Services
Governance Services
Internal Audit Services
Educational Support services
School Improvement services
Safeguarding support

eooeoeeweeoe eee eee

The academy trust charges for the core offer services with a 5.5% recharge of General Annual Grant funding and
fixed amounts for school specific services.

42

Ebor Academy Trust
~~ Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

The actual amounts charged during the year were as follows:

2023/24 2022/23

£000 £000
Alderman Cogan’s CE Primary Academy 121 101
All Saints’ Infants CE Academy 78 68
All Saints’ Junior CE Academy a 112 89
Brotherton and Byram Primary Academy 61 48
Braeburn Primary and Nursery Academy 134 112
Camblesforth Community Primary Academy 34 26
Easington CE Primary Academy 21 15
Filey CE Infants and Nursery Academy 63 52
Hob Moor Oaks Academy 75 60
Hob Moor Primary Academy 99 83
Haxby Road Primary Academy 89 69
Lakeside Primary Academy 65 54
Luttons Primary Academy* 6 -
Marfleet Primary Academy : 63 56
Osbaldwick Primary Academy 79 71
Patrington CE Primary Academy 64 53
Park Grove Primary Academy : 82 67
Riston CE Primary Academy 33 23
Robert Wilkinson Primary Academy 149 131
Sherburn CE Primary Academy” 4 -
Staynor Hall Community Primary Academy 77 63
Sigglesthorne CE Primary Academy 28 19
Sproatley Endowed CE Academy 39 30
Tadcaster Primary Academy 34 26
Tockwith CE Primary Academy 64 50

1,674 1,366

*Luttons Primary Academy and Sherburn CE Primary Academy Joined the Trust on the 1st July 2024 and
paid 2 months of charges in the year.

13 Related party transactions — trustees’ remuneration and expenses

No trustees have been paid remuneration or have received other benefits from employment with the
academy trust.

During the period ended 31 August 2024, no travel and subsistence expenses were reimbursed or paid
directly to Trustees (2023: £291 to 1 Trustee)

14 Trustees’ and officers’ insurance

In accordance with normal commercial practice, the academy trust has purchased insurance to protect
trustees and officers from claims arising from negligent acts, errors or omissions occurring whilst on
academy trust business. The insurance provides cover up to £10,000,000 on any one claim and is
included within the cost of the Risk Protection Arrangement (RPA) cover provided by the Department for
Education for schools. The cost of this insurance is included in the total insurance cost.

43

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

15 Tangible fixed assets

2023/2024
Freehold Leasehold Leasehold Furniture
tand land Buildings and Computer
equipment equipment Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost ‘
At 1 September 2023 , - ‘14,094 53,584 1,539 131 69,348
Acquisitions 13 75 650 - - 738
Additions - - 881 209 47 1,137
Disposals - - - (29) (3) (32)
At 31 August 2024 13 14,169 55,115 1,719 175 71,190
Depreciation
At 1 September 2023 - - 11,125 973 79 12,177
Charged in year - - 2,097 281 32 2,409
Disposals - - - (29) (3) (32)
At 31 August 2024 - - 13,222 1,224 109 = 14,554
Net book values
At 31 August 2023 - 14,094 42,459 566 52  ~«457,171
At 31 August 2024 13 14,169 41,893 495 67 56,636

The academy trust’s transactions relating to land and buildings included:

e the acquisition of the freehold on the playing field at Marfleet Primary Academy which was donated | to the academy
trust at a value of £13,000

16 Debtors
2024 2023
£000 £000
Trade debtors 50 54
VAT recoverable 168 111
Other debtors 6 1
Prepayments and accrued income 1,746 1,460
1,970 1,626

44

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

17 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

2024 2023

£000 £000
Trade creditors 939 467
Other taxation and social security 429 438
Salix Loans 82 82
Other creditors 617 532
Accruals and deferred income 1,369 1,259

3,439 2,778
Deferred income at 1 September 2023 : 564 532
Released from previous years (564) (532)
Resources deferred in the year 709 564
Deferred income at 31 August 2024 709 564

At the balance sheet date the academy trust was holding funds received in advance for use in the following

financial year.
© £442k Universal Infant Free School Meals
e £141k Local Authority High Needs funding
e £53k Local Authority Early Years funding
e £34k National Wraparound Care Grant
e £20k Local Authority Afgan support funding
e £19k Other Grants & Donations

18 Creditors: amounts falling due in greater than one year

2024 2023
£000 £000
Salix Loans : 182 264
Total Creditors longer than one year 182 264

Ebor Academy Trust currently has 16 loans from the ESFA Salix Loan Scheme which are provided on the

following terms.

Academy Initial Loan Remaining | Term Interest Maturity
Value balance Rate date
£44k £16k 6 years Zero March 2026
£45k £15k 6 years Zero March 2026
Riston CE Primary £10k £6k 6 years Zero March 2027 |

Sigglesthorne CE Primary £11k £7k 6 years Zero March 2027
Sproatley Endowed CE £12k £8k 6 years Zero March 2027

Marfleet Primary £15k £10k 6 years Zero March 2027
Tadcaster Prima £19k £11k 6 years Zero March 2027
Easington Primary £20k £12k 6 years Zero March 2027
Tockwith CE Primary _ £23k £13k 6 years Zero March 2027
Osbaldwick Primary _ £25k £15k 6 years Zero March 2027
Filey CE Infants and Nursery £26k £16k 6 years Zero March 2027
Patrington CE Primary £29k £17k 6 years Zero March 2027
Haxby Road Primary £41k £21k 6 years Zero March 2027
Alderman Cogan’s CE _ £49k £28k 6 years Zero March 2027

Braeburn Primary and Nursery £49k £28k 6 years Zero March 2027
Robert Wilkinson Primary £71k £41k 6 years Zero March 2027
Total £492k £264k

45


Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

19 Funds
Balance at 1 Gains, Balance at
September losses and 31 August
2023. Income Expenditure transfers 2024
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Restricted general funds

General Annual Grant (GAG) 928 25,613 25,213 (588) 740
Staff Absence Fund (GAG) (201) - 24 - (225)
UIFSM - 757 757 - -
Pupil Premium - 2,011 2,011 - :
Other grants - 10,985 10,985 - -
Pension reserve (1,176) - (296) 880 :
(449) 39,366 38,694 292 515

Restricted fixed asset funds
Transfer on conversion 60,940 796 - - 61,736
DfE Group capital grants (4,740) 767 2,203 : - (6,176)
Capital expenditure from GAG - : 588 588 -
Other capital grants - 136 136 - -
Other capital donations - 13 - - 13
56,200 4,712 2,927 588 55,573
Total restricted funds 55,751 41,078 41,621 880 56,088
Total unrestricted funds - 848 848 - -
Total funds - 55,751 41,925 42,468 880 56,088

The specific purposes for which the funds are to be applied are as follows:

The Academy's Funding Agreement sets no limits as to the amount of GAG carried forward from one year to the next.
It is the Trustees’ intention to allocate all funds granted to the pursuit of its Objects, and to use their allocated current
funding for the full benefit of their current pupils, save a contingency and reserves policy as detailed earlier.

Under the funding agreement with the Secretary of State, the academy was not subject to a limit on the amount of
GAG that it could carry forward at 31 August 2024.

46

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

Comparative information in respect of the preceding period is as follows:

Restricted general funds
General Annual Grant (GAG)
Staff Absence Fund (GAG)
UIFSM

Pupil Premium

Other grants

Pension reserve

Restricted fixed asset funds
Transfer on conversion

DfE Group capital grants
Capital expenditure from GAG
Other Capital Grants

Total restricted funds
Total unrestricted funds

Total funds

Balance at 1
September
2022

£000

4,757
(213)

(4,068)
(2,524)
60,940

(4,799)

56,141

53,617

53,617

47

Income
£000

24,108
714

1,962
9,215

35,998

1,188
1,350
2,538
38,536
651

39,187

Expenditure
£000

24,754

(12)

714

1,962

9,215

633

37,264

1,129
184
1,350

2,663
49,927
651

40,578

Gains,
losses and
transfers
£000

(184)

184

3,525

3,525

Balance at
31 August
2023
£000

928
(201)

(1,176)

(449)

60,940
(4,740)

56,200

55,751

55,751

Ebor Academy Trust

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

Total funds analysis by academy

Fund balances at 31 August 2024 were allocated as follows:

Robert Wilkinson Primary Academy

Haxby Road Primary Academy

Brotherton and Byram Community Primary Academy
Staynor Hall Community Primary Academy
Camblesforth Community Primary Academy
Sigglesthorne Church of England Primary Academy
Sproatley Endowed Church of England Academy
Park Grove Primary Academy

Filey Church of England Nursery and Infants Academy
Alderman Cogan’s Church of England Primary Academy
Marfleet Primary Academy

Hob Moor Community Primary Academy

Hob Moor Oaks Academy

Lakeside Primary Academy

Tockwith Church of England Primary Academy
Easington Church of England Primary Academy
Patrington Church of England Primary Academy
Osbaldwick Primary Academy -
Tadcaster Primary Academy

Riston Church of England Primary Academy
Braeburn Primary and Nursery Academy

All Saints’ Infants and Nursery Academy

All Saints’ Junior Academy

Luttons Primary Academy*

Sherburn Church of England Primary Academy*
Ebor Central Services

Ebor Staff Absence Reserve

Total before fixed assets and pension reserve
Restricted fixed asset fund

Pension reserve

Total

*Luttons Primary Academy and Sherburn CoE Primary Academy joined the trust on the 1% July 2024

48

2024 2023
£000 £000
(101) (70)
147 52
112 133
(273) (35)
68 88
34 6
(159) (161)
116 148
172 114
(81) (120)
393 366
296 287
736 596
(105) (46)
290 309
(75) (52)
(128) (134)
24 140
(228) (165)
135 101
338 252
(53) 65
743 553
54 -
(10) -
(1,702) (1,499)
(225) (201)
515 727
55,573 56,200
- (4,476)

56,088 55,751


Ebor Academy Trust

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Total cost analysis by academy

Expenditure incurred by each academy during the year was as follows:

2023/24 + =2022/23

Teaching and Other
Educational Support Other
Support Staff Staff Educational Costs
Costs Costs Supplies exc Depn Total Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Robert Wilkinson Primary 2,195 455 93 642 3,385 3,285
Haxby Road Primary 1,568 263 78 §24 2,433 2,150
Brotherton and Byram Primary 717 115 68 378 1,278 1,164
Staynor Hall Primary 1,357 266 87 440 2,149 1,794
Camblesforth Primary 421 109 29 208 767 649
Sigglesthorne Primary 296 91 23 109 519 488
Sproatley Endowed CE Primary 490 153 29 202 875 796
Park Grove Primary 1,085 163 60 368 1,675 1,501
Filey CE Nursery and Infants 921 149 21 317 1,408 1,313
Alderman Cogans’ CE Primary 1,562 294 77 §33 2,467 2,456
Marfleet Primary 850 147 45 286 1,328 1,279
Hob Moor Primary 1,273 169 90 708 2,241 2,030
Hob Moor Oaks 2,454 266 75 1,046 3,841 3,312
Lakeside Primary 860 140 50 378 1,429 1,345
Tockwith CE Primary 797 105 89 312 1,303 1,092
Easington CE Primary 199 60 32 131 423 386
Patrington CE Primary 907 180 62 269 1,419 1,298
Osbaldwick Primary 4,221 312 67 390 1,991 1,878
Tadcaster Primary 466 80 33 179 758 700
Riston CE Primary 382 85 31 110 608 556
Braeburn Primary and Nursery 1,913 338 86 704 3,041 3,182
All Saints’ Infants and Nursery 1,254 345 66 416 2,081 1,892
All Saints’ Juniors 1,325 213 99 406 2,043 1,836
Luttons Primary* 46 : 6 2 31 85 -
Sherburn CE Primary* 62 9 3 33 106 -
Ebor Central Services 754 1,323 12 (1,411) 678 1,084
Ebor Staff Absence Reserve 24 - - - 24 (12)
Ebor Academy Trust 25,399 5,836 1,407 7,709 40,355 37,466
*Luttons Primary Academy and Sherburn CoE Primary Academy joined the trust on the 1% July 2024
20 Analysis of net assets between funds
Fund balances at 31 August 2024 are represented by:
Restricted Restricted
Unrestricted general fixed asset

funds funds funds _‘ Total funds

£000 £000 £000 £000

Tangible fixed assets 1,063 55,573 56,636

Current assets - 3,071 - 3,071

Current liabilities - (3,439) - (3,439)

Non-current liabilities - (182) - (182)

Pension scheme liability : - - ‘-

Total net assets - 515 $5,573 56,088

49

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

Comparative information in respect of the preceding period is as follows:

Restricted Restricted

Unrestricted general fixed asset
funds funds funds _ Total funds
£000 £000 £000 £000
Tangible fixed assets - 971 56,200 57,171
Current assets - 2,798 - 2,798
Current liabilities - (2,778) - (2,778)
Non-current liabilities - (264) - (264)
Pension scheme liability - (1,176) - (1,176)
Total net assets - (449) 56,200 55,751
21 Capital commitments
2024 2023
£000 £000

Contracted for, but not provided in the financial statements - -

22 Long-term commitments, including operating leases

a) Operating leases

At 31 August 2024 the total of the Academy Trust's future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating
leases was:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Amounts due within one year _ “1 40
Amounts due between one and five years ; 59 71
Amounts due after five years - -
100 411°

23 Reconciliation of net income/(expenditure) to net cash flow from operating activities

2023/24 2022/23

£000 £000
Net income/(expenditure) for the reporting period (as per the statement of
financial activities) (1,456) (2,140)
Adjusted for:
Depreciation [note 15] 2,409 2,334
Capital grants from DfE and other capital income (903) (2,538)
Interest receivable [note 6] 24 -
Defined benefit pension scheme obligation inherited - -
Defined benefit pension scheme cost less contributions payable [note 32] 612 1,239
Defined benefit pension scheme finance cost [note 32] (18) 143
(Increase)/decrease in debtors (344) 192
Increase/(decrease) in creditors 661 (399)
Net cash provided by / (used in) operating activities 985 (1,169)

50

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

24 Cash flows from financing activities
2023/24 2022/23

£000 £000
Repayments of borrowing . (82) (78)

Net cash provided by / (used in) financing activities (82) (78)
25 Cash flows from investing activities .
2023/24 2022/23

£000 £000

Purchase of tangible fixed assets (1,875) (2,052)

Capital grants from DfE Group 767 1,188

Capital funding received from sponsors and others 136 1,350

Net cash (used in) / provided by investing activities (972) 486

26 Analysis of cash and cash equivalents

2024 2023

£000 £000

Cash in hand and at bank 1,103 1,172

Notice deposits (less than 3 months) - -

Total cash and cash equivalents 1,103 1,172

27 Analysis of changes in net debt

At1 Cash New Other non- At 31

September flows finance cash August

2023 : leases changes 2024

£000 £000 £000 £000 £000

Cash 1,172 (69) - - 1,103
Loans falling due within one year (82) 82 - (82) (82) ©

Loans falling due after more than one year (264) - - 82 (182)

Total 826 13 - : 839

28 Member liability

Each member of the charitable company undertakes to contribute to the assets of the company in the event of it
being wound up while he/she is a member, or within one year after he/she ceases to be a member, such amount
as may be required, not exceeding £10 for the debts and liabilities contracted before he/she ceases to be a
member.

51

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
29 Pension and similar obligations

The academy trust's employees belong to two principal pension schemes: the Teachers’ Pension
Scheme England and Wales (TPS) for academic and related staff, and the Local Government
Pension Scheme (LGPS) for non-teaching staff, which is managed by the North Yorkshire Local
Government Pension Scheme and the East Riding Local Government Pension Scheme. All are
multi-employer defined benefit schemes.

The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS related to the period ended 31 March 2020 and of the
LGPS to the period ended 31 March 2022.

Contributions amounting to £616k were payable to the schemes at 31 August 2024 (2022/23:
£532k) and are included within creditors.

Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Teachers' Pension Scheme (TPS) is a statutory, contributory, defined benefit scheme,
governed by the Teachers’ Pension Scheme Regulations 2014. Membership is automatic for
teachers in academy trusts. All teachers have the option to opt-out of the TPS following enrolment.

The TPS is an unfunded scheme to which both the member and employer makes contributions, as
a percentage of salary - these contributions are credited to the Exchequer. Retirement and other
pension benefits are paid by public funds provided by Parliament.

Valuation of the Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Government Actuary, using normal actuarial principles, conducts a formal actuarial review of
the TPS in accordance with the Public Service Pensions (Valuations and Employer Cost Cap)
Directions 2014 published by HM Treasury every 4 years. The aim of the review is to ensure
scheme costs are recognised and managed appropriately and the review specifies the level of
future contributions.

Actuarial scheme valuations are dependent on assumptions about the value of future costs, design
of benefits and many other factors. The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS was carried out as at
31 March 2020. The valuation report was published by the Department for Education on 27
October 2023, with the SCAPE rate, set by HMT, applying a notional investment return based on
1.7% above the rate of CPI. The key elements of the valuation outcome are:

° Employer contribution rates set at 28.68% of pensionable pay (including a 0.08%
administration levy). This is an increase of 5% in employer contributions and the cost control
result is such that no change in member benefits is needed.

e Total scheme liabilities (pensions currently in payment and the estimated cost of future
benefits) for service to the effective date of £262,000 million and notional assets (estimated
future contributions together with the notional investments held at the valuation date) of
£222,200 million, giving a notional past service deficit of £39,800 million

The result of this valuation will be implemented from 1 April 2024.The next valuation result is due to
be implemented from 1 April 2028.

52

Ebor Academy Trust

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

The employer's pension costs paid to TPS in the period amounted to £3, 140k (2022/23: £2,719k).
A copy of the valuation report and supporting documentation is on the Teachers’ Pensions website.

Under the definitions set out in FRS 102, the TPS is an unfunded multi-employer pension scheme.
The academy trust is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the plan.
Accordingly, the academy trust has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 102 and has
accounted for its contributions to the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme. The
academy trust has set out above, the information available on the scheme.

Local Government Pension Scheme

The LGPS is a funded defined benefit pension scheme, with the assets held in separate trustee-
administered funds. The total contribution made for the year ended 31 August 2024 was £2,882k
(2023: £2,570k), of which employer's contributions totalled £2,217k (2023: £1,989k) and employees’
contributions totalled £665k (2023: £581k). The agreed contribution rates for future years are between
17.7 and 19.6 per cent for employers and 5.5 and 12.5 per cent for employees.

Parliament has agreed, at the request of the Secretary of State for Education, to a guarantee that, in
the event of an academy trust closure, outstanding Local Government Pension Scheme liabilities
would be met by the Department for Education. The guarantee came into force on 18 July 2013 and
on 21 July 2022, the Department for Education reaffirmed its commitment to the guarantee, with a
parliamentary minute published on GOV.UK.

The North Yorkshire Local Government Pension Scheme was in a deficit position of 93.2% of liabilities
at 318 March 2022 and additional fixed contributions have been agreed until the end of the next
valuation period on top of the primary contribution rate of 19.6%

April 2022 — March 2023 £61,000
April 2023 — March 2024 £65,000
April 2024 — March 2025 £72,000
April 2025 — March 2026 £80,000

The East Riding Local Government Pension Scheme was in a surplus position of 107% of liabilities at
31st March 2022 and there are no additional contributions on top of the primary contribution rate of
17.7%.

The next valuation will be completed as at the 318 March 2025 and any changes to contribution rates
will become effective from the 1S April 2026.

53

Ebor Academy Trust

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

North Yorkshire Local Government Pension Scheme

Principal actuarial assumptions

Rate of increase in salaries

Rate of increase for pensions in payment/inflation
Discount rate for scheme liabilities

Inflation assumption (CPI)

2024

3.75%
2.50%
4.90%
2.50%

2023

3.85%
2.60%
5.00%
2.60%

The current mortality assumptions include sufficient allowance for future improvements in mortality

rates. The assumed life expectations on retirement age 65 are:

2024 2023
Retiring today
Males 21.8 22.0
Females 24.4 24.5
Retiring in 20 years
Males 22.4 22.9
Females 25.2 25.5
Sensitivity analysis 2023 2023
£000 £000
Discount rate +0.1% 470 416
Discount rate -0.1% 470 416
Mortality assumption — 1 year increase 555 492
Mortality assumption - 1 year decrease 555 492
CPI rate +0.1% 43 38
CPI rate -0.1% 43 38
The academy trust's share of the assets in the scheme were:
2024 2023
% %
Equities 47.5 53.8
Gilts 12.1 10.6
Corporate bonds 74 6.9
Pi
roperty 6.0 6.6
Cash and other liquid assets 82 5.4
Oth
er 18.8 16.7
Total market value of assets 100.0 100.0

The actual return on scheme assets was a gain of £1,705k, 9.0% (2023:£211k 0.3%)

54

Ebor Academy Trust

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

East Riding Local Government Pension Scheme

Principal actuarial assumptions

Rate of increase in salaries

Rate of increase for pensions in payment/inflation
Discount rate for scheme liabilities

Inflation assumption (CPI)

2024 2023
2.65% 3.00%
2.65% 3.00%
5.00% 5.20%
2.65% 3.00%

The current mortality assumptions include sufficient allowance for future improvements in mortality

tates. The assumed life expectations on retirement age 65 are:

Retiring today
Males
Females

Retiring in 20 years
Males
Females

Sensitivity analysis

Discount rate -0.1% .

1 Year increase in Member life expectancy
Salary increase rate +0.1%

Pension Increase rate +0.1%

The academy trust’s share of the assets in the scheme were:

Equities
Bonds
Property

Cash and other liquid assets

Total market value of assets

2024 2023
20.5 21.1
23.5 24.0
21.2 21.9
25.0 25.5

2024 2023
£000 £000
235 213
404 357
11 21
229 196
2024 2023
% %

74

16

8

2

100

The actual return on scheme assets was a loss of £1,278k, 12.7% (2023: (£75k) (0.1%))

55

72
17

100

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

Amount recognised in the Statement of Financial Activities

2023/24

£000

Current service cost 1,938

Past service cost . -

Interest income (38)

Interest cost 20
Benefit changes, gain/(loss) on curtailment and gain/(loss) on

settlement -

Admin expenses . -

Total amount recognised in the SOFA 1,920

Surplus amount removed from the Statement of Financial Activities

2022/23
£000

2,479

(1,071)
1,214

2,622

Under FRS102 valuations the amount of any surplus on a fund is restricted as it is untikely that the economic
benefits for the surplus can be recognised by the company, in the form of refunds or reductions in future

contributions.

2023/24

Unrecognised LGPS Surplus brought forward 749
Unrecognised Surplus removed from SOFA in year . 889
Total Surplus on LGPS fund valuation not recognized 1,638

Actuarial Gain/(Loss) recognised in the Statement of Financial Activities

2023/24

£000
Gain/(Loss) on Obligations 242
Gain/(Loss) on Assets 1,527
Adjustment to remove actuarial surplus (889)
Total amount recognised in the SOFA , 880

Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows:

2023/24

£000

At 1 September (27,843)
Conversion of academy trusts -
Transferred in on existing academies joining the academy trust (122)
Transferred out on existing academies leaving the academy trust -
Current service cost (1,938)
Interest cost (1,438)
Employee contributions (665)
Actuarial (gain)/loss 242
Benefits paid : 296
Losses or gains on curtailments .
Past service cost -
Unfunded pension payments -
Effect of non-routine settlements -
At 31 August . (31,468)

56

2022/23

749
749

2022/23
£000

4,743
(469)
(749)

3,525

2022/23
£000

(28,849)

(2,479)
(1,214)
(581)
4,743
537

(27,843)

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

Changes in the fair value of academy trust’s share of scheme assets:

2023/24 2022/23

£000 £000

At 1 September 26,667 24,781
Conversion of academy trusts - -
Transferred in on existing academies joining the academy trust 121 -
Transferred out on existing academies leaving the academy trust - -
Interest income 1,456 1,071
Actuarial gain/(loss) 1,527 (469)
Employer contributions 2,217 1.989
Employee contributions 665 581
Benefits paid (296) (537)
Unrecognised surplus adjustment (889) (749)
At 31 August 31,468 26,667

30 Related party transactions
Owing to the nature of the academy trust and the composition of the board of trustees being drawn from local
public and private sector organisations, transactions may take place with organisations in which the trustees
have an interest. The following related party transactions took place in the financial period.

Expenditure Related Party Transaction

The Diocese of York, an organisation in which, Mr. A Smith (a member) and Right Rev'd. P Ferguson (a
member) and Yvonne Methley (a member) are employees:

* The academy trust purchased services from the Diocese of York totaling £9k (£10k:2023)

e The academy trust made the purchase at arm’s length in accordance with its financial regulations, which
Mr. Smith, Mrs Methley or the Right Rev'd. Ferguson neither participated in, nor influenced

e In entering into the transaction the academy trust has complied with the requirements of the Academies
Trust Handbook 2023

« The element above £2,500 has been provided ‘at no more than cost’ and the Diocese of York has
provided a statement of assurance confirming this

All transactions involving such organisations are conducted in accordance with the requirements of the Academy _
Trust Handbook, including notifying ESFA of all transactions made on or after 1 April 2019 and obtaining their
approval where required, and with the academy trust’s financial regulations and normal procurement procedures
relating to connected and related party transactions.

The academy trust paid Mr T Moat, a member of the Senior Management Team, £8k (£1k:2023) for services
outside of his contract of employment namely the academy conversion legal overview and project management
costs of the conversion of Luttons and Sherburn schools into the Trust; and production of videos and the use of
personal photographic and video equipment used in the Trust for the year.

e The academy trust made the purchase in accordance with its financial regulations and Mr Moat did not
participate in the decision to purchase.

« Inentering into the transaction the academy trust has complied with the requirements of the Academies
Trust Handbook 2023

57

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

Employee Related Party Transactions

Mrs. C Caffrey, spouse of Mr. D Fraser, a Trustee, is employed by the academy trust as a teaching assistant.
Mrs. C Caffrey’s appointment was made in open competition and Mr. D Fraser was not involved in the decision-
making process regarding appointment. Mrs. C Caffrey is paid within the normal pay scale for her role and
receives no special treatment as a result of her relationship to a Trustee.

Mr. M Brown, spouse of Mrs. G Brown, a member of the Senior Executive Team and Accounting Officer, is
employed by the academy trust as a headteacher. Mr. M Brown's appointment was made in open competition
and Mrs. G Brown was not involved in the decision-making process regarding appointment. Mr. M Brown is paid
within the normal pay scale for his role and receives no special treatment as a result of his relationship to a
member of the Senior Management Team.

Miss E Brown, daughter of Mrs. G Brown, a member of the Senior Executive Team and Accounting Officer, is
employed by the academy trust as a Relief Midday Supervisory Assistant. Miss E Brown's appointment was
made in open competition and Mrs. G Brown was not involved in the decision-making process regarding
appointment. Miss E Brown is paid within the normal pay scale for her role and receives no special treatment as
a result of her relationship to a member of the Senior Management Team.

31 Academy trust with a newly converted academy

Luttons Community Primary School

On 1 July 2024 Luttons Community Primary School converted to academy status under the Academies Act 2010
and the operations and assets and liabilities were transferred to Ebor Academy Trust Ltd from North Yorkshire
County Council Local Authority for £nil consideration.

As the school was graded inadequate at the point of conversion North Yorkshire Council chose to retain the historic
revenue reserves of the school for their own use. The revenue surplus transferred on conversion relates to funding
received by North Yorkshire Council but which relates to the periods following conversion.

The transfer has been accounted for as a combination that is in substance a gift. The assets and liabilities
transferred were valued at their fair value and recognised in the balance sheet under the appropriate headings with
a corresponding net amount recognised as incoming resources in the Statement of Financial Activities as a transfer
from the local authority.

The following table sets out the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities transferred and an analysis of
their recognition in the SOFA.

Restricted Restricted
Unrestricted General Fixed Asset Total
Funds Funds Funds Funds
£000 £000 £000 £000
Tangible fixed assets
- Leasehold land - - 50 50
- Leasehold buildings - - 650 650
- Other tangible fixed assets - - - -
Revenue Surplus - 15 - 15
Devolved Capital Surplus - - 31 34

Pension scheme liability - - - -
Total net assets - 15 731 746

58

Ebor Academy Trust
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

Sherburn Church of England Primary School (church school see critical judgement on page 36)

On 1 July 2024 Sherburn Church of England Primary School converted to academy status under the Academies
Act 2010 and the operations and assets and liabilities were transferred to Ebor Academy Trust Ltd Ltd from North
Yorkshire County Council Local Authority for £nil consideration.

As the school was graded inadequate at the point of conversion North Yorkshire Council chose to retain the
historic revenue reserves of the school for their own use. The revenue surplus transferred on conversion relates
to funding received by North Yorkshire Council but which relates to the periods following conversion.

The transfer has been accounted for as a combination that is in substance a gift. The assets and liabilities
transferred were valued at their fair value and recognised in the balance sheet under the appropriate headings
with a corresponding net amount recognised as incoming resources in the Statement of Financial Activities as a
transfer from the local authority.

The following table sets out the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities transferred and an analysis of
their recognition in the SOFA.

Restricted Restricted
Unrestricted General Fixed Asset Total
Funds Funds Funds Funds
£000 £000 £000 £000

Tangible fixed assets
- Leasehold land - - 25 25
- Leasehold buildings - - _ -
- Other tangible fixed assets - - - -

Revenue Surplus - 14 - 14
Devolved Capital Surplus - - 40 40
Pension scheme - - - -
Total net assets - 14 65 79

59

