Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

wih

5108/2028
COMPANIES HOUSE

nn

TUESDAY

Education for Industry. Group (Formerly Fashion Retail Academy), a company limited by
guarantee, registered in England and Wales. Registered Number: 05507547"
Registered Charity Number: 1119540:

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements. for the year ended 31 July 2024

,Contents Page number.
Board of Directors, Senior Postholders and Professional advisers: 3
Directors’ Report (including Strategic Report): 5

: ‘Statement of Corporate Governance and Internal Control 17
The Board's Statement on the Group’s regularity, propriety ‘and compliance
with funding body terms and conditions of funding : 20
Statement of Responsibilities of the Members of the Board 22
{independent Auditors’ Report to the Board’. 23
Consolidated ‘Statement of Comprehensive Income 27
Consolidated and Academy Statement of Changes in Reserves. 28
Balance Sheets at 31 July 2024 . 29
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 30.

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
BOARD OF DIRECTORS, SENIOR POSTHOLDERS AND PROFESSIONAL ADVISERS

Board of Directors

The Directors of Education for Industry Group (EF! Group) during the year and up to the date of approval of
‘the annual report and financial statements are as listed below:

Kim Longman, Chair:

Lee Lucas, Principal and CEO

James Barron

Laura Charles

Zareer Ghadially (appointed 10 September 2024)
Linda Drew

Fiona Gaughan

Sally Harris

Susanna Kempe

Elaine Smith (resigned 29 November 2023)
Vanessa Spence’

Pauline Tambling (until 1 December 2023)
Simon Williams.

Mr G Cooper acted as Company Secretary throughout the period.
Senior postholders

Senior postholders are defined as members of the EFI Group Leadership Team and were represented by the
following in 2023/24:

Lee Lucas, Principal and CEO; Accounting officer

Simon Mayfield, Director of Finance and Resources

Beverley Imrie, Director of Industry Relationships, EFI Training
Mashrin Chowdhury, Director of Operations and Partnerships
Amanda Colvin, Director of Marketing and Sales

Chris Amadeo, Director of Strategy and Funding

Chris Maja, Director of Technology and Digital Innovation
Tracy Pritchard, Director of Academic Excellence

Professional advisers

Financial statements auditors and reporting accountants:

Crowe U.K. LLP’
55 Ludgate Hill

. London
EC4M 7JW

Internal auditors:

MHA (End date 22 October 2023)
2 London Wail Place

London EC2Y 5AU

Buzzacott LLP (Start date 23 October 2023)
1 Churchill Place
London E14 SHP

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

Bankers: . .
Bank of Scotland Barclays HSBC.
The Mound Level'14, 2°¢ floor, 16 King Street,
Edinburgh 1 Churchill Place Covent Garden. :
EH1 1YZ London. London: ©
; E14 5HP ‘WC2E 8JF
Solicitors:

Bates Wells Braithwaite.
10 Queen Street Place
London EC4R.1BE

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT

The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 July 2024.
Nature, Objectives and Strategies

Legal status

Education for Industry Group (EFI Group) was registered as a private company limited by guarantee in
June 2005 as Fashion Retail Academy (Company Number 05507547). The change of name to EF! Group
was registered 26 March 2024. Its current registered office is Electra House, 84 Moorgate, London, EC2M
6SE. EFI Group obtained charitable status on 7 June 2007 when it became registered with the Charity
Commission (Charity Number 1119540). The company’s governing document is its Articles of Association
as approved by a special-resolution of the members of the company on 13 February 2024. The accounts
have been prepared in accordance with FRS102.

Mission
The EFI Group’s mission statement is:

“To transform lives, careers and industry through the creation and delivery of specialist education
and training”

Public Benefit

In setting and reviewing the EFI Group's strategic objectives, the Board has had due regard for the Charity
Commission's guidance on public benefit and particularly upon its supplementary guidance on the
advancement of education. The guidance sets out the requirement that ail organisations wishing to be
fécogniséd as charities must dértioristrate, explicitly, that theif difris aré for thé public bérefit.

In delivering its mission, the EF! Group provides the following identifiable public benefits through the
advancement of education: ;
© High-quality teaching
Widening participation and tackling social exclusion
Excellent employment record for students
Strong student support systems and financial bursaries
Exceptional links with employers, industry and commerce which future proof students’ careers

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
GOVERNORS’ REPORT (INCLUDING STRATEGIC REPORT) CONTINUED

TableA

2019/20 | 2020/21 2021/22 | 2022/23 | 2023/24
Achieved | Achieved | Achieved | Achieved | Achieved

Total enrolments 1767 1833 2203 2471
(accredited
provision)

% Annual
increase

Table B

[| 2etara0 | aoaares | BoRAree | 0728
Firediional [1137 [toe | _t304 [1576 _|
PrastTrack | 6a_[ 9 | @ | a
ca
286

- 52

ee a
| tre [1883 | 2002 | 2203

2023/24

57
387
150

As the above data shows, the diversification and growth strategies as part of our core Strategic Growth
pian are effective.

Growth in student numbers have historically been accommodated in our existing single site and the EFI
Group reached 100% utilisation of these spaces by 2020/21. The Strategic Plan included a Property
Strategy sought to address our estates question and provide solutions for the next steps for the EFI Group
to accommodate growth in student numbers. The EFl Group subsequently implemented a ‘Bridging
strategy’ which accommodated our growth over three sites, and this continued into 2023/24 whilst we
waited to take occupation of the new, larger permanent site.

The start of 2024/25 has now seen the move to our new premises at Electra House which has consolidated
the three spaces we have previously occupied to one and has accommodated the increased trend of
growth in learner numbers. 2023/24 also saw the acquisition of London College of Beauty Therapy (LCBT)
in February 2024 which added an additional site.

We continue to raise the profile of the EFl Group as a centre of excellence:

e Increased brand recognition through wider, targeted outdoor campaigns and digital campaigns.

e Increasing PR presence and the continued use of a PR agency.

« Continued work with retail brands through curriculum components (such. as work placements)
and innovations (through our Industry Working Groups, Industry Advisory Committee and
Trailblazers).

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024.
GOVERNORS’ REPORT (INCLUDING STRATEGIC REPORT) CONTINUED

Financial objectives

The EFI Group’s financial objectives are:

Strategic:

e Increase commercial income through our non-accredited offer and other services that leverage
value from our brand. Also increase this income with our know how and our IP including from EFI
Awards, non-accredited delivery, complimentary marketable service and online courses.

e Double student enrolment population by 2030. This will be achieved through the points listed
below.

Surplus:
e Generate an operating surplus between 5% and 15%.annually for reinvestment.
e  £1.5m commercial income / 10% of revenue income to come from business to business activities
by 2030.

Secure:
e Maintain 4 months of operating expenditure in reserves.
e Continue to focus on value for money and efficiency.
e Ensure our reliance on any single income stream does not routinely exceed 40%.

The strategic growth plan continues to support these financial objectives:

« Maintained reliance on mainstream FE funding (ESFA contracts) which now represents 66% of
revenue income (73% in 2022/23) (53% including donation)

e — Higher Education diversification now accounts for 14% of revenue income (21% in 2022/23). The
decrease is due to the donation income for the fit out of the new premises. Numerically income
has grown year on year.

e Fee income now accounts for 2% of revenue income (4% in 2022/23) Fee paying students
naturally declined as ESFA funded student numbers have increased and the impact of the
donation has skewed this figure.

e Apprenticeship diversification accounts for 3% of revenue income (3% in 2022/23)

e The current efficiency model is based on the Business Plan which highlights EF! Group is to
continue to invest in the physical environment, increase enrolment and achieve financial
efficiencies.

e The EFI Group’s liquidity position remains strong; a current ratio of 2.2 (4.69 in 2022/23), target
liquidity should be more than 1:1.

Business environment

Physical environment
The EFI Group continues to invest in the physical resources of the premises and facilities to ensure that

the students are offered an excellent environment and up to date IT and teaching and learning resources.
Significant investment was made in 2023/24 as part of the fit out for Electra House and amounted to a
£1.5m investment in [T and Audio Visual included in the overall investment.

Our new site at Electra House comprises a 50,000 sqft building and is nearly twice the size of our previous
premises. It offers a unique learning environment which is highly praised by staff, students and industry
partners alike. The project has been several years in the making and enables EFI Group to meet our future
growth and objectives. Fit out works were completed in time for the 2024/25 academic year.

Competitive environment
There is no direct competitor currently as a specialist education provider in fashion retail. This

specialisation in vocational education is most valuable when accompanied by an identified need for
specialist skills by an employer. Other providers offer some of the same courses to those run at the EFt
Group although the increase to our Level 3 Fashion Retail Diploma course continues to rise and take
market share from other providers. In the HE space, our courses have multiple similar competitors,
however, our accelerated 2-year programme, guaranteed interviews upon completion and industry
mentorship scheme, along with our wider unique selling points, (strong and increasing contact and

7

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

GOVERNORS’ REPORT (INCLUDING STRATEGIC REPORT) CONTINUED
relationships with industry and high destination and employment rates) sets us above competitor provision.

Marketing of the EFI Group's courses remains strong and continues to drive application volume increases
through targeted, data driven campaigns and outdoor advertising. PR efforts during the year have
continued to be strong to increase: wider awareness of the EFI Group. Student demand is healthy and
outstrips available places and our new premises is already at full capacity. With demand from a wide
geographic area, more students are coming to the EFI Group over local general Further Education
Colleges. This provides the EF! Group with a necessity to support travel and study costs for learners most
at need. This is being managed by the maximum distribution of formal Government bursary monies and
the supplementing of this by other funds from the EF| Group’s own reserves.

During 2023/24, the EF! Group received:

4,393 applications for its FE mainstream provision, representing a 61% increase from the
previous year's application volumes. However, this figure represents a change in the way data is
reported and duplicate applications have been excluded. Conversion to enrolment through our.
applicant services team increased year on year which led to the increase of enrolments.

925 applications (550 in 2022/23) for its HE provisions, representing a 68 % increase slight dip
from previous year’s application volumes but demonstrates the flux in HE applications sector-
wide due to Covid.

359 applications for its online provision, a 127% increase in the previous year's volumes,
demonstrating a significant growth in interest in this new provision that was first introduced in the
2022/23 academic year: :
Apprenticeship provision have no comparable application statistics. We anticipate our numbers
rising steadily as the pipeline of partnerships continue to flourish as we respond to industry need
in the post-covid era and as we continue to add new Standards to our portfolio of available
apprenticeships in line with demand from the industry. ~

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
GOVERNORS’ REPORT (INCLUDING STRATEGIC REPORT) CONTINUED
Student enroiments by level and age were as shown in the table below:

TABLE C

Higher
Education

2022/23 | 53 Pelst= tl
jf 202422] 78 | 1036 | 149 68 Ta 1355 |
|__| 2020/2i| 61 | 826 | 167 | tt 1129 |
ee ee ee

soe ye year}

|__| 2022123 So | ae
|_| 2021/22 a
| | 2020/24 |

students ;
[| 2022/28 |
po 202t22] 79 | 4080_ | 287 |

|| 2020/21] 61 |

[| | 2019/20] 60 _|

|} 201820) 2019/20 =
a

* This does not include the Traineeship Students enrolled in each respective year, NIL in 2023/24 NIL in
2022/23 — 13 in 2021/22 year and 24 2020/21 year. The introduction of the traineeships in 2020/2021 was
part of the EFI Group’s response to needs of both industry and youth unemployment because of COVID
and supporting the Governments drive in traineeships.

In 2023/24 the EFI Group received £11,081,375 in funding from the ESFA, including £175,428 Learner
Support Funds. (£8,239,674 and £144,057 in 2022/23).

Student achievement was as follows:
The Pass rate is defined as the number of students passing expressed as a percentage of those

completing a course; the achievement rate is defined as the number of students passing as a percentage
of those starting a course. The table below shows the EFI Group’s performance over the last five years:

FE mainstream students

res [re | erm | oaow | ovow | mom |
Achievement 82% 91.0% 86.7%


Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
GOVERNORS’ REPORT (INCLUDING STRATEGIC REPORT) CONTINUED

Online Students
2022/23 2023/24

[Pass —S*S~*~dC*~Ci OH Y—Ct

‘Whilst a clear focus on further improving our KPIs remain, notably almost all KPI statistics evidence an
improvement on the last year. This speaks to the enhancements made within FE delivery for which we
anticipate seeing further improvements in the year to come. The KPIs and related performance against
each are attendance 83%, retention 92%, learners that state the quality of teaching is at least good 80%
and number of live enrolments 1406.

The Principal and senior leadership team have taken decisive action to drive enhancement to our quality
KPIs by recruiting new senior leadership and restructuring key roles in quality assurance, including the
increased rigour and focus of governance and the impact of these actions is starting to be felt.

In relation to Higher Education, our. second graduating cohort obtained the following classification for their
undergraduate degrees:

(tc CCCt~“‘(‘CC*”r C&*#First Class Upper Second

Buying and J 24% 47% 18% 6%
Merchandising
Communication

Current and Future Development and Performance

Current performance headlines EFl Group:
The EFI Group pre-empts and directly responds to the fast-paced evolving skills needs of the Fashion and

Retail industry and leverages insight through dedicated industry research (which in 2017 led to the
creation of a range of new courses including an accelerated Higher Education offer and the then Fashion
Retail Academy (FRA) Competency Wheel, which now underpins the entire curriculum strategy).
Reconducted in 2020 this research once again underpins the direction of travel for curriculum innovation,
delivery, pedagogy and assessment.

The. EFI Group's financial health is excellent as a result of its leadership and continues to generate an
operating surplus of £5,786,000. This is used for reinvestment and to manifest strategic opportunities both
for longer term security and to benefit our students and team members.

The EFI Group continues to drive applications for our unique offer and as such has secured consistent
year on year growth in student numbers over the past 10 years, bucking the trends of the sector.

The EFI Group has an ambitious future focused strategy to capitalise upon its numerous successes, further
enhance its existing operations and create a new era for its students, its staff and the industry it serves.

As a future focused provider the EFI Group Strategic Plan clearly articulates our direction of travel, this
coupled with our research into the skills trends of industry, forms a core focus for our curriculum
development and broader commercial objectives.

The EFI Group remains well placed to capitalise on both our track record and the enormous array of
opportunities available to us domestically and internationally. In our specialism, we have collective strength
and the support of more than 145 retail brands, which demonstrates our relevance and ability to support
the talent pipeline of retailers across the nation and indeed the globe. :

The past 18 years have brought enormous value to. both our students and the industry as a whole. Almost
10

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
GOVERNORS’ REPORT (INCLUDING STRATEGIC REPORT) CONTINUED

14,000 graduates now work in industry and that number is increasing by more than a thousand per year.
In fact, in a significant number of retail companies, you will find a EF! Group graduate in meaningful
sustained employment throughout London and the UK. As the industry continues to evolve at a pace, so
too will the EF! Group curriculum to ensure that this rate of employment not only continues, but meets the
future skills needs of a highly competitive and fast changing industry.

The EFI Group continues to forecast both the skills requirements of our industry and navigate the funding
and educational landscapes to provide the right courses for our students and we are forecasting increases
in student numbers in future years.

Stakeholder Relationships

In line with other colleges, the EF! Group has many stakeholders, these include:
e Students

ESFA

Government Agencies and Bodies

Sponsors & industry partners

Staff

Local employers

Local Authorities

The local community

FE and HE institutions (in particular Falmouth University who validate our Degree programmes).

Professional bodies

Our Industry Advisory Committee and Industry Working Groups.

Awarding Bodies and Validating partners.

The EFI Group recognises the importance of these relationships and engages in regular communication
with them through meetings and correspondence. In particular, the EFI Group continues to nurture our
well-developed strong links with the sponsors and with other fashion retail employers. These enable the
EFI Group to offer relevant and valuable substantial periods of work placement to all its students on Level
3 courses or above, ensure that the training and education provided remains relevant and up to date and
aids in staff development. In many cases these work placements lead directly to employment.

The EFI Group’s success in working with employers to develop industry focused and relevant programmes
with excellent outcomes was further endorsed by our successful bid in obtaining recognition through the
Mayor's Skills Academies Quality Mark for both the creative and digital sector.

The EFI Group is currently in the process of completing its registration with the Office for Students (OFS).
Registration application documents have been submitted in October 2024 which are pending a response
from the OFS. The OFS are the independent regulator for HE in England. For EFi Group all HE products,
Level 4 courses and Apprenticeships above Level 4 fall into this area of regulation. This is a significant
part of both our income and learner numbers. Our Assessment takes place on Tuesday 4th and
Wednesday 5th February 2025. Providers of higher education in England are not legally required to
register with the Office for Students (OfS), but choosing to do so offers significant benefits that can make
registration highly advantageous.

11

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
GOVERNORS’ REPORT (INCLUDING STRATEGIC REPORT) CONTINUED

Employer Relationships 2023/24

The EFI Group continues to build on and enjoys strong links with industry partners; enhancing and bringing
unique value to our students’ development.

In total we have worked with 153 brands this academic year across several initiatives:

Work Placements 351 placements over 68 brands including URBN, Mulberry, TFG,
Careers Fairs (Sept, May, July) | 39 brands including AllSaints, Monsoon, Ann Summers, John
eee [lee een ree
Industry Projects 14 brands across 44 projects including Karen Millen, Soho Square
nMOS | Sats, ween, Acarte ean SOS
Masterclasses 96 talks across 46 brands including The Selfhood, Fenwick,
eran | sinise onetartron fraser Grap

22 panellists across 15 brands including The Coded, Harrods,
END.

FE Mentoring (L3 & L4) 43 Mentors across 27 brands including Oliver Bonas, ASDA, Nike

HE Mentoring (Year 1) 97 Mentors across 27 brands including Space NK, ASOS, Ralph
Lauren, Kurt Geiger

Focus Groups 24 Focus Groups across 22 brands including Boden, Dr Martens,

eens Frente Company aE bang Hoven Manes

Our Industry Partners have also supported on new courses and curriculum enhancements in 2023/24:
New Apprenticeship course: Level 5 Focus groups held to inform the curriculum of the new
Coaching Professional course — All Saints, Nobody’s Child, M&S
New Apprenticeship course: Level 4 Focus groups held to inform the curriculum of the new
Corporate Responsibility & course — New Look, URBN, ASOS
Sustainability Practitioner

Revised Industry Training product Brands gave insight into challenges and skills gaps in
strategy the industry to shape new strategy — Space NK, Jigsaw,
Harvey Nicols, Selfridges, ASOS

Financial results

For 2023/24, the EFI Group generated a net surplus of £5,895,000 which is £603,000 after removing the
donation for Electra House fit out (2022/23: £734,000 surplus after adjusting for impairment losses).
Capital expenditure in 2023/24 amounted to £4,032,000 (2022/23: £583,000). The increase is due. to
Electra House fit-out costs and related professional fees.

The majority of the EF! Group's activities do not qualify as a charge in the corporation tax computation
with effect from 7 June 2007, when it became a registered charity.

The acquisition of LCBT was completed on 2 February 2024. Founded in 1999, LCBT is the UK's largest
vocational provider for beauty therapy, hair, media makeup, and related qualifications. LCBT holds a
dominant position in Beauty Therapy registrations with potential for growth through diversification and
efficient resource utilisation. Poor marketing and course planning have led to financial losses. It offers the
EFI Group significant scope for income enhancement through effective resourcing. Further opportunities
to enhance profit may also be achieved through consideration of the new Group structures. The acquisition
of LCBT presents a unique opportunity for EF! Group, strategically aligned with our objectives.

A trading subsidiary company, FRA Enterprises Limited (FRAEL) was established on 16 January 2009,
through which the EFI Group’s commercial activities including room hire, hospitality and short courses

12

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
GOVERNORS’ REPORT (INCLUDING STRATEGIC REPORT) CONTINUED

were previously conducted. In 2020, FRAEL was re-purposed as an End Point Assessment Organisation
and renamed Fashion and Retail Awards. Limited. it was then renamed Education for. Industry Awards
Limited in: March, 2024.

Treasury policies and objectives _

The Treasury Management, Investment and Reserves Policy of the EFI Group regulates the banking,
investment and cash holding of the group. The objective of the. policy is to achieve a balance between
optimising financial arrangements and the risks associated with those activities. As per the latest policy
approved by the Board in June 2024, sufficient reserves should be set aside to meet 4 months of expected
annual expenditure including depreciation.

For 2023/24, the reserves policy criteria was satisfied. Free reserves of £5, 325,000 at 31st July 2024 cover
4 months. of expenditure including deprecation pro-rata as per the consolidated statement of
comprehensive income. of £5,354,000 (full year expenditure of £16,063,000).

The investments are risk averse and deposits are made which are readily accessible.
Cash flows

A net cash inflow from operating activities of £4,059,000 (2022/23 inflow: £645,000), reflects the
operational cash generation during the year.

Liquidity

‘The Charity continues to hold substantial cash at bank balances with £8,155,000 at the end of July 2024
(2022/23. £4,733,000), which gives.a current ratio of 2 (2022/23: 4. 69).

Going concern

The EFI Group has continued to maintain a, strong liquidity position. At the.year end, the total cash bank
balance amounted to £8,907,000. Cash balances have seen a significant rise by. £4,059,000 in the year.
The current ratio is at 2.2 meaning that the business has the repayment capacity of its current liabilities
over 2 times, utilising its liquid assets. The EFI Group remains comfortable meeting its commitments as
they fall due:

The EFI Group has had consecutive years of strong surplus generation and achieved. a net surplus of
£5,786,000 (£603k after removing the donation for Electra House fit out), in the draft accounts for 2023/24,
(2022/23 £734,000 surplus after a one off impairment adjustment). This. has increased significantly due to
the forementioned donation received. It is anticipated that 2024/25 will result in a deficit year which is.
budgeted to produce an operating deficit of £1,589,000 excluding the impact of the donation for fit-out
costs and added operational expenditure for Electra House. This is mainly driven by additional rent for the
new premises which while not paid in cash (a rent free period of 21 months has been agreed with the
landlord) is recognised in the P&L under.accounting principles. Additional teaching staff have also been
included in the budget to accommodate the significant increase in student numbers the added space at
Electra House offers. Future years will not continue to make losses: This is because in 2025/26 the ESFA
will award additional income for the growth in learners seen in the current year 2023/24 such is the way
the lagged contract works. In addition, our long term forecasting also includes. growth in HE learners which
we have increased significantly in 2024/25 and which will drive an increase in income. it is anticipated that
this growth will continue and a strategy roadmap. is being developed to add new HE courses backed by
robust market analysis and research. The increase in national insurance contributions have been. added
to the January Forecast. which resets. the budget based on current. actuals, and has been offset by
increased HE income, : , . .

Funding for the EFI Group.in 2024/25 has been confirmed at £13,697,000 from ESFA (including £279,000
of student and. financial support). The EFI Group maintains diversification of income and provision by:
continuing to run HE funded courses which now accounts for 21% of revenue income.

The.EFi Group continues to nurture its. well-developed strong links with sponsors'and other fashion retail
13.

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
GOVERNORS’ REPORT (INCLUDING STRATEGIC REPORT) CONTINUED

employers. These enable the EFI Group to offer relevant and valuable substantial periods of work
placement to all its students on Level 3 courses or above, and ensures that the training and education
provided remains relevant and up to date and also aids in staff development. In many cases these work
placements lead directly to employment. In conclusion, the EFI Group is therefore considered a going
concern for at least 12 months from the signing date.

Current and future developments

The EF! Group's successful growth in fashion-related programmes set the stage for expansion into the
beauty industry through the acquisition of the London College of Beauty Therapy (LCBT) in February 2024.
LCBT's current state, despite financial challenges, offers a strategic foothold with its significant
government funding contracts and established market presence. A detailed due diligence process,
supported by reputable firms ensured Board approval of the acquisition from 2nd February 2024. The
acquisition facilitates financial sustainability, immediate growth, and a broader social impact.

Principal Risks and Uncertainties

The EF! Group employs 260 full time equivalent staff (2022/23: 141) of whom 130 (2022/23: 50) are
teaching related staff.

The EFI Group continues to further develop its systems of internal control.

Crowe UK continues as the external auditors following a thorough tendering process in 2020, Audit
Committee and Board approval.

MHA were the EFI Group's Internal Auditors until the start of the 2022/23 academic year. Buzzacott took
over from the activities of MHA and in the year conducted reviews of the EF! Group's internal controls.
These reviews were reported to the Audit Committee and actions reviewed by the Audit Committee to
establish progress.

The Audit Committee reviewed the risk register at all three meetings in 2023/24 and an updated Risk
Register was agreed.

The following are the principal risk factors that may affect the EF! Group with the mitigation actions fully
articulated in the Strategic Risk Register which is regularly reviewed by our Audit Committee. The below
forms part of the ‘emerging’ risks section of the document among other risks identified linking to the
strategy.

Inflation drives higher costs for goods and services leading to budgetary constraints and a possible
reduction in operating surplus.

« OFS: failure to gain approval with the Office For Students impedes our ability to gain Tier 4 licence
and ability to recruit non 'home’ students causing reputational damage and loss of potential
market for Level 4 and undergraduate provision in future.

e Inflation, rising costs and other economic conditions result in families having less disposable
income which leads to depressed appetite for funding travel for students and therefore a reduction
in applications and enrolments.

e Risk of reduced attendance and retention due to bursary funds being depleted, caused by an
increase in bursary applications.

« Poor perceived student experience leads to negative multi platform public reviews leading to a
loss of confidence and applications, reducing income from enrolments

e Advance Learner Loans: changing student demographic at enrolment (fewer 19+ students taking
ALLs) results in a reduction to the Groups contracted Loan facility resulting in a cap, should
student numbers grow in future growth would not be guaranteed.

e HE Fee and student No. Gov policy: Government policy results in a reduce fee income per student
leading to a reduction in operating surplus \ Potential cap to students recruitment numbers leads

14

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

GOVERNORS’ REPORT (INCLUDING STRATEGIC REPORT) CONTINUED
to loss of income \ growth and diversification strategies are impeded.

* New course launches designed to support the industry fail to attract sufficient application volumes
to make them financially viable, leading to loss of income and/or cancellation of course/s

e Integration of LCBT takes longer than planned resulting in lower cost reduction and leads to
reduce operating surplus for Group as a result of inefficiencies in synergy

e Acquisition of LCBT does not make forecast NPV \ RO! leading to financial constraints for Group

e Full group and division dynamics \ interactions and dependencies result in forecast KPIs not being
met in one or more areas

e Increased staff turnover due to higher workloads caused by the acquisition, competing priorities
and management time.

e Critical BAU activities for Group or Divisions are compromised due to significant work in
acquisition, integration and restructure leading to increased financial, management time or other
impacts.

e Resistance to change / ability to adopt change and be agile in relation to new staff from LCBT.
Risk inadequately skilled members being brought into Group roles

The strategic risk register outlines these and other risks deemed applicable. The register outlines the
assurance, controls and mitigating actions on how we manage and minimise these risks.

Government funding

The EFI Group places considerable reliance on continued government funding through the ESFA. In
2023/24 52% (2022/23: 73%) of the EF! Group's revenue was publicly funded. The remainder of the EFI
Group income comes via tuition fees for both further education adult learners and from Higher Education
fee income.

Business continuity

The EFI Group is at risk from external influences beyond its contro! which interrupt the smooth operations
of the business. To meet these challenges, the EF! Group has an operational business continuity plan
(BCP) to enable it to continue provision in the short to medium term. This is reviewed regularly and fully

tested in August 2021. In addition, the EFI Group has a business continuity insurance in place which is
reviewed annually. A rework to the BCP plan, Lockdown procedures and Disaster Recovery policies is
underway and due to be reviewed by the Audit Committee in the forthcoming academic year.

Liquidity
The EFI Group’s cashflows.are healthy, the unrestricted funds have remained relatively stable at
£10,978,000 (£6,169,000 in 2022/23). Student numbers increased in 2023/24 in comparison to 2022/23

by 12% and the EFI Group benefitted from in year lagged funding payments as well as a boost to our
Higher Education numbers in comparison to the previous year.

The EF! Group is debt free which provides a significant degree of comfort.
Equal opportunities and employment of disabled persons

The EFI Group is committed to ensuring equality of opportunity for all who learn and work here. It respects
and values positively differences in race, gender, sexual orientation, physical ability and age. It strives
vigorously to remove conditions, which place people at disadvantage. This policy is resourced,
implemented and monitored on a planned basis.

The EFI Group considers all applications from persons with disability, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the
individuals concerned. Where an existing employee becomes disabled or their disability worsens, every
effort is made to ensure that employment with the EFI Group continues. The EFI Group's policy is to
provide training, career development and opportunities for promotion, which are, .as far as possible,
identical to those for other employees.

15

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
GOVERNORS’ REPORT (INCLUDING STRATEGIC REPORT) CONTINUED

Disability statement

The EFI Group seeks to achieve the objectives set down. in the Equality Act 2010.

a)
b)

°)

4)

e)

The EFI Group has made significant investment in ensuring its premises have .appropriate.
disability access. Information, advice and support is provided to all students with disabilities.
The admissions policy for all students is available from the Registry. Office. Appeals against a
decision not to offer a place are dealt with under the complaints policy. :

The EFI Group has. appointed specialist lecturers to support students with learning difficulties
and/or disabilities. There is a continuing programme of staff development to ensure the provision
of a high level of appropriate support for students who have.learning difficulties and/or disabilities:
Specialist programmes are described in the. EF| Group's prospectus. Achievements and
destinations are published in standard format.

Counselling and welfare services are described in the EFI Group’s Student Guide, which is issued
to students together with the Complaints and Disciplinary Procedure leaflets at induction.

Disctosu re of information to auditors

The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this report confirm that, so far as they are each
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the EF! Group's auditors are unaware; and each
Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken to be aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the EFI Group’s auditors are aware of that information.

Approved by order of the Board on 30 January 2025, and signed on its behalf by:

bo >-OM IO

Kim Longman

Chair

Registered Address:
Education for Industry Group, 84 Moorgate, London, England, EC2M 6SE

16.

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL

The foilowing statement is provided to enable readers:of the annual report and financial statements of the
£FI Group to obtain a better understanding of its governance and legal structure. This statement covers
the period from 1st August 2023 to 31st July 2024 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and
financial statements.

The EFI Group endeavours to conduct its business
i. in accordance with the seven principles identified by the Committee on Standards in Public
Life (selflessness, integrity, objectivity, accountability, openness, honesty and leadership); and
ii, Whilst not having adopted the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 the EFI Group has due’
regard to its principles and guidance.

The Board

The Directors who served on the Board during the year and up to the date of signature of this report
were as listed below: :

EFI Group Board Members during 2023/24
Date of Appointment

Term of Board meetings|
office attended/
(years) Possible 2023/24

8/8

Fiona Gaughan 2 December 2018
Reappointed 9 December 2021
Zareer Ghadially 10 September 2024 0/0
3.
P30
30
(3.

Kim Longman
Chair

13 July 2005
Reappointed 13 July 2008, 12 July 2011, 11
June 2014, 9 March 2017, 2 July 2020 and 30
January 2024

nu
Reappointed 9 December 2021
Laura Charles 27 June. 2017
Reappointed 2 July 2020 and 30 January
2024

4 February 2022

Sally Harris 11 January 2021 and 30 January 2024
3 March 2021 and 30 January 2024

(Principal)
Elaine Smith 11 June.2014 3
Reappointed 9 March 2017 and 2 July 2020
Resigned 29 November 2023
2 December 2018

Reappointed 9 December 2021

Pauline Tambling 18 May 2021 until 1 December 2023
Simon Williams 30 May 2022

The Clerk to the Board and Company Secretary is Graham Cooper.

It is the Board’s responsibility to bring independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance,
resources and standards of conduct.

The Board is provided with regular and timely information on the overall financial performance of the EFI
Group together with other information such as performance against funding targets, proposed capital
expenditure, quality matters and personnel related matters such as health and safety and environmental
issues.

The Board meets at least once every term.

17

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL (CONTINUED)

All governance business was conducted through the Board. The Audit Committee provided an additional
level of scrutiny in accordance with its terms of reference.

The Clerk to the Board maintains a register of financial and personal interests of the members of the
Board. The register is available for inspection at the registered address.

All members of the Board are able to take independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties
at the EFI Group’s expense and have access to the Clerk to the Board, who is responsible to the Board
for ensuring that all applicable procedures and regulations are complied with. The appointment, evaluation
and removal of the Clerk are matters for the Board as a whole.

Formal agendas, papers and reports are supplied to members of the Board in a timely manner, prior to
Board meetings. Briefings are also provided on an ad hoc basis.

There is a clear division of responsibility in that the roles of the Chair and Principal are separate.

Appointments to the Board

Under Article 26, all new appointments to the Board are a matter for the consideration of the Board as a
whole. The Board is responsible for ensuring that appropriate training is provided for Directors as required.

The Principal is an ex-officio Director. All other Directors are appointed for a term of office not exceeding
three years, following which they are eligible for re-appointment. It is generally expected that Directors will
serve for up to three consecutive terms of office, but a Director may be appointed for further consecutive
terms of office if the Board believes that to be in the best interests of the company.

The company has an induction policy for new appointments to the Board. This covers, strategy, the
regulatory and educational environment within which the EFI. Group operates and ensuring that new
members are aware of their responsibilities as Directors, and as trustees of the charity. New Directors also
visit the EFl Group to meet with senior staff and to hear directly from students. Additional training and
briefings are also provided. Director responsibilities relating to safeguarding of students was a focus of
training during the year.

Audit Committee.

The Audit Committee comprises a minimum of three members and is chaired by a member of the Board.
Quoracy is two members and the committee met three times during. the year. All members where in
attendance at each meeting with the exception of the March meeting where two of the possible three
where in attendance. Membership currently includes a co-opted member with professional audit
experience who is not a member of the Board. The Committee operates in accordance with written terms
of reference approved by the Board.

The Audit Committee meets a minimum of three times a year and provides a forum for reporting by the EFI
Group's Internal Auditors and External Auditors, who have access to the Committee for independent
discussion, without the presence of the EFI Group’s management. The Committee also receives and
considers reports from the funding bodies as they affect the EFI Group’s business.

Management is responsible for the implementation of audit recommendations and undertakes periodic
follow-up reviews to ensure such recommendations have been implemented. The EF! Group’s internal
auditors monitor the systems of internal control, risk management controls and governance processes in
accordance with an agreed pian of input and report their findings to management and the Audit
Committee.

The Audit Committee also advises the Board on the appointment of internal, and external auditors and their
remuneration for both audit and non-audit work.

Internal control
Scope of responsibility.

18

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL (CONTINUED)

The Board is ultimately responsible for the. EFI Group's system of internal control and for reviewing its
effectiveness. However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.

The Board has delegated the day-to-day responsibility to the Principal, as Accounting Officer, for
maintaining a sound system of internal control that supports the achievement of the EFl Group's policies,
aims and objectives, whilst safeguarding the public funds and assets for which he is personally responsible,
in accordance with the responsibilities assigned to him in the funding agreements between the EFI Group
and the ESFA. He is also responsible for reporting to the Board any material weaknesses or breakdowns
in internal control.

The purpose of the system of internal control

The system of internal contro! is designed to manage risk to a reasonable level rather than to eliminate all
risk of failure to achieve policies, aims and objectives; it can therefore only provide reasonable and not
absolute assurance of effectiveness. The system of internal controi is based on an on-going process
designed to identify and prioritise the risks to the achievement of EFI Group policies, aims and objectives,
to evaluate the likelihood of those risks being realised and the impact should they be realised, and to
manage them efficiently, effectively and economically. The system of internal control has been in place in
the EFI Group for the period ended 31 July 2024 and up to the date of approval of the financial statements.

Capacity to handle risk

The Board has reviewed the key risks. to which the EFI Group is exposed together with the operating,
financial and compliance controls that have been implemented to mitigate those risks. The Board is of the
view that there is a formal on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the EFI Group's
significant risks that has been in place for the period ended 31 July 2024 and up to the date of approval of
the financial statements. This process is reguiarly reviewed by the Board.

The risk and control framework

The system of internal control is based on a framework of regular management information, administrative
procedures including the segregation of duties, and a system of delegation and accountability. In particular,
it includes:
e comprehensive budgeting systems with an annual budget, which is reviewed and agreed by the
Board;
* regular reviews by the Board of periodic and annual financial reports which indicate financial
performance against forecasts;
e setting targets to measure financial and other performance;
e clearly defined capital investment control guidelines; and
e the adoption of formal project management disciplines, where appropriate.

Review of effectiveness
As Accounting Officer, the Principal has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the system
of internal control. His review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control is informed by:
e the work of the executive managers within the EF! Group who have responsibility for the
development and maintenance of the internal control framework; and
* comments made by the EF! Group’s financial statement auditors and the internal auditors in
their management letters and other reports.

Overall, the reports have indicated very complimentary and effective governance and risk management
processes to manage the achievement of the EFI Group's objectives. The Board completed a self
assessment of its own effectiveness during the year. The results were discussed by the Board at its meeting
on 22nd May 2024. A number of actions for improvement were identified and have been implemented.

19

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

STATEMENT OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL CONTROL (CONTINUED):

Going concern

1 Group has adequate resources to
lave Satisfied ourselves that funding
és to adopt the going concern basis in.

After making appropriate enquiries, the Board considers that the
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable futyf¢. Ve
contracts and fee income are secure. For this reason, if
preparing the financial.statements.

Kim Longman Lee Lucas
Chair Principal-CEO & Accounting Officer
30" January 2025. 30" January 2025.

20

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

THE BOARD’S STATEMENT ON THE EFI GROUP’S REGULARITY, PROPRIETY AND
COMPLIANCE WITH FUNDING BODY TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF FUNDING.

The EFI Group has considered its responsibility to notify the ESFA of material irregularity, impropriety and
non-compliance with ESFA terms and conditions of funding, under the funding agreements in place
between the EF! Group and the ESFA..As part of our consideration, we have had due regard to the
requirements of the funding agreements.

We confirm, on behalf of the EFI Group, that after due enquiry, and to the best of our knowledge, we are
able to identify any material irregular or improper use of funds by the EFI Group, or material non-compliance.
with the ESFA’s terms and conditions of funding under the EFt Group's funding agreements.

We confirm that no instances of material irregularity, impropriety or
discovered to date. If any instances are identified after the date of
the ESFA.

Rding non-compliance have been
tement, these will be notified to

FAs RIA KOU

Kim Longman Lee Lucas
Chair . Principal, CEO & Accounting Officer
30" January 2025 30" January 2025

at

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
STATEMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE MEMBERS OF THE BOARD

Company law requires the members of the Board to prepare financial statements for each financial year
that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the EFI Group and of the profit or loss of the EFI Group
for that period.

Within the terms and conditions of the funding agreements agreed between the ESFA and the Board of the
EFI Group, the Board, through its Principal, is required to prepare financial statements for each financial
year in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice — Accounting for Further and Higher
Education and which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the EFI Group and the result for that
year.

In preparing the financial statements, the Board is required to:

e Select suitable accounting policies.and apply them consistently;

e make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

e state whether applicable Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

e prepare financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to assume that the
EFI Group will continue in operation.

Members of the Board are responsible for ensuring that expenditure and income are applied for the
purposes intended by Parliament and that the financial transactions conform to the authorities that govern
them. The members of the board are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose
with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of the EFl Group, and enable them to ensure
that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and other relevant accounting standards.
They are responsible for taking steps that are reasonably open to it in order to safeguard the assets of the
EFI Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities. The governors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the charity; and financial information included on the charity’s website.

Members of the Board are responsible for ensuring that funds from the ESFA are used only in accordance
with the funding agreements with the ESFA and any other conditions that the ESFA may prescribe from
time to time. Members of the Board must ensure that there are appropriate financial and management
controls in place in order to safeguard public and other funds and to ensure they are used properly. In
addition, members of the Board are responsible for securing economical, efficient and effective
management of the EFI Group's resources and expenditure, so that the benefits that should be derived
from the application of public funds by the ESFA are not put at risk.

So far as each member of the Board is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors
are unaware, and each member of the Board has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have takenas a

member of the Board in order to make himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to
establish that the auditors are aware of that information.

independent Auditors

The auditors, Crowe LLP, have confirmed their willingness to continue in office and the Board has approved
their reappointment.

Signed on behalf of the Board
Kim Longman ~)

Chair
30 January 2025

22

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EDUCATION FOR INDUSTRY GROUP

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Education for Industry Group (‘the charity’) and its subsidiaries
(‘the group’) for the year ended 31 July 2024 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income, Consolidated and Charity Statement of Changes in Reserves, Balance Sheets,
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and notes to the financial statements, including significant accounting
policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and
United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice).

{n our opinion the financial statements:

e give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's and the Charity's affairs as at 31 July 2024 and
of the group’s income and expenditure, for the year then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and ;

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable flaw. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the
group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements
in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the governor's use of the going concern basis
of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate. Based on the work we have
performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually
or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the charity's or the group's ability to continue as a going
concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the governors with respect to going concern are described
in the relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The governors are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report. The other
information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and
our auditor's report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information
and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance,
conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information
is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated. if we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a materia] misstatement in the
financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a
material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to
report in this regard.

23.

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EDUCATION FOR INDUSTRY
GROUP (CONTINUED)

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion based on the work undertaken in the course of our audit:

e the information given in the governors’ report, which includes the directors’ report and the strategic
report prepared for the purposes of company law, for the financial year for which the financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

e the strategic report and the directors’ report included within the governors’ report have been prepared
in accordance with applicable legal requirements. ,

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and charity and their environment obtained in the
course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’
report included within the governors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006
requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

adequate and proper accounting records have not been kept; or

the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of governors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of governors

As explained more fully in the statement of responsibilities of the members of the board set out on page 23
the governors (who are also the directors of the charity for the purposes of company law) are responsible
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and
for such internal control as the governors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the governors are responsible for assessing the charity’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
going concern basis of accounting unless the governors either intend to liquidate the charity or to cease
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit
conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
financial statements.

Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud
and non-compliance with laws and regulations are set out below. A further description of our responsibilities
for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Council's website at:
www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

24

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF EDUCATION FOR INDUSTRY
GROUP (CONTINUED) ~

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We identified and
assessed the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements from irregularities, whether due to
fraud or error, and discussed these between our audit team members. We then designed and performed
audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence sufficient and appropriate to ©
provide a basis for our opinion. We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks within
which the charity and group operates, focusing on those laws and regulations that have a direct effect on
the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The laws and regulations
we considered in this context were the Companies Act 2006 and the Charities Act 2011 together with the
Statement of Recommended Practice: Accounting for Further and Higher Education 2019 (the 2019 FE HE
SORP) and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 — “The Financia! Reporting Standard
applicable in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland” (FRS 102). We assessed the required
compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our audit procedures on the related financial
statement items.

In addition, we considered provisions of other laws and regulations that do not have a direct effect on the
financial statements but compliance with which might be fundamental to the Group's ability to operate or to
avoid a material penalty. We also considered the opportunities and incentives that may exist within the
charity and the group for fraud. The laws and regulations we considered in this context for the UK operations
were health and safety regulation, taxation legislation, employment legislation and General Data Protection
Legislation (GDPR).

Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and
tegulations to enquiry of the Governors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal
correspondence, if any.

We identified the greatest risk of material impact on the financial statements from irreguiarities, including
fraud, to be within the recognition of income and the override of controls by management. Our audit
procedures to respond to these risks included enquiries of management, and the Audit Committee about
their own identification and assessment of the risks of irregularities, sample testing on the posting of
journals; tested the application cut-off and revenue recognition, particularly around revenue grants from
ESFA, tuition fees and donations; reviewing accounting estimates for biases, reviewing regulatory
correspondence with the Charity Commission and Ofsted; and reading minutes of meetings of those
charged with governance.

Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected
some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and’
performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards. For example, the further removed non-
compliance with laws and regulations (irregularities) is from the events and transactions reflected in the
financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would
identify it. In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as
these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
controls. We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-
compliance with all laws and regulations.

25.

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024.

Use of our report

This report.is made solely to the charity’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of
the Companies Act 2006. Our audit-work has been undertaken so that we might state to the charity’s
members those matters we ate required to state to.them iri an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To.the fullest extent permitted. by:law,-we.do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
charity and the charity’s members. as.a body, for our audit work, for this.report, or for the opinions we have
formed. : :

Joars [we

Jayne Rowe

Senior Statutory Auditor:
For and on behalf of”
Crowe.U:K. LLP
Statutory Auditor
London

Date: 20 March 2025

26;.

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 July 2024

Unrestricted Restricted Year ended end wat
Funds Funds 31 July: J
2024 2023
Group Group
Note. £000 £°000
income :
Funding Body Grants 2 12,522 : 12,522 10,565.
Tuition fees and Educational ‘ .
Contracts. 3 3,692 124 3,816 3,554
Other income 4 433 - 433 272
Interest income. 22 : 22 -
Donations. 5 - 5,183 5,183 -
Total income 16,669 5,307 21,976 : 14,388.
Expenditure .
Staff costs 7 8,306 - 8,306. 6,217
Other operating expenses* 9 7,430 = 7,430 7,708
Depreciation.and amortisation 40/11. 345 com 345 733
Total expenditure 16,081 - 16,081 14,658
Surplus/(deficit) for the year 15 588 5,307 5,895 (270)
Total comprehensive | . . .
income/(loss) for the year 588 5307 5.895 __ 270)"

27

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
Consolidated and Charity Statement of Changes in Reserves

For the year ended 31 July 2024

Group Balance at 1st.
August 2022

Deficit from the income and
expenditure account

Balance at 31st July 2023

Surplus from the
income and expenditure
account

Balance at 31st July 2024

Charity Balance at 1st
August 2022

Deficit from the.income and
expenditure account:

Balance at 31st July 2023

Surplus from the
income and expenditure
account

Balance at 31st July 2024

Income and income and. Total
Expenditure Expenditure £°000
account~ account—
Unrestricted Restricted
£000 £°000
6,354 85 6,439
(217) (53) (270)
6,137 32 6,169
588. 5,307 5,895
6,725 5,339 “12,064
Income and Income and Total
Expenditure Expenditure £°000
account-  account—
Unrestricted Restricted
£7000. £'000
6,354 85 6,439
(217) (53) (270)
6,137 32 6,169
454 5,307 5,761
6,591 5,339 11,930:

-

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

Balance Sheets
At 31 July 2024

Fixed assets
Intangible Assets
Tangible Assets
Investments

Total fixed assets

Current assets

Debtors

Cash at bank and in hand
Total current assets

Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within
one. year

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities
Non current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due after

more than one year

Net assets

Reserves

Unrestricted income
reserve

Restricted income reserve

Note

13

16

The surplus for the parent only is £5,761k (2022/23: deficit £270k).

The financial statements on pages 28 to 49 were approved by the Board a

on 30 January 2025 and were signed on its. behalf by:

Kim Longman
Chair

Principal and Chie!

ee Cucas

Group Charity _ Group Charity
34 July 2024 34 July 2024 «=. 337 July 2023. «31 July 2023
£000 £000 £000 £000
1,059 : - -
5,197 5,197 1,462 1,462
- 1,941 - -

6,256 7,138 1,462 1,462:
1,826 1,470 1,136 1,251
8,907 8,155 4,848 4,733
10,733 9,625 5,984 5,984
(4,925) (4,833) (1,277) (1,277)
5,808 4,792 4,707. 4,707
12,064 11,930 6,169 6,169
12,064 11,930 6,169 6,169
6,725 6,591 6,137 6,137
5,339 5,339 32 32
12,064 11,930 6,169 6,169

uthorised for issue

Education for industry Group, a private company limited by guarantee, registered in England and Wales.

Registered Number 05507547

29

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

Consolidated Cash Flow Statement
For the year ended 31 July 2024

Note 2024 2023
£°000 £7000

Cash inflow from operating activities
Surplus/(deficit) for the year 15 5,895 (270)
Adjustment for non-cash items
Depreciation 10/11 345 733
Impairment Loss : - 2,153
Increase in debtors 13 (690) (330)
Increase/(Decrease) in creditors due within one year 14 3,648 (615)
Investment income (22) -
Release from Capital grants : (1,040)
Adjustment for investing or financing activities
Interest payable - 14
Net cash inflow from operating activities 9,176 645
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of intangible assets 10 (1,115) -
Payments made to acquire fixed assets 11 (4,032) (584)
Proceeds on disposal of tangible assets 11 8 -
Interest received 22 .
Net cash outflow from investing activities (5,117) (584)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid - (11)
Net cash outflow from financing activities - - -
Increase in cash and cash equivalents in the year 4,059 50
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year : 4,848 4,798
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 8,907 4,848

30

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
Notes to the financial statements

1; Accounting policies

Statement of accounting policies
The following: accounting policies. have been applied consistently in dealing. with items which are,

considered material in relation to the financial statements.

Basis of preparation

_ These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Statement of Recommended
Practice: Accounting for Further and Higher Education 2019 (the 2019. FE HE SORP) and in accordance
with Financial Reporting Standard 102 — “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the’ United
Kingdom and Republic of Ireland” (FRS102). The Charity is a public benefit entity and has therefore
applied the relevant benefit requirements of FRS 102.

Basis of accounting
The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the historical. cost convention as modified by
the use of previous valuations as deemed cost at transition for certain non-current assets.

‘The Education for Industry Group has not presented its own profit and loss account as permitted by
Section 408 of the Companies Act'2006. The surplus for the financial year in the accounts. of the
Education for Industry Group is £5,895k (2022/23 deficit £270k).

Basis of consolidation

The consolidated financial. statements include the Charity and its subsidiaries, London College of Beauty
Therapy, Education for Industry Awards Limited and FRA Enterprises.2020. The results of the subsidiary
during the year are included in the consolidated income and expenditure account. Uniform accounting,
policies have been adopted in both entities and. any. profits or losses on intra group transactions have.
been eliminated, All financial statements are made up to 31 July 2024.

The. consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of business combinations using the’
purchase method. In the Statement of Financial Position, the acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities. and
contingent liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date. The results of
acquired operations are included in the Consolidated Profit and Loss Account from the date on which
control is obtained. See note: 18 for more information on: how the acquisition has been treated

London College of Beauty Therapy (LCBT) is a private company limited by guarantee, and its principal
activities is.other education. LCBT was acquired in it’s entirety on 2 February 2024.

Education for Industry Awards Limited is a private. company limited by guarantee, and its principal
activities are to be an End Point Assessment Organisation for the Charity. It has an authorised share.
capital of 10,000 shares of £1 each, and has an ailotted share capital of £1 held by Education for industry.
Group. ‘

FRA Enterprises 2020 was incorporated.on 8" July 2019. From 1st August 2020, FRA Enterprises 2020: .
Ltd did not carry out any trading activities.

Going concern -

The Board is confident that the EFI Group holds. sufficient cash to. continue. to operate and to meet
all its commitments as they fall due for the foreseeable future (12 months from the signing date), and
that the ‘EFI Group remains a going concern.

The EFI.Group remains a going concern twelve months. from the date the. accounts. from the:
date the accounts have been signed.

The Charity has continued to maintain a strong liquidity position. At the year end, the total cash: bank
balance amounted to £8,907,000. Cash balances have seen.a’slight rise by £50,000 in the year. The
current ratio is at 4.69 meaning that the. business has the repayment capacity of its current liabilities
nearly.5 times-over utilising its liquid assets. The Charity remains comfortable meeting its
commitments. as: they fall due. :

31

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
Notes to the financial statements (Continued)

The Group has had consecutive years of strong surplus generation and achieved a net surplus of
£5,895,000, largely due to the donation of £5,183,000 for fixed assets, in the accounts for 2023/24 which
when removed gives a surplus of £712,000 (2022/23 £734,000 after adjustment for impairment). The
FY2024/25 financial year budgeted a £1,589,000 deficit, mainly due to the accounting treatment
recognition of the Electra House rent which is rent free for 21 months, for which we are required to allocate
a cost, and added teachers and support staffing costs for the increase in learners due to the new
premises. The ESFA contract is anticipated to grow in FY2025/26 based on the significant growth in
learner numbers in the current year and continues to maintain a strong cash balance.

Funding for the Charity in 2024/25 has been confirmed at £9,163,000 from the ESFA (including
£171,000 of student and financial support). This includes an extraordinary increase of £624k to be used
for key priorities. The Charity maintains diversification of income and provision by continuing to run HE
funded courses which now accounts for 21% of revenue income.

The EF! Group continues to nurture its well-developed strong links with sponsors and other fashion retail
employers. These enables the Group to offer relevant and valuable substantial periods of work placement
to all its students on Level 3 courses or above, and ensures that the training and education provided
remains relevant and up to date and also aids in staff development. In many cases these work placements
lead directly to employment.

The EFI Group’s successful growth in fashion-related programmes set the stage for expansion into the
beauty industry through the acquisition of the London College of Beauty Therapy (LCBT) in February
2024. LCBT's state at acquisition, despite financial challenges, offers a strategic foothold with its
significant government funding contracts and established market presence. A detailed due diligence
process, supported by reputable firms was completed and the Board unanimously agreed with the
decision to support the acquisition in the special Board meeting held on 17 January 2024. The
acquisition facilitates. financial sustainability, immediate growth, and a broader social impact.

The EFI Group acquired the entire issued. share capital of LCBT, on the following basis:

e — Initial consideration payable of £500k; plus

« Any excess cash in the event that the actual working capital at completion is greater than the target
working capital forecast which is subject to due diligence but not less than £380k; plus

e Deferred consideration of 75% of the Government Funded Income in FY23/24 that exceeds the
government funded income in FY22/23. This amount will be capped at £385k and any excess
above this will be paid as follows;

e Any excess first earn-out payments; plus 50% of the amount by which the government funded
income in FY24/25 exceeds the government funded income in FY23/24

e The total of ail contingent deferred consideration shall be capped at £510k.

Given the information provided in the accounts, the EF! Group is a going concern.

Recognition of income

Government revenue grants from EFA and SFA include funding body recurrent grants and other grants
and are accounted for under the accrual model as permitted by FRS 102. Funding body recurrent grants.
are measured in line with best estimates for the period of what is receivable and depend on the particular
income stream involved. Any under or over achievement for the Adult Skills Budget is adjusted for and
reflected in the level of recurrent grant recognised in the income and expenditure account. The final grant
income is normally determined with the conclusion of the year end reconciliation process with the funding
body following the year end, and the results of any funding audits. 16-18 learner-responsive funding is
not normally subject to reconciliation and is therefore not subject to contract adjustments.

Bursaries are accounted for gross as expenditure and not deducted from income.

32

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

Income from tuition fees is recognised in the period for which it is receivable and includes all fees
payable by students.

Government capital grants are capitalised, held as deferred income and recognised in income over the
expected useful life of the asset, under the accrual method as permitted by FRS 102.

Income from grants, contracts and other services rendered is included to the extent of the completion of
the contract or service concerned.

All income from short-term deposits is credited to the income and expenditure account in the period in
which it is earned.

Income within LCBT is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for
goods and services provided in the normal course of business, and is shown net of VAT and other
sales related taxes. The fair value of consideration takes into account trade discounts, settlement
discounts and volume rebates.

When cash inflows are deferred and represent a financing arrangement, the fair value of the
consideration is the present value of the future receipts. The difference between the fair value of the
consideration and the nominal amount received is recognised as interest income.

Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of
the goods have passed to the buyer (usually on dispatch of the goods), the amount of revenue can be
measured reliably, it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to
the entity and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured
reliably.

Donations
Donations received by the Charity are recognised in the income and expenditure account in the

period in which they are receivable.
The Charity received funding of £5,183,000 for the premises relocation in the year, treated as a donation.

Accounting for post-employment benefits
The Charity operates two pension schemes, both of which are defined contribution:

1. Peoples Pension

Staff are auto-enrolled into the People’s Pension scheme on joining the EFI Group, subject to
eligibility/meeting the auto-enrolment requirements. Staff auto-enrolled remain in this scheme unless
they opt out. The employer’s contribution is 3% and the employee's contribution is 5%.

2. Prudential Stakeholder Pension (administered by Prudential plc.)

Staff are able to join this pension after they have passed their probation period (probation is 3 or 6 months
depending on the role). With the exception of the CEO, the employer matches contributions of up to 5%.
There is no limit to employee contribution, meaning staff can exceed the 5% but the employer contribution
is capped at 5%. The most common contribution rates are 5% employer and 5% employee. Employees
are advised that they must opt out of People’s Pension before joining the Prudential scheme as they
cannot be in 2 schemes at once. The assets of the scheme are held separately from those of the company
in an independently administered fund. The total amount paid into the scheme by the Charity in the year
to 31 July 2024 was £118,320 (2022/23 £141,459).

Short term Employment benefits

Short term employment benefits such as salaries and compensated absences (holiday pay) are
recognised as an expense in the year in which the employees render service to the Charity. Any
unused benefits are accrued and measured as the additional amount the Charity expects to pay as a

33

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

result of the unused entitlement. Redundancy costs are recognised as an expense in the period in
which the charity becomes irrevocably committed to incurring the costs and the main features of the
plans have been announced to affected employees. Two staff members have childcare vouchers
supplied by Edenred. This scheme is closed to new entrants. A Tech Scheme is also in operation and.
open to ail staff with fixed contracted hours. Staff request the amount they need to purchase their
chosen technology equipment and if approved, the amount is provided on a retail e-voucher. Once the
voucher is received by the member of staff, payroll deductions commence (12 deductions in total).
Applications are made by the member of staff and assessed by the HR team in terms of affordability and
length of contract remaining if they are on a fixed term contract. Staff can apply in any given month meaning
the number of staff on the scheme varies from month to month depending on when their loan started.
Around 10 staff are on the scheme .at any one time.

Goodwill
Goodwill, being the amount paid in connection with the acquisition of London College of Beauty
Therapy, is being amortised evenly over its estimated useful life of ten years.

Tangible fixed assets

Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical purchase cost less accumulated depreciation and
accumulated impairment losses. Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs
attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.

Leasehold improvements
Leasehold property improvements are depreciated over the period of the lease, 20 years.

Fixtures and fittings and computer equipment

Fixtures and fittings and computer equipment costing less than £1,000 per individual item are written off
to the statement of comprehensive income in the period of acquisition. All other equipment is capitalised
at cost.

Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual value based on
prices prevailing at the date of acquisition of each asset, evenly over its expected useful life, as follows:

e Fixtures and Fittings 5 years
« Computer Equipment 3 years
«Plant and machinery 3-5 years

Assets in Construction

These are capitalised as assets in construction until the assets are brought into use. Once brought into
use, they are depreciated in accordance with the useful economic life of the asset class to which it is
transferred “

Leased assets
Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Maintenance of premises
The cost of routine corrective maintenance is charged to the income and expenditure account in the .

period that it is incurred.

Taxation

The Charity is an exempt charity within the meaning of section 467 of the Corporation Tax Act 1988 (CTA
2010). Accordingly, the Charity is potentially exempt from taxation in respect of income or capital gains
received within categories covered by sections 466 to 493 of CTA 2010 or section 256 of the Taxation of
Chargeable Gains Act 1992, to the extent that such income or gains are applied to exclusively charitable
purposes.

34

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

Fund Accounting
Unrestricted reserves represent those resources which may be used towards meeting any of the

charitable objects of the Charity at the discretion of the board.

Restricted reserves refer to monies received such as bursaries from the ESFA which are used for
charitable purposes and for student welfare.

The Charity is generally unable to recover input VAT it suffers on goods and services purchased. Non-
‘pay expenditure is therefore shown inclusive of VAT with any partial recovery netted off against those.
amounts.

Current Asset Investments
Current asset investments include sums on short-term deposit with Bank of Scotland.

Financial Instruments

The Charity has financial assets and financial liabilities of a kind that qualify as basic financial instruments,
which are initially recognised at transaction value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest method. Financial assets held at amortised cost comprise cash at bank and in hand,
together with trade and other debtors excluding prepayments. Financial liabilities held at amortised cost
comprise trade and other creditors.

Valuation of investments
investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost less accumulated impairment.

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Charity has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a
past event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation and a
reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.

Learner Support Funds

The Charity acts as an agent in the collection and payment of Learner Support Funds, educational
maintenance allowances, and Adult Learning Grant and residential bursaries. Related payments
received from the EFA/SFA and subsequent disbursements to students are excluded from the Income
and Expenditure account and are shown separately in Note 21, except for the 5 per cent of the grant
received which is available to the Charity to cover administration costs relating to the grant. The
Charity employs one member of staff dedicated to the administration of Learner Support Fund
applications and payments.

Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In preparing these financial statements, management have made the following judgements:

* Determined whether leases entered into by the Charity either as a lessor or a lessee are
operating or finance leases. These decisions depend on an assessment of whether the risks
and rewards of ownership have been transferred from the lessor to the lessee on a lease by
lease basis. All leases have been identified as operating.

e Determined whether there are indicators of impairment of the group's fixed assets. Factors
taken into consideration in reaching such a decision include the economic viability and
expected future financial performance of the asset and where it is a component of a larger
cash-generating unit, the viability and expected future performance of that unit.

Other key sources of estimation uncertainty
© Tangible fixed assets

Tangible fixed assets are depreciated over their useful lives taking into account residual values, where
appropriate. The actual lives of the assets and residual values are assessed annually and may vary.
depending on a number of factors. In re-assessing asset lives, factors such as technological innovation
and maintenance programmes are taken into account. Residual value assessments consider issues such
as future market conditions, the remaining life of the asset and projected disposal values.

35

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
Notes to the financial statements (continued),

2. Funding Body Grants

.Education Funding Agency’
Skills Funding Agency
Council Funding

Release of deferred LSC
capital grant.

Release of deferred GLA capital
grant

Unrestricted
Funds

£000
11,435.
293

12,522

3. Tuition Fees'and educational contracts

HE degrees income

UK Further Education students

Unrestricted
Funds

£'000-

3,692
3,692

-Restricted--

Funds

£'000

Restricted

Funds:

£000

124
124

36.

Year
ended
. 31
July
2024

- Group -

£7000.

11,435

794

293.

Year
ended
31-Jul
2024
Group

£7000.

3,816-
3,816.

Year
ended

July’
2023
Group.

£000
8,384

242°
1,108

‘267

"10,565

Year
ended

31-Jul
2023
Group

£'000.
2,997

554
3,551."

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

4, Other Income

Sundry other income.

5. Donations

Donation from Gresse Street Limited for the refurbishment of Electra House

6. Staff numbers

The average number of employees (head count based or number of staff employed during the year

is given.below along with the monthly average number of persons (including senior post-holders)

employed by the Academy during the year, expressed as full-time equivalents (FTE’s)

Year to 31 July
2024

Average number of staff 260

The monthly average number of persons (including senior post-holders) employed by the
Academy during the year, expressed as full-time equivalents (FTE's) was:

Year to
2024
FTE's

Teaching: staff 76
Student support and Curriculum Services Staff 70

Academy support staff ; 52

197

37

Year Year.
ended ended
31-Jul 31-Jul

2024 2023
Group Group

£7000 £000

433° 272
433. 272

Year Year
ended ended:
31-Jul 31-Jul

2024 2023
Group Group

£’000 £000,
5,183 :
5,183 -
Year to 3 July
2023

169

Year to

2023
FTE's;

50
45°

46

141

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 34 July 2024
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

7. Staff costs
Year ‘Year
ended ‘ended
31 July 31 July
2024 2023
Group Group
£000 £°000
Wages and salaries 7,317 5,490
Agency staff 30 12
Social security costs 721 526
Other pension costs 238 188
6306 SO 27
Year Year
ended ended 31
31 July July”
2024 2023
Group Group
£'000 £'000
Teaching departments - teaching staff 2,858 1,972
Student support and Curriculum Services staff 2,439 2,092
Charity support staff 3,009 2,147
8,306 6,211

Teaching costs comprise staff primarily employed as teachers and tutors. Student Support and
Curriculum Services Staff comprise study support, curriculum planning, library and work placement
staff. There are also Apprenticeships and Commercial staff. Charity support staff comprises all other
Staff, including Finance, HR, IT and Marketing.

The number of employees whose gross emoluments exceeded £60,000 were:

; 2024 2023
£60,001 to £65,000
£65,001 to £70,000
£70,001 to £75,000
£75,001 to £80,000
£80,001 to £85,000
£85,001 to £90,000
£90,001 to £95,000
£95,001 to £100,000
£120,001 to £125,000
£175,001 to £180,000
£190,001 to £195,000

1 Oowo

ea te Ni Naa

Pla, ann,

1

=
o

The above emoluments include payments to the Head of the Charity (Accounting Officer)

38

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

One member of part-time staff receives less than £60,000 in the year but would have received at least
£60,000 on a full-time basis. This employee is part-time 0.3 FTE and is paid £21,115. per annum

Termination costs:

Termination and redundancy costs were incurred for.five employees in the year 2023/24 of £83,707

(Nil employees in 2022/23).
8. Senior post-holders’ emoluments
Senior postholders are defined as the Principal and 9 ditectors of the company.
Year to

31 July 2024
Number

The number of senior postholders was: 10

Senior post-holders’ emoluments are made up as follows:
Year to

31 July 2024
£000

915
415
61

J 1,091

Wages and salaries
Social security costs
Pension contributions

The above emoluments include.amounts payable to the Principal (who is also the

highest paid senior post-holder) of.
Year to

31 July 2024
£000

Wages and salaries
Socia! security costs
Pension contributions

39°

Year to.
31 July 2023
Number

8

Year to
31 July 2023
£000

702:
90
48

840.

Year to

31 July 2023
£000

179.

24

27

230

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

The EFI Group keeps its salary scales under regular review, and as a minimum, reviews every 3 years. Ad hoc
benchmarking and realigning of pay also takes place for specific roles when there is a business case to do so.
Benchmarking and re-alignment of the Senior Leadership Team (SLT) pay took place in 2021/22 resulting in
increases for some roles to ensure we remain. competitive, and to ensure parity amongst the EF! Group leadership
team.

With regards to other increases, there is no automatic annual increase; it is determined by performance.

Bonuses and performance related salary increases are reviewed on an annual basis. These are informed by the
EFI Group’s performance development process which consists of monthly check-ins which assess objectives and.
impact, culminating in an annual performance review in September, Each employee will receive a score from 1-5 in
their annual review (1 being inadequate and 5 being the best imaginable) based on their performance. This score
then dictates the pay % increase they will receive, subject to sector recommendations, EF! Group funds etc. Alt
increases are signed off by the Chair of Governors and Principal & CEO and usually take effect in September.
During this time, the Chair of Governors and Principal & CEO also assess cases of exceptional performance/impact
which may warrant a bonus, put forward by either the Principal & CEO or the SLT. Bonuses are occasionally
considered outside of this window but only as an exception.

The above process applies to all staff (including SLT), other than the Principal and Clerk to the Governors. Any
emoluments for these roles are decided by the Board.

Accounting officer’s basic salary divided by the median pay of all other corporation employees (all on a full-time
equivalent basis) is equal to 4.6

Accounting officer’s total emoluments divided by the median pay of all other corporation employees (all on a full-
time equivalent basis) is equal to 5.9

9. Other operating expenses

Unrestricted Restricted Year ‘Year

Funds Funds ended ended

31 31

July July

2024 2023

Group Group

£°000 £7000 £°000 £'000,

Teaching support services 1,176 - 1,176 1,110
Other support services 221 - 221 119
Administration and central services 4,184 - 4,184 2,328
Premise costs - - - 732
Rent 1,849 - 1,849 1,272
impairment : : —_ 2,153
7,430 = 7,430 7,714

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

Notes to the financial statements (continued).

10. Intangible assets

Group and Company.

Cost:

At1 August 2023
Additions.

At31 July 2024
Amortisation

At1 August 2023.
“Charge for the year

At34 July 2024
Net book value
At 31 July 2024

At 31 July 2023:

A

Goodwill
£000.

4,445

1,115.

4,059

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
Notes to the financial statements. (continued) ;

11. Fixed assets (Group & Charity)

TANGIBLE ASSETS

Cost:

-At 1 Auguist 2023
Additions.
Disposals

At 34 July 2024

Accumulated
depreciation:

At 1 August 2023
Charge for year
Disposals

At 31 July 2024
Net Book Value

At 34 July 2024

At 31 July 2023

Leasehold
Improvements.

£000

7,998

Computer:
Equipment

£000

1,921

206 -

335

42,

‘Fixtures’
: &

Fittings.

£000.

1,301
32,
(102)
4,231

4,172
125
(95)

4,202

29

128.

Assets
“under

Construction

£000

998.

4,962

Total,

£000°

12,215,
4,032
(102)

"46,145

10,754
289
(95)

10,948

5,197

“1,462

Report'and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year. ended 31 July 2024

Notes to the financial. statements (continued)
‘12, Fixed asset investments.

This is the investment.to purchase LCBT on.2 February 2024.

Company.

Cost.or valuation

Additions:

At31 July 2024.

"Net book value.

At 31 July 2024,

43.

Investments. -

.in subsidiary
‘companies.

£000;

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

13. Debtors

Amounts falling due within one year:

Trade debtors*
Other debtors

Amounts owing from subsidiary
Prepayments and accrued income*

1,826

Group
Year to
31 July

2024
£000

869
295

662

Charity
Year to
31 July
2024
£000

640
78

258 ©

494
1,470

Group
Year to
31 July

2023
£000

465
108

563

1,136.

Charity

Year to.

31 July
2023
£000

465
108

115
563

1,251

“Included within trade debtors, in 2023/24, £582k relates to 2024/25 (in 2022/23, £407k related to 2023/24).

14. Creditors: amounts falling due withing one year

Group

Year to

31 July

2024

£000

Trade creditors** 322

Accruals 3,491
Other creditors including taxation and socia!

security 240

Other creditors 10

Staff annual leave entitlement 3

Deferred income* 859

Amounts owed to group undertakings, -

4,925

4,833

Charity
Year to

31 July
2024
£000

292
3,215

212
10
3
695
406

1,277

Group
Year to

31 July
2023
£000

317
218

211

10
521

Charity
Year to

31 July
2023
£000

317
218

217

10
521

1,277

*In 2023/24, £695k of deferred income relates to 2024/25 fees, of which £582k had not been received by
.31% July 2024 and is included. in trade debtors (in 2022/23, £521k of deferred income related to 2022/23,

fees, of which £465k had not been received by 31st July 2023 and was included in trade debtors).

Amounts owed to group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.

44

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

15. Statement of Reserves (Group and Charity)

Group Year Charity Year Group Year Charity
to 31 to. 31 to 31 Year to 31
July 2024 July 2024 July 2023. July 2023
£'000 | £'000 £000 £000
At 1 August 2023 6,169 6,169 6,439 6,439
Surplus for the year: 5,895 5,761 (270) (270)
At 31 July 2024 12,064 11,930 6,169 6,169
16. Statement of Restricted income reserves (Group and Charity)
At 1 August At 31 July
2023 Income Expenditure 2024
£000 £000 £000 £000
FE Learner Support Funds (78) - - (78)
HE Bursaries 68 124 - 192
Retailers Donations &
Bursaries 39 - - 39
Student Funds 2 - - 2
Residentiat Housing Scheme: 4 - - t
Electra House refurbishment 5 5,183 : 5,183
Total Funds. 32 5,307 - 5,339
17. Analysis of changes in net funds (Group and Charity)
At At
1 August 2023 Cash flows 31 July 2024
£000 £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand 4,848 4,059 8,907
4,848 4,059 8,907

Investments comprising cash deposits held on short term maturities have now been amalgamated with

Cash at bank and in hand.

Analysis of net assets between funds (Group)

Fund balances at 31 July 2024 Unrestricted Restricted

£000 £000
Fixed assets 5,197 -
Intangible fixed assets 4,059 -
Current assets. 5,394 §,339
Creditors due within one year (4,925) -

6,725

45:

5,339.

Total
£000

5,197
4,059
40,733
(4,925)
12,064

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

Analysis of net assets between funds (Charity)

Fund balances at 31 July 2024 Unrestricted

£000
Fixed assets 5,197
Investments 1,941
Current assets 4,286
Creditors due within one year (4,833)

6,591

18. Business combinations

Restricted
£000

5,339

5,339

Total.
£000:

‘5,197
1,944
9,625

(4,833)
11,930

On 2 February 2024, the Company acquired London College of Beauty Therapy Limited for £1,941k,

which was settled is made up of the below:

e — Initial consideration payable of £500k ; plus

e £225k of excess cash of actual working capital at completion which was greater than the target

working capital; plus

e Deferred consideration of 75% of the Government Funded Income in FY23/24 that exceeds the
government-funded income in FY22/23. This amount will be capped at £385K, and any excess

above this will be paid-as follows:

1. Any excess will go to the first earn-out payments; plus 50% of the amount by which the
Government Funded Income in FY24/25 exceeds the Government Funded Income in FY23/24.

(2.
3.

e Capitalised transaction costs of £366k.

£260K of deferred consideration has been included as at 31 July 2024.
. The total of all contingent deferred consideration shall be capped at £510K.

The useful life of goodwill recognised in the business combination is 10 years.

Fixed Assets
Tangible

Current Assets.
Debtors
Cash at bank and in hand

Total Assets

Creditors

Due within one year

Total Identifiable net assets
Goodwill

Total purchase consideration

46

Book value
£000

3
3

329
1,120
1,452

(626)
_ 826

Fair value
£000

3
3

329
4,120
1,452

(626)
j 826

4,115
1,941

19.

20.

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

The results of London College of Beauty Therapy Limited since acquisition are as follows:

Current

period since

acquisition

£000

Revenue 1,956

Loss for the period since acquisition (371)

LCBT is a vocational provider for beauty therapy, hair, media makeup, and related qualifications and holds
a dominant position in Beauty Therapy registrations with potential for growth through diversification and
efficient resource utilisation.

Related Party Transactions

The Chair of Governors via Longman Consultancy was paid £32,400 during the year 2023/24
(2022/23: £32,400) to oversee the relations with the sponsor organisations and other fashion retailers.
Longman Consultancy is a related party as it employs the Chair of Governors. £2,923 of Governor's
expenses were paid in the year. University of the Arts London are the awarding body for several of the
Level 3 and Level 4 courses and EFI Group pay exam registration fees to UAL.

For the Group 31 July 2024 = 31 July 2023
£000 £000

Total expenditure incurred with UAL for 12 months ending 199 194

Creditors balance with UAL at 31/07/2024: 11 -

Total expenditure incurred with Longman Consultancy for 12

months ending 32 32

Creditors balance with Longman Consultancy at 31/07/2024: 3 5

Two salary sacrifice arrangements exist. One staff member has an annual travel ticket and one staff
member has a laptop. Both are being deducted on a monthly basis from their salary.

Operating lease commitments

The company has on-going commitments under one operating property lease signed 12 April 2024, and
through a second operating property lease under a subsidiary acquired during the period Break clauses
for two further operating property leases were exercised prior to 31 July 2024 with commitments ending
within 3 months.

For the Group 31 July 2024 = 31 July 2023
£000 £000
Within one year 668 41,031
Within two to five years 6,959 146
After more than five years 31,269 :
38,896 1,177

47

Report and Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 July 2024

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
21. Learner Support Funds

Year to Year to

Monies received in respect of each year 31 July 2024 31 July 2023

£000 £000

EFA - carried over from previous year 169 75

_ EFA - Student Financial Support Funding 184 144

353° 219

Used as follows:

Disbursed to students (157) (49)

Total disbursed (157) (49)
Balance at 31 July 196 169

22. Contingent Asset/ Liabilities
The Charity is not aware of any contingent liabilities or assets. Capital commitments in relation to the fit out of Electra
House amounted to £1,365,000.

23. Share Capital

No share capital (22/23 no share capital).

24, Limitation on governors’ liability

The Charity has purchased an insurance to cover the governors’ liability up to £2.5m.

25. Related party undertakings

The following were subsidiary undertakings of the Company:

Names Company Registered office or Principal activity
number principal place of business .

Education for Industry Awards | 06793904 Electra House, 84 Moorgate, | End point
Limited London, England, EC2M assessment
6SE organisation

Electra House, 84 Moorgate,
London, England, EC2M -
6SE

The London college of beauty |03053799 | Electra House, 84 Moorgate, | Other education
therapy Limited eon England, EC2M

All Subsidiaries are 100% owned and entirely formed by Ordinary share capital.

12091668

FRA Enterprises 2020

26. Post balance sheet events

A two-year lease has been agreed with Close Brothers for the leasing of IT, Audio Visual equipment and
some furnishings in relation to the move to Electra House in August 2024. The total amount excluding
nterest is £1.92m and monthly payment has commenced from October 2024,

48

