Company registration number 00444313 (England and Wales)

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

*AD85ROH7*

AQ6 26/07/2024 #222
COMPANIES HOUSE

FRIDAY

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

COMPANY INFORMATION
Directors SR J Hardie
G Webley
M Vekariya
Secretary M Vekariya

Company number

Registered office

Auditor

00444313

Hawthorn House
2nd Floor
Woodlands Park
Newton-le-Willows
WA12 OHF

Kingswood LLP

3 Coldbath Square
London

EC1R SHL


ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

CONTENTS

Strategic report

Directors’ report

Directors’ responsibilities statement

Independent auditor's report

Statement of comprehensive income

Balance sheet

Statement of changes in equity

Notes to the financial statements

Page

12

13 - 28


ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

STRATEGIC REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

' Enigma Industrial Services Limited (EIS) presents its sixth set of statutory accounts under the Enigma banner for
the 12-month period ending 31 December 2023. December remains our permanent year-end accounting date.

Business Review

The principal activities of EIS remain the provision of access solutions, thermal insulation, protective coatings, and
other related hard / soft services, with 2023 proving to be another hugely competitive trading year for EIS in which
the business improved upon all KPI's for the corresponding period last year.

Revenues in 2023 at £68.2M were ahead of the previous year by £5.4M or 8.5%, a level of progression which is -
consistent with the previous year’s 9.6% and further evidence that our strategy of delivering consistent, organic
growth on an annual basis is working. This increase in revenue contributed to an Operating Profit of £3.54M, an
increase of £565k or 19% compared to 2022. As a result, Enigma’s EBITDA for the 12-months to-31 December
2023 now stands at £5.9M, up circa £0.7M on the corresponding period last year.

The delivery of top-line growth was supported by another year of significant CAPEX investment of £5.2M, a level of
investment consistent with the previous year’s (£5.3M) which was the highest Capex recorded since 2019. This
commitment to invest in the business continues to provide the cornerstone of sustainable revenue growth in future
years.

We are similarly delighted to note that the 2023 financials again provide tangible evidence that at the heart of EIS
femains a strong core business with robust underlying gross margins and flexible Working Capital commitments.
This is the third consecutive year that demonstrates the robustness of our gross margins at 27.7% (26. 5% last
year), delivered alongside increased activity and revenue levels.

Cash and Working Capital continue to be key metrics for EIS, and we are pleased to report that despite some
evidence of payment terms being stretched, both metrics are maintained and managed at competitive levels. We
finished the year with a closing bank balance of £3.1M, further demonstrating our available liquidity.

Given the improvement of EtS' key performance metrics:

+ Third consecutive year of top-line growth;
- Consistently competitive gross margins;
« Robust Working Capital;

« Net assets of c£30M, £3.1M of which is cash,

the Management Team remain confident that EIS is well placed to succeed in 2024 and beyond.

Notwithstanding the above, management acknowledge that 2024 is likely to see a slow start for housebuilders, a
teflection of the increase in the Bank of England base rate and the knock-on effect on the availability of mortgages.
Despite this slow start, which has been evidenced in our first quarter results across our Access Division, the
Industrial side of the business has seen a significant upturn in activity levels which has helped to offset much of the
downside.

All business units remain incentivised to deliver budgeted / forecast financial performance, which continues to be
measured by our key indicators of success: turnover, operating profit, and cash generation, all of which are
monitored regularly. This focus, combined with the strength of the EIS balance sheet, provides management with
confidence that 2024 can be another competitive trading year, in which we continue to look forward to working in
partnership with a diverse and robust customer base of which we remain extremely proud.

Enigma Industrial Services Limited (EIS Limited) remains a wholly owned subsidiary of Enigma Industrial Services
Holdings Limited (EISH Limited).


ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

Statement by the directors on performance of their statutory duties in accordance with S172 (1)

Section 172 (1) (a) to (f) of the Companies Act 2006 requires the directors to act in a way they consider would be
most likely to promote the success of the company for the benefit of its members, as a whole, with regard to the
following matters:

a) The likely consequence of any decision in the long-term

All decisions taken by the EIS board are done so with the best long-term interests of the company in mind. Budgets —
are prepared annually with forecasts updated monthly, a process which facilitates regular review of strategy in light
of changing market conditions. Given the nature of our asset base, an integral part of our long-term decision-making
is centred around our capital investment program.

b) The interests of the company’s employees

We are steadfast in our belief that our employees remain our greatest asset and we are proud of. the long-term
service that many boast in a variety of roles right across the business. We remain committed to a dedicated training
programme and engage with our employees through a regular newsletter. EIS is committed to providing employees
with both an annual pay increase as well as providing a range of benefits that enhance overall remuneration
packages. EIS will never waiver from our safety-first culture, with the health and well-being of every employee of
paramount importance.

c) The need to foster the company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others

We continue to mitigate risk by fostering long-term relationships with our key clients, ensuring we are not overly
reliant on any part of our extensive supply chain and by continuing to engage regularly with all other key
stakeholders across the business. We are proud to work in partnership with a diverse and robust stakeholder base
which we will continue to develop and grow over time.

d) The impact of the company's operations on the community and the environment

EIS will continue to seek out ways that will contribute to the Government's net zero carbon target by 2050. For the
purposes of our 2023 statutory accounts, we have again engaged with a third-party supplier to review our energy
consumption and associated greenhouse gas emissions and will consider in full their ‘suggestions for
improvements’ (see SECR Reporting section, below). Over the coming years we would expect to reduce our energy
usage by changing our traditional petrol and diesel vans with hybrid and electric vehicles. The board will continue to
drive improvements in this area. .

e) The desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct

The level of customer loyalty enjoyed by EIS would not be possible without a reputation for the highest of standards
in terms of ‘the way we do business.’ EIS will not be compromised in terms of business conduct, with the directors
taking pride from their reputation in the marketplace over many years which continues to be rewarded with high
levels of client retention. In an industry where our safety culture prevails, high standards of business conduct are an
essential part of our offering. ,

f) The need to act fairly as between members of the company

We will continue to have open dialogue with all our members to ensure all employees are ‘treated fairly and in a
professional and respectful manner.


ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting [including quantification and reporting methodology}

Enigma industrial Services Energy Use and Associated Greenhouse Gas Emissions

2023 2022
Total Energy consumption (kWh) 8,160,751 7,914,368
Emissions from combusuon of gas (Scope 1 C026) 25 27
Emissions (rom transport yScopa 4) ((CO2¢) 1,503 1.599
Enssigns from purchased electacity (Scope 2) WCO2e) tl Ca
Enussions from business traval in employse-ouwned vehicles whare the company is 1a, 197

fesponsible fe purchasing the fuel or elactricity (Scope 3) #CO2e)

Total gross emissions (tCO2e) 1, oe 1, eee

tCO2e per £m turnover
Enwssions avoided by purchasing renewable electicily (C02) ; i i >
Total annual net emissions (tCO2e) 1,722 1,884

The 2023 UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting published by the Department for
Energy Security and Net Zero are used to convert energy use in our operations to emissions of CO2e. Carbon
emission factors for purchased electricity are calculated according to the ‘location-based grid average’ method. This
reflects the average emission of the grid where the energy consumption occurs, Data sources include internal
systems. For transport data where actual usage data (e.g. litres) was unavailable conversions were made using
average fuel consumption factors to estimate the usage.

EIS is delighted to continue our partnership with Beyondly [previously ComplyDirect] who have worked with us in
compiling our fourth SECR annual report. 2023 has seen a decrease in our emissions per £m turnover, which have
decreased from 30 tonnes / per million of turnover in 2022 to 27 tonnes / per million pound of turnover in 2023.

EIS continues to actively monitor and manage the transportation and logistics side of our business which,’ as above,
is the main contributor to this year’s reduction in net emissions. All vehicles have tracking devices and speed
limiters, with 2023 seeing the introduction of more hybrid / electrical vehicles as the fleet was largely changed out,
with older vehicles being replaced for new, more fuel-efficient options.

We will continue to use the above data as our benchmark going forward with an overall challenge of reducing our
Carbon footprint over the coming years as the UK offers a wider infrastructure for electrical vehicles.


ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

Principal Risks and Uncertainties
The key risks and uncertainties affecting the company are predominantly driven by market factors, contractual
delivery, commercial terms and conditions, Health & Safety regime, financial risks, and key personnel.

EIS Limited has the personnel, experience, resources, and flexibility to respond to all of the above as and when
required. This confidence was demonstrated over recent years when dealing with and subsequently surpassing
previous operational and financial activity levels. The above risk factors are considered on a quarterly basis (or as
and when relevant events dictate) by the Enigma Board.

Enigma is exposed to a variety of financial risks which the Board manages with the objective of minimising any
potential adverse effect on the company's performance. Inflation, liquidity, and credit risk are all relevant, with
appropriate policies and procedures in place to minimise and mitigate risk.

Enigma's Working Capital is financed by Bibby Financial Services Limited who provide funds based on the provision
of applications and invoices. Enigma is one of Bibby’s largest construction clients in the UK and we are delighted to
be partnering with them.

The sectors in which we operate are exposed to changes in the economic climate, the UK Government's policies
and employment laws as well as changing market practices and behaviours. Whilst the last few years have proved
challenging for both the global and UK economy in general, the UK Construction sector has remained on a
teasonably secure footing, and despite a clear indication of a housing slow-down, 2024 has already offered a
variety of exciting prospects across a number of our existing Industrial clients across a range of sectors.

The EIS board will therefore continue to mitigate these risks in a number of ways, notably by continuing to foster
long-term relationships with our key clients, maintaining flexibility in our cost base, ensuring that we are not overly
reliant on any one of our extensive supply chain, and by continuing to engage regularly with all other key
stakeholders across the business.

Key Financial and Non-Financial Performance Indicators

Enigma is managed via our network of regional offices, with each region having monthly targets to achieve across a
tange of financial and non-financial KPI's. The basis of these KPI’s is agreed as part of our annual business plan
process and cover financial, commercial, operational and safety targets against which performance is monitored
monthly.

Future Developments / Outlook .

EIS has produced another set of hugely competitive results in 2023, with revenues, profit before tax and EBITDA all
exceeding both budget and the previous year. EIS’ strong balance sheet and strict Working Capital management
has provided the assurance necessary that EIS remains a robust going concern with every expectation that it can
deliver another strong set of results in 2024 and beyond. This assertion is wholly supported by an order book that
boasts secured revenues of £86.4M, of which £42.1M specifically relates to 2024.

To this aim EIS will continue to focus on its core clients operating in the industrial, industrial related, construction,
and house building sectors. Our objectives remain to operate safely, provide outstanding service to our customers,
maintain strong relationships with our suppliers and to engage openly and honestly with our employees in order to
drive continuous growth for the company.

The stand-alone nature of the ElS business provides for greater levels of autonomy and flexibility, a flexibility that
has been hugely beneficial to EIS since it became privately owned in October 2018. This is particularly true in
terms of cost base and Working Capital commitments. The EIS board remain confident that the future offers
continuing opportunity for progressive growth with the aim of consistent and manageable top line grawth supported
by robust margins that are cash backed, all of which were delivered in 2023.

This report was we the board and signed on its behalf.


ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

DIRECTORS' REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

The directors present their annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023.

Results and dividends
The results for the year are set out on page 10.

Ordinary dividends were paid amounting to £510,000. The directors recommend payment of a final dividend
amounting to £540,000. :

Directors
The directors who held office during the year and up to the date of signature of the financial statements were as
follows: ,

S RJ Hardie
G Webley
M Vekariya

Disabled persons

Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the
applicant concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their
employment within the company continues and that the appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of the
company that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be
identical to that of other employees.

Auditor
Kingswood LLP were appointed as auditor to the company and in accordance with section 485 of the Companies
Act 2006, a resolution proposing that they be re-appointed will be put at a General Meeting.

Strategic report

The company has chosen in accordance with Companies Act 2006, s. 414C(11) to set out in the company's
strategic report information required by Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports)
Regulations 2008, Sch. 7 to be contained in the directors’ report.

Statement of disclosure to auditor

So far as each person who was a director at the date of approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit
information of which the company's auditor is unaware. Additionally, the directors individually have taken all the
necessary steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of all relevant audit
information and to establish that the company's auditor is aware of that information.

On behalf of the board

SR J Hardie
Director


ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law the directors
must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period. In preparing these financial
statements, the directors are required to:

» select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

* make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

« state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

« prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.


ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
TO THE MEMBER OF ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Enigma Industrial Services Ltd (the ‘company’) for the year ended 31
December 2023 which comprise the statement of comprehensive income, the balance sheet, the statement of
changes in equity and notes to the financial statements, including significant accounting policies. The financial
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting
Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and
Republic of Ireland (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion the financial statements:
» give a true and fair view of the state of the company's affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of its profit for
the year then ended;
« have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice;
and
+ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of
the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical
Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe
that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going
concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information .
The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in
the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditor's report thereon. Our opinion on the financial
statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report,
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in
doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material
inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material
misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work
we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to
report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of our audit:
+ the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
+ the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD,

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT (CONTINUED)
TO THE MEMBER OF ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the
audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report and the directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to
you if, in our opinion:
« adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or
+ the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
+ certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
« we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors' responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as
the directors determine is necessary to enabie the preparation of financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

in preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company's ability to continue
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of
accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance
with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in
line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including
fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.

« the engagement partner ensured that the engagement team collectively had the appropriate competence,
capabilities and skills to identify or recognise non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations;

« we identified the laws and regulations applicable to the company through discussions with directors and
other management, and from our commercial knowledge and experience of the construction sector;

« we focused on specific laws and regulations which we considered may have a direct material effect on the
financial statements or the operations of the company, including the Companies Act 2006, taxation
legislation, anti-bribery, employment, environmental, and health and safety legislation;

+ we assessed the extent of compliance with the laws and regulations identified above through’ making
enquiries of management and inspecting legal correspondence; and

+ identified laws and regulations were communicated within the audit team regularly and the team remained
alert to instances of non-compliance throughout the audit.

ot a es ’


ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT (CONTINUED)
TO THE MEMBER OF ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

We assessed the susceptibility of the company's financial Statements to material misstatement, including obtaining
an understanding of how fraud might occur, by:

+ making enquiries of management as to where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud, their
knowledge of actual, suspected and alleged fraud; and

+ considering the internal controls in place to mitigate risks of fraud and non-compliance with laws and
regulations.

To address the risk of fraud through management bias and override of controls, we:

* performed analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships;

+ tested journal entries to identify unusual transactions;

« assessed whether judgements and assumptions made in determining the accounting estimates were
indicative of potential bias; and

+ investigated the rationale behind significant or unusual transactions.

In response to the risk of irregularities and non-compliance with laws and regulations, we designed procedures
which included, but were not limited to:

* agreeing financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation;
» inspecting legal documentation for indications of non-compliance with laws and regulations; and
» enquiring of management as to actual and potential litigation and claims.

There are inherent limitations in our audit procedures described above. The more removed that laws and
regulations are from financial transactions, the less likely it is that we would become aware of non-compliance.
Auditing standards also limit the audit procedures required to identify non-compliance with laws and regulations to
enquiry of the directors and other management and the inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.

Material misstatements that arise due to fraud can be harder to detect than those that arise from error as they may
involve deliberate concealment or collusion.

A further description of our responsibilities is available on the Financial Reporting Council's website at: https://
www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company's member in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's member those matters we are
required to state to the member in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company's member, for
our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

.

Richard Behan FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor) , | |
For and on behalf of Kingswood LLP _~ Date: AV Thesty

Chartered Accountants

Statutory Auditor 3 Coldbath Square
London
‘EC1R SHL


ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

2023 2022

Notes £ £

Turnover 3 68,192,065 62,832,460
Cost of sales (49,314,835) (46,193,363)
Gross profit 18,877,230 416,639,097
Administrative expenses (15,845,016) (13,966,328)
Other operating income 4 508,199 303,030
Operating profit 5 3,540,413 2,975,799
Interest payable and similar expenses , 8 (602,604) . (240,877)
Profit before taxation 2,937,809 2,734,922
Tax on profit 9 ot -
Profit for the financial year 2,937,809 2,734,922

The profit and loss account has been prepared on the basis that all operations are continuing operations.

There are no items of other comprehensive income for either the current year or the prior year other than the profit
for the year. Accordingly, no statement of other comprehensive income has been presented.

-10-

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023

Fixed assets
Intangible assets
Tangible assets

Current assets

Stocks

Debtors falling due after more than one
year

Debtors falling due within one year
Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors: amounts falling due within
one year

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due after
more than one year

Provisions for liabilities
Provisions

Net assets

Capital and reserves
Called up share capital
Share premium account
Profit and loss reserves

Total equity

Notes

1
12

13

14
14

18

16

19

22
23

- 2023

£ £

63,769

23,514,261

23,578,030
414,743
2,879,755
15,784,883
3,111,609
22,190,990

(14,305,087)
7,885,903

31,463,933
(1,812,822)
(92,398)

(92,398)

29,558,713

24,895,000
8,200
4,655,513

29,558,713

2022

£ £

51,054

21,068,354

21,119,408
539,848
2,879,755
16,548,928
2,059,604
22,028,135
(14,952,360)

7,075,775

28,195,183

(884,434)
(179,845)

oo (179,845)

27,130,904

24,895,000

8,200

2,227,704

27,130,904

The financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on ....M). 2 SK.

are signed on its behalf by:

alow

SR J Hardie
Director

Company Registration No. 00444313

-M-

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

Share Share Profit and Total
capital premium loss
account reserves
Notes £ £ £ £
Balance at 1 January 2022 24,895,000 8,200 (109,718) 24,793,482
Year ended 31 December 2022:
Profit and total comprehensive income - - 2,734,922 2,734,922
Dividends 10 - - (397,500) (397,500)
Balance at 31 December 2022 24,895,000 8,200 2,227,704 27,130,904
Year ended 31 December 2023:
Profit and total comprehensive income , - - 2,937,809 2,937,809
Dividends 10 : - - (510,000) (510,000)
8,200

Balance at 31 December 2023 : 24,895,000

4,655,513 29,558,713

-12-


ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

1.1

1.2

1.3

Accounting policies

Company information :
The principal activity of the company is that of industrial support services including access scaffolding, thermal
insulation, industrial painting, engineering construction and project management.

Enigma Industrial Services Limited is a private company, limited by shares and is incorporated in England and
Wales. The address of its registered office and its principal place of business is Hawthorn House, 2nd Floor,
Woodlands Park, Newton-le-Willows, WA12 OHF.

Accounting convention

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention unless otherwise specified
within these accounting policies and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102, the Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and the Republic of Ireland and the Companies Act 2006.

The preparation of financial statements in compliance with FRS 102 requires the use of certain critical
accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise judgment in applying the company's
accounting policies (see note 2).

The company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions in preparing these financial
statements, as permitted by FRS 102:

- Section 3 Financial Statement Presentation paragraph 3.17(d);

« Section 7 Statement of Cash Flows; .

« Section 11 Financial Instruments paragraphs 11.41(b), 11.41(c), 11.41(e), 11.41(f), 11.42, 11.44,
11.45, 11.47, 11.48(a){ili), 11.48(a)(iv), 11.48(b) and 114.48(c);

+ Section 12 Other Financial Instruments paragraphs 12.26 to 12.27, 12.29(a), 12.29(b) and 12.29A;
and

+ Section 33 Related Party Disclosures paragraph 33.7.

The company is included in the consolidated financial statements of Enigma Industrial Services Holdings
Limited for the year ended 31 December 2023 and these financial statements may be obtained from
Companies House.

The following principal accounting policies have been applied:

Going concern

As part of the preparation of the financial statements, the directors have carried out a thorough review with
respect to the going concern status of the company. The directors have examined the company's order book
going forward and the prospects of the business given the current economic climate, for a period of at least
twelve months from the date of approval of these financial statements. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the
going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.

Turnover

Turnover is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the company and
the turnover can be reliably measured. Turnover is measured as the fair value of the consideration received or
receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, value added tax and other sales taxes. The following criteria must
also be met before turnover is recognised: :

-13-

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) .
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

1.4

Accounting policies (Continued)

Sale of goods
Turnover from the sale of goods is recognised when all of the following conditions are satisfied:

+ the company has transferred the significant risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer;

+ the company retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with
ownership nor effective control over the goods sold;

+ the amount of turnover can be measured reliably;

it is probable that the company will receive the consideration due under the transaction; and

« the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.

Contract services

The company provides services in respect of construction projects. Profit on long-term contracts is taken as
the work is carried out if the final outcome can be assessed with reasonable certainty. The profit is calculated
on a prudent basis to reflect the proportion of the work carried out at the year end, by recording turnover and
related costs as contract activity progresses.

Turnover is agreed by the client in the form of either an accepted quantity surveyor prepared application,
which sets out the utilised resources in the previous month, or a framework agreement in which the customer
raises a purchase order for the future work.

Full provision is made for tosses on all contracts in the year in which they are first foreseen.

Contract accrued income is stated at cost plus attributable profit less provision for any known or anticipated
losses and payments on account received or receivable. Payments received on account in excess of the
value of work done on each contract are included in creditors.

All sales are made with credit terms.. The element of financing is deemed immaterial and disregarded in the
measure of turnover.

Intangible assets
Intangible assets are initially recognised at cost. After recognition, under the cost model, intangible assets are
measured at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.

At each reporting date the company assesses whether there is any indication of impairment. if such indication
exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is determined by the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and

its value in use. An impairment loss is recognised where the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable
amount. :

All intangible assets are considered to have a finite useful life. If a reliable estimate of the useful life cannot be
made, the useful life shall not exceed ten years.

Amortisation is charged so as to allocate the cost of assets less their residual value over their estimated
useful lives using the straight line method.

The estimated useful life is as follows:

Computer software 5 years

-14-

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

1.6

1.6

1.7

1.8

Accounting policies (Continued)

Tangible fixed assets

Tangible fixed assets under the cost model are stated at historical cost less accumulated depreciation and any ©
accumulated impairment losses. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to bringing the
asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by
management.

At each reporting date the company assesses whether there is any indication of impairment. If such indication
exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is determined by the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and
its value in use. An impairment loss is recognised where the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable
amount.

Depreciation is charged so as to allocate the cost of assets less their residual value over their estimated
useful lives, using the straight line or reducing balance methods.

Depreciation is provided on the following basis:

Long-term leasehold property straight line over the lease period
Plant and equipment “20-50% straight line

Fixtures, fittings and equipment 20 - 33.33% straight line

Motor vehicles straight line over the lease period
Contractor plant 6.67 - 33.33% reducing balance

The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods dre reviewed, and adjusted prospectively if
appropriate, or if there is an indication of a significant change since the last reporting date.

Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are
recognised in profit or loss.

Stocks

Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, beirig the estimated selling price less costs to
complete and sell. Cost is based on the cost of purchase on a first in, first out basis. Work in progress and
finished goods include labour and attributable overheads.

At each balance sheet date, stocks are assessed for impairment. If stock is impaired, the carrying amount is
reduced to its selling price less costs to complete and sell. The impairment loss is recognised immediately in
profit or loss.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash is represented by cash in hand and deposits with financial institutions repayable without penalty on
notice of not more than 24 hours. Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments that mature in no more than
three months from the date of acquisition and that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash with
insignificant risk of change in value.

Financial instruments
The company has elected to apply the provisions of Section 11 ‘Basic Financial Instruments’ and Section 12
‘Other Financial instruments Issues’ of FRS 102 to all of its financial instruments.

Financial instruments are recognised in the company's balance sheet when the company becomes party to
the contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset, with the net amounts presented in the financial statements, when

there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net
basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

-15-

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

1

1.9

Accounting policies (Continued)

Basic financial assets

Basic financial assets, which include debtors and cash and bank balances, are initially measured at
transaction price including transaction costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective
interest method unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the transaction is
measured at the present value of the future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest. Financial assets
classified as receivable within one year are not amortised.

Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets, other than those held at fair value through profit and loss, are assessed for indicators of
impairment at each reporting end date.

Financial assets are impaired where there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that
occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash flows have been affected.
If an asset is impaired, the impairment loss is the difference between the carrying amount and the present
value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the asset's original effective interest rate. The impairment loss
is recognised in profit or loss.

If there is a decrease in the impairment loss arising from an event occurring after the impairment was
recognised, the impairment is reversed. The reversal is such that the current carrying amount does not
exceed what the carrying amount would have been, had the impairment not previously been recognised. The
impairment reversal is recognised in profit or loss.

Derecognition of financial assets .

Financial assets are derecognised only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire or
are settled, or when the company transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership to another entity, or if some significant risks and rewards of ownership are retained but control of
the asset has transferred to another party that is able to sell the asset in its entirety to an unrelated third party.

Classification of financial liabilities

Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual
arrangements entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the
assets of the company after deducting all of its liabilities.

Basic financial liabilities

Basic financial liabilities, including trade creditors and bank loans, are initially recognised at transaction price
unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the debt instrument is measured at the
present value of the future payments discounted at a market rate of interest. Financial liabilities classified as
payable within one year are not amortised.

Debt instruments are subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of
business from suppliers. Amounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year
or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Trade creditors are recognised initially at
transaction price and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

Derecognition of financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the company’s contractual obligations expire or are discharged or
cancelled.

Equity instruments

Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of transaction costs.
Dividends payable on equity instruments are recognised as liabilities once they are no longer at the discretion
of the company.

-16-

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

1.10

1.11

1.12

Accounting policies . (Continued)

Taxation

The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in profit or loss except that
a charge attributable to an item of income and expense recognised as other comprehensive income or to an
item recognised directly in equity is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity
respectively.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax rates and laws that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date in the countries where the company operates and generates
income.

Deferred tax balances are recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed
by the balance sheet date, except that:

+ The recognition of deferred tax assets is limited to the extent that it is probable that they will be
recovered against the reversal of deferred tax liabilities or other future taxable profits; and

- Any deferred tax balances are reversed if and when all conditions for retaining associated tax
allowances have been met.

Deferred tax balances are not recognised in respect of permanent differences except in respect of business
combinations, when deferred tax is recognised on the differences between the fair values of assets acquired
and the future tax deductions available for them and the differences between the fair values of liabilities
acquired and the amount that will be assessed for tax. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates and laws
that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.

Deferred tax arises from timing differences that are differences between taxable profits and total
comprehensive income as stated in the financial statements. These timing differences arise from the inclusion
of income and expenses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in
the financial statements.

Current tax is the amount of income tax payable in respect of taxable profit for the year or prior years.

Provisions for liabilities

Provisions are made where an event has taken place that gives the company a legal or constructive obligation
that probably requires settlement by a transfer of economic benefit, and a reliable estimate can be made of
the amount of the obligation.

Provisions are charged as an expense to profit or loss in the year that the company becomes aware of the
obligation, and are measured at the best estimate at the balance sheet date of the expenditure required to
settle the obligation, taking into account relevant risks and uncertainties.

When payments are eventually made, they are charged to the provision carried in the balance sheet.

Employee benefits
The costs of short-term employee benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense, unless those costs
are required to be recognised as part of the cost of stock or fixed assets.

Termination benefits are recognised immediately as an expense when the company is demonstrably
committed to terminate the employment of an employee or to provide termination benefits.

-17-

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

1

1.13

1.14

1.15

1.16

1.17

Accounting policies (Continued)

Retirement benefits

Defined contribution pension plan

The company operates a defined contribution plan for its employees. A defined contribution plan is a pension :
plan under which the company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. Once the contributions have
been paid the company has no further payment obligations.

The contributions are recognised as an expense in profit or loss when they fall due. Amounts not paid are
shown in accruals as a liability in the balance sheet. The assets of the plan are held separately from the
company in independently administered funds.

Leases

Assets obtained under hire purchase contracts and finance leases are capitalised as tangible fixed assets.
Assets acquired by finance lease are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful economic
lives. Assets acquired by hire purchase are depreciated over their useful lives. Finance leases are those
where substantially all of the benefits and risks of ownership are assumed by the company. Obligations under
such agreements are included in creditors net of the finance charge allocated to future periods. The finance
element of the rental payment is charged to profit or loss so as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge
on the net obligation outstanding in each period.

Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are recognised on a straight line
basis over the lease term, unless another systematic basis is representative of the time pattern of the lessee's
benefit from the use of the leased asset.

Government grants

Government grants are accounted under the accruals model as permitted by FRS 102 and are measured at
the fair value of the asset received or receivable. Grants of a revenue nature are recognised in the profit and
loss account in the same period as the related expenditure.

Foreign exchange

Functional and presentation currency
The company's functional and presentational currency is GBP.

Transactions and balances _
Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the spot exchange rates at the

dates of the transactions.

At each period end foreign currency monetary items are translated using the closing rate. Non-monetary items
measured at historical cost are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction and non-
monetary items measured at fair value are measured using the exchange rate when fair value was
determined.

Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of transactions and from the translation at
period-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
recognised in profit or joss except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow
hedges.

Holiday pay accrual

A liability is recognised to the extent of any unused holiday pay entitlement which is accrued at the balance
sheet date and carried forward to future periods. This is measured at the undiscounted salary cost of the
future holiday entitlement so accrued at the balance sheet date.

-18-

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

1.18

1.19

Accounting policies (Continued)

Related party transactions
The company discloses transactions with related parties which are not wholly within the same group. It does
not disclose transactions with its parent or with members of the same group that are wholly owned.

Research and development

In the research phase of an internal project it is not possible to demonstrate that the project will generate
future economic benefits and hence all expenditure on research shall be recognised as an expense when it is
incurred. Intangible assets are recognised from the development phase of a project if and only if certain
specific criteria are met in order to demonstrate the asset will generate probable future economic benefits and
that its cost can be reliably measured. The capitalised development costs are subsequently amortised on a
straight line basis over their useful economic lives.

If it is not possible to distinguish between the research phase and the development phase of an internal
project the expenditure is treated as if it were all incurred.

Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the company's accounting policies, which are described in note 1, the following
judgements and key estimates have been made by the directors:

Critical judgements in applying the company's accounting policies

The recognition of revenue and profit on long-term contracts

Long-term contracts are accounted for under FRS 102. The ensuing accounting requires management
judgement to determine the appropriateness of calculating the revenue and profit to be recognised. This
includes estimating the total expected costs to complete each contract, the future profitability of the contract
and the percentage of completion at the balance sheet date. These judgements directly influence revenue and
profit that can be recognised in relation to such contracts.

Material changes in these estimates could affect the overall amounts recognised on individual contracts.
Critical accounting estimates and assumptions

Estimated useful life of tangible fixed assets

At the date of capitalising tangible fixed assets, the company / estimates the useful economic life of the asset
based on management's judgement and experience. Due to the significance of the. capital investment to the
company, variance between actual and estimated useful economic lives could impact results both positively
and negatively.

Expected outcome of provisions

The company is involved in a small number of legal proceedings considered typical to its business, including
litigation relating to employment matters. These claims can vary in complexity and severity and can be subject
to substantial uncertainties and, therefore, the probability of a loss being sustained and an estimate of the
amount of any loss is difficult to ascertain. The directors believe that the provisions recorded are adequate
based on currently available information.

The company has recognised provisions for property lease dilapidations because, under clauses contained
within the lease agreements, the company is obligated to make good any damages and restore the property
to a specified condition at the end of the lease term.

The provisions are based on management's knowledge and experience, in accordance with specifics
contained in the lease agreements and are management's best estimates of the company’s obligations under
the lease agreements.

The above is disclosed in note 19 to these financial statements.

-19-

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

2

Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

Carrying value of trade debtors

(Continued)

Allowance for doubtful debt and provisions against trade debtors and the carrying value of accrued income
are made on a specific basis, based on estimates of recoverability determined by market knowledge and past

experience.

Taxation

The company establishes provisions based on reasonable estimates. Management estimation is required to
determine the amount of deferred tax assets/liabilities that can be recognised, based upon likely timing and
level of future taxable profits together with an assessment of the effect of future tax planning strategies.

Turnover and other revenue

Turnover analysed by class of business
Contracted services

All turnover arose within the United Kingdom.

Other operating income

Government grants receivable
Other income

Operating profit
Operating profit for the year is stated after charging/(crediting):

Fees payable to the company's auditor for the audit of the company's financial
statements

Depreciation of owned tangibie fixed assets

Depreciation of tangible fixed assets held under finance leases

(Profit)/loss on disposal of tangible fixed assets

Amortisation of intangible assets

Operating lease charges

-20-

2023
. £

68,192,065

2023
£

205,989
302,210

508,199

2023

34,250
2,255,877
75,478
(102,209)
44,755
2,174,232

2022 -

£

62,832,460

2022
£

28,843
274,187

303,030
2022

32,000
1,946,265
260,936
162,870
36,338
1,509,504

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

6 Employees

The average monthly number of persons (including directors) employed by the company during the year was:

2023 2022

Number Number

Directors 3 3

Frontline personnel 720 720

Sales and administration staff 135 136

Total 858 859
Their aggregate remuneration comprised: :

2023 2022

£ £

Wages and salaries . 40,868,835 36,685,861

Social security costs 3,823,135 3,467,912

Pension costs 1,048,031 976,855

45,740,001 41,130,628

7 Directors’ remuneration

2023 2022

£ £

Remuneration for qualifying services 513,509 422,400
Company pension contributions to defined contribution schemes 26,858 25,338
540,367 447,738

The highest paid director received remuneration of £513,509 (2022 - £422,400).

The value of the company's contributions paid to a defined contribution pension scheme in respect of the
highest paid director amounted to £26,858 (2022 - £25,338).

8 Interest payable and similar expenses

2023 2022

£ £

Interest on bank loans 11,796 32,134
Interest on finance leases and hire purchase contracts 242,178 23,763
Other interest : 348,630 184,980
602,604 240,877

-21-

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

10

Taxation ,
2023 2022
£ £
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of timing differences 1,137,074 1,615,480
Tax losses carried forward (1,137,074) (1,615,480)
Total deferred tax - -

In the Spring Budget 2021, the UK Government announced that from 1 April 2023 the corporation tax rate
would increase to 25% (rather than remaining at 19%, as previously enacted). This new law was substantively
enacted on 24 May 2021. For the financial year ended 31 December 2023, the current weighted averaged tax
rate was 23.52%. ‘

Deferred taxes at the balance sheet date have been measured using these enacted tax rates and reflected in
these financial statements.

The actual charge for the year can be reconciled to the expected charge for the year based on the profit or
foss and the standard rate of tax as follows: :

2023 2022
£ £
Profit before taxation 2,937,809 2,734,922
Expected tax charge based on the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of
23.52% (2022: 19.00%) 690,973 519,635
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes, other than goodwill amortisation
and impairment 14,710 7,155
Capital allowances for year in excess of depreciation (1,115,778) (1,305,917)
Unutilised tax losses carried forward 422,397 769,988
Other differences leading to an increase in the tax charge (12,302) 9,139
Taxation charge for the year - -

At the year end, the company had trading losses carried forward of £20,164,317 (2022 - £18,368,411). A
deferred tax asset has been recognised only to the extent of deferred tax liabilities relating to accelerated
capital allowances (see note 20).

Dividends
2023 2022
£ £
Final paid 510,000 397,500

The proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2023 is £540,000. The proposed final dividend
is subject to approval by shareholders and has not been included as a liability in these financial statements.

-22-

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

11 Intangible fixed assets

Cost
At 1 January 2023
Additions

At 31 December 2023

Amortisation and impairment

At 1 January 2023

Amortisation charged for the year

At 31 December 2023

Carrying amount
At 31 December 2023

At 31 December 2022

12 Tangible fixed assets

Cost

At 1 January 2023
Additions
Disposals

At 31 December 2023

Depreciation and
impairment

At 1 January 2023
Depreciation charged in the
year

Eliminated in respect of
disposals

At 31 December 2023

Carrying amount
At 31 December 2023

At 31 December 2022

Computer

software

£

399,077

57,470

456,547

348,023

44,755

392,778

63,769

51,054

Long-term Plant and Fixtures, Motor Contractor Total
leasehold equipment fittings and vehicles plant

property equipment

£ £ £ £ £ £

756,916 271,095 339,073 1,776,268 56,287,912 59,431,264

163,009 152,624 102,714 48,311 4,637,606 5,104,264

- - - (83,500) (1,960,010) (2,043,510)

919,925 423,719 441,787 1,741,079 58,965,508 62,492,018

695,684 232,417 269,489 1,469,662 35,695,658 38,362,910

49,487 72,521 50,151 75,478 2,083,718 2,331,355

- - - (83,500) (1,633,008) (1,716,508)

745,171 304,938 319,640 1,461,640 36,146,368 38,977,757

174,754 118,781 122,147 279,439 22,819,140 23,514,261
38,678 69,584 306,606 20,592,254

61,232

21,068,354

The net book value of motor vehicles noted above are held under finance leases or hire purchase contracts.

-23-

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

13

14

15

Stocks
2023 2022
£ £
Materials . 414,743 539,848
Debtors
2023 2022
Amounts falling due within one year: £ £
Trade debtors 7,859,425 = 7,165,516
Other debtors 441,142 407,859
Prepayments and accrued income 7,484,316 8,975,553
15,784,883 16,548,928
2023 2022
Amounts failing due after more than one year: £ £
Amounts owed by group undertakings ; 2,879,755 2,879,755
Total debtors 18,664,638 19,428,683
Included in prepayments and accrued income is amounts recoverable on contracts of £7,090,267 (2022 -
£8,737,512).
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2023 2022
Notes £ £
Bank loans 17 - 501,093
Obligations under finance leases 18 1,434,695 389,789
Other borrowings : 17 4,491,325 §,083,532
Trade creditors 3,191,364 3,743,442
Taxation and social security 1,295,165 1,292,539
Other creditors 1,137,624 1,386,889
Accruals and deferred income . 2,754,914 2,555,076
14,305,087 14,952,360

-24-

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

15

16

17

Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (Continued)

Bank loans comprise amounts relating to a Coronavirus Large Business Interruption Loan facility. This facility
is secured by a fixed and floating charge over certain assets of the company. The loan is subject to interest
charged at 1.01% above the bank's base rate, rising to 1.51% above the bank's base rate from 16 October
2021,

Obligations under finance leases relate to the company's motor vehicle fleet and contractor plant additions,
and are secured against the assets to which they relate.

‘Other borrowings comprises amounts relating to an invoice discounting facility. This facility is secured on the

company's book debts and by a fixed and floating charge over the assets of the company. Three directors
have provided personal guarantees totalling £750,000 (2022 - £750,000).

Included within other creditors are amounts due in respect of contractor plant additions totalling Enil (2022 -
£457,372).

Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year

2023 2022
Notes £ £
Obligations under finance leases 18 1,812,822 884 434

Obligations under finance leases relate to the company's motor vehicle fleet and contractor plant additions,
and are secured against the assets to which they relate.

Loans and overdrafts

2023 2022

£ €

Bank loans - 501,093
Other borrowings . 4,491,325 5,083,532

4,491,325 5,584,625

Payable within one year 4,491,325 5,584,625

-25-

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

18

19

20

Finance lease obligations

; 2023 2022
Future minimum lease payments due under finance leases: £ £
Within one year . 1,445,974 389,789
In two to five years 1,801,543 884,434

3,247,517 - 1,274,223

Obligations under finance leases relate to the company's motor vehicle fleet and contractor plant additions,
and are secured against the assets to which they relate.

Provisions for liabilities

2023 2022

£. £

Property provisions , 92,398 179,845
Movements on provisions:

£

At 1 January 2023 : 179,845

Additional provisions in the year 16,924

Reversal of provisions in the year (104,371)

At 31 December 2023 92,398

The property provision represents obligations under onerous leases and dilapidations on exited properties to
make good any damages and restore the property to a specified condition at the end of the lease term.

Deferred taxation

The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the company and movements
thereon:

Liabilities / —_ Liabilities /
(Assets) (Assets)

2023 2022
Balances: ; £ £
Accelerated capital allowances 3,591,979 2,462,686
Pension liabilities (15,734) (23,515)
Tax losses carried forward (3,576,245) (2,439,171)

-26-

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

21

22

23

24

Retirement benefit schemes

2023 2022
Defined contribution schemes £ £
Charge to profit or loss in respect of defined contribution schemes 1,048,034 976,855

The company operates a defined contribution pension scheme for all qualifying employees. The assets of the
scheme are held separately from those of the company in an independently administered fund. The pension
cost charge represents contributions payable by the company to the fund and amounted to £1,048,031 (2022
- £976,855). The differences between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are
shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet. Contributions totalling £156,993 (2022 -
£94,058) were payable at the balance sheet date and are included in creditors: amounts falling due within one
year.

Share capital .

2023 2022 2023 2022
Ordinary share capital Number Number £ £
Issued and fully paid
Allotted, calted up and fully paid of £1 each 24,895,000 24,895,000 24,895,000 24,895,000

There is a single class of shares and all shares in the class rank pari passu. There are no restrictions in place.
Share premium account

Represents amounts received in excess of the nominal value for the company's equity share capital.

Profit and loss account

Represents the cumulative distributable profits and losses net of dividends and other adjustments.
Operating lease commitments

Lessee

At 31 December 2023, the company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under
non-cancellable operating leases, which fall due as follows:

2023 2022

£ £

Within one year 689,165 549,061
Between two and five years 1,792,402 1,161,900
In over five years 915,437 261,104

3,397,004 1,972,065

-27-

ENIGMA INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023

25

26

27

Capital commitments

Amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements:

2023 2022
£ £
Acquisition of tangible fixed assets : 2,900,723 -

Related party transactions

The company has taken advantage .of the exemption contained in FRS 102 section 33 "Related Party
Disclosures" from disclosing transactions with entities which are a wholly owned part of the group. At the year
end, Enigma Industrial Services Limited was owed £2,879,755 (2022 - £2,879,755) by its parent company.
These amounts are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.

During the year, the company acquired services totalling £32,464 (2022 - £32,464) from, and made payments
totalling £32,464 (2022 - £32,464) to entities under common control of the directors and shareholders. At the
year end, Enigma Industrial Services Limited owed £nil (2022 - £nil) to entities under common control of the
directors and shareholders. \

At 31 December 2023 the directors owed the company £412,500 (2022 -.£382,500).
Ultimate controlling party

Enigma Industrial Services Holdings Limited, a company registered in England and Wales, is the company
regarded by the directors as the ultimate parent company and is the smallest and largest group for which
group financial statements are prepared.

At the year end, the company's ultimate controlling party was Mr G Webley, by virtue of his majority
shareholding of Enigma Industrial Services Holdings Limited, the company's parent and ultimate parent
company.

-28-

