Essity UK Limited
Annual report and financial statements
for the year ended 31 December 2023

Registered number: 03226403

Hu

A22 21/12/2024 #169
COMPANIES HOUSE

SATURDAY

Contents

Company information
Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023
Directors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2023.................
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Essity UK Limited

Income Statement
Statement of comprehensive income
Statement of financial position ........
Statement of changes in equity
Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 ..


Essity UK Limited

Company information

Directors

K J Starr
D Hall

Company secretary and registered office
P A Bailey

Southfields Road

Dunstable

Bedfordshire

LU6 3EJ

Independent auditors
Ermst & Young LLP

400 Capability Green
Luton
LU1 3LU

Solicitors
Reynolds Porter Chamberlain

Chichester House
278/282 High Holborn
London

WC17 7HA

Bankers
BNP Paribas

10 Harewood Avenue
London
NWI 6AA

}|Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023

Review of business and future developments
The company manufactures and sells a range of disposable hygiene products across three business areas,

Consumer Goods, Professional Hygiene and Health & Medical.

Market conditions remain very competitive across the company’s business units. The company continues to
focus on innovation and operational efficiency improvement programmes to remain competitive.

The profitability of the business has recovered to 2021 levels and it is on track to recover to pre-2021 levels.
This is a result of the review of contracts, which has also led to a decrease in revenues, combined with decreases
in raw material, energy and freight costs.

On 10 January 2024, the company announced the closure of its Oakenholt PM1 plant. Accelerated depreciation
of £5,749k has been made against fixed assets at 31 December 2023.

On | September 2024 the company acquired the net assets and trade of its sister company Essity Operations
Manchester Limited, which was already selling all its production of finished goods to Essity UK Limited as part
of its business with external customers. The transaction was done at book value for an amount of £51,155,000.
On 1 September 2024 the company acquired the trade of its sister company BSN Medical Limited for an
estimated value of £8,933,000 based on management accounts at 31 August 2024. The purchase price agreed is
the sum of the value of the investments held in this company’s books (€42,950,000), less the value of net
monetary retained in BSN Medical Limited following completion.

These transactions were executed to simplify the structure of Essity’s business in the U.K., to integrate the
medical business into the main trading company and processes of Essity in the U.K, and to reduce administrative
costs.

Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)
The company relies on different key performance indicators at an operational level. Such KPIs are used by the
management team to monitor performance on a regular basis and are monitored at business group level.

The main KPIs are as follows:

2023 2022
Current Ratio — current assets divided by current liabilities ‘177 1.74
External Current Ratio — 3rd party current assets divided by 3rd party
current liabilities . 1.40 1.32
Revenue (£000) 918,535 956,997
Operating profit adjusted for Essity group effects (£000) 132,477 106,242
Gross Margin - the ratio of gross profit to revenue expressed as a percentage 29.0% 26.0%
Adjusted Operating Margin - the ratio of adjusted operating profit to revenue
expressed as a percentage 14.4% 11.1%
Pre-Tax Profit Margin — the ratio of the profit before tax to revenue \
expressed as a percentage 5.4% 2.1%

2|Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) (continued)

Operating profit adjusted for Essity group effects is calculated as follows.

2023 2022
Operating profit 42,480 * 14,626
Franchise fees and cost sharing charges from Essity group and internal mark
ups excluded from Business unit performance calculations 89,997 91,616
Operating profit adjusted for Essity group effects 132,477 106,242

Results and dividends

The results of the company show a profit before tax of £49,272,000(2022: £20,532,000). An interim dividend of
£nil was paid during the year (2022: £nil). The directors do not propose the payment of a final dividend (2022:
£nil).

Principal risks and uncertainties
The management of the business and execution of the company’s strategy are subject to a number of risks.

The key business risks and uncertainties affecting the company are considered to relate to general
macroeconomic fluctuation and the resulting changes to customer purchasing power and consumption patterns,
the competitive nature of the market place, fluctuations in energy and raw materials costs and environmental
impact and climate change.

The board has overall responsibility for the company’s risk management and internal control systems and for
reviewing their effectiveness. The systems are designed to provide reasonable control over the activities of the
company and to enable the board to comply with the directors’ responsibilities.

This has been further considered within the financial risk management section.

Financial risk management

The company has in place a risk management programme that secks to limit the adverse effects on the financial
performance of the company by monitoring levels of debt finance and the related finance costs. The company
does not use derivative financial instruments to manage interest rate costs and as such, no hedge accounting is
applied.

The finance department has a policy and procedure manual set by the Essity AB Board that sets out specific
guidelines to manage interest rate risk, credit risk and circumstances where it would be appropriate to use
financial instruments. .

Currency risk — transaction exposure

The company has export revenues and import costs in different currencies. This exposes the company to currency
fluctuations. Essity’s financial policy provides guidelines for managing the company’s transaction exposure by
hedging the part of its transaction exposure that corresponds to the net exposure per foreign currency for booked
trade accounts receivables and trade accounts payables. See Note 2 Significant accounting policies, Accounting
for derivatives used for hedging purposes on page 36 for the accounting policy for cash flow hedges relating to
transaction exposure.

Credit risk

The company has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales
are made. Credit checks are carried out on major customers where information about the customers’ financial
position is obtained from various credit rating companies. The amount of exposure to any individual counterparty
is subject to a limit, which is reassessed on a continual basis by the credit manager.

3[Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued) ,

Financial risk management (continued)

Liquidity risk and cash management

The Essity group actively maintains a mixture of long term and short term debt finance that is designed to ensure
that the group has sufficient available funds for operation and planned expansion for each subsidiary. For Essity
UK Limited, liquidity is managed by the company’s participation in the Essity group cash pooling facility,
managed by fellow group company, Essity Treasury AB.

The Essity treasury function conducts an annual risk assessment exercise, taking into account credit rating
information regarding the company, provided by an external credit rating agency. This information is used to
provide a risk adjusted interest rate which is applied between the company and its parent in respect of any loans
receivable or payable, on an arm’s length basis.

Interest rate and cash flow risk

The company has policies and procedures that set out the specific guidelines that must be followed to manage
the interest rate risk. The directors monitor these interest rate risks periodically. The exposure to interest rate risk
is minimal as this is monitored by a central group treasury function, which is responsible for identifying and
managing interest rate exposure. .

Energy price risk

Due to its energy intensive operations, the company is exposed to risks relating to the changes in the price of
energy, particularly gas and electricity. When the energy price risk is not hedged, price changes in the energy
market have a direct impact on the company's operating result. The Essity group's energy price policy forms a
framework of guidelines for managing energy price risk via a price hedging mandate designating a hedge corridor
with minimum and maximum levels expressed as a percentage of forecasted future consumption, with minimum
and maximum levels varying across future consumption for the current year and the following two years. See
Note 2 Significant accounting policies, Accounting for derivatives used for hedging purposes on page 36 for the
accounting policy for cash flow hedges relating to energy costs.

Statement by the directors in performance of their statutory duties in accordance with Section 172(1) of
the Companies Act 2006

The directors consider that they have acted in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to
promote the success of the company for the benefit of its members as a whole, and in doing so having regard to
the matters set out in section 172 (1) (a) to (f) below.

The company is part of the Essity group and as such, the directors of the company benefit from and contribute
to Essity’s global vision, Beliefs and Behaviours and Code of Conduct and apply these in promoting the success
of the company.

The likely consequences of any decision in the long term

Essity’s vision is “Dedicated to improving well-being through leading hygiene and health solutions”. Using a
sustainable business model and a focus on profitable growth, Essity strives to achieve group targets relating to
organic sales growth, profitability and sustainability and to generate long-term value creation. The directors,
through operational business units, ensure strategic decisions are taken with Essity’s vision and targets in focus.

The interests of the company’s employees

The company aims to provide an open, healthy and respectful workplace based on fair and responsible principles.
With regards to safety, the company has a vision for zero accidents. The directors promote personal responsibility
for health and safety, and ensure managers promote a safety culture that is embedded throughout the company.

We place value on having a diverse workforce and our aspiration is to help every employee reach their full
potential. We engage in a fair and open dialogue with all employees and their representatives. Please see the
paragraph Social on section Environmental, Social and Governance topic on this report on pages 6 and 7 for
more details regarding employee engagement.

4|Paue

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Statement by the directors in performance of their statutory duties in accordance with Section 172(1) of
the Companies Act 2006 (continued)

The need to foster the company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others
Essity’s Code of Conduct leads all employees to behave in a manner which will foster professional and
constructive relationships with suppliers, customers and other stakeholders.

The company’s products improve everyday life through Essity innovation and marketing teams developing
solutions based on a unique insight into the needs, challenges and expectations of our customers and consumers.
We break barriers through bold marketing of sensitive products.

Essity’s digital strategy guides effective digital interaction with customers and consumers, digital channels are
frequently used in marketing campaigns to reach the desired target audience.

Essity conducts systematic customer and consumer follow-up, which includes external reports, independent
surveys and global systems for feedback. Essity places high value on opportunities for direct customer contact.

Customer feedback enables Essity to offer better products and services. Every business unit has processes to
investigate customer satisfaction. Essity also offers expertise and support for the development of operations in,
for example, nursing homes and professional environments, where the company can help make a difference and
create value for its customers and users.

All of our suppliers and other business partners are expected to follow principles equivalent to those included in
the company’s Code of Conduct. Essity also has a Global Supplier Standard to ensure responsible business
operations and respect for human rights in the company’s supply chain. This standard contains requirements
concerning quality, product safety, the environment and chemicals. It also contains a Code of Conduct for
Suppliers that includes Essity’s expectations as regards to human rights and employee relations, as well as health
and safety. Compliance with these principles is a key factor when choosing suppliers and other business partners.

The impact of the company’s operations on the community and the environment
The company engages with local communities through charitable donations and encouraging employees to
generate opportunities to involve each site in its local community.

Demand for sustainable solutions is increasing among customers and consumers. Sustainability is a strategic
priority for the Essity group. The company actively contributes towards Essity’s targets to reduce resource
consumption, reduce water usage and for responsible sourcing.

Essity subjects its suppliers to stringent demands and works throughout the supply chain to guarantee responsible
sourcing.

The desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct

” The company aims to conduct all its business fairly and build relationships based upon honesty and integrity.
Employees receive training in Essity’s Code of Conduct to ensure high standards of business conduct. The code
of conduct ensures responsible sourcing, following the Essity group’s global supplier standard.

The need to act fairly as between members of the company

The company is ultimately a 100% subsidiary of its ultimate parent company and controlling party, Essity
Aktiebolag (publ), a company incorporated in Sweden. The directors regard to promote the success of the
company is held as part of the overall strategy of the Essity group.

Decisions made during the year
During this year, a new carers policy has been implemented allowing employees to take up to 6 days paid leave
per year to carry out their caring responsibilities.

5|[Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 Decémber 2023 (continued)

Environmental, Social and Governance topics

Governance
The company is part of the Essity AB Group, and Group management has taken a lead in managing sustainability.

Sustainability is incorporated throughout Essity’s operations and form an integrated part of the Group’s overall
corporate governance. Targets and strategies are established by Essity Group management (see Group
Govemance below). 7

In 2022, Essity introduced its “Sustainability Playing Field” summarising Essity’s priorities within social and
environmental sustainability. Essity is focusing on the social areas of hygiene and health, diversity, equity, and
inclusion (DEI), occupational health and safety, product safety, business ethics and human rights, and the
environmental areas of emissions, forest and fibre, plastics, waste and water.

Social

In hygiene and health, Essity acts through the brands to break taboos, increase awareness, increase access, raise
standards, and contribute to a more diverse and inclusive society.

In early 2023, Essity and in Kind Direct collaborated to form a Period Equity Advisory Group in the UK with
the objective of raising awareness and influencing change that can help break barriers when it comes to period
equity. To drive further awareness of the need for change, Essity has proactively generated a national PR
campaign thorough the media highlighting the findings of the research and communicating the recommendations
made by the Advisory Group to government.

Internally, the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DE&!) provides an inclusive working culture for all, which is
stipulated in Essity’s Code of Conduct and Diversity Policy.

The company’s policy is to consult and discuss with employees, through unions, works councils, employees
survey and at meetings, to raise common awareness on the part of all employees of the financial and economic
factors affecting the company’s performance and to enable employees to raise views.

Information on matters of concern to employees is given through information bulletins, briefings and reports
which seek to achieve a common awareness on the part of all employees of the financial and economic factors
affecting the company’s performance.

The company’s policy is not to discriminate on grounds of sex, age, national origin, disability or sexual
orientation in any aspect of the employment relationship, including recruitment, training, career development, or
other employment benefits.

As such incoming applications are selected based on professional qualifications and working values regardless
of disability, ethnicity, religion, gender, sexual identity, nationality or age.

Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the respective
aptitudes and abilities of the applicant concemed. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every
effort is: made to ensure that their employment with the company continues and the appropriate training is
arranged. It is policy of the company that the training, career development and promotion of a disabled person
should, as far as possible, be identical to that of a person who does not suffer from a disability.

The vision for all Essity employees is that irrespective of background, everyone can thrive. Therefore, our aims

are that employees feel a sense of belonging, are treated with dignity, respect and kindness by default and have
the same opportunities for career progression as each other.

6|Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Environmental, Social and Governance topics (continued)

Social (continued)

Essity has a zero tolerance policy for behaviour not aligned to our core values and employees are empowered to
speak out, where this is experienced or observed. Employees can expect to work within a safe environment,
where we aim for a policy of zero-accidents and Essity Directors promote a culture of personal health, safety
and wellness. Our commitments in these areas are supported by comprehensive policies and programmes that
employees are actively engaged in.

In 2023, Essity activated a new global initiative aimed at increasing DE&I awareness, boosting inclusion, and
reinforcing the Beliefs and Behaviours called “Courageous Conversations”.

Environmental

Essity has a direct and indirect negative impact on the climate due to the emission of greenhouse gases across its
value chain, Impact occurs in all stages of the value chain, including raw materials procurement, production,
waste and transportation. A significant share of the Essity’s emissions result from tissue production, the
remaining impacts are caused by raw material production at suppliers and post-consumer waste. Reducing
greenhouse gas emission and the carbon footprint of our operations has been a major focus for many years.
Essity’s overall ambition is to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emission throughout the value chain by 2050 in
line with science-based targets. A near-term emission -reduction target has been set-up to reduce our scope | and
2 emissions by 35% and our scope 3 emissions by 18% by 2030 (compared to 2016). See below the Streamlined
Energy and Carbon Reporting.

Additional targets to lower the environmental impact have been launched at Group Level

-  >50% sustainable innovations,

- 85% renewable or recycled packaging materials (2025),

- 100% packaging recyclability (2025),

- 100% FSC and PEFC certified fresh wood-based fiber

- 100% of production waste subject to material or energy recovery (2030)

For further information on sustainability please refer to Essity’s sustainability information:
https:/Avww.essity.com/sustainability/

7T|Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)
Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting

Energy consumption and Emissions

2023 2022
Scope | - Energy (MWh) 543,063 641,637
Scope 2 - Energy (MWh) 253,449 307,291
Scope 3 - Energy (MWh) 1,731 2,284
Total energy (MWh) 798,243 951,212
Scope | Emissions (tCO2e) 100,149 118,087
Scope 2 Emissions (tCO2e) 52,535 59,440
Scope 3 Emissions (tCO2e) 420 564

Total Emissions (tCO2e) 153,104 178,091

Emissions Intensity

In order to facilitate year on year comparison of emissions taking into account fluctuations in activity levels
Essity UK Limited has calculated the intensity ratio of emissions per tonne of finished product and per revenue.
This is based on total finished products of 156.49Ktonnes (2022: 178.787Ktonnes) and revenue of £918,535,000
(2022: £956,997,000).

2023 2022
Scope | and 2 Emissions per tonne of finished product (tCO2 per production
tonne) 0.976 0.993
Scope | and 2 Emissions per revenue (tCO2 per £million) 166 186

Energy efficiency action taken

As a leading global hygiene and health company, Essity plays an important role in contributing to the
achievement of the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We focus particularly on six goals where we
have our expertise and can make the greatest contribution including the climate action goal. Essity supports the
UN Global Compact and works to overcome global challenges through cooperation and partnerships.

Essity prioritises climate action and has a long-term ambition to achieve net zero emissions of greenhouse gases
by 2050 throughout the value chain, applicable to wholly owned companies. By 2030, the Essity group's
validated SBTi near-term targets are to reduce scope | and 2 emissions by 35% and scope 3 by 18% compared
to a 2016 baseline.

At the end of 2023, Essity group achieved 26% reduction in combined Scope 1 and 2, emissions compared to
the baseline year of 2016. This significant progress retlects Essity’s commitment to sustainability and

environmental responsibility.

essity.com/investors/reports/reportdetails/annual -reports/annual-and-sustainability-report-2023

8[Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (continued)

Essity has a global company wide energy monitoring and reduction process, which is used by all the UK
manufacturing sites. This process compares energy usage across the Essity group globally and provides proven
energy saving techniques for the individual sites to invest in.

In the year 2023, Essity UK Limited has undertaken the following energy efficiency measures.

* Completed the installation of electronic control of the burner air/gas ratio.

« — Installed the pre-heating burner combustion air using waste process heat.

* Automation of hood system balance on several sites, still in progress

© Generation of steam from waste process heat (Puffing Billy) in progress
Efficiency upgrades to site steam boiler, in progress

e Sites employed periodic maintenance activities to check and repair failures in utilities systems and
improved air leaks on the paper machines.

Methodology used for carbon footprint calculations

All Essity UK tissue mills are regulated under UK ETS Regulations, Climate Change Agreement Scheme (CCA)
and the Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS). Each of these schemes requires the company to regularly
monitor its energy usage and look for energy reduction opportunities.

Carbon emissions for fossil fuels usage is calculated using the UK ETs methodology and this has been verified
by an external verification company for manufacturing sites. For distribution sites where gas is used for heating,
emissions are calculated using the 202! government GHG conversion factors. For electricity consumption a
conversion factor of 0.21233 kg CO2e/K Wh is applied. For leased vehicles, the calculation of carbon emissions
was based on miles per annum driven by each vehicle.

The information on energy consumption data was derived from Essity’s internal energy reports and includes an
overview of consumption figures for gas and electricity.

The energy data is aligned with the 2019 UK Government Environmental Reporting Guidelines and meets the
minimum requirements of SECR.

9|Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Group Governance

The company is a part of the Essity AB group, and Group management has taken a lead in managing all Climate
Related activities within the group. This includes specification of risks and opportunities, strategy development
in the light of these, and resulting reporting and control activities. In turn, this promotes greater success, overall
senior focus and prioritization, and the availability of specialists for members of the group which would be
difficult to replicate locally.

Furthermore, we are part of a global organization with a global supply chain. As with the UK in general, the
company can demonstrate a lead, but climate change solutions must be global in nature, and it is unrealistic and
possibly misleading to focus solely on the company’s local part in the group process.

Sustainability is incorporated throughout Essity’s operations and forms an integrated part of the Group’s overall
corporate governance.

Purpose, implementation, and follow-up

Essity’s sustainability governance aims to ensure the company’s commitments to its stakeholders, including
customers, consumers, employees, shareholders, suppliers, investors, decision-makers, and representatives from
society. The Group’s commitments are expressed in targets, strategies, and approaches. The targets have been
established by the Group Board, are regularly monitored, and reported annually. Delivery on the targets is
ensured in the separate responsibility areas. To verify priorities and methods over time, Essily maintains an active
and continuous dialogue with internal and extemal stakeholders. Based on this dialogue, Essity continuously
develops its ambitions, strategies and approaches to tackle the growing sustainability challenges. As
sustainability is an integrated part of Essity’s strategy and operations, the topic is covered by intemal audits.
Essity’s Sustainability report is in accordance with GRI and has been reviewed by the external auditor.

Public policies, regulations, and internal steering documents

Essity’s prioritized sustainability topics, strategies, and targets result from the company’s internal work and
dialogue with external stake holders and partners, such as businesses, policy makers, consumers, NGOs, media,
and the academic world. These topics are also aligned with a range of different principles and guiding
frameworks. In addition to external frameworks and principles, Essity has several external and ISO certificates,
as well as internal policies and guidelines that ensure the company has well-defined management systems in
place to monitor the company’s results. Essity has developed position papers stating the company’s views on
key topics. These are available on essity.com/sustainability.

Reliable management systems

Essity has an ISO 27001-based Information Security Management System (ISMS) in place for several years to
meet internal and external requirements on information security. Selected products and services have also been
certified according to the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 standard. Reliable management systems, certified by a third party,
play an essential role in Essity’s sustainability work. Essity uses TSO 14001 and EMAS (the EU’s Eco
Management and Audit Scheme) as certified environmental management systems. Many production facilities
are certified in accordance with ISO and/ or EMAS. For medical technical classification, ISO 9001 or ISO 13485
is the most essential quality management system used by Essity. The company implements the international
standard ISO 45001 (Occupational health and safety management systems) to ensure that uniform processes are
used and that Essity’s production facilities continuously strive to improve workplace-related health and safety.
Essity intends to implement ISO 45001 and ISO 14001 certifications as well at Group level.

10|Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Essity’s sustainability governance .

Board of Diractors

intornal auditor Sustalnablllty auditor

(D0 - Cross-functional working groups thal repart to the Executive Management Team (EMT)

Risks and Opportunities

Essity is exposed to a number of strategic, operational and financial business risks, which could have a negative
impact on the Group’s operations. Accordingly, it is of major importance that the Group has a systematic and
effective process to identify, manage and mitigate the effects of these risks.

Processes for risk management

The responsibility for the management of business risks follows the company’s delegation scheme, from the
Group Board of Directors to the President, and from the President to each Business Unit President. The
delegation scheme involves business risks being managed primarily by Essity’s business units with clear central
coordination and follow-up. Responsibility for certain specific risks, such as financial risks, insurable operational
risks, information security, and ethics and human rights, is managed centrally. Essity’s financial risk
management is centralized. The Group’s internal bank handles financial risks and energy risks. The financial
risks are managed in accordance with the Group’s Finance Policy, which is adopted by Essity Group’s Board of
Directors. Together with Essity’s Energy Risk Policy, the Finance Policy constitutes a framework for financial
risk management. The financial risks are compiled and continuously monitored. Responsibility for insurable
operational risks is managed by the Group’s risk management department. Identification of business risks and
tisk management are a key part of the annual strategy process. Identified risks are assessed according to the
likelihood of these becoming a reality and the potential impact each risk could have on the Group. This process
also includes specifying who is responsible for managing the respective risk, and measures for how these shall
be mitigated and followed up. Development of the identified risks is monitored and assessed on an ongoing basis.
Essity has an internal audit function, which ensures that the organization complies with the adopted policies.

Environmental impact and climate change

Overall Risk

Essity’s operations and the products used in the manufacturing process have an impact on air, water, land,
biodiversity and the climate. Essity is subject to extensive environmental regulations. More stringent
environmental requirements, remediation of the environment in connection with plant closures or breaches of
permits could incur higher costs.

}|Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Risks and Opportunities (continued)
Environmental impact and climate change (continued)
Overall Action

Essity’s strategy and sustainability targets stipulate guidelines for the Group’s measures within the
environmental area. Environmental impact and the impact of climate change are part of the annual strategy
process, which includes the identification, assessment and actions for managing these types of risks. Risks are
managed, for example, through preventive work in the form of certified environmental management systems,
environmental risk inspections in conjunction with acquisitions, and remediation projects in connection with
plant closures. Essity has integrated a risk assessment of biodiversity into its risk management process. The use
of energy, water, transport, production waste and raw materials is controlled using the company’s Resource
Management System (RMS). The system also enables the simulation of investments on the basis of climate
aspects. The data is used for internal control and follow-up of established targets. Essity also works continuously
to reduce the volume of production waste. Read more about Essity Group’s actions on pages 49—91 of its Annual
Report 2023.

Climate-related risks and opportunities

Climate change affects Essity and the company continuously maps the risks and opportunities this entails using,
for example, scenario analyses. The purpose is to identify, manage and minimize the risks and to take strategic
actions. Strengths and opportunities identified and agreed upon actions provide a basis for the company’s
strategic priorities in the area of sustainability.

Risk Management Strategy

The identification and assessment of climate related risks and opportunities are part of Essity’s strategy process.
Climate risks and opportunities are evaluated in each business unit and in a centrally coordinated internal expert
group that represents key functional competencies for climate-related topics in Essity. Responsibility for
managing climate risks follows the Group’s delegation scheme, which is described on page 40 of its Annual
Report 2023 . Sustainability issues are discussed on an ongoing basis by Process Business intelligence and
situation assessment from a climate perspective Essity’s Executive Management Team and Group Board of
Directors and has also in 2023 com prised a focus area in the work of the Board of Directors. A steering
committee has been appointed to ensure that Essity fulfils the Group’s ambitious climate and environmental
targets. The steering committee is led by members of Essity’s Executive Management Team.

Climate-risk analysis process

Essity’s climate-risk analysis is based on the recommendations of the framework of the Task Force on Climate-
related Financial Dis closures (TCFD) and has been conducted every other year since 2020. In 2022, a more in-
depth scenario analysis was also conducted based on two different climate scenarios. The purpose of analysing
climate-related risks and opportunities is to inform the strategy of the company. This is performed with a ten-
year perspective to enable conclusions and identification of long-term strategic actions and priorities.

12|Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Risk Management Strategy (continued)

Climate-risk analysis process (continued)

The climate risk and opportunities process used a scenario analysis of two key scenarios, valid both for the
operations as well as for business continuity.

* Scenario 1: Global warming of !.5°C
* Scenario 2: Global warming of 4°C

Within each scenario, key questions were defined to identify and understand risks and opportunities to Essity’s
business related to climate change:

Scenario 1: Global warming of 1.5°C — “transition scenario”

+ Key legislative drivers impacting Essity’s + business?

* How will consumer/customer demand change and what are the underlying key drivers?

* How can Essity differentiate, have the greatest impact and contribute the most to the green transformation?
Scenario 2: Global warming of 4°C — “physical climate scenario”

+ Where and how will Essity’s business be affected by physical climate change impact and degradation of
nature, and what are the biggest threats?

Reporting is conducted based on the recommendations of the TCFD framework. Conclusions about the impact
on Essity, assessment of risks and

Scenario 1: Global warming of 1.5°

Description: Global warming is limited to no more than 1.5°C by 2100 through, for example, global collaboration
between governments, industries, companies and individuals pushing for tougher legislation, green innovation
and rising demand for environmentally friendly products, solutions and services. Carbon emissions are strictly
limited and carbon tax is extended, which promotes processes with low carbon emissions and greater use of
circular material and products.

Risks

+ — Shifting regulatory landscape
* Changed consumption patterns
+ Shortage of green energy and sustainable materials

Description and impacts

Transitional effects will impose stricter legislation for manufacturing processes, energy sources and material

use: :

+ Increased restrictions on carbon emissions through raised carbon taxes impact overall] operational
costs.

+ Limitations or stricter post-use solutions for single-use products to reduce waste impact
operational costs.

+ Limitations on water use in production impacts production costs.

« Consumer behaviour and preferences move toward lower use of plastics.

* Continued increase in demand leads to shortage of fresh wood based fibre, in turn resulting in raw
materials shortages and increased prices for raw materials.

13|Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Risk Management Strategy (continued) ,
Climate-risk analysis process (continued)

Opportunities
+ Development of new business models
* Sustainable innovations

Description and impacts

* Competitive advantages through Essity’s long-term and robust efforts to achieve lower resource
use, innovative green production methods and lower carbon emissions.

+ Customers, consumers, investors and employees are attracted by changed consumption pattems in
the form of increased demand for sustainable solutions with a lower climate footprint, that
companies with a strong sustainability profile are rewarded and investments in and development
of new business models and environmentally conscious solutions.

Scenario 2: Global warming of 4°C

Description: Global warming of 4°C in 2100, due to for example the failure to effectively reduce emissions and
other negative environmental impacts. Extreme weather becomes more frequent. Sea levels continue to rise,
desertification and deforestation continue. Access to key resources such as raw materials, energy, water and food
declines, resulting in greater volatility and uncertainty for prices and food security.

Risks
+ Extreme weather
+ Permanent shortage of key raw materials and access to water
+ Linear consumption patterns continue
+ Dynamic and globally disharmonized regulatory landscape

Description and impacts

Extreme weather and the continued rise of carbon emissions into the atmosphere may impact Essity’s business
in areas such as:

* Water scarcity and excessively high-water temperatures impacting production stability and
operational costs.

+ Rising insurance costs and costs for reconstruction following extreme weather.

* Increased investments required to safeguard stable production and supply chain.

+ Deforestation continues and forest fires limit availability of good quality certified wood fibre,
impacting prices negatively and leading to raw material shortages.

+ Lower living standards and changed consumption behaviour.

* Permanent scarcity of natural resources, raw materials, energy and water may require site closures
in specific areas and generally lead to higher prices for raw materials, energy, water and
distribution.

+ Increasing amount of waste to be managed by communities and countries will impose higher waste
costs.

+ Without bans, plastic use continues to increase resulting in higher costs.

+ Frequent shifis in the political landscape and regulations may impact cost of compliance and
conducting business.

14|Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Risk Management Strategy (continued)
Climate-risk analysis process (continued)

Opportunities
* Competitive advantage
+ Leading hygiene and health solutions are prioritized

Description and impacts

+ Safeguarded production and sourcing in regions at risk builds trust in and loyalty to Essity’s
brands.

Risk Management Strategy — Time periods over which Risks and Opportunities are considered, and
frequency of update of strategy and actions

Essity considers risks and opportunities based on impact on people and the environment (impact materiality) and
financial materiality over the Short Term (up to 12 months), Medium Term (12 months to 5 years), and Long
Term (5 to 10 years). Environmental topics considered to have at least a medium financial or impact risk/
opportunity include water, extreme weather events, waste, forestry and fibre, emissions and energy, plastics and
pollution.

Targets are established by the board of Essity AB, are regularly monitored, and reported annually. Essity uses
ISO 14001 and EMAS as certified environmental management systems and governance includes both internal
and external audit. Emphasis is on continuous improvement rather than periodic review and update.

Essity continuously develops its ambitions, strategies and operations.

Risk Management strategy outcomes
The following target areas have been identified.

Sustainable innovations, Low-carbon materials, Fossil fuel-free tissue production, Resource efficiency,
Breakthrough technology, Zero production waste, Clean transportation, Less waste after use.

Readers are invited to read the Groups financial report page 63 to 76 to see detailed actions taken in these target
areas.

S[Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Targets and Key Performance Indicators

Science - based targets

Target 2030 (compared with 2016) Outcome 2023
Scope 1 and 2 -35% Scope 1 and 2 -26%

Scope 3 -18% Scope 3 -10%

Essity's climate-affecting emissions are divided into three different classes (Scope)
depending on origin.

Scope 1 and 2 are directly linked to Essity’s production. Scope 3 reports indirect
emissions in Essity's value chain.

Sustainable Innovations

Share that ylelded social and/or environmental improvements

Target Outcome 2023

750% 85%

Sustainable Innovations are measured &s the share of revenue from Innovations
launched In the most recent three years. For example, in 2023 Essity launched washable

pads under the brands Saba and Nosotras, and naturat color paper towels and toltet
made of 100% recycled flber under the Tork brand

Gender Distribution at management levels
Target Outcome 2023

40/60 % 32/68 %

Essity's target is that gender distribution at all management levels
{Executive Management Team, senior management, middle management)
is to be within the interval 40/60%, where the majority group based on
gender is to constitute no more than 60%. The target is reported at an
aggregate outcome level for the three management levels.

16[Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Targets and Key Performance Indicators (continued)

Fresh Fibre

Share ai FSC™- or PEFC-centified fresh fibre

Target Outcome 2023
100% 98%

Throush cenifications such as the Fores: Stewardship Council™ biodiversity

(FSC 0003255) and the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Cenification
{PEFC/16-33-1405), Essity ensures sustainable fiber sourcing, thereby

preventing déforestetion and promoting ’

Health and Safety

Decrease In total recordable Incident rate compared with 2019

Target 2025 Outcome 2023
-75% 58%

The Total recordable injury (TRI) flgure includes Lost time accidents (LTA), Restricted work
cases (RWC) and Madical trearment cases (MIC), All of Essitys production facilities are
conducting purposeful and systematic work with safety issues.

Production Waste

Subject to material or energy recovery
Target 2030 Outcome 2023
100% 67%
Resource efficiency and the reduction of waste are important in Essity's

production facilities. The target is that all production waste will be subject to
material and energy recovery by 2030, which reduces greenhouse gas emissions.

I7|[Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Targets and Key Performance Indicators (continued)

Packaging
Share of packaging manufactured from renewable and/or recycled material
Target 2025 Outcome 2023

85% 78%

Responsible Sourcing ,

Share of total purchase cost from suppliers that comply with Essitys Global Supplier Standard
Supplier Standard

Target 2025 Outcome 2023

95% 92%

Business Ethics and Code Of Conduct

Share of new employees who received training in the Code of Conduct
Target 2025 Outcome 2023
100% 88%
The Code of Conduct describes how employees are to act, how the company operates,

stakeholder expectations of Essity, and Essity’s commitment to human rights. All wholly
owned subsidiaries are bound by the Code of Conduct.

I8[Page

Essity UK Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

- Resilience of the Company’s Business Model considering Global Warming

Companies which demonstrate a clear commitment to minimising their impact on the climate, will increasingly
reap the rewards through growth in their brand equity and customer loyalty. The company considers that it has
demonstrated clear leadership and commitment to climate change and will continue to do so.

This is critical if we are to overcome the cost headwinds that will inevitably arise due to raw material shortages
and related cost increases due to climate change. Whilst the company will actively seek to reduce costs through
new processes and systems, efficiency improvements, use of alternative materials, and development of new
products it is unlikely these will fully insulate the company from cost inflation due to climate change.
Therefore, strong brand equity and customer loyalty will assist us should some of the cost increase need to be
shared with our customers.

As evidence of our commitment to reduce costs and increase our competitiveness, the company is undertaking
a major investment in ERP systems and business processes in 2025 designed to enhance efficiency and reduce
cost through digitalization. The company is also simplifying its legal structure in 2025, reducing the number of
active UK entities by two as the medical business currently operated by our sister entity BSN Medical Ltd, and
the manufacturing operations conducted by Essity Operations Manchester Ltd will be transferred to the
company. These significant actions demonstrate our commitment to invest in the business to reduce waste and
cost and simplify our business model. In doing so we improve our competitive position to withstand the
impacts of climate change in the future.

By order of the board

fo

David Hall
Director
19 December 2024

1I9|Page

Essity UK Limited

Directors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2023

The directors present their annual report and the audited financial statements of the company for the year ended
31 December 2023.

Principal activities

The principal activity of the company is the manufacture, distribution and sale of paper based hygiene products.
Future developments

See the Strategic report on page 2 for information on future developments.

Dividends
See the Strategic report on page 2 for information on dividends.

Financial risk management
See the Strategic report on page 3 for information on financial risk management.

Directors
The directors of the company who held office during the year and up to the date of signing of the financial

statements are given below:

P A Bailey (Resigned as Director on 12 July 2024)
K J Starr

A Richards (Resigned on 10 June 2024)

D Hall (Appointed on 10 June 2024)

Going concern
The company is profitable and has net assets and net current assets at the balance sheet date.

The company has access to significant cash reserves which are administered by the Essity group treasury function
through its cash pool, which could be drawn upon by the company if needed. The Group continues to trade
profitably and remains in a strong position.

The directors have received confirmation that the intermediate parent company, Essity Group Holding BV,
intends to support the company for a period of 12 months from signing the financial statements.

The directors, having reviewed the company’s current performance, forecasts and in consideration of group
financing arrangements including the intermediate parent company’s parental support letter confirming the
parent company’s financial support for the company for a period of 12 months from signing the financial
statements, consider that the company has sufficient resources to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as
they fall due. Accordingly, the directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the financial statements. .

Post balance sheet events .
On 28 June 2024 the company assumed responsibility for the Pension plan of Essity Operations Manchester
Ltd under a Flexible Apportionment Arrangement. On | July 2024 a Pension buy-in arrangement with Legal
and General Assurance Society Limited was executed for the company pension plans.

On | September 2024 the company acquired the net assets and trade of its sister company Essity Operations

Manchester Limited, which was already selling all its production of finished goods to Essity UK Limited as part
of its business with external customers. The transaction was done at book value for an amount of £51,155,000.

20[Page

Essity UK Limited

Directors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Post balance sheet events (continued)

On 1 September 2024 the company acquired the trade of its sister company BSN Medical Limited for an
estimated value of £8,933,000 based on management accounts at 31 August 2024. The purchase price agreed is
the sum of the value of the investments held in this company’s books (€42,950,000), less the value of net
monetary retained in BSN Medical Limited following completion.

These transactions were executed to simplify the structure of Essity’s business in the U.K., to integrate the
medical business into the main trading company and processes of Essity in the U.K, and to reduce administrative
costs.

Independent auditors
In accordance with s485 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution is to be / has been proposed at the Annual
General Meeting for reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of the Company.

Statement of disclosure of information to auditors
So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the company's auditors are

unaware,

Statement of directors’ responsibilitics
The directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic report, Directors’ report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including Financial
Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’.

Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that
period. In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:

select suitable accounting policies in accordance with FRS 101 and then apply them consistently;
e make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

« present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable,
comparable and understandable information;
e provide additional disclosures when compliance with specific requirements of FRS 101 is insufficient

to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the
company financial position and financial performance;

« — state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101, have been followed, subject to
any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

© prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

[Page

Essity UK Limited

Directors’ report for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Statement of directors’ responsibilities(continued)

Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors’ report that
comply with that law and those regulations. The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of
the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website.

By order of the board

fo

David Hall
Director
19 December 2024

22[Page

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Essity UK Limited

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Essity UK Limited for the year ended 31 December 2023
which comprise the Income Statement, the Statement of comprehensive income, the Statement of
financial position, the Statement of changes in equity and the related notes 1 to 24, including material
accounting policy information. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards including FRS 101 “Reduced
Disclosure Framework (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:

¢ give a true and fair view of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of its profit for the
year then ended;

¢ have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of
the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial
statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our opinion...

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern
basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to
events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company's
ability to continue as a going concern for a period of 12 months from when the financial statements are
authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are
described in the relevant sections of this report. However, because not all future events or conditions
can be predicted, this statement is not a guarantee as to the company’s ability to continue as a going
concern.

Other information
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial
statements and our auditor's report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information

contained within the annual report.

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent
otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

23|Page

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Essity UK Limited (continued)

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other
information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the
course of the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material
inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives
rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required
to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

e the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for
which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

e the strategic report and directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the
course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or directors’
report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act

2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

* adequate accounting records have not been kept or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or

+ the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

* certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

* we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. —

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 21, the directors are
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true
and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using
the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that
an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on
the basis of these financial statements.

24|Pave

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Essity UK Limited (continued)

Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities,
including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect irregularities, including fraud. The
risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one
resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or
intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion. The extent to which our procedures are capable
of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below. However, the primary responsibility for the
prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and
management.

+ We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the
company and determined that the most significant are those related to the reporting framework
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice and the Companies Act 2006) and the
relevant direct and indirect tax compliance regulations in the United Kingdom. In addition, the
company must comply with the operational and employment laws and regulations including health
and safety regulations, environmental regulations and data protection.

+ We understood how the company is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of
senior finance personnel and gaining an understanding of the entity level controls of the company
in respect of these areas and the controls in place to reduce the opportunity for fraudulent
transactions. We corroborated our enquiries through review of meeting minutes and any
correspondence received from regulatory bodies. We further checked the application of
accounting standards adopted and evidence of non-compliance with the above laws and
regulations.

+ We assessed the susceptibility of the company’s financial statements to material misstatement,
including how fraud might occur by meeting with management to understand where it considered
there was susceptibility to fraud. We considered the procedures and controls that the company
has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud and
gained an understanding as to how those procedures and controls are implemented and
monitored. We determined there to be a risk of management override in relation to posting of non-
standard journals in respect of revenue and estimates in respect of rebate calculations. To
address the risk of management override, we have used data analytics and obtained the entire
population of journals for the year and identified specific transactions for further investigation
based on certain criteria. We understood the transactions identified for testing and agreed them to
source documentation. With respect to rebates, we performed substantive procedures to gain
assurance over the balance, which included agreement to rebate contracts, vouching the
appropriateness of assumptions made and/or confirming amounts settled pre and post year-end.

+ Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify noncompliance with
such laws and regulations. Our procedures included obtaining and reading board and
management meeting minutes and relevant approval documents, enquiries of senior finance
personnel and agreement of samples of transactions throughout the audit to supporting source
documentation.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the
Financial Reporting Council’s website at https://www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This

description forms part of our auditor's report.

25;Page

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Essity UK Limited (continued)

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to
the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility
to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for
this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Exot oney LLP

Kester Rogers (Senior statutory auditor)

for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Luton

20 December 2024

26[Paze

Essity UK Limited

Income Statement

Revenue
Cost of sales
Gross profit

Distribution costs

Other expenses

Year ended 31 December

Operating profit
Finance income

Finance costs

Income tax expense

2023 2022

Note £7000 £'000

3 918,535 956,997
(651,933) (708,188)

266,602 248,809
(83,305) (97,840)
Administrative expenses (140,722) (135,533)
(95) (810)

6 42,480 14,626

7 7,929 6,676
8 (1,137) (770)

Profit before income tax 49,272 20,532
9 (10,379) (5,051)

Profit for the financial year 38,893 15,481

@Z|Page

Essity UK Limited

Statement of comprehensive income

Year ended 31 December

2023 2022
Note £000 £7000
Profit for the financial year 38,893 15,48]
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss:
Actuarial losses on pension scheme 21 (13,317) (47,147)
Impact of asset ceiling on pension surplus 21 13,817 47,647
Movement on deferred tax relating to pension scheme 18 (118) (95)
Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss:
Cash flow hedges
Result from remeasurement of derivatives recognized in equity 20 (26,932) (1,250)
Transferred to profit or loss for the period 20 (4,268) (30,269)
Movement on deferred tax relating to cash flow hedges 18 7,736 5,797
Other comprehensive expenses for the year (23,082) (25,317)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 15,811 (9,836)

28|Pauze

Essity UK Limited

Statement of financial position

As at 31 December

2023 2022
Note £7000 £°000
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 10 16,102 15,245
Property, plant and equipment ll 143,002 136,522
Right-of-use assets 22° 23,447 19,254
182,551 171,021
Current assets
Inventories 13 62,510 75,959
Trade and other receivables 14 342,052 348,271
Cash and cash equivalents - 40
404,562 424,270
Creditors — amounts falling due within one year 15 (228,188) (243,698)
Net current assets 176,374 180,572
Total assets less current liabilities 358,925 351,593
Creditors - amounts falling due after more than one year 16 (21,991) (23,413)
Provisions for liabilities 17 (13,647) (20,704)
Net assets 323,287 307,476
Equity
Ordinary shares 19 288,325 288,325
Cash flow hedge reserve 20 (20,199) 3,265
Retained earnings 20 55,161 15,886
Total shareholders’ funds 323,287 307,476

The financial statements on pages 27 to 56 were approved by the board of directors on 19 December 2024 and
were signed on its behalf by:

fo-

David Hall
Director
Essity UK Limited is registered in England and Wales under company number 03226403.

29|Pave

Essity UK Limited

Statement of changes in equity

Called up Cash flow

. share hedge Retained Total
capital reserve earnings equity
£7000 £7000 £7000 £000
As at 1 January 2022 288,325 28,987 75,782 393,094
Profit for the financial year - - 15,481 - 15,481
Actuarial gains on pension scheme - - (47,147) (47,147)
Impact of asset ceiling on-pension surplus - - 47,647 47,647
Movement on deferred tax relating to pension scheme - - (95) (95)
Cash flow hedges:
Result from remeasurement of derivatives
recognized in equity - (1,250) - (1,250)
Transferred to profit or loss for the period - (30,269) - (30,269)
Movement on deferred tax relating to cash flow hedges - 5,797 - 5,797
Total comprehensive income for the year - (25,722) 15,886 (9,836)
Dividends paid - - (75,782) (75,782)
As at 31 December 2022 288,325 3,265 15,886 307,476
As at 1 January 2023 288,325 3,265 15,886 307,476
Profit for the financial year - - 38,893 38,893
Actuarial (losses)/gains on pension scheme - - (13,317) (13,317)
Impact of asset ceiling on pension surplus - - 13,817 13,817
Movement on deferred tax relating to pension scheme - - (118) (118)
Cash flow hedges:
Result from remeasurement of derivatives
recognized in equity - (26,932) - (26,932)
Transferred to profit or loss for the period - (4,268) - (4,268)
Movement on deferred tax relating to cash flow hedges - 7,736 - 7,736
Total comprehensive (expense)/ income for the year - (23,464) 39,275 15,811
Dividends paid - - - -
As at 31 December 2023 288,325 (20,199) 55,161 323,287

30|Page

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023
1 General information

The principal activity of the company is the manufacture, distribution and sale of paper based hygiene products.
The company is a private company limited by shares and is incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom. Its
registered address is Southfields Road, Dunstable, Bedfordshire, LU6 3EJ.

2 Significant accounting policies

Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced
Disclosure Framework” (“FRS101“) and the Companies Act 2006.

The financial statements are prepared in sterling which is also the functional currency. All amounts in the financial
statements and notes have been rounded off to the nearest thousand Sterling Pound (‘“‘£’000s”), unless otherwise
stated.

The accounting policies set out below have been consistently applied to all the years presented unless otherwise
stated. They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the derivative financial assets
and financial liabilities measured at fair value through other comprehensive income or profit or loss, and in
accordance with the Companies Act 2006.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting
estimates. It also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the company’s
accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions
and estimates are significant to the financial statements are disclosed in the statement of accounting policies.

Exemptions
The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have been applied in the preparation of these financial
statements, in accordance with FRS 101, as the company is a member of a group where the parent prepares publicly
available consolidated financial statements:
- IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’
- Paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’ (disclosure of valuation techniques and inputs used
for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities)
- Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’ comparative information requirements in respect
of:
© paragraph 79(a)(iv) of JAS 1
co paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment
© paragraph 118(e) of IAS 38 Intangible assets (reconciliations between the carrying amount at the
beginning and end of the period)
- The following paragraphs of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’:
oa 10(d), (statement of cash flows)
co 10(f) (a statement of financial position as at the beginning of the preceding period when an entity
applies an accounting policy retrospectively or makes a retrospective restatement of items in its
financial statements, or when it reclassifies items in its financial statements)
16 (statement of compliance with all IFRS)
38A (requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements)
38B-D (additional comparative information)
40A-D (requirements for a third statement of financial position)
111 (cash flow statement information)

©0000 0

134-136 (capital management disclosures

31[Page

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)

Exemptions (continued)

- TAS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’

- Paragraph 30 and 31 of IAS 8 ‘Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors’ (requirement
for the disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has been issued but is not yet
effective)

- Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ (key management compensation)

- The requirements in IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ to disclose related party transactions entered into
between two or more members of a group.

Going concern
The company is profitable and has net assets and net current assets at the balance sheet date.

The company has access to significant cash reserves which are administered by the Essity group treasury function
through its cash pool, which could be drawn upon by the company if needed. The Group continues to trade
profitably and remains in a strong position.

The directors have received confirmation that the intermediate parent company, Essity Group Holding BV, intends
to support the company for a period of 12 months from signing the financial statements.

The directors, having reviewed the company’s current performance, forecasts and in consideration of group
financing arrangements including the intermediate parent company’s parental support letter confirming the parent
company’s financial support for the company for a period of 12 months from signing the financia] statements,
consider that the company has sufficient resources to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due.
Accordingly, the directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
financial statements.

New standards, amendments and IFRIC interpretations
There are no amendments to accounting standards, or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the year ended
31 December 2023 that have a material impact on the company’s financial statements.

Standards issued but not yet effective .
The new and amended standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of issuance

of the company’s financial statements are disclosed below. The company intends to adopt these new and amended .
standards and interpretations, if applicable, when they become effective. None of them are expected to have a
material effect on the financial statements.

- Amendments to IFRS 16: Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
- Amendments to JAS 1: Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
- Supplier Finance Arrangements - Amendments to IAS 7 and IFRS 7

32jPage

Essity UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)

Intangible assets .
Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable net

assets acquired.

The recoverable amount of goodwill is derived from measurement of the present value of the future cash flows of
the cash generating units of which the goodwill is a part. Any impairment loss in respect of a CGU is allocated first
to the goodwill attached to the CGU, and then to other assets within that CGU on a pro rata basis.

In accordance with FRS 101, goodwill is not amortised and is instead subject to an annual impairment review. The
requirement of the Companies Act 2006 is to amortise goodwill over its deemed useful life, however this
requirement conflicts with the generally accepted accounting principles set out in FRS 101. The Directors consider
that to amortise this goodwill would not give a true and fair view, but that a true and fair view is given by following
FRS 101 as described above.

Patents and licences represent the patents pursuant to any Patent Application and licences under any trademark
licensing agreement. Patents and licences are eliminated by amortisation through profit or loss over 20 years on a
straight-line basis, which is considered by the directors to be the useful economic life of these assets.

Emissions rights

Emission allowances relating to CO emissions are recognised as an intangible asset and as deferred income
(liability) when they are received. Allowances are received free of charge and measured and reported at market
value as of the day to which the allocation pertains. For allocated emission allowances, the reported cost and
provisions for emissions amount to the market value as of the day to which the allocation pertains. For purchased
emission allowances, the reported cost and provisions for emissions amount to the purchase price. During the year,
the initial liability for emission allowances received is recognised through the profit and loss account as income in
pace with CO; emissions made. If the market price of emission allowances on the balance sheet date is less than
reported cost, any surplus emission allowances that are not required to cover emissions made are written down to
the market price applying on the balance sheet date. In conjunction with this, the remaining part of the deferred
income is recognised as income by a corresponding amount and therefore no net effect occurs in the income
statement, The emissions allowances are used as payment in the settlement with the UK Government regarding
liabilities for emissions. If the emission allowances received do not cover emissions made, Essity makes a provision
to reserves for the deficit valued at the market value on the balance sheet date. Sales of surplus emission allowances
are recognised as income on the settlement date.

Property, plant and equipment
The cost of property, plant and equipment is their purchase cost, together with any incidental costs of acquisition.
Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost, or valuation, of property, plant and equipment, less their
estimated residual values, on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
The principal annual rates used for this purpose are:

a

%
Freehold improvements 2-5
Buildings 2-5
Plant and machinery 3.33-33

No depreciation is provided on freehold land or assets under construction.
Assets held for sale are written down to net realisable value and reclassified to current assets.

The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any
such indication exists, the Company makes an estimate of the assets recoverable amount in order to determine the
extent of the impairment loss. An asset’s recoverable amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell
and its value in use and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that
are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of asset. When the carrying amount of an asset exceeds
its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and written down to its recoverable amount. Impairment
losses are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories consistent with the function of the
impaired asset.

33|Page

Essity UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)

Leases
When a contract is entered into, the company must first consider whether the contract is, or contains, a lease. A

contract is, or contains, a lease if: '
- it contains an identified asset
- the lessee is entitled to essentially all the economic benefits arising from the use of the identified asset

- the lessee is entitled to control the use of the asset.

On the commencement date of the lease, a right-of-use asset and a liability are recognised in the statement of
financial position. The right-of-use asset is measured at cost and includes the following:

+ the value of the amount of the lease liability

* lease payments made on or before the commencement date, afler deductions for any benefits received in
conjunction with signing the lease

* initial direct fees

* an estimate of expenses expected to be paid to restore the asset to the condition as stipulated in the terms of the
lease

The right-of-use asset is recognised in the statement of financial position under the heading Fixed assets. The asset
is depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter period of the assets anticipated useful life and the lease term.

The lease liability is measured at the present value of the following lease payments:

* fixed fees, less any incentive receivables

+ variable lease payments due to an index or rate

* amounts expected to be paid in accordance with residual value guarantees

* the exercise price for a purchase option, if Essity is reasonably certain of exercising the option

* financial penalties to be paid on termination of the lease, if the lease term reflects that Essity will utilize this
option

The lease liabilities are recognised in the statement of financial position under the headings Creditors — amounts
falling due within one year and Creditors — amounts falling due after more than one year.

Lease payments are normally discounted using the company’s incremental borrowing rate as the implicit rate of
the lease cannot be readily determined in most cases. The incremental borrowing rate used is determined on the
basis of the contract currency of the agreement and the length of the lease.

When making lease payments, the contribution is allocated between interest expense and amortisation of the
outstanding lease liability.

In the Income statement, depreciation of the right-of-use asset is recognised in operating profit while interest
expense is recognised within Interest payable and similar charges.

The company has decided to apply the exemption rules for short-term leases and leases where the underlying asset
has a low value. These leases are not included in the right-of-use asset or the lease liability. Lease payments for
these contracts are expensed on a straight-line basis over the useful life.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. In determining the cost of raw materials, work
in progress, consumables and goods purchased for resale, the first in first out basis is used. In the case of
manufactured products, cost includes all direct expenditure and production overheads based on the normal level of
activity. Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective inventory.

34[Page

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)
2 Significant accounting policies (continued)

Trade receivables

Trade receivables are recognised initially at the amount of consideration that is unconditional. The company holds
the trade receivables with the objective of collecting the contractual cash flows and therefore measures them
subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

The company applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime
expected loss allowance for all trade receivables. To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables are
grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due.

During this process the probability of non-payment of the trade debtors and intra-group debtors is assessed. The
expected loss rates are based on the Company’s historical credit losses adjusted for current and forward-looking
information on macroeconomic factors affecting the Company’s customers and fellow group undertakings.

Creditors
Creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business
from suppliers.

Short term creditors are measured at the transaction price.

Cash at bank and in hand .
Cash and short term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand and short term deposits with
an original maturity of three months or less.

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the company has a present obligation, as result of a past event, and it is probable
that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of that
obligation can be made. Provisions for restructuring measures are made when a detailed, formal plan for the
measures exists and well-founded expectations have been created among those who will be affected by the
measures, Refer to Page 34 for the accounting policy for the provision for CO2 emissions.

Foreign currencies

Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the rate of exchange ruling
at the balance sheet date and the gains or losses on translation are included in the profit and loss account.

Derivative financial instruments

The company uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency and energy contracts to hedge its risks
associated with foreign currency and energy prices. All derivatives are initially and continuously recognised at fair
value in the balance sheet.

The fair value of forward contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates/energy prices for
contracts with similar maturity profiles.

Accounting for derivatives used for hedging purposes
All derivatives are initially and continuously measured at fair value in the balance sheet. Gains and losses on
remeasurement of derivatives used for hedging purposes are recognized as described below.

Cash flow hedges

When using hedge accounting, the relationship between the hedge instrument and the hedged item is documented.

Assessment of the effectiveness of the hedge is also documented, both when the transaction is initially executed

and on an ongoing basis. Hedge effectiveness is the extent to which the hedging instrument offsets changes in value

in a hedged item’s fair value or cash flow. Any ineffectiveness could, for example, be due to the time or the amount,
of the forecast cash flow mismatching with the cash flow of the derivative. The ineffective portion is recognised
directly in profit or loss. In 2023, £nil (2022: £nil) was recognized in profit or loss as ineffectiveness concerning

the cash flow hedges.

35|Page

Essity UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2 Significant accounting policies (continued)

Accounting for derivatives used for hedging purposes (continued)
Cash flow hedges (continued)

The company establishes the hedge ratio as the value of energy price hedges in relation to forecast energy
consumption.

Gains and losses on remeasurement of derivatives intended for cash flow hedging are recognised in equity under
other comprehensive income and reversed to profit or loss at the rate at which the hedged cash flow affects profit
or loss.

Cash flow hedges relating to energy affect cost of sales.

Revenue

The company applies IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers that regulates revenue recognition and
disclosure requirements for commercial agreements (contracts) with customers. The standard pertains to
commercial agreements with customers in which delivery of goods/services is divided into separately identifiable
performance obligations that are recognized independently.

Revenue recognition

The company generates revenues from the sale of finished products to, for example, the retail sector, industries and
the healthcare sector. The product portfolio is diversified but the principles for revenue recognition are the same
for all segments - Personal Care, Consumer Tissue and Professional Hygiene. Essity’s contracts with customers
primarily comprise framework agreements without established minimum volumes, which means that a binding
contract according to IFRS 15 criteria does not arise until the customer places an order.

Performance obligations and timing of revenue recognition

The company’s performance obligations in the contracts involve providing the goods specified in the contracts.
The performance obligations are satisfied and the revenue recognized when control of the products is passed to the
customer. The timing of when control is passed to the customer is determined by the terms of delivery (Incoterms)
applied in the contract. For most supply contracts, control is passed when the goods have been delivered to the
customer’s warehouse and the customer thereby can control the use and receive the benefits of the goods. Invoicing
is normally done in connection with, or directly after, delivery and recognized at a specific point in time, no revenue
is recognized over time. Essity has chosen to apply the practical expedient in IFRS 15 not to disclose the remaining
performance obligations that have a term of less than one year.

Determination of transaction price

The transaction price primarily comprises the fixed price of the quantity sold less estimated volume discounts. The
outcome of volume discounts is continuously assessed over the year and reduces recognized revenues in parallel
with a provision being made that includes the estimated discounts for each customer. At year end, the final volume
discounts are determined on the basis of the actual sales volume and the provision is reduced in the following year
when the discount is credited to the customer. Marketing subsidies entail that the customer receives a discount for
carrying out marketing activities. In certain cases, Essity reimburses customers in the retail sector in accordance
with contracts for loss of income due to discount vouchers used by consumers. The probable outcome of used
discount vouchers and thus discounts provided during the reporting period is assessed and revised every time the
accounts are closed. Customers have only limited rights to return products and historically returned volumes have
been low. The company essentially grants customers no right of return except when the products are faulty. Past
experience is used to estimate the share of returns at the time of sale and revenue is only recognized for products
that are not expected to be returned, The total transaction price is estimated at the amount that Essity deems will
accrue to the company when the contract is signed with respect to volume discounts and any marketing subsidies,
discount vouchers and returns. The transaction price is updated if the conditions forming the basis of the estimate
have significantly changed.

36|Puge

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2

ignificant accounting policies (continued)

Revenue (continued)

Trade receivables

Once the goods and services have been delivered and control has been passed to the customer, a trade receivable is
recognized since this is the point in time when the consideration becomes unconditional, only the passage of time
is required for payment to be made.

Contract liabilities

Contract liabilities pertain to liabilities for volume discounts and advance payments from customers. Both items
are recognized under Trade and other payables. Advance payments from customers are normally recognized as
revenue in the subsequent fiscal year.

Asset recognised for costs to fulfil contracts with customers

In the Professional Hygiene business area, the company supplies dispensers to customers to fulfil contracts for
delivery of the business area’s other products. Expenses for these dispensers are recognised as ‘Asset recognised
for costs to fulfil contracts with customers’ under Trade and other receivables since the company expects to recover
these expenses through the sale of other products. The dispensers are depreciated over three years according to the
average term of the contract with customers. Recognition takes place in accordance with the rules in IFRS 15 since
the expense is directly linked to securing contracts with customers. The rules on Property, Plant and Equipment in
TAS 16 and IAS 2 Inventories are not deemed to be applicable since there are no economic benefits associated with
the dispenser after it has been delivered to the customer.

Taxation

The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement,
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprchensive income or directly in shareholders”
funds. In this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in shareholders’ funds,
respectively.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the
balance sheet date in the countries where the company operates and generates taxable income, Management
periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is
subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid
to the tax authorities.

Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities
and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they
arise from the initial recognition of goodwill; or arise from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a
transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor
taxable profit or loss. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax
asset is realised or the deferred income tax liability is settled.

Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be
available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax
assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities relate to income
taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where
there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.

A net deferred tax asset is recognised as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all
available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against
which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences
can be deducted.

Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis.

37|Page

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2 Significant accounting policies (continued)

Employee benefits
The company operates various post-employment schemes, including both defined benefit and a defined
contribution pension plan.

A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the company pays fixed contributions into a separate
entity. The company has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold
sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. A
defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined contribution plan.

Typically, defined benefit plans define an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement,
usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and compensation.

The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the
defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets. If the plan is in surplus,
an assets ceiling is applied based on recoverability of the surplus. The defined benefit obligation is calculated
annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit method. The present value of the defined benefit
obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality
corporate bonds that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to
maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. In countries where there is no deep market
in such bonds, the market rates on government bonds are used.

Remeasurement gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are
charged or credited to shareholders’ funds in other comprehensive income in the period in which they arise.

The amount charged or credited to finance costs is a net interest amount calculated by applying the liability discount
rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.

Past-service costs are recognised immediately in the income statement.

For the defined contribution plan, the company pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension
insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The company has no further payment obligations
once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when they
are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the future
payments is available.

Critical accounting estimates and judgements

The preparation of financial statements in accordance with FRS 101 requires directors to make judgements,
estimates and assumptions about the carrying amount of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from
other sources. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated based on historical experience and other factors,
including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.

Critical accounting estimates and assumptions

The company makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by
definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are
addressed below.

Defined benefit pension scheme

The company has an obligation to pay pension benefits to certain employees. The cost of these benefits and the
present value of the obligation depend on a number of factors, including; life expectancy, salary increases, asset
valuations and the discount rate on corporate bonds. Management estimates these factors in determining the net
pension obligation in the balance sheet. The assumptions reflect historical experience and current trends. See note
21 for the disclosures of the defined benefit pension scheme.

Recoverability of receivables

Management have estimated the recoverability of its trade receivables and made provisions accordingly.
Estimations are also made with regard to accrued customer discounts and allowances which are typically driven by
volume.

38 [Page

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2 Significant accounting policies (continued)

Critical accounting estimates and judgements (continued)

Impairment of non-financial assets

The company evaluates goodwill for impairment. Assessment for impairment involves comparing the book value
of an asset with its recoverable amount (the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell). Value-in-use is
determined with reference to projected future cash flows discounted at an appropriate rate. Both the cash flows and
the discount rate involve a significant degree of estimation uncertainty.

3 Revenue

The analysis by geographical area of the destination of the company’s revenue is set out below.

2023 2022

£7000 £000

United Kingdom 858,766 897,804
Rest of Europe . 59,769 59,193
918,535 956,997

All revenue is derived from one class of business.

See Note 14 for amounts due from external customers, in Trade receivables, and amounts due from other group
companies derived from revenue.

The closing balances of assets recognised for costs to fulfil contracts with customers are included in Trade and
other receivables, see Note 14. The amount of amortisation recognised on the asset in the year was £2,544,000
(2022: £2,543,000).

Contract liabilities relating to volume discounts to customers included within Trade and other payables under
Accruals and deferred income amounted to £42,050,000 (2022: £45,189,000).

4 Directors’ emoluments

2023 2022
£000 £7000
Aggregate emoluments for qualifying services 688 789
Aggregate value of company contributions to pension schemes 79 40

767 829

The aggregate emoluments paid to the highest paid director in the year amounted to £322,000 (2022: £260,000). In
addition, contributions made by the company to the pension scheme on behalf of the highest paid director were
£11,000 (2022: nil), and the amount at the end of the year of the highest paid director’s accrued pension was £nil
(2022: nil) .

The number of directors who were members of the defined benefit scheme is 3 (2022: 3).

The directors provide services to other fellow group companies. Costs cannot reasonably be allocated to these
entities. Therefore, all directors’ emoluments for group companies are disclosed here.

39[Page

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

5 Employee Information

The average monthly number of persons (including executive directors) employed by the company during the

year was:
2023 2022
Number Number
By activity
Production and distribution 897 881
Sales and marketing 388 349
Administration 70 95
1,355 1,325
2023 2022
£7000 £°000
Staff costs (for the above persons):
Wages and salaries 68,478 63,341
Social security costs 7,686 7,318
Other pension costs 8,109 7,440
84,273 78,099
6 Operating Profit
2023 2022
£7000 £7000
Operating profit is stated after charging:
Services provided by the company’s auditors:
Fees payable for the audit — this company 302 241
Fees payable for the audit — subsidiaries and associates of this company 70 59
Depreciation charge for the year on property, plant and equipment: 13,837 14,284
Impairment charge for the year on property, plant and equipment: 5,749 -
Depreciation charge for the year on right of use assets 3,713 3,344
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 258 149
Inventory recognised as an expense 470,592 548,059
Foreign currency exchange losses/(gains) (163) 438

40}Page

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

7 Finance income

2023 2022
£7000 £°000
On amounts owed by group undertakings 7,929 6,676
8 Finance costs
2023 2022
£7000 £7000
On amounts owed to group undertakings 808 310
On lease liabilities 329 460
1,137 770
9 Income Tax
Tax charge included in the income statement
2023 2022
£000 £7000
Current tax:
United Kingdom corporation tax on profit for the year
- Current tax expense on profit 10,064 2,826
- Adjustments in respect of prior year (476) 241
Total current tax 9,588 3,067
Deferred tax:
- Origination and reversal of timing differences 1,643 1,283
- Effect of increase in tax rate on opening liability 47 435
- Adjustments in respect of prior year (899) 266
Total deferred tax (note 18) 791 1,984
Tax on profit 10,379 5,051

41 [Page

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

9 Income Tax (continued)

Tax credit included in other comprehensive expense/income

2023 2022

£000 £000

Current tax - -
Deferred tax:

- Origination and reversal of temporary differences (7,164) (5,510)

- Effect of increase in tax rate on opening liability . (454) (492)

Total tax credit included in other comprehensive loss/income (7,618) (5,702)

The standard rate of tax for the year, based on the UK standard rate of corporation tax is 23.52% (2022: 19%). The
actual tax charge for the year is lower (2022: higher) than the standard rate for the reasons set out in the following
reconciliation:

2023 2022

£7000 £7000

Profit before taxation 49,272 20,532

Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax 23.52% (2022: 19%) 11,589 3,901
Effects of: ;

- Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 118 93

- Imputed interest income - 115

- Change in the standard rate of tax 47 435

- Adjustments in respect of prior year (1,375) 507

Tax charge 10,379 5,051

Finance Act 2021 was substantively enacted on 24th May 2021. The Act included legislation to increase the main
rate of Corporation Tax to 25% from | April 2023. Consequently deferred tax on temporary differences expected
to reverse after that date have been recognised at a rate of 25% (2022: 25%).

Finance Bill 2023 was enacted during the year which marked a significant step in the adoption of the OECD Pillar
Two regime. The legislation in the United Kingdom will be effective for Essity Operations Manchester Limited
financial year beginning | January 2024. Essity UK Limited is in scope of the enacted legislation and Essity UK
Limited and the wider Essity Group have performed an assessment of its potential exposure to Pillar Two income
taxes,

This assessment is based on the most recent information available regarding the financial performance of the
constituent entities in the wider UK Group. Based on the assessment performed, the Pillar Two effective tax rates
in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates are above 15%. Therefore, Essity UK Limited does not expect a
potential exposure to Pillar Two top-up taxes.

. 42|Page

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

10 Intangible assets

Emission Patents and

rights licences Goodwill Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cost ,
At | January 2023 7,402 645 48,046 56,093
Additions 7,683 - - 7,938
Disposals -6,826 - - -6,826
At 31 December 2023 8,259 645 48,046 56,950
Accumulated amortisation
At I January 2023 : - 645 40,203 40,848
Charge for the year - - - -
At 31 December 2023 - 645 40,203 40,848
Net book amount
At 31 December 2023 8,259 - 7,843 16,102
At 31 December 2022 7,402 - 7,843 15,245

The goodwill was generated on the acquisition of the Prudhoe site in 1996 (Cost: £38,765,000; Net book amount:
£5,249,000), on the acquisition of the AM Paper Group in 1999 (Cost: £9,136,000; Net book amount:
£2,516,000) and goodwill transferred in from another group company relating to the acquisition of the trade and
assets of Oliver Marketing in 2001 (Cost: £145,000; Net book amount: £78,000).

43|Pape

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

iW Property, plant and equipment

Freehold , Assets
land and Plant and under
improvements ___ Buildings machinery construction Total
£7000 . £7000 £7000 £°000 £000
Cost
At | January 2023 11,218 81,593 270,768 13,562 ° 377,141
Additions - 588 2,952 22,783 26,323
Disposals - (178) (2,319) - (2,497)
Reclassifications - 3,241 5,474 (8,715) -
At 31 December 2023 11,218 85,244 276,875 27,630 400,967
Accumulated depreciation
At | January 2023 3,385 47,929 189,305 - 240,619
Charge for the year 175 8,690 10,721 - 19,586
Disposals - (146) (2,094) - (2,240)
Reclassifications - 29 (29) - -
At 31 December 2023 3,560 56,502 197,903 - 257,965
Net book amount
At 31 December 2023 7,658 28,742 78,972 27,630 143,002
At 31 December 2022 7,833 33,664 81,463 13,562 136,522

The value of freehold land not depreciated as at 31 December 2023 was £6,293 ,000 (2022: £6,293.000).

On 10 January 2024, the company announced the closure of its Oakenholt PMI plant. Depreciation on affected
fixed assets has been accelerated at a cost of £5,749k at 31 December, 2023. This is disclosed within depreciation
charge for the year.

44|Page

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued) -

12 Financial assets and financial liabilities

i. Financial assets

2023 2022
£000 £°000
The company has the following derivative financial instruments:
Energy price swaps — cash flow hedges 56 25,428
Foreign exchange forward contracts — held for trading 51 182
107 25,610
Analysed as:
Maturing within one year 69 20,509
Maturing after more than one year 38 5,101
107 25,610
“i. Financialiiabilities  ts—C—=<CS~si‘“Ss*S*S*S*S”S”SSS
2023 2022
Note £7000 £7000
The company has the following derivative financial instruments:
Energy price swaps - cash flow hedges 26,988 21,161
Foreign exchange forward contracts — held for trading 10 !
26,998 21,162
Analysed as:
Maturing within one year 25,497 14,209
Maturing after more than one year 1,501 6,953
26,998 21,162

Derivative financial instruments reflect the change in fair value of energy price swaps designated as cash flow
hedges to hedge forecast energy consumption and foreign exchange forward contracts held for trading to hedge
trade receivables and payables in Euros and US Dollars.

Cash flow hedges are prepared for energy price risks in connection with purchases of electricity and gas. For cash
flow hedges, hedges are prepared whereby critical terms match the hedged item. For the cash flow hedges prepared,
this means that the change in fair value of the hedging instruments and the change in the hedged item are very
highly correlated. Any ineffectiveness could, for example, be due to the time or the amount of the forecast cash
flow mismatching with the cash flow of the derivative £nil (2022: £nil) was recognized in profit or loss as
ineffectiveness concerning the cash flow hedges.

45 [Page

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

13. Inventories

2023 2022

£000 £7000

Raw materials and consumables 10,123 17,869
Work in progress 4,602 8,028
Finished goods and goods for resale 32,407 36,566
Engineering stores 15,378 13,496
62,510 75,959

The difference between purchase price or production cost of stocks and their replacement cost is not material.

46(Page

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

14‘ Trade and other receivables

2023 2022
£000 £7000
Amounts falling due within one year:

Trade receivables 123,346 141,035
Amounts owed by group undertakings . 201,158 169,203
Corporation Tax recoverable 8,897 4,472
Prepayments and accrued income 4,670 4,058
Derivative financial instruments (Note 12) 69 20,509
Asset recognised for costs to fulfil contracts with customers 379 437
338,519 339,714

Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Amounts owed by group undertakings - -
Derivative financial instruments (Note 12) 38 5,101
Asset recognised for costs to fulfil contracts with customers 3,495 3,456
3,533 8,557
342,052 348,271

Trade receivables are stated after provisions for impairment of £1,367,000 (2022: £1,051 ,000).

Amounts owed by group undertakings are comprised of the following balances.

(i) Balances receivable from and payable to Essity Treasury AB have been presented net as follows.

2023 2022
£°000 £,000
Cash held within the Essity group cash pool, on which interest is
receivable at the 6 month GBP Libor rate (2022: 6 month GBP Libor
rate), which is the internal group interest rate. This balance is a revolving
cash pool balance with no fixed date of repayment. 193,031 155,195
Settlement of energy price swap contracts which matured in December
2023, payable in January 2024 (4,190) 3,118
Trading balances 10,986 8,937
Net debtor 199,827 167,250

(ii) Amounts due from other group companies of £1,331,000 (2022: £1,953,000) which are interest free.

47([Page

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

15 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

2023 2022

£°000 £7000

Trade creditors 49,217 67,644
Amounts owed to group undertakings : 57,488 55,767
Lease liabilities (Note 22) 3,947 3,216
Taxation and social security 22,352 20,860
Other creditors 1,429 -
Derivative financial instruments (Note 12) 25,497 14,209
Accruals and deferred income 68,258 82,002
228,188 243,698

Amounts owed to group undertakings comprise:

i)
ii)

iii)
iv)
vy)

vi)

vii)

An amount due to Essity Treasury AB of £1,204,000 (2022: £1,041,000), a balance denominated in
Euros, which represents an overdrawn balance in the Essity group cash pool. This balance has no
fixed date of repayment and interest is payable at the 6-month EURIBOR rate plus 1.10%.

An amount due to Essity Treasury AB of £1,106,000 (2022: £5,396,000), a balance denominated in
US Dollars, which represents an overdrawn balance in the Essity group cash pool. This balance has
no fixed date of repayment and interest is payable at the 6-month USD LIBOR rate plus 1.10%.

A trading balance of £1,951,000 (2022: £566,000) due to Essity Operations Limited

A trading balance of £35,684,000 (2022: £38,810,000) due to Essity Treasury AB

A trading balance of £4,000 (2022: £125,000) due to Essity Hygiene and Health AB
Trading balances of £10,373,000 (2022: £7,621,000) due to other Essity group companies
Group relief payable of £6,906,000 (2022: £2,208,000)

16 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year

2023 2022
£000 £000
Lease liabilities (Note 22) 20,490 16,460
Derivative financial instruments (Note 12) 1,501 6,953

21,991 23,413

48 [Page

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

17 ___ Provisions for liabilities

Employee Re- coz Deferred Total

bonuses structuring emissions tax

provision provision
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At | January 2023 148 363 8,039 12,154 20,704
Amounts charged to the income statement 320 476 - 791 1,587
Amounts credited to other comprehensive 7 - . (7,618) (7,618)

income

CO, emissions for the year - - 6,801 - 6,801
Amount utilised (148) (181) (7,498) - (7,827)
At 31 December 2023 320 658 7,342 §,327 13,647

CO: emissions
The emissions provision for each year is expected to be utilised in April of the following year.

Restructuring provision

The restructuring provision relates to projects to restructure the manufacturing and administrative operations of

the company.

The largest of these projects relates to an’Essity group wide restructuring of administrative operations still in

progress.
18 Deferred tax

The provision for deferred tax consists of the following deferred tax liabilities (assets):

2023 2022
£7000 £7000
Deferred tax assets due within 12 months (357) (1)
Deferred tax liabilities due within 12 months 1 91
Total deferred tax due within 12 months (356) 90
2023 2022
£°000 £7000
Deferred tax assets due after more than 12 months (6,949) (1,088)
Deferred tax liabilities due after more than 12 months 12,632 13,152
Total deferred tax due after more than 12 months 5,683 12,064
Total net liability 5,327 12,154

49[Page

Essity UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

18 Deferred tax (continued)

Accelerated Cash
capital flow
allowances Pension hedges Other Total
£°000 £7000 £000 £°000 £7000
At 1 January 2022 . 8,856 - 7,071 (55) 15,872
Charged/(credited) to the income statement 3,202 (95)- (90) (1,033) 1,984
Charged/(credited) to other comprehensive ‘
income - 95 (5,797) - (5,702)
At 31 December 2022 12,058 - 1,184 1,088) 12,154
At 1 January 2023 12,058 - 1,184 (1,088) 12,154
Charged/(credited) to the income statement 574 (118) (271) 606 791
Charged/(credited) to other comprehensive
income - 118 (7,736) - (7,618)
At 31 December 2023 12,632 - (6,823) (482) $,327

There are no unused tax losses or unused tax credits.

19 Share capital

2023 2022
£000 £000
Authorised
305,000,000 (2022: 305,000,000) ordinary shares of £1 each 305,000 305,000
Alfotted and fully paid
288,325,190 (2022: 288,325,190) ordinary shares of £1 each 288,325 288,325

All shares rank pari passu for dividend rights and provide the holder with one vote.

5S0|Page

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

20 ~Reserves

Cash flow

hedge Retained Total

. reserve earnings reserves

£000 £7000 £000

At } January 2023 3,265 15,886 19,151
Profit for the financial year - 38,893 38,893
Actuarial (losses)/gains on pension scheme - (13,317) (13,317)
Impact of asset ceiling on pension surplus - 13,817 13,817
Movement on deferred tax relating to pension scheme - (118) (118)

Cash flow hedges:

Result from remeasurement of derivatives recognized in equity (26,932) - (26,932)
Transferred to profit or loss for the period (4,268) - (4,268)
Movement on deferred tax relating to cash flow hedges 7,736 - 7,736
Dividends paid - - -
At 31 December 2023 (20,199) §5,161 , 34,962.

The cash flow hedge reserve reflects deferred gains and losses on energy price swaps and foreign exchange forward
contracts, where the contracts meet the criteria for hedge accounting. Such gains and losses are recognised in the
income statement when the related hedged item is charged to income.

21 + Post-employment benefits

The company operated both a defined benefit and a defined contribution scheme during the year.

Defined benefit scheme

Plan assets held in the fund are governed by local regulations and practice in the United Kingdom. Responsibility
for the governance of the plan — including investment decisions and contribution schedules — lies jointly with the
company and the board of directors of the fund.

On 30 September 2018, the defined benefit pension scheme was closed to future accrual for all members.
The risks of the scheme are as follows:

(a) Asset volatility

The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if plan assets
underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. The plan holds a significant proportion of equities, which are
expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term while providing volatility and risk in the short-term.

As the plans mature, the company intends to reduce the level of investment risk by investing more in assets that
better match the liabilities. However, the company believes that due to the long-term nature of the plan liabilities
and the strength of the supporting group, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of the
group’s long-term strategy to manage the plans efficiently.

(b) Changes in bond yields

A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabitities, although this will be partially offset by an increase
in the value of the plans’ bond holdings.

5l|[Page

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

21. +Post-employment benefits (continued)

(c) Life expectancy
The majority of the plan’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life
expectancy will result in an increase in the plan’s liabilities.

(d) Inflation risk .

The pension obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities (although, in most
cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect the plan against extreme inflation). The
majority of the plan’s assets are either unaffected by (fixed interest bonds) or loosely correlated with (equities)
inflation, meaning that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit.

A comprehensive actuarial valuation of the company pension scheme, using the projected unit basis, was carried
out at 5 April 2022 by Lane Clark & Peacock LLP, independent consulting actuaries. Adjustments to the valuation
at that date have been made based on the following assumptions:

At At
31 December 31 December
2023 2022
% %
Rate of increase in pensions 3.50% 3.30%
Rate of increase for deferred pensions 3.50% 3.50%
Salary increase - -
Discount rate 462% - 4.77%
Inflation assumptions (RP) 3.50% 3.50%

Assumptions regarding future mortality are set based on actuarial advice in accordance with published statistics
and experience in the UK. These assumptions translate into an average life expectancy in years for a pensioner
retiring at age 65:

31 December 31 December
2023 . 2022
Number of Number of
‘ years years
Longevity at age 65 for current pensioners
- Men . 21.4 21.6
- Women : 24.6 24.7
Longevity at age 65 for future pensioners
- Men 23.0 23,3
- Women 26.4 26.4

52[Pave

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)
21 Post-employment benefits (continued)

Reconciliation of scheme assets and liabilities:

Fair value Defined Impact of , Total
of plan benefit asset
assets , obligation ceiling
£000 £°000 £000 £000
At 1 January 2023 294,093 (247,757) (46,336) -
Service cost (500) - - (500)
Interest expense - (11,818) (2,210) (14,028)
Benefits paid , (14,453) 14,453 - -
Actuarial losses ; (8,002) (5,315) - (13,317)
Interest Income on plan assets 14,028  e - 14,028
Change in asset ceiling . - - 13,817 13,817
At 31 December 2023 285,166 (250,437) (34,729) -

Pension surplus

In 2021, the directors undertook a study in relation to a potential scheme that had been expected to be used to secure
the benefits of the pension surplus that had been recognised in previous periods. As a result of new information
from this study the directors concluded that it was no longer appropriate to recognise the pension asset and therefore
it was derecognised and an asset ceiling applied in financial statements for 2020 and 2021.

At 31 December 2023, the total contributions to the defined benefit schemes in 2024 are expected to be £nil (2023:
£nil) due the funding level of the pension scheme meeting the criteria for ni] contributions in line with the scheme’s
schedule of contributions at 3] March 2021.

Total amount recognised as an expense/(income) in the Income Statement:

2023 2022

£7000 £°000

Current service cost 500 500
The fair value of plan assets were:

2023 2022

£7000 £000

Equities 15,630 13,540

Corporate Bonds : 131,110 124,298

Other Debt Instruments 135,806 152,196

Cash/property 2,620 4,059

Total market value of assets 285,166 ; 294,093

53|Page

Essity UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

21 ~+Post-employment benefits (continued)

The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the weighted principal assumptions is shown in the
following table as an increase/(decrease) in the liability:

Change in Increase in Decrease in
assumption assumption assumption
£7000 £,000
Discount rate 0.5% pa (17,928) ° 19,311
Salary growth rate 0.5% pa - . -
Pension growth rate 0.5% pa (16,373 (15,368)
Life expectancy | year 9,010 (8,697)

The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding al! other assumptions constant.
In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated.

When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same
method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end
of the reporting year) has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the statement of
financial position.

The methods and types of assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis did not change compared to the
previous year.

Defined contribution schemes

The Group’s defined contribution schemes are funded by the payment of contributions to independently
administered funds and the assets of the schemes are held separately from those of the company. The pension cost
charges for the year amounted to £7,609,000 (2022: £6,940,000). Contributions totalling £nil (2022: £nil) were
payable to the funds at the year end.

22 Leases

The carrying amounts of right-of-use assets are set out below.

Property Motor Total
Vehicles
£000 £7000 £°000
Carrying amount
At | January 2023 17,464 1,790 19,254
Additions 7,025 881 7,906
Depreciation (2,880) (833) (3,713)
At 31 December 2023 21,609 1,838 23,447

5S4[Pave

Essity UK Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

22 Leases (continued)

The carrying amounts of lease liabilities are set out below.

Lease
liabilities

£°000
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2023 19,676
Additions 7,906
Interest expense : 808
Payments (3,953)
At 31 December 2023 24,437
Maturity analysis of liability:
2023 2022
£°000 £7000
Payable within | year . 3,947 3,216
Payable after more than one year and up to 5 years 20,490 16,460
At 31 December 2023 24,437 19,676
The income statement shows the following amounts relating to leases.
2023 2022
£7000 £000
Expense relating to short-term leases 1,457 1,651
Expense relating to leases of low-value assets that are not shown above as
short-term leases 33 15

The total cash outflow for leases was £5,393,000 (2022: £4,492 ,000)

S5[Page

Essity UK Limited
Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

23 Post Balance Sheet events

On 28 June 2024 the company assumed responsibility for the Pension plan of Essity Operations Manchester Ltd
under a Flexible Apportionment Arrangement. On 1 July 2024 a Pension buy-in arrangement with Legal and
General Assurance Society Limited was executed for the company pension plans.

On 1 September 2024 the company acquired the net assets and trade of its sister company Essity Operations
Manchester Limited, which was already selling all its production of finished goods to Essity UK Limited as part of
its business with external customers. The transaction was done at book value for an amount of £51,155,000.

On 1 September 2024 the company acquired the trade of its sister company BSN Medical Limited for an estimated
value of £8,933,000 based on management accounts at 31 August 2024. The purchase price agreed is the sum of
the value of the investments held in this company’s books (€42,950,000), less the value of net monetary retained
in BSN Medical Limited following completion.

These transactions were executed to simplify the structure of Essity’s business in the U.K., to integrate the medical
business into the main trading company and processes of Essity in the U.K, and to reduce administrative costs.

24 Immediate and ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party

The company is a subsidiary of Essity Group Holding BV, a company registered in the Netherlands. By virtue of
their shareholding, the ultimate parent company and controlling party of the company is Essity Aktiebolag (publ),
a company incorporated in Sweden. The immediate parent company is Essity Holding UK Limited, a company
registered in England and Wales.

Essity Aktiebolag (pub!) was the parent company of the largest and smallest group to prepare consolidated financial
statements for 2023. These financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023 may be found on the website:

www.essity.com/investors/reports/annual-reports

56[Page

