Exertis (UK) Ltd

Directors’ report and financial statements
Contents

Directors and other information

Strategic report

Directors’ report

Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the strategic report,
the directors’ report and the financial statements

Independent auditor's report to the members of Exertis (UK) Ltd
Profit and loss account

Statement of other comprehensive income

Balance sheet '

Statement of changes in equity

Notes forming part of the financial statements

Page

15
16
17
18

20

Exertis (UK) Ltd

Directors and other information

Directors

Registered office

Auditor

Bankers

Solicitors

Registered number

P Bryan (Resigned 01 July 2024)

S Woodman (Resigned 31 March 2024)
T Griffin

L Deacon

M Sudlow

Technology House
Magnesium Way
Hapton

Burnley

BB12 7BF
England

KPMG

Chartered Accountants
1 Stokes Place

St. Stephen's Green
Dublin 2 :

National Westminster Bank plc
7 Hustlergate

Bradford

BD1 1PP

Pannone LLP
378/380 Deansgate
Manchester

M3 4LY

01511931

Exertis (UK) Ltd
Strategic report

Business review and future developments

Whilst overall financial performance during the year has been challenging, the Company is performing in
line with expectation and the implementation of the new ERP system cited in previous years is functioning
well and has created a stable, scalable and sustainable platform for the business to generate long-term
improved financial performance. The improvement in financial performance year-on-year has been
achieved through difficult trading conditions and is attributed to the early-stage successes of the ERP
system stabilisation with further improvement still expected.

The key objective of the Company is the maximisation of return on capital employed, in line with the
objectives of the ultimate parent company, DCC plc. The principal strategies to achieving this key
objective are the maximisation of revenue and gross margins by delivering excellent service to our
customers and continuously innovating to deliver new revenue streams. This is achieved by maintaining
and developing close relations with our key customers and suppliers and by exploring opportunities for
growth with new partners.

As a distributor, the Company benefits from highly focused sales and commercial functions managed to
maximise the opportunities that exist in our marketplace, supported by operating bespoke warehousing
facilities and support functions managed by an experienced and professional team. If required, the
knowledge and support available within the DCC plc group is utilised.

The directors are confident that they have implemented many new initiatives focused on driving profit
growth in existing channels whilst broadening the product range and utilising the financial strength of the
balance sheet to further improve our market position.

A dividend of £Nil (2023: £Nil) was paid in the year to Exertis (Holdings) Ltd, the Company's immediate
parent.

Principal risks & uncertainties

The management of the business and the execution of the Company’s strategy are subject to a number of
tisks. Risks are formally reviewed by the board and appropriate controls put in place to monitor and
mitigate them. If more than one event occurs, it is possible that the overall effect of such events would
compound the possible adverse effects on the Company.

The key business risks affecting the Company are set out below:

Competition

The Company operates in a highly competitive market particularly around price and product
availability/quality. This results in downward pressure on our margins. In order to mitigate this risk, our
commercial team monitors market prices on an ongoing basis and has responsibility for pricing goods
within their local region.

Market risks

The key areas of business risk are considered to relate to potentially increased competition with resulting
margin erosion, dependence on key suppliers, and the uncertain general economic conditions in the
European Union expected to continue to be prevailing in the coming year as a direct result of the cost of
living crisis in the UK and increasing levels of inflation.

Key employees

The resignation of key individuals and the inability to recruit people with the right experience and skills
could adversely impact the Company's results. To mitigate these issues, the Company has a thorough
induction and ongoing training programme for all employees.

Exertis (UK) Ltd
Strategic report (Continued)

Principal risks & uncertainties (continued)

Supply chain
The Company mitigates the risk of product availability through effective supplier selection and
procurement practices supplemented by appropriate insurance coverage.

Product safety

Poor product quality control requiring activation of our product recall procedures may give rise to legal
liability, significant costs and damage to the Company’s reputation. The Company mitigates this risk
through quality assurance processes and systems.

Compliance with legal and ethical standards

A material failure to comply with applicable legal and ethical standards could result in penalties, costs,
reputational harm and damage to relationships with suppliers or customers. The Company has detailed
guidelines and policies for employees on key compliance risks.

Acquisitions

A failure to identify, execute or properly integrate acquisitions could impact on profit targets and impede
the strategic development of the Company. To mitigate this risk, the Company engages in continuous
and active reviews of potential acquisitions. Performance is reviewed against original acquisition
proposals regularly.

Project/change management

A failure to complete change management programmes could impact on profit targets and impede the
strategic development of the Company. The Company resources projects and change management
programmes effectively to mitigate this risk.

!T/Cybercrime

Maintaining adequate IT systems and infrastructure to support growth and development may be affected
by: accidental exposure or deliberate theft of sensitive information, loss of service or system availability,
significant system changes or upgrades and cybercrime. To mitigate this risk, dedicated IT personnel with
appropriate technical expertise and support within the Company implement IT standards and oversee IT
security. In addition, Cybersecurity reviews are performed regularly.

Credit risk

The Company has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers
before sales are made. The amount of exposure to any individual company is subject to a limit, which is
reassessed continually by the credit control function. The Company also has a credit insurance policy in
place that limits the exposure the business has to bad debts. The Company also has in place a debt
factoring agreements with DCC Financial Services, Rabobank & BNP Paribas.

Financial risk management

Price risk
The Company is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its operations. The Company has in place
price protection agreements with the majority of suppliers.

Liquidity risk
If necessary, the Company would be funded by its ultimate parent company DCC plc, who ensure the
Company has sufficient available funds for operations and planned expansions.

Interest rate and cash flow risk
Most of the interest incurred by the Company is derived from inter-company loans. This availability of
inter-company funding also mitigates any cash flow risk.

Exertis (UK) Ltd
Strategic report (Continued)

Financial risk management (continued)

Foreign exchange risk

The Company is exposed to foreign exchange risk as a result of purchasing stocks from overseas
suppliers. The Company mitigates its exposure to adverse exchange rate movements by taking out
forward contracts for its foreign currency requirements.

Key financial performance indicators

The Company monitors and measures the following key performance indicators:

2024 2023 Change

£000 £'000 %

Turnover 1,550,654 1,665,166 6.88%
Gross profit as a % of turnover : 7.65% 6.47% 18.24%
Operating (loss) (13,015) (46,201) -71.83%
Operating (loss) as a % of turnover -0.84% -2.77% - 69.68%
Days sales outstanding 26.0 days © 31.2 days -16.67%
Days stock outstanding 36.9 days 37.1 days -0.54%
Energy consumption per £1,000 revenue 4.69 kWh 5.05 kWh -7.13%
Energy consumption per 1,000 units sold 245.97 kWh 283.74 kWh -13.31%
: Female Male

Employee gender split as at 31 March 2024 42.26% 57.74%

Section 172 statement

This statement, which forms part of the Strategic Report, is intended to show how the Company’s
Directors have approached and met their responsibilities under s172 Companies Act 2006 during 2024.
The statement has been prepared in response to the obligations as set out in the Companies
(Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018.

As required by s172 of the UK Companies Act 2006, a Director of a Company must act in a way s/he
considers, in good faith, would most likely promote the success of the company for the benefit of its
Shareholders. In doing this, the Director must have regard, amongst other matters, to the:

likely consequences of any decisions in the long term;

interests of the Company's employees;

need to foster the Company's business relationships with suppliers, customers and others;
impact of the Company's operations on the community and environment,

Company’s reputation for high standards of business conduct; and

need to act fairly as between members of the Company.

We understand that our business can only grow and succeed over the long term if we recognise the views
and needs of our stakeholders. Understanding our stakeholders is key to ensuring the Board can have
informed discussions and factor stakeholder interests into decision-making.

Exertis (UK) Ltd
Strategic report (Continued)

How the board engaged with its key stakeholders during the year
Our people

The Company employs over 1,000 people in the UK and recognises that they are fundamental to the
continued success of the business. At all levels, employees are encouraged to continue to adopt an
innovative, service-oriented approach to meeting the demands of suppliers and customers. At senior
management level, our operating businesses are run by some of the most highly regarded management
teams in the industry. The Company is committed to conducting its business in a sustainable manner and
this is reflected in how we interact with our employees. The business has processes to assess and control
material health and safety risks and aims to provide an attractive working environment for all our
employees. The business also undertakes regular employee surveys in order to hear the employee voice
and embed a culture of continuous listening and improvement.

The Company operates a wide variety of employee training programmes within individual business units
within the Company to promote the ongoing development of our colleagues at all levels in the
organisation. Employee training encompasses both personal development and role-specific training, in
addition to formal training in areas such as health and safety, risk and compliance. The Company
continues to place specific focus on the development of leadership skills for its management team; at
senior levels this is focused on building longer term leadership capability.

Customers

The business has an extensive customer base. The Company seeks to provide an excellent standard of
customer service by combining an extensive range of services with a commitment to identifying the most
cost-effective and flexible solutions to meet our customers’ requirements. By constantly focusing on
building the breadth of our reseller and retail-customer base, we ensure that our service offering is always
developing to adapt to their growing demands, as well as delivering an exceptional route-to-market for our
suppliers.

The introduction of the new ERP system into the Company will continue to help to expand the customer
breadth, especially for products in the SME market with the introduction of a significantly enhanced web
offering. Our supply chain services customers include IT equipment manufacturers, outsourced equipment
manufacturers, consumer electronics companies and telecommunications equipment manufacturers.

Suppliers

The Company has a diverse supplier base and partners with thousands of suppliers including many of the
world’s leading technology brands such as Acer, Dell, Intel, Lenovo, Microsoft, Samsung, Sonos and
Toshiba. The business adopts a proactive approach to the identification and recruitment of new suppliers
and technologies and seeks to position itself as the obvious choice for owners of growing brands to
access the retail and reseller channels. In addition, we seek to ensure that we have a position of strategic
relevance with our principal partners.

When providing supply chain services to technology manufacturers and brand owners, a core element of
the service provided by the business is the identification of appropriate component and supply chain
partners for the manufacturer or brand owner and carrying out the quality assurance on those suppliers to
ensure that they comply with required quality, regulatory and ethical standards. With the aim of promoting
long-term sustainable relationships with each of our suppliers and delivering a best-in-class service, the
operating principles we adopt with our suppliers have been formalised and communicated to our suppliers
in our ‘Code of Practice’.

Customer relationships in this area of our business tend to be long-term in nature and many of our
customers have been dealing with us for over 10 years.

Exertis (UK) Ltd
Strategic report (Continued)

How the board engaged with its key stakeholders during the year (continued)
Communities and Environment

The Company is committed to minimising the impact of our business operations on the environment. As a
global technology distributor, we produce zero industrial waste and our energy consumption is low.
Nevertheless, where we do have an environmental impact, our policy ensures that we are continually
monitoring and reducing carbon emissions, transportation, energy consumption, and complying with
regulations for the disposal of waste.

The Company seeks to enable communities to thrive, through a tangible and visible commitment that
brings its purpose to life. The Company supports local communities and national organisation both
financially and practically with volunteer days, sponsorship, fund raising and hands-on education
programmes.

On behalf of the board

Sn Fi

T Griffin 07 October 2024
Director ,

Exertis (UK) Ltd

Directors’ report
The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024.
Principal activities

The principal activity of the Company, registered number 01511931, is the sale, marketing and distribution of
technology products and services.

Results and dividends

A dividend was paid during the year of £Nil (2023: £Nil) to Exertis (Holdings) Limited, the Company's
immediate parent. The loss for the year was £39,094,000: (2023: loss of £35, 483,000).

The results of the Company for the year are set out in detail on page 15.
Going concern

The Company's principal business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future
development, performance and position are set out in the strategic report from pages 2 to 6. The
Company continues to provide services that generate sufficient income. In addition, the strategic report
includes the Company's objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk
management objectives, its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. Note 22 to the financial statements
includes details of the Company's financial instruments and hedging activities.

The Company has very considerable financial resources with a large number of customers and suppliers.
Having assessed the relevant business risks, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to
manage its business risks successfully. The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company,
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason,
they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.

The Company is in a net current liability position and as at 31 March 2024, DCC Energy Finance UK Limited
has provided a Letter of Support to ensure the Company is able to meet its debts as and when they fall
due. The directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.

Directors

The directors who served during the year and up to the date of signing the financial statements are detailed:
P Bryan (Resigned 01 July 2024)

S Woodman (Resigned 31 March 2024)

T Griffin

L Deacon

M Sudlow

Political contributions

The Company made no political contributions or incurred any political expenditure during the year (2023:
ENil).

Employee involvement
Employees are informed regularly about aspects of the business and its progress, which the Company

considers relevant to them, including communication through management channels in writing as
appropriate.

Exertis (UK) Ltd

Directors’ report (continued)
Employee involvement (continued)

The Company involves employees in matters of concern to their jobs, work situation, and endeavours to
maintain a sense of identity with the Company's aims and objectives. The effectiveness of employee
communication is regularly reviewed by the directors and improvements implemented as required.

Employment of disabled persons

It is the policy of the Company that disabled people, whether registered or not, should receive full and fair
consideration of all job vacancies for which they are suitable applicants. Employees who become disabled
during their working fife will be retained in employment wherever possible, and will be given help with any
necessary rehabilitation and retraining. The Company is prepared to modify procedures or equipment,
wherever it is practicable, so that full use can be made of an individual's abilities.

Creditor payment policy

Our policy is to pay suppliers within their agreed terms, however if discount is available for early
settlement of invoices we do take advantage of this. The majority of our creditors are paid at the end of
the month following the invoice date, although in specific circumstances we may agree to pay sooner or
Jater than standard terms. All suppliers are informed of our policy on the establishment of a new supplier
account.

Disclosure of information to auditor

Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that:

- so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor
is unaware and;

- each director has taken the steps he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditor is aware of that
information.

Post balance sheet events

There have been no significant post balance sheet events subsequent to the year-end which require
disclosure in, or adjustment to, the financial statements

Auditor

Pursuant to section 487 of the Companies Act 2006, the auditor will be deemed to be reappointed and
KPMG Chartered Accountants will therefore continue in office.

Exertis (UK) Ltd

Directors’ report (continued)

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting

Energy 7,279,046 kWh 8,402,045 kWh
consumption used
to calculate
emissions

Total gross tCO2 | 967.79 tonnes CO2
Energy 4.69 kWh per £1,000 of revenue
consumption 245.97 kWh per 1,000 units sold
intensities

Methodology The Company obtains monthly meter
readings from sites from supplier
invoices for gas and electricity. These
invoices are for smart meters and
meter readings to calculate the
monthly kWh usage per site for gas
and electricity, on a quarterly basis.

699.90 tonnes CO2
5.05 kWh per £1,000 of revenue
283.74 kWh per 1,000 units sold

The Company obtains monthly meter
readings from sites from supplier
invoices for gas and electricity. These
invoices are for smart meters and
meter readings to calculate the
monthly kWh usage per site for gas
and electricity, on a quarterly basis.

Assurance specialists from EY LLP conduct an annual limited assurance engagement over the ultimate
parent undertaking, DCC plc’s environmental data collation and calculation processes and produce an
assurance statement summarising the level of accuracy and inclusivity, with recommendations for
improvement. The Company's data shown above, is part of DCC plc's information that is consolidated for
the whole group and submitted to the assurance specialists.

On behalf of the board

Technology House
Magnesium Way

. Hapton
. . Burnley
WA.
“ a BB12 7BF
England

T Griffin 07 October 2024
Director

Exertis (UK) Ltd

Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the strategic report, the
directors’ report and the financial statements

The directors are responsible for preparing the directors’ report, strategic report and the financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that
law they have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced
Disclosure Framework.

Under Company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that
they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the
Company for that year. In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:

e — select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

« make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

e state whether applicable Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

« .assess the Company's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters
related to going concern; and

e —_use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Company or to
cease operations or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and
explain the. Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies:Act 2006. They are responsible for such-internal controls as they determine is necessary to
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to
. fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to
safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.

On behalf of the board

Sy 4

T Griffin 07 October 2024
Director

10

KPMG

KPMG

Audit

1 Stokes Place

St. Stephen's Green
Dublin 2

002 DEO3

Ireland

Independent auditor's report to the members of Exertis (UK) Ltd
Report on the audit of the financial statements
Opinion

- We have audited the financial statements of Exertis (UK) Ltd (‘the company’) for the year ended 31 March
2024, set out on pages 15 to 45, which comprise the Profit and Loss Account and Statement of Other
Comprehensive Income, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Changes in Equity and related notes,
including the summary of significant accounting policies set out in note 1. The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in their preparation is UK Law and FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure
Framework.

In our opinion:

. the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31
March 2024 and of its loss for the year then ended;

e the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with FRS 101 Reduced
Disclosure Framework issued by the UK’s Financial Reporting Council; and

e the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) ("ISAs (UK)”) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the
company in accordance with ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of financial statements in
the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council (FRC)’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

The directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to
liquidate the Company or to cease its operations, and as they have concluded that the Company's
financial position means that this is realistic. They have also concluded that there are no material
uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over its ability to continue as a going concern for at
least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements (“the going concern period’).

In our evaluation of the directors’ conclusions, we considered the inherent risks to the Company's
business model and analysed how those risks might affect the Company's financial resources or ability to
continue operations over the going concern period.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis
of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

11

APG, on lish permesshe arc 2 member fii a! the KPMG glotal
cepanaation el xieoondane member ums ated with KPMG:
Anterrasoral Limited, a private English compary feniiod by qaaranteo:

keme'

Independent auditor's report to the members of Exertis (UK) Ltd (continued)
Report on the audit of the financial statements (continued)
Conclusions relating to going concern (continued)

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events
or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Company's ability to
continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from the date when the financial
statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in
the relevant sections of this report.

However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in
outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the
absence of reference to a material uncertainty in this auditor's report is not a guarantee that the Company
will continue in operation.

Detecting irregularities including fraud

We identified the areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material
effect on the financial statements and risks of material misstatement due to fraud, using our
understanding of the entity's industry, regulatory environment and other external factors and inquiry with
the directors. In addition, our risk assessment procedures included: inquiring with the directors as to the
Company’s policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations and prevention and
detection of fraud; inquiring whether the directors have knowledge of any actual or suspected non-
compliance with laws or regulations or alleged fraud; inspecting the Company's regulatory and legal
correspondence; and reading Board minutes.

We discussed identified laws and regulations, fraud risk factors and the need to remain alert among the
audit team.

The Company is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including
companies and financial reporting legislation. We assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and
regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items, including assessing the
financial statement disclosures and agreeing them to supporting documentation when necessary.

The Company is not subject to other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance
could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements.

Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these non-direct
laws and regulations to inquiry of the directors and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if
any. These limited procedures did not identify actual or suspected non-compliance. -

We assessed events or conditions that could indicate an incentive or pressure to commit fraud or provide
an opportunity to commit fraud. As required by auditing standards, we performed procedures to address
the risk of management override of controls and the risk of fraudulent revenue recognition. We did not
identify any additional fraud risks.

In response to risk of fraud, we also performed procedures including: identifying journal entries to test
based on risk criteria and comparing the identified entries to supporting documentation; evaluating the
business purpose of significant unusual transactions; assessing significant accounting estimates for bias;
and assessing the disclosures in the financial statements.

12

km!

Independent auditor's report to the members of Exertis (UK) Ltd (continued)
Report on the audit of the financial statements (continued)
Detecting irregularities including fraud (continued)

Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected
some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and
performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards. For example, the further removed non-
compliance with laws and regulations (irregularities) is from the events and transactions reflected in the
financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would
identify it.

In addition, as with any audit, there remains a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls.

We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance
with all laws and regulations.

Other information

The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Annual Report together with the
financial statements. The other information comprises the information included in the strategic report and
the directors’ report. The financial statements and our auditor's report thereon do not comprise part of the
other information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and,
accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our
financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the
financial statements or our audit knowledge. Based solely on that work we have not identified material
misstatements in the other information.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
Based solely on our work on the other information undertaken during the course of the audit:
we have not identified material misstatements in the directors’ report or the strategic report;
in our opinion, the information given in the directors’ report and the strategic report is consistent
with the financial statements;
e in our opinion, the directors’ report and strategic report have been prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 2006.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
* adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not
been received from branches not visited by us; or
e _ the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

e certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
e we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in these respects.

13

Independent auditor's report to the members of Exertis (UK) Ltd (continuea)
Respective responsibilities and restrictions on use
Responsibilities of directors for the financial statements

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 10, the directors are
responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true
and fair view; such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; assessing the
Company's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern; and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the
Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud, other irregularities or error, and to issue an opinion
in an auditor’s report. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud, other irregularities or error and are considered material if, individually
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users
taken on the basis of these financial statements.

A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRC’s website at:
www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities

The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities

Our report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16
of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
company and the company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.

Niall Savage (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of
KPMG Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
1 Stokes Place

St. Stephen’s Green
Dublin 2

8 October 2024

14

Exertis (UK) Ltd

Profit and loss account
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Turnover

Cost of sales

Gross profit

Distribution costs

Administrative expenses

Other operating (expenses)/income
Non-recurring costs

Operating (loss)/profit

Interest receivable and similar income
Interest payable and similar charges
Income from investments

Loss before taxation
Tax on loss on ordinary activities

Loss for the financial year

All of the above results are derived from continuing activities.

15

Note

MND

2024
£000

1,550,654

(1,432,100)

118,554

(59,798)
(66,215)
(34)
(5,154)

(12,647)
790
(39,513)

(51,370)
12,276

(39,094)

2023
£'000

1,665,166

(1,557,497)

107,669

(59,872)
(94,556)
558

(46,201)
503
(27,501)
29,769

(43,430)
7,947

(35,483)


Exertis (UK) Ltd

Statement of other comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Note
Loss for the year

Other comprehensive income

ltems that are or may be reclassified subsequently to

profit or loss:

Movements relating to cash flow hedges

Movement in deferred tax liability on cash flow hedges - 18

Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the year,
net of income tax

Total comprehensive loss for the year

16

2024
£'000

(39,094)

45
(10)

35

(39,059)

2023
£°000

(35,483)

(149)
28

(121)

(35,604)

Exertis (UK) Ltd

Balance sheet
as at 31 March 2024

Note 2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Fixed assets
Financial assets 17 120,713 120,713
Intangible assets 12 83,913 89,520
Tangible assets 13 45,632 47,875
ROU assets 14 12,130 9,438
262,388 267,546
Current assets
Stock 15 144,653 158,283
Debtors 16 191,963 233,801
Derivative asset 22 50 2
Cash at bank and in hand 50,099 _ 31,479
386,765 423,565
Current liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 17 (510,498) (652,183)
Derivative liability 22 (46) (133)
Net current liabilities (123,799) (228,751)
Total assets less current liabilities 138,609 38,795
Provisions for liabilities
Deferred tax liability 18 (2,960) (2,950)
Long term lease liability 19 (9,436) (6,614)
Provisions 20 - (100)
Net assets 126,213 29,131
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 101,208 101,208
Share premium account 24 137,459 1,318
Cash flow hedging reserve 20 (15)
Profit and loss account (112,474) (73,380)

Total shareholder’s funds 126,213 29,131

These financial statements were approved by the board of directors on 07 October 2024 and were signed
on its behalf by:

Saiffin
Director
Registered number: 01511931

17

Exertis (UK) Ltd

Statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Balance at 1 April 2022
Total comprehensive loss for the year

Loss
Other comprehensive income

Total comprehensive loss for the year

Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
Issue of Shares
Dividends

Balance at 31 March 2023

Share Cash flow
Called up premium hedging Profit and Total
share capital account reserve loss account equity
£000 £°000 £'000 £'000 £'000
101,208 1,318 106 (37,897) 64,735
i - - (35,483) (35,483)
: - (121) - (121)
: (121) (35,483) (35,604)
101,208 1,318 (15) (73,380) 29,131

18

Exertis (UK) Ltd

Statement of changes in equity (continued)

Balance at 1 April 2023
Total comprehensive loss for the year

Loss
Other comprehensive income

Total comprehensive loss for the year

Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity
Issue of Shares (note 23)
Dividends

Balance at 31 March 2024

Share Cash flow
Called up premium hedging Profit and Total
share capital account reserve loss account equity
£000 £'000 £7000 £7000 £7000
101,208 1,318 (15) (73,380) 29,131
= - : (39,094) (39,094)
- - 35 - 35
- - 35 (39,094) (39,059)
- 136,141 - - 136,141
101,208 137,459 20 (112,474) 126,213


Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes
forming part of the financial statements

1

Accounting policies
Reporting entity

Exertis (UK) Ltd (the “Company”) is a company incorporated, domiciled and registered in the United
Kingdom. The Company's registered number is 01511931 and registered office is Technology
House, Magnesium Way, Hapton, Burnley, BB12 7BF, England.

Basis of preparation

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101
Reduced Disclosure Framework ("FRS 101"). The financial statements have been prepared under
the historical cost convention, except for derivative financial instruments, which are stated at their fair
value.

In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and
disclosure requirements of UK-adopted international accounting standards in conformity with the
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 ("UK-adopted IFRS”) but makes amendments where
necessary in order to comply with the Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage
of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions have been taken.

The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the Company.
Monetary amounts in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest thousand pound.

In preparing these financial statements, certain prior year comparative amounts have been
reclassified to conform with current year presentations.

The Company's ultimate parent undertaking, DCC Plc includes the Company in its consolidated
financial statements. The consolidated financial statements of DCC Ple are prepared in accordance
with International Financial. Reporting Standards and are available to the public and may be obtained
from DCC House, Leopardstown Road, Foxrock, Dublin 18, Ireland.

The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101:

a cash flow statement and related notes;

comparative period reconciliations for share capital and intangible assets;

disclosures in respect of transactions with wholly owned subsidiaries;

the effect of new but not yet effective IFRS’s;

disclosures in respect of the compensation of Key Management Personnel; and

disclosures of transactions with a management entity that provides key management personnel
services to the Company.

As the consolidated financial statements of DCC plc include the equivalent disclosures, the Company
has also taken the exemptions under FRS 101 available in respect of the following disclosures:

e Certain disclosures required by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and the disclosures
required by IFRS 7 Financial Instrument Disclosures.

The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all
years presented in these financial statements.

Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these accounting policies that have
significant effect on the financial statements and estimates with a signifi icant risk of material
adjustment in the next year are discussed in note 2.

20

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

1

Accounting policies (continued)
Going concern

The Company's principal business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future
development, performance and position are set out in the strategic report from pages 2 to 6. The
Company continues to provide services that generate sufficient income. In addition, the strategic
report includes the Company's objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its
financial risk management objectives, its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk. Note 22 to the
financial statements includes details of the Company’s financial instruments and hedging activities.

The Company has very considerable financial resources with a large number of customers and
suppliers. Having assessed the relevant business risks, the Directors believe that the Company is
well placed to manage its business risks successfully. The Directors have a reasonable expectation
that the Company, have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.

The Company is in a net current liability position and as at 31 March 2024, DCC Energy Finance UK
Limited has provided a Letter of Support to ensure the Company is able to meet its debts as and when
they fall due. The directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.

Consolidation

The Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of DCC pic and is included in the consolidated financial
statements of DCC plc which are publicly available. Consequently, the Company has taken advantage
of the exemption from preparing consolidated financial statements under the terms of Section 400 of the
Companies Act 2006.

Foreign currencies

Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rates ruling at the dates of the
transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into
sterling at the exchange rates ruling at the balance sheet date, with the exception of trade creditors
that are hedged through forward currency contracts, which are held in the balance sheet at the
relevant currency rate. Any translation differences are dealt with in the profit and loss account.

Investment in subsidiary undertakings
Investments in subsidiary undertakings are recorded in the Company balance sheet at cost plus

incidental expenses less any provision for impairment. Impairment reviews are performed when
there has been an indication of potential impairment.

21

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

1

Accounting policies (continued)
Intangible assets
{i) Goodwill arising on hive up

The goodwill capitalised as an intangible asset in the individual Company accounts relate to the trade
and assets of the acquiree that were transferred to the Company.

Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of a business combination over the acquired company's
interest in the fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired. Cost
comprises the fair value of assets given, liabilities assumed and equity instruments issued, plus the
amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree.

Contingent consideration is included in cost at its acquisition date fair value and, in the case of
contingent consideration classified as a financial liability, remeasured subsequently through profit or
loss. For business combinations completed on or after 1 January 2010, direct costs of acquisition are
recognised immediately as an expense.

(ii) Computer software

Costs directly attributable to the development of computer software are capitalised as intangible
assets only when technical feasibility of the project is demonstrated, the Company has an intention
and ability to complete and use the software and the costs can be measured reliably. Such costs
include purchases of materials and services and payroll-related costs of employees directly involved
in the project. Research.costs are recognised as an expense when incurred. :

Computer software are subsequently carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated
impairment losses. These costs are amortised to profit or loss using the straight-line method over
their estimated useful lives.

Tangible assets

Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment
losses. Where parts of an item of tangible fixed assets have different useful lives, they are
accounted for as separate items of tangible fixed assets.

Depreciation is charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the estimated
useful lives of each part of an item of tangible fixed assets. Land is not depreciated. The estimated
useful lives are as follows:

e — freehold land and buildings 2%
« plant and equipment 7- 33%
« — motor vehicles 20 - 25%

Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
Leases

The Company assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease, at inception of a contract. A
contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified
asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. The Company recognises a right-of-use
asset and a corresponding lease liability with respect to all lease agreements in which it is the
lessee, except for short-term leases (defined as leases with a lease term of 12 months or less) and
leases of low value assets.

22

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued) .

1

Accounting policies (continued)
Leases (continued)
Low value leases

The Company has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for lease of low-
value assets and short-term leases. The Company recognises the lease payments as an operating
expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless another systematic basis is more
representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.

As a lessee

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at
the commencement date, discounted by using the Company’s incremental borrowing rate. The
discount rates applied were arrived at using a methodology to calculate the incremental borrowing
rates across the Group headed by DCC plc. The Group engaged a specialist valuation expert to
assist with this process. The weighted average incremental borrowing rate applied to lease creditors
on the Balance Sheet was 3.0% at 1 April 2020.

Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise:

fixed lease payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives;
variable lease payments that depend on an index or rate, initially measured using the index or
rate at the commencement date;
the amount expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees;
the exercise price of purchase options, if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise the
options; and

¢ payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the exercise of an
option to terminate the lease.

The lease liability is presented as a separate line in the balance sheet.

The lease liability is subsequently measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on
the lease liability (using the effective interest method) and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect
the lease payments made.

The Company did not make any such adjustments during the periods presented.

The right-of-use assets comprise the initial measurement of the corresponding lease liability, lease
payments made at or before the commencement day and any initial direct costs. They are
subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.

Whenever the Company incurs an obligation for costs to dismantle and remove a leased asset,

restore the site on which it is located or restore the underlying asset to the condition required by the
terms and conditions of the lease, a provision is recognised and measured under IAS 37. The costs
are included in the related right-of-use asset, unless those costs are incurred to produce inventories.

Right-of-use assets are depreciated over the shorter period of lease term and useful life of the
underlying asset. If a lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset or the cost of the right-of-use
asset reflects that the Company expects to exercise a purchase option, the related right-of-use asset
is depreciated over the useful life of the underlying asset. The depreciation starts at the
commencement date of the lease.

The right-of-use assets are presented as a separate line in the balance sheet.

23

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

1

Accounting policies (continued)
Financial instruments
(i) Recognition and initial measurement

Trade debtors and debt securities issued are initially recognised when they are originated. All other
financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised when the Company becomes a party to
the contractual provisions of the instrument.

A financial asset (unless it is a trade debtor without a significant financing component) or financial
liability is initially measured at fair value plus, for an item not at fair value through profit and loss
(FVTPL), transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition or issue. A trade debtor
without a significant financing component is initially measured at the transaction price.

(ii) Classification and subsequent measurement
Financial assets
(a) Classification

On initial recognition, a financial asset is classified as measured at: amortised cost; fair value through
other comprehensive income (FVOC\I) — debt investment; FVOCI — equity investment; or FVTPL.

Financial assets are not reclassified subsequent to their initial recognition unless the Company
changes its business model for managing financial assets in which case all affected financial assets
are reclassified on the first day of the first reporting period following the change in the business
model.

A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if it meets both of the following conditions:

- itis held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash
flows; and

- its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

A debt investment is measured at FVOCI if it meets both of the following conditions:

- itis held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash
flows and selling financial assets; and

- its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of
principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

On initial recognition of an equity investment that is not held for trading, the Company may
irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in the investment'’s fair value in other
comprehensive income (OCI). This election is made on an investment-by-investment basis.

All financial assets not classified as measured at amortised cost or FVOCI as described above are
measured at FVTPL. This includes all derivative financial assets. On initial recognition, the Company
may irrevocably designate a financial asset that otherwise meets the requirements to be measured at
amortised cost or at FVOCI or at FVTPL if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting
mismatch that would otherwise arise.

24

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

1

Accounting policies (continued)

Financial instruments (continued)

(ii) Classification and subsequent measurement (continued)
Financial assets (continued)

(b) Subsequent measurement and gains and losses

Financial assets at FVTPL - these assets (other than derivatives designated as hedging instruments)
are subsequently measured at fair value. Net gains and losses, including any interest or dividend
income, are recognised in profit or loss.

Financial assets at amortised cost - these assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost
using the effective interest method. The amortised cost is reduced by impairment losses. Interest
income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are recognised in profit or loss. Any gain
or loss on derecognition is recognised in profit or loss.

Debt investments at FVOCI - these assets are subsequently measured at fair value. Interest income
calculated using the effective interest method, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment
are recognised in profit or loss. Other net gains and losses are recognised in OCI. On derecognition,
gains and losses accumulated in OCI are reclassified to profit or loss.

Equity investments at FVOCI - these assets are subsequently measured at fair value. Dividends are
recognised as income in profit or loss unless the dividend clearly represents a recovery of part of the
cost of the investment. Other net gains and losses are recognised in OCI and are never reclassified

to profit or loss.

Financial liabilities and equity

Financial instruments issued by the Company are treated as equity only to the extent that they meet
the following two conditions:

(a) they include no contractual obligations upon the Company to deliver cash or other financial assets
or to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are
potentially unfavourable to the Company; and

(b) where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company's own equity instruments, it is either a
non-derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company's own equity
instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company’s exchanging a fixed amount of
cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.

To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Company’s own shares, the amounts
presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium account
exclude amounts in relation to those shares.

Financial liabilities are classified as measured at amortised cost or FVTPL. A financial liability is
classified as at FVTPL if it is classified as held-for-trading, it is a derivative or it is designated as such
on initial recognition. Financial liabilities at FVTPL are measured at fair value and net gains and
losses, including any interest expense, are recognised in profit or loss. Other financial liabilities are
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Interest expense and
foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition
is also recognised in profit or loss.

25

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

1

Accounting policies (continued)
Financial instruments (continued)
(ii) Classification and subsequent measurement (continued)

Financial liabilities and equity (continued)

, Where a financial instrument that contains both equity and financial liability components exists these

components are separated and accounted for individually under the above policy.
(iii) Derivative financial instruments and hedging

Derivative financial instruments

Derivative financial instruments are recognised at fair value. The gain or loss on remeasurement to
fair value is recognised immediately in profit or loss. However, where derivatives qualify for hedge
accounting, recognition of any resultant gain or loss depends on the nature of the item being hedged.

Cash flow hedges

Changes in the fair value of derivative hedging instruments designated as cash flow hedges are
recognised in other comprehensive income to the extent that the hedge is effective. The gain or loss
relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.

Amounts accumulated in other comprehensive income are reclassified to the income statement in
the same periods that the hedged items affect profit or loss as follows:

e The reclassified gain or loss relating to the effective portion of interest rate swaps hedging
variable rate borrowings is recognised in the income statement within finance income or costs
respectively.

e When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in other comprehensive
income is transferred to the carrying amount of the asset when it is recognised. The deferred
amounts are ultimately recognised in profit or loss as the hedged item affects profit or loss.

If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expired or is sold,
terminated or exercised, the hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain or
loss previously recognised in other comprehensive income remains there until the forecast
transaction occurs, unless the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, in which case the
cumulative gain or loss that was previously recognised in other comprehensive income is transferred
to the income statement.

(iv) Impairment

The Company recognises loss allowances for expected credit losses (ECLs) on financial assets
measured at amortised cost, debt investments measured at FVOCI and contract assets (as defined
in IFRS 15).

The Company measures loss allowances at an amount equal to lifetime ECL, except for other debt
securities and bank balances for which credit risk (i.e. the risk of default occurring over the expected
life of the financial instrument) has not increased significantly since initial recognition which are
measured as 12-month ECL.

Loss allowances for trade receivables and contract assets are always measured at an amount equal
to lifetime ECL. Trade receivables and contract assets with a significant financing component are
measured using the general model described above.

26

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

1

Accounting policies (continued)
Financial instruments (continued)
(iv) Impairment (continued)

When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since initial
recognition and when estimating ECL, the Company considers reasonable and supportable
information that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort. This includes both quantitative
and qualitative information and analysis, based on the Company’s historical experience and informed
credit assessment and including forward-looking information.

The Company assumes that the credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantly if it is aged
greater than the agreed credit terms.

The Company considers a financial asset to be in default when:

e the borrower is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the Company in full, without recourse by
the company to actions such as realising security (if any is held); or

« the financial asset is aged significantly greater than the agreed credit terms.

Lifetime ECLs are the ECLs that result from all possible default events over the expected life of a
financial instrument.

12-month ECLs are the portion of ECLs that result from default events that are possible within the 12
months after the reporting date (or a shorter period if the expected life of the instrument is less than
12 months). ,

The maximum period considered when estimating ECLs is the maximum contractual period over
which the company is exposed to credit risk.

Measurement of ECLs

ECLs are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses. Credit losses are measured as the present
value of all cash shortfalls (i.e. the difference between the cash flows due to the entity in accordance
with the contract and the cash flows that the company expects to receive).

Credit-impaired financial assets

At each reporting date, the company assesses whether financial assets carried at amortised cost
and debt securities at FVOCI are credit-impaired. A financial asset is ‘credit-impaired’ when one or
more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset
have occurred.

Write-offs
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or in full) to the extent
that there is no realistic prospect of recovery.

Impairment of non-financial assets excluding stock and deferred tax assets

The carrying amounts of the company’s non-financial assets, other than stocks and deferred tax
assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of
impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset's recoverable amount is estimated. For
goodwill and intangible assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet available for use,
the recoverable amount is estimated each year at the same time.

27

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

1

Accounting policies (continued)
Impairment of non-financial assets excluding stock and deferred tax assets (continued)

The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its
fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are
discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. For the purpose of
impairment testing, assets that cannot be tested individually are grouped together into the smallest
group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the
cash inflows of other assets or groups of assets (the “cash-generating unit’).

An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its estimated
recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.

Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any
indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss
is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount
that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been
recognised.

Stocks

_ Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Provision is made where necessary
‘for obsolete, slow moving and defective stock, and is valued based on FIFO principles.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts are
repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Company's cash management.

Trade and other creditors

Trade and other creditors are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they
are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a
result of a past event, it is probable that the Company will be required to settle that obligation and a
reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Inherent uncertainties exist in
evaluations which are outside of management's control primarily due to unknown conditions,
changing governmental regulations and legal standards regarding liability together with the
protracted nature of these liabilities. The liabilities provided in the financial statements reflect the
information available to management at the time of determination of the liability and are reassessed
at each reporting date.

28

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

1

Accounting policies (continued)
Turnover

Turnover comprises the fair value of the sale of goods and services to external customers net of
applicable sales taxes, volume and promotional rebates, allowances and discounts. The Company is
deemed to be a principal in an arrangement when it controls a promised good or service before
transferring them to a customer, and accordingly recognises revenue on a gross basis. Where the
Company is determined to be an agent in a transaction, based on the principal of control, the net
amount retained after the deduction of any costs to the principal is recognised as revenue. Revenue
is recorded when the collection of the amount is reasonably assured and when specific criteria have
been met for each of the Company’s activities as detailed below.

Sales of goods

Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of
the goods are transferred to the customer and when the amount of revenue and costs incurred can
be measured reliably. This generally arises on dispatch or in accordance with specific terms and
conditions agreed with individual customers. In the case of consignment stock arrangements,
revenue is recognised on the date that legal title passes. Sales returns and discounts are recorded in
the same period as the original revenue.

The Company derives the majority of its revenue from the sale, marketing and distribution of
consumer and SME focused technology products. Revenue is generally recognised on dispatch.
Should volume and promotional rebates be granted to customers they are recognised as a reduction
in sales revenue at the time of the sale based on managements’ estimate of the likely rebate to be
awarded to customers. Estimates are based on historical results, taking into consideration the type of
customer, the type of transaction and the specific facts of each arrangement.

Other operating income is made up of items of income/expenditure incurred and not recognised
within other categories on the face of the statement of profit or loss (e.g. any gain or loss recognised
on sale of a leased asset).

Pension costs

The Company contributes to various pension schemes of the defined contribution type. A defined
contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Company pays fixed
contributions into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further
amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an
expense in the profit and loss account in the periods during which services are rendered by
employees.

Taxation
Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the

profit and loss account except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or
other comprehensive income, in which case it is recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive

income. >

Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year,
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to
tax payable in respect of previous years.

29

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

1

Accounting policies (continued)
Taxation (continued)

Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following
temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of
assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business
combination, and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably
not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected
manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.

A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will
be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.

Dividends

Ordinary dividends declared as final dividends are recognised as a liability in the period in which they
are approved by the directors. Interim dividends are recognised as a liability when they have been
approved by the directors.

Interest payable and similar charges -

Interest payable and similar charges comprise the interest expense on borrowings. Interest is

‘ recognised in the profit and loss account as it accrues, using the effective interest method.

Interest bearing borrowings

Interest bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the
effective interest method, less any impairment losses.

Exceptional Items/non-recurring costs

Exceptional items are those that the directors’ view are required to be separately disclosed by virtue
of their size or incidence to enable a full understanding of the group’s financial performance.

Exceptional items are material non-recurring items that derive from events or transactions that fall
within the ordinary activities of the group and which individually or, if of similar type, in aggregate, are
separately disclosed by virtue of their size or incidence. Such items include restructuring and
strategic costs.

Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the Company's accounting policies, the directors are required to make
judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amount of assets and liabilities that are
not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on
historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ
from these estimates. ;
The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to
accounting estimates are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised where the revision
affects only that year, or in the year of the revision and future years where the revision affects both
current and future years.

30

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

2

Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
Key sources of estimation uncertainty

The estimates and assumptions which have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the
carrying amount of assets and liabilities are as follows

Impairment

Goodwill and intangible assets that have an indefinite useful life are not subject to amortisation and
are tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate
that they might be impaired. Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount,
the asset is written down accordingly through the profit and loss account.

Stock provision

Provisions have been made over the recoverable value of stock. This provision is an estimate and
the actual costs and timing of future cash flows are dependent on future events. The difference
between expectation and the actual future liability will be accounted for in the year when such
determination is made.

Turnover

Ail revenue relates to the Company’s principal activities carried out in the UK. The geographical
analysis of the Company’s turnover is as follows:

2024 2023
£000 £'000
Turnover by geographical segment
United Kingdom 1,518,340 1,630,822
Rest of Europe 31,908 33,611
Rest of the world 406 733
1,550,654 1,665, 166
2024 2023
£000 £'000
Turnover by activity
Sales of goods and services 1,550,654 1,665,166
1,550,654 1,665,166

31

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

4

Directors’ emoluments
Aggregate emoluments and benefits of which £44,880
(2023: £231,855) relates to long term incentive schemes

Company pension contributions to money purchase
Schemes

Directors’ emoluments include amounts paid to:

Highest paid director

Aggregate emoluments and benefits of which £nil (2023:
£168,970) relates to long term incentive schemes

Company pension contributions to money purchase
schemes

2024 2023
£7000 £'000
928 1,495
69 21
997 1,516
2024 2023
£000 £000
412 644
4 4

416 648

Pension contributions were paid in respect of 3 directors (2023: 3 directors).

Employee information

during the year was:

By activity
Selling and distribution
General administration

Staff costs (for the above persons)
Wages and salaries

Social security costs

Other pension costs (note 21)

32

"The average monthly number of persons (including executive directors) employed by the Company

2024 2023
Number Number
1,019 1,138
401 402
1,420 1,540
2024 2023
£'000 £7000
63,476 62,607
5,828 §,781
2,741 2,663
72,045 71,051


Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

6

Interest receivable and similar income

Interest receivable from bank
Interest receivable from other group companies

Interest payable and similar charges

Interest payable to bank
Interest payable leases
Interest payable to other group companies

Income from investments

Dividends received from subsidiaries

Loss on ordinary activities before taxation

Loss on ordinary activities is stated after charging:

Depreciation/amortisation:
Owned assets (note 13)
Leased assets (note 14)
Intangible assets (note 12)

Short term/ow value lease charges:
Others

Fees payable for the audit: KPMG
Fees payable for other (non-audit) advisory

33

2024 2023
£000 £'000
547 245
243 258
790 503
2024 2023
£000 £'000
5,708 7,570
389 383
33,416 19,548
39,513 27,501
2024 2023
£000 £7000
- 29,769

- 29,769
2024 2023
£000 £'000
3,103 3,228
2,124 2,805
5,881 5,881
250 187


Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

10 Taxon loss on ordinary activities 2024 2023
£000 £'000

Current tax:
United Kingdom corporation tax on loss of the year (11,779) (8,018)
Adjustments in respect of previous years (180) 1,034
Total current tax credit (11,959) (6,984)

Deferred tax: ¢

Origination and reversal of timing differences (431) (99)
Adjustment in respect of prior years 114 (642)
Impact of change in tax rate - (222)
Total deferred tax (317) (963)
Tax on loss on ordinary activities . (12,276) (7,947)

The tax assessed for the year is more than (2023: more than) the standard rate of corporation tax in
the UK for the year ended 31 March 2024 of 25% (2023: 19%). The differences are explained below:

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Loss on ordinary activities before tax (51,370) (43,430)
Loss on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate in the
UK of 25% (2023: 19%) (12,843) (8,252)
Effects of:
Tax rates - (222)
Expenses not deducted for tax purposes 672 160
Non taxable income (39) (25)
Adjustments in respect of previous years ' (66) 392
Amount recognised in exceptionals - -
Total tax credit for year (12,276) (7,947)

34

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

11

Financial assets 2024
£000

Investments in group undertakings

Cost at beginning of year 120,713

Impairments -

Balance at 31 March 120,713

2023
£000

135,314

(14,601)

120,173

The Company has investments in a number of subsidiary entities that are further disclosed in note
26.

During the year ended 31 March 2023 there were a number of dormant subsidiary entities struck off
the register. The £14,601,000 impairment value above represents the reduction in Investments in

group undertakings balance following the strike off of the below entities:

Direct

Undertaking Holdings
AGP Distribution Limited 100%
‘Micro P Stoke Limited 100%
Advent Data Limited 100%
‘Exertis Advent Limited . -
Ashmede Limited -
Exertis Computer Supplies Limited -
Transaction One Limited -
Janson Technology -
Odysseus Holdings Limited 100%
Medium (U.K.) Limited -
Siracom Limited 100%

V2 Electronics Limited -

35

Indirect
Holdings

100%
100%
100%
100%
100%

100%
100%

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

12. Intangible assets

Cost

At 31 March 2023
Reclassification
Additions
Impairment
Disposal

At 31 March 2024
Accumulated amortisation
At 31 March 2023
Reclassification

Charge for the year
Disposal

At 31 March 2024

Net book value

At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

Asset under Computer
construction Goodwill Software Total
£000 £000 £'000 £000
879 35,958 66,873 103,710
(1,802) - 1,595 (207)
923 - - 923
- - (754) (754)
- 35,958 67,714 103,672
207 : 13,983 14,190
(207) - - (207)
- - 5,880 5,880
- - (104) (104)
: - 19,759 19,759
- 35,958 47,955 83,913
672 35,958 52,890 89,520

During the year ended 31 March 2024 £1,596,000 was capitalised from assets under construction to

computer software.

36

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

13 Tangible Assets

Freehold

land and Plant and

buildings equipment Total

“£000 £’000 £000

Cost
At 31 March 2023 38,847 25,963 64,810
Additions 664 614 1,278
Disposals - - -
Impairments (155) (313) (468)
At 31 March 2024 39,356 26,264 65,620
Accumulated
Depreciation :
At 31 March 2023 4,599 12,336 16,935
Charge for the year 851 2,252 3,103
Disposals - - -
Impairments (22) “ (28) (50)
At 31 March 2024 5,428 14,560 19,988
Net book value
At 31March 2024 - 33,928 11,704 45,632
At 31 March 2023 34,248 13,627 47,875

37

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

14 Right of use assets Freehold
Motor . land and Plant and
Vehicles buildings equipment Total
£000 £000 £7000 £000
Cost .
At 31 March 2023 2,147 14,841 87 17,075
Additions 344 6,499 331 7,174
Impairment - (2,358) - (2,358)
Reclassification and transfers - - - -
Disposals (275) (1,243) (87) (1,605)
At 31 March 2024 2,216 17,739 331 20,286
Accumulated
Depreciation
At 31 March 2023 592 6,991 54 7,637
Charge for the year 544 1,520 60 2,124
Disposals (275) (1,243) (87) (1,605)
At 31 March 2024 , 861 7,268 . 27 8,156
Net book value
At 31 March 2024 1,356 10,470 304 12,130
At 31 March 2023 1,555 7,850 33 9,438
15 Stocks 2024 2023
£000 £7000
Goods for resale ; 144,653 158,283

The difference between historical cost and replacement cost is not material in the opinion of the
directors. Stock charged to cost of sales during the year was £1,432, 100,000 (2023:
£1,557,497,000).

38

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

16 Debtors: amounts falling due within one year ~ 2024 2023
£000 £'000

Trade debtors 110,288 142,190
Amounts owed by group undertakings (Note 27) 31,941 33,480
Other debtors , 24,334 21,504
Corporation tax debtor 19,123 28,958
Prepayments and accrued income 5,677 7,387
Deferred tax asset (Note 18) 600 282

191,963 233,801

The Company participates in factoring agreements with a fellow subsidiary undertaking and third-
party banks. Invoices issued in March and prior are included in the factoring agreement, and as such
have been converted to cash in the Company's accounts. The factored trade debt at 31 March 2024
was £145,385,847 (2023: £151,096, 988).

Amounts owed by group companies are repayable on demand and no security is held against these
amounts. Certain loan amounts carry a rate of interest of 2%.

17 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 2024 2023
£000 £'000

Trade creditors 233,313 325,536
Amounts owed to group undertakings (Note 27) 211,264 242,472
Other creditors 18,943 28,102
Short term lease liability . 2,587 3,608
VAT 4,229 9,865
Social security and other taxes . 2,542 1,878
Accruals and deferred income 37,620 40,722
510,498 652,183

Amounts owed to group companies are repayable on demand and no security is held against these
amounts. Certain loan amounts attract various rates of interest.

39

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

18 Deferred tax assets and liabilities

Property, Derivative
plant and financial
equipment instruments Other Total
£000 £000 £000 £°000
Movement in deferred tax
during the prior year
At 1 April 2022 (3,918) (25) 282 (3,661)
Recognised in income 963 - - 963
Recognised in OCI - 28 - 28
Other/exchange 2 - - 2
At 31 March 2023 (2,953) 3 282 (2,668)
Movement in deferred tax
during the year
At 1 April 2023 (2,953) 3 282 (2,668)
Recognised in income - - 317 317
Recognised in OCI - (10) - (10)
Other/exchange - - - -

At 31 March 2024 (2,953) (7) 599 (2,361)

The amounts recognised through the Other/exchange lines represent immaterial adjustments not
recognised through the income statement or OCI.

2024 2023

£°000 £'000

Deferred tax assets 599 282
Deferred tax liabilities (2,960) (2,950)
(2,361) (2,668)

40

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

19 Lease liabilities

2024 2023
. £000 £'000
At beginning of year 10,222 10,718
Lease interest 398 392
Additions during the year 6,223 959
Lease repayments (4,453) (3,507)
intra-group transfer : 1,660
Termination of lease (367) -
At 31 March 12,023 10,222
Maturity analysis
Amount falling due within one year , 2,587 3,608
Between one and two years ; 1,909 2,173
Between two and five years 4,459 2,628
Over five years 3,068 1,813
Total amounts due after more than one year 9,436 6,614
Total lease liabilities 12,023 10,222

During the year ending 31 March 2023 two leases in the name of Kondor Ltd, a dormant subsidiary
of the company, were novated to Exertis (UK) Limited. The £1,660,000 intra-group transfer above
represents the transfer of the lease liability to the company.

44

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

20 Provisions : Restructuring Total
£000 £7000

Balance at 1 April 2023 100 100
Provisions made during year - -
Provisions reclassed to current liabilities (100) (100)
Balance at 31 March 2024 . .

21

22

Provisions held in the prior year related to dilapidation accruals for leases held at the year end.
Assumptions are made regarding amounts to accrue for known obligations.

Pension and similar obligations

The Company contributes to several employee personal pension schemes. The assets of these
schemes are held separately from those of the Company in independently administered funds. The
pension cost charge represents contributions payable by the Company to the funds, and amounted
to £2,741,227 (2023: £2,662,616) of which ENil (2023: £Nil) was outstanding as at 31 March 2024.

Financial instruments . .

The fair values of all financial assets and financial liabilities by class together with their carrying
amounts shown in the balance sheet are as follows:

2024 2023
£000 £'000
IFRS 9 categories of financial instruments
Financial assets held for trading (including all
derivatives)
Forward currency contracts 50 2
Financial liabilities held for trading (including all
derivatives)
Forward currency contracts (46) (133)
Net financial assets designated as hedges 4 (131)

Fair value on forward exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between the
contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the contract using
a risk-free interest rate (based on government bonds).

42

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)

23 Called up share capital 2024 2023
£000 £'000

Allotted, called up and fully paid
101,208,331 (2023: 101,208,330) 101,208 101,208
ordinary shares of £1 each

24 Share premium account 2024 2023
£7000 £'000
Outstanding share premium 137,459 1,318

During the year ended 31 March 2024, the company issued 1 ordinary share for a consideration of
£136,140,863, increasing the total number of shares in issue to 101,208,331 (2023: 101,208,330).
Called up share capital therefore increased during the year by the face value of £1, with the balance
of £136, 140,862 increasing the outstanding share premium.

25 Capital commitments and contingent liabilities
Capital commitments contracted by the directors at 31 March 2024 amount to ENil (2023: ENil). The

Company has no contingent liabilities at 31 March 2024 (2023: E£Nil)

26 _— Investments in subsidiaries

Direct Indirect
Undertaking Holdings Holdings
United Kingdom
Micro P Limited 100% -
Micro P Mobile Limited 100% -
Micro Peripherals Limited : 100% -
Exertis Micro P Limited 100% -
Janson Computers Limited 100% -
Digital Toolbox Limited - 100%
Gem Distribution Limited 100% -
Exertis Gem Limited - 100%
Hammer Consolidated Holdings Limited 100% -
Exertis Hammer Limited - : 100%
Malleus Limited - 100%
V2 Limited - 100%
Hammer Group Limited - 100%
MTR Group Holding Limited 100% -
MTR Group Limited - 100%
4Gadgets Limited - 100%
Fonewizard Europe Ltd - 100%
Hypertec Limited 100% -
Just Lamps Limited - 100%
Stampede Global UK Ltd 100% -
Kondor Holdco Ltd 100% -
Kondor Bidco Ltd - 100%
Kondor Ltd - 100%
Kondor Midco Ltd - 100%
Middleseries Limited - 100%

43

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)
26 Investments in subsidiaries (continued)

Netherlands
Exertis Enterprise NL B.V. - 100%
Registered Address Weerlaan 2, 2181 HH, Hillegom

Spain

Computers Unlimited Iberica SL - 100%
Registered Address Avinguda de les Corts Catalanes,

808173, Sant Cugat del Vallés,

Barcelona

Sweden

DCC Holdings AB 100% -
Registered Address Gustavslundsvagen 129, 167 51,

Bromma, Stockholms lan

Exertis Ztorm AB - 100%
Registered Address Gustavslundsvagen 129, 167 51,
Bromma, Stockholms lan

V2E Nordics AB - 100%
Registered Address Djupdalsvagn 7 3TR,
19251, Sollentuna, Stockholms lan

Belgium .
Exertis Enterprise BE - 100%
Registered Address Generaal De Wittelaan 9, 2800,

Mechelen

Germany .
Hammer GmbH - 100%
Registered Address Leibnizstrasse.'1, 88521, Oftobrun

Italy

Exertis Enterprise IT SRL - 100%
Registered Address Via Cipro 1, 25124 Brescia (BS),

Italy

Unless otherwise stated, the registered office address for each of the above is Technology House
Magnesium Way, Hapton, Burnley, England, 8B12 7BF. The Company's interest is in ordinary
shares issued (or equivalent of ordinary shares issued in the relevant country), unless an indirect
holding is stated.

27 Related party transactions
FRS 101.8(k) exempts the requirement of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party

"transactions between wholly-owned subsidiaries. Consequently, these financial statements do not
contain disclosures of transactions with entities in the DCC ple Group.

44

Exertis (UK) Limited

Notes (continued)
28 Ultimate and immediate parent companies and controlling party

The directors regard DCC plc, a company registered in the Republic of Ireland, as the ultimate parent
company and controlling party. The largest and smallest group in which the results of the Company
are consolidated is that headed by DCC plc. Copies of the parent’s consolidated financial statements
may be obtained from DCC House, Leopardstown Road, Foxrock, Dublin 18, Ireland. The
Company's immediate parent company is Exertis (Holdings) Ltd, a company registered in England
with a registered address at Technology House Magnesium Way, Hapton, Burnley, England, BB12
7BF.

29 Post balance sheet events

There have been no significant post balance sheet events subsequent to the year-end which require
disclosure in, or adjustment to, the financial statements.

45

