DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-ACBE-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Annual report and financial statements

For the year ended 31 December 2023
Company Registration No. 00367090

rN

#134

anu

COMPANIES HOUSE

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-ACBE-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Contents Page
Officers and professional advisers 1
Strategic report 2
Directors’ report 10
Directors’ responsibilities statement 21
Independent auditor's report 22
Consolidated income statement , 27
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 28
Consolidated statement of financial position 29
Parent company statement of financial position 31
Consolidated statement of changes in equity 33
Consolidated statement of cash flows ; 34
Parent company statement of changes in equity 35
Notes to the consolidated financial statements 36

Notes to the company financial statements 89

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Officers and professional advisers

Directors

S Chapman
T Ferwerda
M Hogg

K N Shandro
S S Ghuman

Company Secretary
M Hogg

Bankers

HSBC Bank MUFG Bank LTD Royal Bank of Canada

8 Canada Square Ropemaker Place 71 Queen Victoria Street
Canary Wharf 25 Ropemaker street London

London London EC4V 4DE

E14 5HQ EC2Y 9AN

Registered Office

Watling Street
Bridgtown
Cannock
Staffordshire
WS11 8LL

Solicitors

DLA Piper UK LLP ORJ

Victoria Square House Queensville House
Victoria Square 49 Queensville Street
Birmingham Stafford

B3 4DL ST17 4NL

Gowling WLG (UK) LLP
Two Snowhill
Birmingham

B46WR

Auditor

Deloitte LLP
Statutory Auditor
Birmingham
United Kingdom

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Strategic report
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Principal activity

The company heading the Finning (UK) Ltd group is a private company limited by shares and is registered in the United
Kingdom (company registration number; 00367090) at the registered address; Watling Street, Bridgtown, Cannock,
Staffordshire, WS11 8LL.

The principal activity of the group’s operations is the supply of Caterpillar machines and engines, Perkins engines, Trimble
equipment and the provision of parts and after-sales service. The group has dealership agreements with numerous equipment
manufacturers, of which the most significant are with subsidiaries of Caterpillar Inc. Distribution and servicing of Caterpillar
products account for the major portion of the group’s operations. The Finning group is the only authorised dealer in the
United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland for these products. Finning has a strong relationship with Caterpillar Inc. that has
been ongoing since 1933. The group is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Finning International Inc., a company incorporated in
Canada, which is considered by the directors to be the ultimate holding company and controlling party.

Strategic framework

Finning’s customer-centric growth strategy is based on three pillars — Develop, Perform, and Innovate — which provide a
strong foundation for the group’s five Global Strategic Priorities:

¢ Customer Centricity — be our customers’ trusted partner by providing consistent and innovative services that add
value to their business;

e Lean & Agile Global Finning - maintain relentless focus on productivity, efficiency, and our customers’ total cost
of equipment ownership;

¢ Global Supply Chain — transform our globally-leveraged supply chain to enhance the omni-channel customer
experience while increasing working capital efficiencies and generating free cash flow;
¢ Digital Enterprise — advance the use of technology to improve our customers’ experience, enable data driven
decisions, and reduce cost to serve; and,
e Growth & Diversification — achieve profitable and capital efficient growth.
The strategic priorities are supported through the following three strategic pillars:
Develop — build a safe, talented and inclusive team.
Perform — operate efficient, consistently and with agility.
Innovate — lead with new ideas, processes and solutions.
Our purpose
We believe in partnering and innovating to build and power a better world.
Our vision
Leveraging our global expertise and insight, we are a trusted partner in transforming our customers’ performance.
Our values
We are trusted: We act ethically and honour our commitments.
We are collaborative: We build diverse and respectful partnerships.
We are innovative: We look for new and better ways to serve our customers.
We are passionate: We are driven to safely deliver results.

Strategic Focus Areas

Finning continue to identify focus areas to support our strategy: to capture growth in mining and construction industries
through market leadership and to improve performance through transforming service, accelerating supply chain capabilities
and lowering the cost to serve. Our decisions about capital investments and allocation of resources are focused on initiatives
that we believe best align with our Global Strategic Priorities and our strategic areas of focus.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023 ©

Strategic framework (continued)
Sustainability

Sustainability is an integral part of our business and is woven through our strategy and operations. We live our values every
day, and they guide our behaviour in every interaction we have. Living our values means that how we do things is just as
important as what we do.

Our approach to sustainability is closely aligned with our purpose and covers all of our material sustainability topics. In 2023,
we conducted a gap analysis of our sustainability practices to make sure they align with our peers, and with internationally
recognized guidelines and best practices. Based on the gap analysis, we defined metrics and focus areas for the next five
years. The full 2023 Sustainability Report, including the five-year roadmap and performance summary, can be found in the
sustainability section of the Finning International Inc. website at www.finning.com. Further details of the group’s
sustainability practices and objectives are outlined in the Directors’ report.

Business review
Group performance

The directors are pleased to present the group results for 2023 that show a fair performance following on from previous
difficult years with the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent economic pressures in the UK.

Revenue was lower than last year driven by lower customer demand in the Equipment Solutions segment. The group however
had an increase in the levels of trading in the Power Systems segment due to the timing of project deliveries.

Gross profit decreased slightly from £133,788,000 in 2022 to £132,767,000 in 2023, and gross profit as a percentage of
revenue increased 2.0% in 2023 compared to 2022. Gross profit percentage was impacted positively by the product mix
between product support and equipment revenues.

In 2023, the group generated total revenues of £673,041,000 (2022: £755,579,000), all of which related to continuing
operations. The group generated an operating profit for the year of £27,675,000 (2022: £40,073,000), all of which related to
continuing operations.

Equipment Solutions

The Equipment Solutions operating segment experienced a decrease in revenues in the year to £470,509,000 (2022:
£590,042,000) as a result of lower customer demand. The Equipment Solutions operating segment saw an decrease in
operating profit to £43,466,000 (2022: £60,434,000) in line with the lower activity levels.

The outlook for the Equipment Solutions operating segment remains stable. New equipment order backlog remains high and
will continue to provide sustainable revenues into 2024. The group remains committed to revolutionising its service offering
through technological advancements and improved customer experience. The group further continues to explore used
equipment markets and increase the sales presence in the domestic markets.

Power Systems

The Power Systems operating segment showed continued growth in long term projects within the electric and stand-by power
segment and experienced an increase in revenue to £208,643,000 (2022: £172,730,000). The group continues to efficiently
execute long term projects in the diesel and gas markets. There was a increase in operating profit to £31,309,000 (2022:
£22,197,000) in line with the higher revenue levels.

The 2023 results reflect the continued success of the group in the Power Systems segment. The project delivery plan and
risk-management practices are now embedded into the business’ day to day operations. The group expects to further benefit
from the development of its key markets in the year and will continue to grow its existing relationships. The group’s outlook
for the electric power capacity market remains strong with high order backlog and it intends to further improve its project
delivery practices in order to remain well placed to secure further opportunities as they arise.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Business review (continued)
Key Performance Measures

The group introduced practices to ensure optimal working capital efficiency and invested capital turns. This has continued to
be further emphasised during the slower customer demand and the need to reduce costs and maximise working capital
efficiency. The group has seen a decrease of inventory turns to 3.95 (2022: 5.72) driven by higher inventory balances by year
end in comparison to prior year and lower sales in the year. The group continues to focus on supply chain management and
inventory levels to maximise the group’s utilisation of existing inventory whilst ensuring sufficient levels are on hand to meet
demand.

The group has seen debtor days similar to prior year of 28 days (2022: 28 days), mainly impacted by increased revenue which
had early collections from customers hence improving debtors days. The bad debt provision increased from prior year to
reflect the uncertainty following on from economic pressures, however the directors remain confident in collecting
outstanding balances.

The group continues to monitor creditor days and ensure payments to suppliers remain within pre-agreed terms. Creditors
has seen a increase in creditor days to 30 days (2022: 21 days) from the prior year.

During the year the group generated net cash inflow from operating activities of £11,269,000 (2022: £44,709,000), and free
cash flow outflow (see definition below) of £13,795,000 (2022: inflow £28,055,000). This has been mainly driven by the
group’s decline in performance in the year but has been offset by the drive to manage working capital. The directors consider
the efficient application of capital to be as important as delivering improved profitability.

The directors have continued to optimise working capital after the pandemic to preserve the return on invested capital (ROIC).
Reported ROIC however has decreased to 13.06% (2022: 19.98%) due to the lower performance in the year. The directors
also measure ROIC excluding retirement benefit surplus (Pension) which has decreased to 18.80% (2022: 28.48%).

During the year the group paid dividends of £8,045,000 (2022: £2,600,000) to its parent company, Finning Holdings.
Consequently, Finning International Inc. pledged its continuing support to the group through the ability to call on the ultimate
group’s CAD$1.3 billion global credit facility to meet liquidity needs. The directors are confident in the ability of the business
to continue to deliver positive cash flows from operations through the effective management of the group’s working capital.

Key performance indicators

The group is focused on building shareholder value by improving ROIC. With safety and talent management as the
foundation, management is executing on the following operational priorities: customer & market leadership; supply chain
optimisation; service excellence; and asset utilisation.

These priorities are linked directly to improving operating profit performance and capital efficiency.

The business uses return on invested capital (ROIC) and operating profit margin as key measures of performance. Adjusted
return on invested capital and inventory turns as they are monitored by the business and used in decision making

The key performance indicators on continuing operations are as follows:

2023 2022

Operating profit (£’000s) 27,675 40,073 Defined per the income statement.
It is used by management as it excludes items that are not
considered to be indicative of operational and financial
trends to provide a better overall understanding of the
group’s underlying business performance.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
Key performance indicators (continued)
2023 2022
Operating profit % 4.1% 5.30% Defined as operating profit for the last twelve months

divided by revenue for the last twelve months.
Management uses operating profit margin as an indication
of the profitability of the revenue growth for the group.
Invested capital (£’000s) 211,839 200,578 Defined as total assets less total liabilities, excluding net
debt at the year-end position. Net debt is calculated as
short-term debt and long-term debt, net of cash.
Management uses invested capital as a measure of the total
cash investment made in the group.
Inventory turns (times) 3.95 5.72 Defined as cost of sales for the last twelve months divided
by inventory at the year-end position.
The number of times the group's inventory is sold and
replaced over a period and is used by management as a
measure of asset utilization.
Working capital to sales ratio 8.57 9.29 Working capital is defined as total current assets (excluding
cash and cash equivalents) less total current liabilities
(excluding short-term debt and current portion of long-term
debt). The working capital to net revenue ratio is calculated
as working capital, divided by revenue for the last twelve
months.
Management uses this KPI to assess the group’s efficiency
in its use of working capital to generate net revenue.
Free cash flow (£7000s) (13,795) 28,055 Cash flow provided by or used in operating activities less
: net additions to property, plant, and equipment and
intangible assets.
Management uses Free Cash Flow to assess cash operating
performance and the ability to raise and service debt.
Invested capital turnover (times) 3.18 3.77 Defined as revenue for the last twelve months divided by
. invested capital as defined above.
Used by management as a measure of efficiency in the use
of the group’s invested capital.
Return on invested capital (%) 13.06% 19.98% Defined as operating profit for the last twelve months
divided by invested capital as defined above, expressed as
a percentage. Management views ROIC as a useful
measure for supporting investment and resource allocation
decisions, as it adjusts for certain items that may affect
comparability between certain competitors.
Pension adjusted return on 18.80% 28.48% Defined as operating profit for the last twelve months
invested capital (%) divided by invested capital as defined above less the year-
end pension asset, expressed as a percentage.
Management use pension adjusted ROIC to exclude the
significant pension asset which is not considered to be
indicative of operational and financial trends to provide a
better overall understanding of the group’s underlying
business performance.

The key performance indicators in the year are indicative of the comments made within the business review. The strength of
the group’s balance sheet has enabled an improvement in key working capital metrics and sustained the group’s ability to
generate cash from operations.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
Results
The group’s profit for the year after taxation was £18,912,000 (2022: £31,997,000) all of which related to continuing
operations.

The group is in a strong financial position, with access to capital, including the CAD$1.3 billion global credit facility held
by Finning International Inc. which is committed through to September 2026, as well as a balanced debt maturity profile and
capacity to increase capital availability. The group also has access to other overdraft and short-term borrowing facilities
within the UK up to £30 million.

The group also has £25,000,000 of long-term debt in the form of an intercompany loan with Finning Finance Limited, with
a maturity date of 5 years from the closing date (February 27'" 2028).

Principal risks and uncertainties

The group is exposed to market financial and operating risks in the normal course of business activities. The group has
adopted an Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) approach in identifying, prioritising, and evaluating risks. The ERM
framework assists the group in managing business activities and risks across the organisation to assist the group in achieving
its strategic objectives. The identified risks include:

Market risks

Competitive pressure is a continuing risk for the group, which could result in losing sales to key customers. The group
competes with a large number of equipment vendors with operations in this country. The group manages this risk by ensuring
a first class customer service offering and differentiating its service delivery.

Financial risks
The group’s activities expose it to a number of financial risks including foreign exchange risk, credit risk, pension liability
risk and liquidity risk.

Foreign exchange risk

The group’s activities expose it to limited risk of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. As part of normal operating
activities, the group maximises natural hedges to minimise exchange rate exposure on significant foreign currency
transactions relating to sales and purchases. It is the.group’s policy to reduce this exposure through the use of forward
currency contracts, when appropriate.

Credit risk
The group’s principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables, finance lease receivables and
investments.

The group’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade and finance lease receivables. The amounts presented in the
balance sheet are net of loss provisions. An allowance for impairment of investments is made where there is an identified
loss event which, based on previous experience, is evidence of a reduction in the recoverability through future cash flows.

The group has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure spread over a large number of counterparties and
customers. Customers are subject to credit checks and appropriate credit limits are set accordingly to reduce credit risk.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)
Financial risks (continued)

Pension liability risk

The group provides pension arrangements to employees through a pension scheme with a defined contribution section and a
defined benefit section. The defined benefit section of the scheme is closed to new members and has ceased future accruals
to existing members since 6 April 2012. The group contribution to the defined benefit section of the scheme is agreed with
the Trustee of the scheme and is based on the latest actuarial valuation.

The group’s retirement benefit surplus under [AS19 ‘Employment Benefits’ reflected on the balance sheet for the current
year is £64,669,000 (2022: £59,855,000), as a result of the decrease in the discount rate assumption relative to the
outperformance of assets.

The defined benefit liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to high quality corporate bond yields, if
plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit or reduction in the surplus. The defined benefit section invests
in various asset categories including primarily equities, fixed income, and real estate. These investments, in aggregate, are
expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term but may result in volatility in the shorter-term.

The funding valuation of the Scheme was carried out by a qualified actuary as at 31 December 2020 and showed a surplus
of £18.0 million. The company agreed to pay contributions of £2.805 million in 2022 and £3.375 million in 2023.

A decrease of 0.25% in the discount rate and 0.25% increase in the retail price inflation would impact the defined benefit
obligation at 31 Decemer 2023 by the amounts shown below:

Change in assumption Increase in defined

benefit obligation

£000

Discount rate -0.25 8,262
Retail price inflation +0.25 5,964
Life expectancy +1 8,375

A 0.25% movement in the discount rate and in the retail price inflation as outlined above would have an equivalent but
opposite effect on the above accounts in the amounts shown on the basis that all variables are unchanged.

Capital structure and liquidity risk

In order to maintain liquidity to ensure that sufficient funds are available for on-going operations and future developments,
the group uses a mixture of long-term and short-term debt finance. The group uses local facilities for daily operations and
also has the ability to. call on the ultimate group’s CAD$1.3bn facility to meet liquidity needs.

Share based payments risk
The group is exposed to fluctuations in the share price of the parent company, Finning International Inc., in respect of the
outstanding share options, share appreciation rights, DSU-B, PSU and RSU share awards made to the group’s employees.

Operating risk

The majority of the group’s business involves the distribution and servicing of Caterpillar products. As such, the group’s
business is highly dependent on the continued market acceptance of these products. The group believes that Caterpillar has a
solid reputation as a manufacturer, with excellent brand recognition and customer support and high market shares in many
of the markets they serve. The group works with Caterpillar to develop new products for the UK market and further enhance
the reputation as a premium solution provider.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Section 172(1) statement

Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 requires a director of a company to act in the way he or she considers, in good faith,
would be most likely to promote the success of the company for the benefit of its members as a whole. In doing this, section
172 requires a director to have regard, among other matters, to: the likely consequences of any decision in the long term; the
interests of the company’s employees; the need to foster the company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and
others; the impact of the company’s operations on the community and the environment; the desirability of the company
maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct; and the need to act fairly with members of the company.

The directors give careful consideration to the factors set out above in discharging their duties under section 172. The
stakeholders we consider in this regard are the people who work for us, the people and companies who work with us, own
us, and live in the societies we serve. The Board of Directors recognises that building strong relationships with our
stakeholders will help us to deliver our strategy in line with our long-term values and operate the business in a sustainable
way.

Our purpose, vision and values establish authorities, capabilities and appropriate incentives for empowered and agile
decision-making across our portfolio of risks identified by the ERM framework along with localised risks specific to business
decisions. The group maintains robust processes to adequately capture business risks to facilitate the decision making process,
the greatest example of which is the power systems project governance framework introduced in 2017.

The Directors made certain key decisions in. 2023 and approved £8,045,000 of dividends to be paid to Finning Holdings
during 2023. The primary driver for this decision was to provide funds for the ultimate parent company to re-invest into
global initiatives for the betterment of its regions. The Board of Directors liaised with all necessary stakeholders prior to the
declaration and any concerns raised as a result were appropriately addressed and resolved.

Stakeholder engagement

The Board is committed to effective engagement with all of its stakeholders. Depending on the nature of the issue in question,
the relevance of each stakeholder group may differ and, as such, as part of its engagement with stakeholders, the Board seeks
to understand the relative interests and priorities of each group and to have regard to these, as appropriate, in its decision
making, However, the Board acknowledges that not every decision it makes will necessarily result in a positive outcome for
all stakeholders.

The Board regularly receives reports from management on issues concerning customers, the environment, communities,
suppliers, employees, regulators, governments and investors, which it takes into account in its discussions and in its decision
making process under section 172. The Board undertakes training to further develop its understanding of key issues impacting
its stakeholders, such as crisis management, health & safety and inclusion & diversity. In addition to this, the Board seeks to
understand the interests and views of the group’s stakeholders by engaging with them directly as appropriate. Some of the
ways in which the Board has engaged directly with stakeholders over the year are shown below.

Employees

Refer to Employee engagement section of the Directors’ report.

Customers

In addition to the Board receiving updates from senior management on the Group’s interaction with customers, members of
the Board regularly meet customers. Additionally, events were held with key customers in various countries during 2023.
The group uses the information gleaned from these interactions to develop ways to better serve its customers in the future.

DocuSign Envelope !D: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Stakeholder engagement (continued)
Suppliers

The group’s largest supplier is Caterpillar Inc. Finning has a strong relationship with Caterpillar Inc. that has been ongoing
since 1933 and has developed year on year. In recent years the relationship has continued to foster innovation to better serve
our customer needs. The group’s strategic priorities are closely tied to those of Caterpillar Inc. which further aids this strong
working relationship.

The group also holds relationships with various other suppliers. To help manage and monitor our supply chain, new suppliers
onboarded to the group’s systems are required to complete due diligence questionnaires, which include questions on human
rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This onboarding process ensures that the group works with reliable, reputable
suppliers providing the basis for long-term, prosperous relationships. The group continues to monitor creditor days and ensure
payments to suppliers remain within pre-agreed terms, the group has seen a increase in creditor days to 30 days (2022: 2!
days).

Finning International Inc.

The group is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Finning International Inc., listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange. The group’s
Global Strategic Priorities as referenced in the Strategic framework are shared across its respective regions in Canada, South
America and the United Kingdom and Ireland. This shared framework enables the group to leverage its global expertise and
resources to develop solutions which improve the effectiveness and efficiency of its operations whilst better serving its
customers.

Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board.

—— fy

Kristin’ Shandro (Apr 30, 2024 15:33 GMT+1)

K N Shandro
Director
30 April 2024

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Directors' report
For the year ended 31 December 2023

The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the group together with the audited consolidated financial
statements and independent auditor’s report for the year ended 31 December 2023.

Directors
The directors who served during the year and subsequently were as follows:

S Chapman

M Hogg

T Ferwerda

K N Shandro

S S Ghuman (appointed 2 February 2024)

Directors’ indemnities

During the year the group has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its directors which remain
in force at the date of this report. This provision also relates to the group’s direct and indirect subsidiaries.

Going concern

The group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position
are set out in the Business Review and the Principal Risks and Uncertainties in the strategic report. In addition, the group’s
exposures to risks including credit, market and liquidity are set out on pages 6 to 7.

As highlighted in notes 19 and 21 to the financial statements, the group meets its day to day working capital requirements
through finance from group companies and global credit and overdraft facilities.

In addition to bank overdraft facilities, Finning also has facilities available from its ultimate parent company. The group will
adopt the funding mix which is most appropriate to the circumstances taking into consideration interest cost and overall group
debt exposure. The group continues to monitor its facilities covenants in relation to provision of annual financial statements,
indebtedness, disposal of assets, amalgamation without prior written consent with the lenders as well as ensuring insurance
on all its properties in line with good business practice. :

The group’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the
group should be able to operate within its available facilities.

After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the
annual report and financial statements. .

Dividends

Dividends of £8,045,000 (£0.18 per share) were paid during the year to Finning Holdings (2022: £2,600,000, £0.06 per share).
The Directors do not propose any further dividends for the year (2022: nil).

Environmental, health and safety

Health and safety is a key strategic focus across the Finning International group, which has been fully embraced by the
company. The philosophy of “Zero Injuries” has been adopted to raise awareness and provide all employees with the
knowledge and skills necessary to create a safe working environment. The company aims to ensure all employees come to
work and go home safe, and that everyone is empowered to stay safe and also to look out for the safety of colleagues.

The business seeks to record all hazards, near-misses and incidents to monitor safety throughout the organisation, and uses
this information to develop a better understanding of the risks within the work environment and develop ways to reduce and
mitigate such risk wherever possible. Regular communications are sent to all employees to promote the importance of health
and safety in the workplace. This is further reinforced by Local Action Teams, formed of employee representatives who
regularly undertake reviews of their working environment.

The culture of health and safety is well embedded within the company, and management take regular action to maintain the
focus on safety and prevent complacency causing a deterioration in safety performance.

10

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Directors' report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (SECR)

The UK Government’s Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (SECR) policy was implemented on 1 April 2019, this
was the Company’s first time adoption of disclosures on energy and carbon. The table below represents the group’s energy
use and associated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from electricity and fuel in the UK for the year ended 31 December
2023.

UK Greenhouse gas emissions and energy use data for the period 1 January 2023 2022
to 31 December

Scope 1 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e

Combustion of gas 1,667 1,732
Consumption of fuel for the purposes of transport 3,841 4,217
Total scope 1 5,508 5,949
Scope 2 emission in metric tonnes CO2e

Purchased electricity* 824 884
Scope 3 emission in metric tonnes CO2e

Business travel in employee owned vehicles - 18
Total gross emissions in metric tonnes CO2e 6,332 6,851
Intensity ratio Tonnes CO2e per exposure hours** 2.01 2.22

* this is fully renewable and zero emissions across all facilities with full Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin (REGO)
** measure in line with sustainability report.

Year on year energy consumption decreases are largely driven by continued fitting of LED lighting and PIR sensors around
more branches..

Quantification and reporting methodology

We have followed the 2019 HM Government Environmental Reporting Guidelines. We have used the GHG Reporting
Protocol — Corporate Standard and have used the 2020 UK Government’s Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.

We have used the following data sources for the report for the:

+ Energy and Fuel Data — Energy supplier billing data;

* Transport Data - Company mileage expense claims and estimated mileage for leased vans.

Intensity measurement

The chosen intensity measurement ratio is total gross emissions in metric tonnes CO2e per total revenue (thousands).
Measures taken to improve energy efficiency

As mentioned above, the 2023 Sustainability Report recognises climate change as a serious global challenge and sets out key
metrics committing the global group to monitor, manage and reduce GHG emission and energy consumption related to our
operations. Examples of measures taken in 2023 include:

e — switch to hydrogenated vegetable oil (HVO) in the workshop heaters in Glasgow facility as well as in certain
service vehicles at Cannock facility;

¢ engaging with waste contractors in the UK to track types and volumes of waste generated and recycle and to
calculate associated COz reductions.

© continue to work on plastic packaging reduction at the national distribution centre

11

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Directors' report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Climate Related Financial Disclosures

Effective for periods commencing on or after 6 April 2022, The Climate-related Financial Disclosure Regulations 2022 have
been introduced in the UK to report on material climate-related matters and its impact on Finning (UK) Ltd. (the ‘Group’,
‘we’, ‘our’). For the year ended 31 December 2023, the Group meets the relevant threshold of having more than 500
colleagues and a turnover of more than £500m. The Group has therefore set out below the climate-related financial disclosures
covering how climate change is addressed in corporate governance, the impacts on the strategy, how climate-related risks
and opportunities are managed, and the performance metrics and targets applied in managing these issues.

We recognize that climate change is a serious global challenge, and we continue to be committed to reducing our own carbon
emissions, helping our customers achieve their sustainability goals, building resilience in our business, and helping our
customers do the same in their businesses.

The Group contributes to the Finning International Inc. annual Sustainability Report. The sustainability roadmap identifies
sustainability priorities and sets out medium- and long-term goals and objectives.

The current roadmap identifies five focus areas:

- PEOPLE - Ensure safe, inclusive, and respectful workplaces for all employees and contractors.

- ENVIRONMENT - Reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our facilities and fleet, manage waste, and
prevent spills.

- CUSTOMERS - Offer products and solutions that help customers improve their safety, environmental
performance, and business productivity.

- COMMUNITIES - Partner with organizations that support Science, Technology, Engineering and
Mathematics (STEM) education and programming for women and girls, Indigenous, at-risk and other
under-served communities.

- GOVERNANCE, ETHICS & CYBERSECURITY - Ensure effective controls are in place to prevent
unlawful or unethical behaviours, support and protect employees who speak up, and protect both
Finning's and our customers’ digital information.

The latest Sustainability Report is available in the sustainability section of the Finning International Inc. website at
www. finning.com.

Governance - Board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities

Finning’s Board of Directors (board) has four committees that meet quarterly to assist in fulfilling its duties and
responsibilities: Audit Committee, Governance & Risk Committee, Human Resources Committee, and Safety, Environment
& Social Responsibility Committee.

The Safety, Environment & Social Responsibility (SESR) Committee assists the board in its oversight of Finning’s safety
and health, environmental and social responsibility policies and programs and in monitoring Finning’s performance against
those policies and programs, including climate-related matters. Members of the committee have specific expertise and skills
in Sustainability, Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) and Health & Safety matters. The SESR Committee also
oversees the execution of Finning’s approach to climate change, which includes the following elements: monitoring
emissions; annual external reporting of Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions data through the CDP (formerly known as the Carbon
Disclosure Project) and the annual sustainability report; the identification of opportunities for emissions reductions; and the
monitoring of progress against internal and external Greenhouse Gas (GHG) targets. Further, the SESR committee is
responsible for monitoring the resilience of Finning’s strategy to the physical and transition risks of climate change.

The other three committees provide support to climate-related topics, including audits, disclosures, risk management
processes and staffing. Finning employees also play a key role in operationalizing our climate-related plans in each of our
operating regions. Our employees are essential in supporting regional plans and procedures for maintaining worker health
and safety during climate-related events.

12

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-ACBE-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Directors' report (continued) _
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Climate Related Financial Disclosures (continued)
Management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities

The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the Finning Leadership Team (FLT) are actively engaged in identifying climate-
related financial risks and monitoring signposts that influence the business. Ultimately the CEO and FLT are responsible for
determining Finning’s response to climate-related risks and opportunities. Any relevant information presented to the SESR
Committee and the board must be approved by the CEO and the FLT. The CEO and the FLT receive climate-related
information and input from two sources:

- Global Sustainability Committee (GSC): Described in further detail below, the GSC presents information and
proposals to the FLT on climate-related matters.

- The enterprise risk management (ERM) process: In the quarterly and annual cycle, our ERM program presents
information on risks facing the organization for the FLT to consider and rank. See the Risk Management section
for more details.

The Chief Human Resources Officer and General Counsel (Sustainability Officer) is responsible for managing the processes
applicable to Finning’s climate change approach, including the corporate GHG disclosures and reduction programs. The
CHRO also coordinates the GSC.

The GSC has participation from finance, legal, human resources, operations, investor relations, supply chain, EHS, audit and
risk management across all of Finning’s operating regions. It considers proposals and provides recommendations to the FLT
and the board on sustainability-related topics. Leaders across all operating regions have responsibility for raising climate-
related risks as part of the quarterly and annual ERM process.

The GSC includes representation from all operating regions within the Finning International Inc. group. Finning (UK) Ltd.
is represented by the Head of HR to support on regional actions towards sustainability targets and Head of Product
Management to support customer and strategic objectives. The Head of HR is supported by the Safety, Health, Environment
and Quality (SHEQ) team who interact with the wider business on an ongoing basis.

The GSC also includes Global Topic Owners who support the operating regions with sustainability actions and ongoing
management of climate related matters and associated reporting.

Processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks, and integration into overall risk management
Risk Identification

Finning’s Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) processes are permanently applied in our business operations at a branch and
divisional level, and progress is formally reviewed on a quarterly basis by board committees on the risks within their mandate.
Leaders are surveyed regarding Finning’s current and emerging risks, and the results are compiled and presented to the
Governance and Risk Committee of the board. Annually, the process is supplemented with a global scan of emerging risks
that may be relevant for Finning, and a thorough analysis of the top risks which is presented to the board. The annual process
enhances and reinforces the outputs of the quarterly processes.

Managing Risks

Material climate-related risks are reported by our ERM team through the annual and quarterly processes, in collaboration
with the affected business lines.

Metrics and Targets

We currently assess climate-related risks using our GHG footprint measurement and target. We are committed to reducing
our absolute Scope 1] and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 40% by 2027 compared with a 2017 baseline.

How we plan to achieve our target

40%

Reduction in absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions from 2017

Increase use of
renewable and carbon- Facilities optimisation Energy efficiencies Fleet improvements
free energy

13

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Directors' report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Climate Related Financial Disclosures (continued)
Processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks, and integration into overall risk management
Metrics and Targets (continued)

Overall, in the Group, Market Based 2023 GHG emissions are down 27.55% v 2017 and intensity is down 23.67%
(combination of Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin (REGO) electricity, heating control systems, service vehicle fleet
and visible energy reporting — heat maps).

Data behind the reported emissions are collated and converted using the most recent DEFRA conversion factors (Conversion -
Factors 2023, www.gov.uk).

Facilities:

- The Group has recorded a reduction in GHG gas emissions of 156tCO2e 2023 v 2022.
- Electric usage is down from 5,293,936kwh in 2022 to 4,603,076kwh in 2023. (December 23 estimated)
- Gas usage is down from 10,488,753kwh in 2022 to 10,247,993kwh in 2023.

Vehicles:

- Service vehicle litres used is up 20,617 litres in 2023 v 2022.
- Company car business mileage is up 62,691 miles in 2023 v 2022.

Initiatives and Risk Mitigation

We also implemented energy/GHG reduction initiatives at numerous facilities and operations, including switching to
renewable electricity and replacement of aging or outdated machinery with more energy efficient equipment. Some notable
examples of these programs and initiatives include:

Renewable energy: We continue to increase our procurement of renewable electricity for all our facilities from certified
renewable energy producers.

Automatic meter readers: With the support of an energy consultancy, we continue to install automatic meter readers (AMR)
to monitor our natural gas consumption and half-hourly (HH) electric meters at all our UK locations to give us more timely
information on our fuel use and carbon emissions, allowing us to identify and prioritize opportunities to improve energy
efficiency.

Switch to Carbon credit heating oil: We started to use carbon credit heating oil in the workshop heaters in our Glasgow
facility.

Electric vehicles: We implemented Grid charging pedestals at Cannock main office and the parts national distribution centre
for Battery Electric Vehicles (BEV).

We established our new energy saving strategy team — ‘Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Re-energise’ who are instrumental in our
aim in achieving our long-term targets, through the following preventative measures which in turn represent our most
significant steps in mitigation against climate related risks:

- Behavioural campaigns driving reduce and reuse strategies.

- Vickers heating controls system.

- Electronic thermostatic control valves for radiators.

- Passive Infrared (PIR) light switches.

- Internal and external LED lighting for all facilities. .

- Fleet electrification — Electric/Hybrid vehicles, Electric Vehicle (EV) charging points New Fleet (Service &
Company Car). ,

- Carbon Offset for heating oil in workshops.

- Reduced paper usage through adoption of electronic processes.

- Reduced virgin plastic and other packaging through supply chain engagement.

14

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Directors' report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Climate Related Financial Disclosures (continued)

Finning (UK) Ltd

Principal climate-related risks and opportunities arising in connection with the operations of the business

Climate risks and opportunities are assessed using short (1-3 years), medium (3-4 years) and long term (4-10 years) horizons
which are aligned with our risk management cycles and consider the impacts on our business, strategy, and financial planning.

Global climate-related risks

Transition
Risks impacting license to operate

reduce emissions

Physical Risks | Acute - Climate events

Chronic - Increasing climate

stressors

Chronic - Employee health &

safety

Policy and jegal - Climate policies

Market - Stakeholder pressure to | As more industries commence | Medium term

Market - Increased operating costs

Details Timeline

Climate-related government policies | Short and
in the UK may influence market
dynamics applicable to the products
and services we provide. Carbon
policies may increase operating
costs, whereas the shift to a low-
carbon economy will influence
energy markets and other industries.
Companies seen as harmful to the
climate may experience stakeholder
protests and reputational damage.

medium term

decarbonization efforts, demand
may increase for vehicle
electrification and other measures to
reduce emissions and vehicle usage.

Carbon pricing and climate policies | Medium term
impact the cost of goods and energy,
increasing our operating costs.

Climate events and extreme weather | Short and
(wind, rain, snow, dust, fire) may
impact our operations and the
operations of our customers. As
examples, increasing severe storms
may damage infrastructure whereas
droughts and heatwaves may impact
the ability for customer sites and
equipment to work at optimum
capacity.

medium term

Water stress/drought and other | Short term
chronic factors may put operational
stress on Finning operations.

Increasing temperatures and | Medium and
increasing acute events may present

Long term

risks to employee health and safety.

Our response to the above risks and associated actions are demonstrated through the completed and proposed actions in
achieving Finning’s overall long-term target of 40% decrease in absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 2027 from

Finning’s 2017 baseline.

15

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Directors' report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Climate Related Financial Disclosures (continued)
Principal climate-related risks and opportunities arising in connection with the operations of the business (continued)

Global climate-related opportunities relevant to the Group

Pillars

Opportunity

Continue increasing Finning’s competitiveness by
developing products and services to capitalize on the
growing opportunity for natural gas. We are adapting
our products and services to help our customers
decarbonize their operations, including energy
efficiency/emissions reduction, services to enhance
the growth of renewable energy production and/or a
transition towards alternative fuel production and use.

SHORT TERM

Energy transition:

Many industries are looking to natural gas, renewable
diesel, renewable natural gas and other alternatives as
transition fuels to a lower carbon economy, providing
opportunities for Finning through the provision of new
products and services.

Develop enhanced service offerings and adapt
business models to capture opportunities related to the
energy transition through autonomous,
semiautonomous, remote control and sophisticated
digital solutions.

SHORT, MEDIUM, LONG-TERM:

Electrification Connectivity and autonomy:

A transition to autonomous and/or electric or hydrogen
powered equipment may present opportunities for
revenue growth.

Continue to aggressively .embed and expand
performance solutions into all aspects of our products
and services, with a specific target towards helping
customers achieve their emission reduction goals.

Position Finning as a strategic partner to

build —climate-resilient public and __ private
infrastructure and to assist with climate resilient and
environmentally responsible reclamation activities.

We recognize the need for all organizations to address
the climate impacts of their operations and are
committed to reduce the impact of our business as
demonstrated by the expansion in 2021 of Finning’s
absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions
reduction target to a 40% (from 20%) reduction by
2027 from a 2017 baseline.

SHORT TERM

Process efficiency:

Our Performance Solutions help customers increase
the efficiency of their operations and decrease energy
usage and GHG emissions.

LONG TERM

Climate-resilient infrastructure:

Increasing physical impacts of climate change may
lead to increased government and private sector
investment to promote resilient infrastructure, such as
resilient roads, bridges, and water infrastructure.
Finning has an opportunity to be a partner to
governments and industry seeking to build climate
change resilience. Further, Finning has an opportunity
to assist customers in oil & gas to conduct climate
resilient and environmentally responsible site
reclamation activities.

SHORT, MEDIUM, AND LONG TERM:

To continue reducing carbon emissions using new
technologies.

16

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Directors' report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Climate Related Financiat Disclosures (continued)
Climate scenario analysis

Considerable uncertainty exists as to what the overall impacts of climate change will be and how governments and companies
will respond. :

Scenarios are descriptions of hypothetical, plausible futures (and not forecasts) that help companies assess potential
implications if a future described scenario comes to pass.

Such scenarios are not intended to represent a full description of the future, but to highlight central elements of a possible
future and draw attention to the key factors that may drive future developments and identify critical uncertainties. As such,
only variations in climate-related considerations are included in the analysis — changes in corporate strategy or market shifts
/ disruptions unrelated to climate change are excluded.

The risks and opportunities are assessed under the different climate warming scenarios, with the results contrasted. In this
analysis, two scenarios are applied:

1, Business as Usual (BAU): There is a lack of meaningful climate policy and action and the world warms by 3-6 degrees
Celsius by the end of the century (from pre-industrial times). Physical risks are large, because of unmitigated climate change,
whereas transition risks are less, due to minimal government policy action.

2. Nearly Paris Aligned (NPA): Governments and companies around the world implement effective policies and practices to
curb GHG emissions, and warming is nearly limited to 2 degrees Celsius by the end of the century. Physical risks are reduced,
but transition risks are larger, spurred by the global policy response. The scenario can be considered as a world where current
commitments under the Paris agreement are confirmed, which are expected to contribute to bring the world to the 2 degrees
Celsius target of the agreement.

The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) have indicated that rather than a goal of the 2 degrees Celsius of
warming by the end of the century, the global goal should be 1.5 degrees Celsius to truly avoid the worst impacts of climate
change. A scenario of 1.5 degrees Celsius was not assessed as part of this analysis, as it is becoming increasingly unlikely
that such a scenario will be achieved.

Reality is likely to be somewhere in the middle. For example, governments and companies may choose to implement actions
that are too late or too ineffective to mitigate climate change, and both physical and transition risks are both meaningful and
significant. The two scenarios are chosen as they provide enough contrast between outcomes, highlighting the strongest
physical and transition impacts.

Policy Risk — Carbon Intensive Industries

The most meaningful risk of carbon policies is expected to be the impact to carbon intensive industries that Finning services,
including the oi! and gas sector. Change in production on an annual basis is assumed to directly correlate with changes in
Finning revenue.

Given the relatively low reliance on carbon intensive industries in the UK, the business model under both scenarios is deemed
suitably resilient.

Market Risks — Electrification

Electrification is both a risk and an opportunity. Electrification is assumed to occur gradually after a specific inception point
and proceed to a specified point of market stability. The total market for equipment is assumed to be unchanged by the
introduction of electric equipment.

The business model is deemed to be equally resilient through electrification whether a BAU or NPA scenario given that the
current business model is already accommodating for electrification. Under a NPA scenario we may expect to see an earlier
and greater take up of electric equipment as governments implement more stringent controls on emissions to limit warming.

Policy Opportunity — Efficiency Services
Efficiency services are driven by growth in the Performance Solution product stream.

Demand growth for efficiency services is assumed to correlate with the global transition to renewable energy. It is assumed
that renewable energy is driven by global policy direction and, as such, is a proxy for the overall global action towards
emission reduction.

17

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Directors' report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Climate Related Financial Disclosures (continued)
Climate scenario analysis (continued)
Policy Opportunity — Efficiency Services (continued)

Revenue is assumed to grow directly with the transition to renewable energy. The revenue is assumed to apply to service
revenue.

The business model is deemed to be equally resilient through efficiency services whether a BAU or NPA scenario given that
the current business model is already accommodating for such services through the provision of digital software solutions
which are enabling customers to use their equipment more efficiently. Such services are increasing in demand as customers
work to decarbonize their operations. Under a NPA scenario we may expect to see a more rapid growth i in these services
from the existing baseline.

Acute Physical Risks

Acute physical impacts are caused by extreme climate events (storms, heatwaves, droughts) which lead to a shut-down of
operations at Finning’s customers, leading to a temporary stoppage of Finning products and services and lost revenue. Acute
climate events are assumed to impact customers where there is a large concentration of equipment ona single site.

Under a NPA scenario the business model is deemed to be relatively unimpacted given many of the existing business
processes would remain appropriate. Under a BAU scenario, the increased frequency of extreme climate events may
negatively impact customer operations and require adjustments to the location of delivery of services where appropriate.

Chronic Physical Risks

Chronic climate risks are caused by changes in daily climate variables (average temperature, availability of water), leading
to a change in the operating ability or efficiency of Finning customers, decreasing their profitability and ability to pay for
Finning services.

The increase in a chronic risk can also lead to additional expenses to follow health recommendations for employees.

Under a NPA scenario the business model is deemed to be relatively unimpacted given many of the existing mitigating
measures in place would remain appropriate. Under a BAU scenario, further mitigating measures would be required to ensure
the operating efficiency of customer machinery and to protect the health and working conditions for employees.

Opportunities Related to Resilience

Resilience opportunities arise as customers use Finning products and services to assist with infrastructure rehabilitation before
or after extreme climate events, as well as infrastructure upgrades. There are three specific opportunities explored in this
analysis:

- Infrastructure investment by governments and industry to build resilience to chronic and acute climate risks.
- Providing emergency power supplies after extreme events.
- Providing construction rehabilitation support after extreme events.

The business model is deemed to be equally resilient through opportunities related to resilience whether a BAU or NPA
scenario given that these resilience opportunities relate to existing revenue streams which would become subject to greater
demand.

Operational Impacts

The impacts of chronic and acute climate hazards, and climate policies, on costs and operations for Finning properties. There
are two specific opportunities explored in this analysis:

- Energy costs: Finning energy consumption per building, combined with location-specific average energy prices
(electricity and natural gas)

- Property value: Insured value (when available for owned properties), and square footage were used to assess the
relative value of each property.

Under a NPA scenario the business model is deemed to be relatively unimpacted given many of the mitigating measures in
place would remain appropriate. Under a BAU scenario, further mitigating measures would be required to properties to ensure
optimal operating efficiency and to protect market value.

18

DocuSign Envelope |D: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Directors’ report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Climate Related Financial Disclosures (continued)
Climate scenario analysis summary

The scenario analysis suggests meaningful risks to operations, that impact physical building resilience, employee health and
safety, operational continuity and energy costs. Finning has demonstrated a robust commitment to employee health and safety
and operational resilience and has already taken steps to enhance overall resilience through the steps discussed previously in
‘Initiatives and Risk Mitigation’.

Finning management believes that appropriate mitigation measures are in place to satisfactorily manage material business
impact and capitalise on opportunities arising under a Nearly Paris Aligned (NPA) scenario. Many of these mitigation
measures are already driving positive change across the organisation. Further product and process development will see
further positive change without a material deviation in strategy, therefore the operating model is deemed to be resilient under
the NPA scenario.

As many of the mitigating measures are based on the immediate climate outlook which is more aligned to a NPA scenario, it
is difficult for management to conclude that the business model remains resilient up to a 3-6 degrees Celsius warming
scenario. However, management concludes it would make the necessary adjustments to strategy and mitigating measures
were such a warming scenario to become apparent.

Employee engagement

The company places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed on
matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the company. Employee
representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.

The company considered the impact on employee interests regularly during the year, including in relation to diversity and
inclusion activities, and employee engagement matters. All employees are invited to participate annually in the ‘Employee
Engagement Survey’ to provide feedback on a range of matters. The results of the survey are aggregated at all management
levels throughout the business and are shared with all employees. Management use the results of the survey in collaboration
with employee representatives to identify ways of improving engagement and developing talent throughout the company.
The company uses the employee engagement scores as a measure of performance for any employee engagement initiatives
taken during the year.

The company actively encourages employee engagement in the company's strategic objectives and performance, through
regular employee communications such as the Directors’ all employee calls, all employees are invited to join the company
share incentive scheme to encourage their engagement, vested interest and ownership in overall Finning performance.

Where business decisions are likely to have an impact on the group’s employees, the decisions are communicated initially to
the individuals directly affected to assimilate feedback and amend the decision where required. Once any decisions impacting
employees are finalised the group follows up with communications to all employees through weekly emails and quarterly
departmental and company wide conferences.

The company maintains a Code of Conduct which employees are required to acknowledge and sign each year. The Code of
Conduct covers a wide range of topics which focus on the company’s underlying principles on responsibilities, ethical
decision making, reporting violations and ethical conduct and business guidelines.

In 2022, Finning UK&I received accreditation as a Disability Confident employer. Disability Confident is a U.K. government
program focused on getting persons with disabilities into employment and supporting them at work. This accreditation means
Finning UK&! will commit to providing opportunities for disabled employees, and will work to attract, recruit, retain and
develop disabled people. So far, this program has been successful with several permanent placements.

Business relationships
The group’s key stakeholders and its associated relationships are set out in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 10.
Disabled employees

Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant
concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the
group continues and that appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of the group that the training, career development
and promotion prospects of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to those of other employees.

19

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-ACBE-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Directors' report (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Financial instruments

Refer to note 26 for details of financial instruments. The risk management policies of the parent company are consistent
with those of the group.

Matters covered in the Strategic report

The business review, including key performance indicators and principal risks and uncertainties are disclosed within the
Strategic report.

Auditor

Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that:

qd) so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the group’s auditor
is unaware; and

(2) the director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the group’s auditor is aware of that
information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of 418 of the Companies Act 2006.

Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as the auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.

Approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 30 April 2024.

dey

Kristin’ Shandro (Apr 30, 202¢ 15:33 GMT+1)

KN Shandro

Director

30 April 2024

Watling Street, Bridgtown, Cannock, Staffordshire, WS11 8L

20

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Directors' responsibilities statement

The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law
and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors have
elected to prepare the group financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom adopted international accounting
standards. The financial statements also comply with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as issued by the
International Accounting Standard Board (IASB). The Directors have chosen to prepare the parent company financial
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kigdom Accounting
Standards and applicable law), including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework. Under company law the directors must
not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the
company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.

In preparing the parent company financial statements, the directors are required to:

select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed
and explained in the financia} statements; and . ;

e prepare the financial statements on the going concer basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company
will continue in business. :

In preparing the group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors:

properly select and apply accounting policies;
present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and
understandable information;

° provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of the financial report framework
are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on
the entity's financial position and financial performance; and

° make an assessment of the company's ability to continue as a going concern.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the company’s
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the
assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the
company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Responsibility statement
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:

. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair
view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in
the consolidation taken as a whole;

. the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of
the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the
principal risks and uncertainties that they face; and

e the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the
information necessary for shareholders to assess the company’s performance, business model and strategy.

This responsibility statement was approved by the board of directors on 30 April 2024 and is signed on its behalf by:

— day

Kristin’ Shandro (Apr 30, 2024 15:33 GMT+3)

K N Shandro
Director
30 April 2024

21

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Finning (UK) Ltd

Independent auditor's report to the members of Finning (UK) Ltd

Report on the audit of the financial statements

Opinion

In our opinion the financial statements of Finning (UK) Ltd (the ‘parent company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘group’)

give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31% December 2023
and of the group’s profit for the year then ended:

e the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom adopted
international accounting standards and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs} as issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board (IASB);

e the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure
Framework” and

« the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act
2006.

We have audited the financial statements which comprise:

the consolidated income statement;

the consolidated statement of comprehensive income;

the consolidated and parent statements of financial position;

the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity;
the consolidated statement of cash flows;

the statement of accounting policies; and

the related notes 1 to 53.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is
applicable law, United Kingdom adopted international accounting standards and IFRSs as issued by the IASB. The
financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial
statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard
101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor's responsibilities for the audit
of the financial statements section of our report.

We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are
relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’)
Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.

22

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-ACBE-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Finning (UK) Ltd (continued)

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial! statements is appropriate.

Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the group’s and parent company’s ability to continue to adopt the
going concern basis of accounting included: ,

° Assessment of accuracy of forecasts, including our assessment of the historical accuracy of forecasts
prepared by management; assessment of key assumptions and availability of cash facilities;

° Assessment of the business model and medium-term risks facing the group;

° Inspection of a copy of the contract supporting the existence of arrangements of open credit lines that the
company is able to draw cash from;

e Review of headroom in the forecasts, including an analysis of the historic cash position and forecasted free
cash flows;

. Assessment of working capital, which included comparison of forecasts to 2023 working capital profile;

e Assessment of the likely impact of the current market conditions on the group;

. Review of the going concern disclosures in the financial statements.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the group’s and parent company’s ability
to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are
authorised for issue. ;

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial
statements and our auditor's report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained
within the annual report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and,
except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion
thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial
statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such
internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

23

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Finning (UK) Ltd (continued)

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group’s and the parent
company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent
company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website
at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report.

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures
in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities,
including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is
detailed below.

We considered the nature of the group’s industry and its control environment, and reviewed the group’s
documentation of their policies and procedures relating to fraud and compliance with laws and regulations. We
also enquired of management, internal audit and the directors about their own identification and assessment of
the risks of irregularities, including those that are specific to the group’s business sector.

We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the group operates in, and identified
the key laws and regulations that:

e hada direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
These included UK Companies Act, pensions legislation, tax legislation; and

e donot have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental to
the group's ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty. These included the group’s operating licence.

We discussed among the audit engagement team including relevant internal specialists such as tax, valuations,
pensions and ST regarding the opportunities and incentives that may exist within the organisation for fraud and
how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements.

As a result of performing the above, we identified the greatest potential for fraud in the following areas and our
specific procedure performed to address them are described below:

- Revenue recognition, specifically pinpointing the risk to occurrence and cut-off _ in relation to long-term
contracts and projects. Due to the generators being of high value, and with the frequency of bulk shipping
arrangements, it would take a relatively small number of transactions to cause a material misstatement.
Our specific procedures performed to address the risk of fraud in revenue recognition included:

Obtaining an understanding of and testing the relevant controls pertaining to long-term contract

accounting; ,

Selecting a sample of costs which have been booked to contracts and agreed these costs to relevant

delivery notes to assess whether the associated revenue was recognised in the correct period;

24

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Finning (UK) Ltd (continued)

© Vouching payments of contract invoices to the bank statement;
e  Re-calculating revenue recognised in the year based on margin discussions with project managers to
assess whether revenue had been recognised in line with the expected approach.

Bill-and-hold arrangements, specifically pinpointing the risk tooccurrence and cut-off of revenue
recognition based on delivery under non-standard shipping terms. There is a risk that these terms are not
met, leading to revenue being recognised in the incorrect period. Our specific procedures performed to
address the risk of fraud in revenue recognitions included:

¢ Obtaining an understanding of and testing the relevant controls pertaining to bill-and-hold transactions;

¢ Agreeing a sample of year end bill-and-hold revenue contracts to letters sent from customers
acknowledging that Finning were holding the machines at the customer's request and that the
customer was responsible for any liability during this period;

¢ Testing a sample of machines invoices back to inventory records to ensure they were booked out of
inventory at year-end;

e Vouching cash payments had been received for each item at the point of testing.

In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also required to perform specific procedures to respond to the
risk of management override. In addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, we tested
the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments; assessed whether the judgements made in making
accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and evaluated the business rationale of any significant
transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.

In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to the risks identified included the following:

reviewing financial statement disclosures by testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with
provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct effect on the financial statements;
performing analytical procedures to identify any. unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks
of material misstatement due to fraud;

enquiring of management, internal audit and external legal counsel concerning actual and potential
litigation and claims, and instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations; and

reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and
reviewing correspondence with HMRC.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

25

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Finning (UK) Ltd (continued)

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and of the parent company and their environment
obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or
the directors’ report.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report in respect of the following matters if, in our opinion:

e adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit
have not been received from branches not visited by us; or

e the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

© certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

e we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

DocuSigned by:

Fe
22AFA05F393B47A...

Peter Gallimore FCA

For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP

Statutory Auditor

Birmingham, United Kingdom

30 April 2024

26

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Consolidated income statement
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Notes
Revenue : 1,2
Cost of sales
Gross margin
Other operating income
Distribution costs
Administrative expense

Other operating expenses

Total selling, general and administration expenses

Operating profit

Finance income
Finance costs 6

wn

Profit on ordinary activities before tax
Tax expense on profit on ordinary activities 7

Profit for the year from continuing operations

The group’s results for the year above are wholly attributable to the owners of the parent company.

(540,274)

Finning (UK) Ltd
2023 2022
£000 £7000
673,041 755,579
(621,791)
132,767 133,788
475 590
(7,827) (6,780)
(39,721) (55,716)
(38,019) (31,809)
(105,092) (93,715)
27,675 40,073
318 150
(1,254) (144)
26,739 40,079
(7,827) (8,082)
18,912

31,997

27

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Profit for the year

Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension schemes (note 23)

Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income not reclassified
UK deferred tax attributable to actuarial gain (note 7)

Other comprehensive expense for the year net of tax

Total comprehensive income / (expense) for the year

Finning (UK) Ltd
2023 2022
£000 £000
18,912 31,997
(1,188) (54,668)
297 13,667
(891) (41,001)
(891) (41,001)
18,021

—

(9,004)

28

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229
Finning (UK) Ltd
Registered number: 00367090

Consolidated statement of financial position
As at 31 December 2023

2023 2022
Notes £7000 £7000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 9 9,585 9,585
Retirement benefit surplus 23 64,669 59,855
Other intangible assets 10 3,142 3,820
Property, plant and equipment 11 68,703 61,696
Right-of-use assets 12 9,475 10,405
Finance lease receivables 15 - 263
Trade and other receivables 17 15,624 15,442
173,198 161,066
Current assets
Inventories 14 136,646 108,669
Finance lease receivables 15 268 256
Trade and other receivables 17 105,212 114,690
Cash and cash equivalents 27 3,403 28,140
Current tax assets 7 2,653 -
248,182 251,755
Total assets 419,380 412,821
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 19 (139,107) (139,951)
Short-term lease liability 20 (5,266) (6,382)
Borrowings 21 (274) (25,239)
Provisions for liabilities 22 (10,834) (12,801)
Deferred revenue (10,572) (9,607)
Current tax liability 7 (450) (1,720)
(166,503) (195,700)
Net current assets 81,679 56,055
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 21 (29,950) (297)
Deferred tax liabilities 7 (20,191) (15,878)
Long-term provisions for liabilities 22 (966) (1,181)
Deferred revenue (8,964) (14,378)
Lease liabilities 20 (7,245) (9,756)
Liability for share based payments (543) (589)
(67,859) (42,079)
Total liabilities (234,362) (237,779)

Net assets 185,018 175,042

29

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Consolidated statement of financial position (continued)

As at 31 December 2023

Equity
Share capital
Retained earings

Equity attributable to owners of the company

Notes

24
25

Finning (UK) Ltd

Registered number: 00367090

2023
£000

45,882
139,136

185,018

2022
£000

45,882
129,160

175,042

These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 30 April 2024.

They were signed on its behalf by:

ge

Kristin Shandro (Apr 30, 2024 15:33 GMT+)

KN Shandro
Director
30 April 2024

30

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Registered number: 00367090

Parent company statement of financial position

As at 31 December 2023
2023 2022
. Notes £7000 £000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 35 232 232
Retirement benefit surplus 23 64,669 59,855
Other intangible assets 36 3,127 3,818
Property, plant and equipment 37 61,495 55,086
Right-of-use assets 38 9,413 10,343
Investments 39 20,229 20,229
Finance lease receivables 15 - 262
Trade and other receivables 43 15,897 14,233
175,062 164,058
Current assets
Inventories 4l 128,267 96,269
Finance lease receivables 15 268 256
Trade and other receivables 43 102,931 108,556
Cash and cash equivalents - 29,196
Current tax asset 2,653 -
234,119 234,277
Total assets 409,181 398,335
Current liabilities :
Trade and other payables 45 (141,307) (142,352)
Short-term lease liabilities 46 (5,223) (6,339)
Borrowings 47 (5,955) (25,240)
Provisions for liabilities _ 48 (10,733) (12,700)
Deferred revenue (10,467) (9,588)
Current tax liability - (688)
(173,685) (196,907)
Net current assets : 60,434 37,370
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 47 (29,950) (297)
Deferred tax liabilities 40 (20,372) (16,012)
Long term provisions for liabilities 48 (966) (1,181)
Deferred revenue (8,964) (14,378)
Lease liabilities 46 (7,225) (9,736)
Liability for share based payments (543) (589)
(68,020) (42,193)
Total liabilities (241,705) (239,100)
Net assets 167,476 159,235

31

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229
Finning (UK) Ltd
Registered number: 00367090

Parent company statement of financial position (continued)
As at 31 December 2023

2023 2022
. Notes £000 £7000

Equity
Share capital 24 45,882 45,882
Retained earnings 49 121,594 113,353
Equity attributable to owners of the company 167,476 159,235

As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, no separate profit and loss account is presented in respect of the
parent company. The profit for the financial year dealt with in the financial statements of the parent company was £17,177,000
(2022: £27,649,000) and other comprehensive expense for the year was £891,000 (2022: £41,001,000).

These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 30 April 2024.

They were signed on its behalf by:

Kristin Shandro (Apr 30, 2024 15:33 GMT+1)
K N Shandro

Director
30 April 2024

32

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
Retained
Share capital Earnings Total
£7000 £°000 £°000
Balance at 1 January 2022 45,882 140,800 186,682
Profit for the year - 31,997 31,997
Other comprehensive expense (note 49) - (41,001) (41,001)
Total comprehensive expense for the year . (9,004) (9,004)
Dividends (note 8) - (2,636) (2,636)
Balance at 31 December 2022 45,882 129,160 175,042
Profit for the year . - 18,912 18,912
Other comprehensive expense (note 49) - (891) (891)
Total comprehensive income for the year - 18,021 18,021
Dividends (note 8) - (8,045) (8,045)

Balance at 31 December 2023 45,882 139,136 185,018

33

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Consolidated statement of cash flows
For the year ended 31 December 2023

OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit for the period

Adjustments for:

Net finance costs

Income tax charge

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
Depreciation of right-of-use assets

Lease remeasurements

Amortisation of intangible assets

Loss / (gain) on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Share based payments expense

Increase in provisions

Adjustment for pension operating costs

Effect of currency translation

Operating cash flows before movements in working capital
Increase in inventories

Decrease / (increase) in receivables

(Decrease) / increase in payables

Cash generated by operations

Income taxes paid
Interest paid

Net cash from operating activities

INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Purchases of property, plant and equipment

Purchases of intangible assets

Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Interest received

Net cash used in investing activities

FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Repayment of borrowings
New borrowings

Repayment of lease liabilities
Dividends paid

Net cash used in financing activities
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year
Movement in cash and cash equivalents during the year

Effect of foreign exchange rate changes

Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year

Notes

5,6

11
12
12
10

23

27

27

3,403

Finning (UK) Ltd
2023 2022
£7000 £7000
18,912 31,997
936 (6)
7,827 8,082
11,028 10,670
6,572 7,501
(780) -
1 1,343
2 (1)
1,155 1,642
9,388 14,500
778 947
(516) (392)
56,413 76,273
(22,943) (29,408)
8,841 (14,648)
(21,788) 18,418
20,523 50,635
(6,693) (4,242)
(2,561) (1,684)
11,269 44,709
(25,110) (16,397)
(397) (397)
443 140
289 115
(24,775) (16,539)
(32,554) (327)
35,608 -
(6,700) (8,672)
(8,045) (2,636)
(11,691) (11,635)
28,140 12,161
(25,197) 16,535
460 (556)
28,140

34

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Parent company statement of changes in equity
Retained

Share capital Earnings Total
£000 £°000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2022 45,882 129,341 175,223
Profit for the year - 27,649 27,649
Other comprehensive expense - (41,001) (41,001)
Total comprehensive expense for the year - (13,352) (13,352)
Dividends (note 8) - (2,636) (2,636)
Balance at 31 December 2022 45,882 113,353 159,235
Profit for the year - 17,177 17,177
Other comprehensive expense - (891) (891)
Total comprehensive income for the year . - 16,286 16,286
Dividends (note 8) - (8,045) (8,045)

Balance at 31 December 2023 45,882 121,594 167,476

35.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F 472-91A4A-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

General information

Finning (UK) Ltd (the company) is a privately owned company limited by shares, incorporated in the United Kingdom under
the Companies Act. Its parent and ultimate holding company is Finning International Inc. The address of its registered office
and principal place of business is Watling Street, Bridgetown, Cannock, Staffordshire, England, WS11 8LL. The principal
activities of the company and its subsidiaries (the group) are described in the Strategic report. These financial statements are
presented in Pounds Sterling.

Statement of accounting policies

The consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with United Kingdom adopted international standards.
The financial statements also comply with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as issued by the International
Accounting Standard Board (IASB). The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the
accounting policies presented below and are based on the IFRS and International Financial Reporting Interpretations
Committee (IFRIC) interpretations issued and effective as of 31 December 2023. The company meets the definition of a
qualifying entity under FRS100 (Financial Reporting Standard 100) issued by the Financial Reporting Council. The company
financial statements which form part of these financial statements have therefore been prepared in accordance with FRS 101
‘Reduced Disclosure framework’, as issued by the Financial Reporting Council, and there were no objections by the
shareholders of the company to this being applied. The policies set out below were consistently applied to all the periods
presented unless otherwise noted.

These Financial Statements were prepared under the historical cost basis (liabilities for share-based payment arrangements
that are in line with IFRS 2 and defined benefit pension obligations, which have been measured at fair value). Fair value is
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another
valuation technique. In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the group takes into account the characteristics of
the asset or liability if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset or liability at
the measurement date. The preparation of these financial statements requires the use of certain accounting estimates and
requires management to exercise judgement in applying the company’s accounting policies. The areas where assumptions,
estimates and judgements are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed below.

The significant accounting policies used in these financial statements are as follows:
(a) Principles of consolidation

The Financial Statements include the accounts of Finning (UK) Ltd, which includes Finning (UK) Ltd’s wholly owned
subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are those entities over which the group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies
so as to obtain benefits from the investee’s activities, generally accompanying a shareholding that confers more than half of
the voting rights. For interests acquired or disposed of during the year, the results of operations are included in the
consolidated statements of income from, or up to, the date of the transaction, respectively.

The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the company and entities (including structured
entities) controlled by the company and its subsidiaries. Control is achieved when the company:

e has power over the investee;
¢ is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and
© has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.

The company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to
one or more of the three elements of control listed above.

When the company has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, it has power over the investee when the voting
rights are sufficient to give it the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee unilaterally. The company
considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether or not the company's voting rights in an investee are
sufficient to give it power, including:

the size of the company's holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders;
potential voting rights held by the company, other vote holders or other parties;

rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and

any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the company ‘has, or does not have, the current ability to direct
the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders’
meetings.

36

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2022

Statement of accounting policies (continued)
(a) Principles of consolidation (continued)

Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the company
loses control of the subsidiary. Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are
included in the consolidated income statement and other comprehensive income from the date the company gains control
until the date when the company ceases to control the subsidiary.

Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the company.

When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line
with the group's accounting policies.

All intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the
group are eliminated in full on consolidation.

(b) Going concern

As disclosed in the directors’ report the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and as such the going concern basis has been adopted in preparing
the annual report and financial statements. Refer to the strategic report and directors’ report on pages 2 to 14 for details of
key judgements applied in supporting the group’s going concern assumption.

(c) Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for the
consolidated financial statements and FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure framework’ for the company financial statements
requires management to make judgements, estimates, and assumptions in respect of the application of accounting policies
and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income, and expenses. Actual results may differ from those judgements,
estimates, and assumptions.

Key sources of estimation uncertainty

The following are the key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of
the reporting period, that may have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities within the next financial year.

Defined benefit pension plans

The company has a defined benefit pension plan that provides pension and other benefits to its employees. Actuarial
valuations are based on assumptions which include employee turnover, salary escalation rates, mortality rates, discount rates,
and expected rate of return on retirement plan assets. Judgement is exercised in setting these assumptions. These assumptions
impact the measurement of the retirement benefit obligation, the pension expense and the actuarial gains and losses
recognised in other comprehensive income. The sensitivity of defined benefit pension plans to fluctuations in discount rate,
inflation and life expectancy has been disclosed in note 23.

Critical judgements in applying accounting policies

There are no critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that the directors have made in the process of
applying the group's accounting policies.

(d) Foreign currency translation
These Financial Statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the functional currency of the parent company.

Transactions undertaken in foreign currencies are translated into pounds sterling at exchange rates prevailing at the time the
transactions occurred. Account balances denominated in foreign currencies are translated into pounds sterling as follows:

© Monetary assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates in effect at the statement of financial position dates or at
forward rates to the extent that related currency contracts are in place, and non-monetary items are translated at
historical exchange rates; and

e Foreign exchange gains and losses are included in income except where the exchange gain or loss arises from the
translation of monetary items designated as hedges, in which case the gain or loss is deferred and accounted for in
conjunction with the hedged item.

37

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Statement of accounting policies (continued)
(e) Inventories

Inventories are assets held for sale in the ordinary course of business, in the process of production for sale, or in the form of
materials or supplies to be consumed in the production process or in the rendering of services. Inventories are stated at the
lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined on a specific item basis for on-hand equipment, and on a first in
first out basis for parts and supplies. The cost of inventories includes all costs of purchase, conversion costs, and other costs
incurred in bringing inventories to their existing location and condition. In the case of internal service work in progress on
equipment, cost includes an appropriate share of overhead costs based on normal operating capacity. Net realisable value is
based on estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal. Provision is made for
obsolete, slow-moving or defective items where appropriate.

Provision for inventory obsolescence

The group makes estimates of the provision required to reflect obsolescence of inventory. These provisions are determined
on a specific item basis for equipment, and on the basis of age, redundancy, and inventory levels for parts and supplies. Due
to the movements in the used equipment market, it is impractical to determine the sensitivity of inventory obsolescence to
such changes. The carrying amounts of the assets to which the provisions relate are disclosed in note 14.

(f) Income taxes

The balance sheet method of tax allocation is used in accounting for income taxes. Under this method, the carry forward of
unused tax losses and unused tax credits and the temporary differences arising from the difference between the tax basis of
an asset and a liability and its carrying amount on the statement of financial position are used to calculate deferred tax assets
or liabilities.

Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent
that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which the carry forward of unused tax losses, unused tax
credits, and the deductible temporary differences can be utilized. Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if
the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and
associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference
and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

Deferred tax assets or liabilities are calculated using tax rates anticipated to be in effect in the periods that the asset is realised
or the liability is settled based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. The effect
of a change in income tax rates on deferred tax assets and liabilities is recognised in income and/or equity in the period that
the change becomes substantively enacted.

Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively. Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting
for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination.

The charge for current tax is based on the results for the year as adjusted for items which are non-assessable or disallowed
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against
current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the group intends to
settle its tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.

UK corporation tax is provided at amounts to be paid (or recorded) using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. The group is part of a United Kingdom group and accordingly may use the
statutory provisions whereby current taxable profits and corporation tax liabilities can be offset by current tax losses arising
in other group undertakings.

38

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-ACBE-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Statement of accounting policies (continued)
(g) Rental equipment and right-of-use rental equipment

Rental equipment is available for short and medium term rentals and is recorded at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and
impairment losses. Cost is determined on a specific item basis. Rental equipment is depreciated to its estimated residual value
over its estimated useful life on a straight-line basis over 3-8 years. Rental assets that become available for sale after being
removed from rental fleets are transferred to inventory.

Finance assets on the consolidated statement of financial position include equipment leased to customers on long-term
financing leases. Depreciation of equipment leased to customers is provided in equal monthly amounts over the terms of the
individual leases after recognising the estimated residual value of each unit at the end of each lease.

Depreciation for rental equipment and equipment leased to customers is recorded in the consolidated income statement.
Asset lives and residual values

Rental fleet is depreciated to its estimated residual value over its estimated useful life. Depreciation expense is sensitive to
the estimated service lives determined for each type of rental asset. Actual lives and residual values may vary depending on
a number of factors including technological innovation, product life cycles and physical condition of the asset, prospective
use, and maintenance programs. Any impairment to the actual lives and residual lives of the rental fleet could result in a
material change to the depreciation expense. The carrying value of the rental fleet equipment is disclosed in notes 11 and 12
for owned and right-of-use assets respectively.

(h) Property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets (ROU)

Property, plant and equipment and ROU are recorded at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment
losses. Depreciation of property, plant and equipment and ROU is recorded in the consolidated income statement.
Depreciation commences when the asset becomes available for use and ceases when the asset is derecognised or classified
as held for sale. Where significant components of an asset have different useful lives, depreciation is calculated on each
separate part.

All classes of property, plant, and equipment and ROU are depreciated over their estimated useful lives to their estimated
residual value on a straight-line basis using the following annual rates:

Freehold land & buildings 2% - 10% per annum

Long leasehold land & buildings 2% — 10% per annum, ensuring that assets are not depreciated
over longer than the lease term

Equipment and fixtures & fittings 12.5% - 25% per annum

Motor vehicles (included within equipment) 25% per annum

IT equipment 20% - 33.33% per annum

Rental equipment 11.25% straight line for the first 8 years then held at 10%

residual value
Property, plant, and equipment held under ROU are depreciated over the term of the relevant lease.
(i) Revaluation of properties

The group had previously taken advantage of the transitional provisions of Financial Reporting Standard No.15 “Tangible
Fixed Assets” and retained the book amounts of certain freehold properties which were revalued prior to the implementation
of that standard. The properties were last revalued in 1988 and the valuations have not subsequently been updated. On
transition to IFRS these revaluations were reversed retrospectively through application of the cost model in IAS16, except
for certain revaluations that took place prior to the initial acquisition of certain companies within Finning. For the pre-
acquisition revaluation the group has elected under IFRS 1, First time adoption, to use the previous GAAP revaluation
(previously revalued under UK GAAP in 1980) as deemed cost at the date of revaluation.

39

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229
Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Statement of accounting policies (continued)
(j) Intangible assets

Intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortised. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised on a straight-line
basis over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets, such as software, customer lists, and similar assets, are amortised
over the periods during which they are expected to generate benefits, which do not exceed ten years. Software is amortised
over a period of 5 years. Amortisation is recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses in the consolidated
statement of income.

(k) Goodwill

Goodwill represents the excess of the acquisition date fair value of consideration transferred over the fair value of the
identifiable net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.

This is applicable to business combinations completed on or after 1 January 2011.
(1) Asset impairment

Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives or those which are not yet available for use are subject to an annual
assessment for impairment unless events or changes in circumstances indicate that their value may not be fully recoverable,
in which case the assessment is done at that time. Tangible assets and intangible assets with finite lives are subject to
assessment for impairment whenever there is an indicator that they may be impaired. For the purpose of impairment testing,
goodwill is allocated to each of the group’s cash generating units expected to benefit from the acquisition. The level at which
goodwill is allocated represents the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes and is not
higher than an operating segment. If the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of
the unit, then the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and
then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any impairment is
recognised immediately in the consolidated statement of income. Impairment reversals are recognised immediately in net
income when the recoverable amount of an asset increases above the impaired net book value, not to exceed the carrying
amount that would have been determined (net of depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior
years. Impairment losses recognised for goodwill are never reversed.

(m) Leases
At inception of a contract, the group assesses whether the contract is or contains a lease.

The group as lessor

Revenue from equipment rentals and operating leases is presented as equipment rental revenue and in accordance with the
terms of the relevant agreement with the customer, either recognized evenly over the term of that agreement or on a usage
basis such as the number of hours that the equipment is used.

The group as lessee

At the commencement of the lease, the group recognizes a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability, except for
short-term leases (defined as leases with a lease term of 12 months or less) and leases of low value assets.

The right-of-use asset at inception includes the initial measurement of the corresponding lease liability, lease payments made
at or before the commencement date and any initial direct costs. The right-of-use asset is subsequently measured at cost less
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Depreciation of right-of-use assets is recorded in selling, general, and
administrative expenses for all assets except leases of rental equipment, where depreciation is recorded in cost of sales in the
consolidated statement of net income. Depreciation is recorded on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the term of the
lease or the estimated useful life of the underlying asset, commencing when the asset becomes available for use.

Right-of-use assets are reviewed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period or whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognized for the
amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an
asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and value-in-use. Where an impairment loss is recognized for a right-of-use asset, the
asset is reviewed for possible reversal of the impairment at the end of each subsequent reporting period.

40

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Statement of accounting policies (continued)
(m) Leases (continued)

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments that have not been paid at the
commencement date, discounted by using the group’s incremental borrowing rate unless the rate implicit in the lease is
readily determinable.

Lease payments over the estimated lease term included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise:

Fixed lease payments, less any lease incentives;
Variable lease payments that depend on an index or rate, initially measured using the index or rate at the commencement
date;
The amount expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees;
The exercise price of purchase options, if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise the options; and,
e Payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the exercise of an option to terminate the lease.

The lease liability is subsequently measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability (using
the effective interest rate method) and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made.

The group remeasures the lease liability (and makes a corresponding adjustment to the related right-of-use asset) whenever:

e The lease term changes or there is a change in the assessment of exercise of a purchase option, in which case the lease
liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease payments using a revised discount rate,

e The lease payments change due to a change in an index, rate, or expected payment under a guaranteed residual value, in
which cases the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease payments using the initial discount rate; or,

e A lease contract is modified, and the lease modification is not accounted for as a separate lease, in which case the lease
liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease payments using a revised discount rate.

The right-of-use asset is presented separately to property, plant, and equipment and the lease liability is presented within
accounts payable and accruals (current portion) and long-term lease liabilities (non-current portion) on the statement of
financial position.

Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets

The group has elected not to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for leases that have a term of 12 months or less
and leases of low-value assets. The group recognizes these lease payments as an expense on a straight-line basis over the
lease term.

Sale and leaseback transactions

If a sale and leaseback transaction results in the recognition of a lease, any excess of sale proceeds over the carrying amount
is deferred and amortised over the lease term. The asset is capitalised at its sale price and depreciation is charged in accordance
with the policy stated above. Rentals payable to the lessor are apportioned between the finance charge and a reduction in the
outstanding obligation for future amounts payable. The total finance charge is allocated to accounting periods during the
lease term so as to produce a reasonable approximation of a constant periodic rate of charge on the remaining balance of the
obligation for each accounting period.

Leases

The group is required to make judgments in determining the lease term. Management considers all facts and circumstances,
including economic incentives to exercise an extension option and its asset management strategy. Extension options are only
included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to be extended. Most of the group’s extension options relate to
lease of properties in the group’s operations and are evaluated based on management’s long-term facility strategy.

(n) Decommissioning, restoration and similar liabilities

The group recognises its legal and constructive obligation for the decommissioning of certain tangible long-lived assets. The
provision is measured based on the net present value of management’s best estimate of the expenditures that will be made.
The discount rate used to discount the decommissioning liability is determined with reference to the specific risks associated
with the underlying assets. The associated decommissioning costs are capitalised as part of the carrying amount of the long-
lived asset and then amortised over the estimated useful life. The increase in the net present value of the provision for the
expected decommissioning cost is included in finance costs. Subsequent changes in the estimate of costs relating to the
decommissioning of long lived assets are capitalised as part of the cost of the item and depreciated prospectively over the
remaining life of the item to which the costs relate. A gain or loss may be incurred upon settlement of the liability.

41

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229
Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Statement of accounting policies (continued)
(0) Revenue recognition

Revenue is recognised when or as the group transfers control of goods or services to a customer at the amount to which the
group expects to be entitled.

Revenue is recognised when control of the goods is transferred to the customer at a point-in-time for the following revenue
streams:

e Revenue from sales of new and used equipment (except for complex power and energy systems) is recognised when
control passes to the customer, which is generally at the time of shipment of the equipment to the customer or when
commissioning of equipment is complete. Revenue is recorded at the estimated amount of consideration to which the
group expects to be entitled, including any non-cash consideration when used equipment is accepted for trade-in value.

e Revenue from sales of parts inventory is recognised when control of the part is transferred to the customer, which is
generally upon shipment to the customer or when the customer collects their purchase from one of the group’s locations. |
Revenue from the sales of parts inventory is initially recorded at the estimated amount of consideration to which the
group expects to be entitled. If applicable, management recognises an obligation for items such as refunds, incentives,
and discounts with a corresponding reduction in product support revenue. The value of the obligation is estimated based
on the terms of the contract, customary business practices, and historical experience.

Revenue is recognised in a manner that best reflects the group’s performance over-time for the following revenue streams:

e Revenue from sales of complex power and energy systems involving the design, installation, and assembly of power and
energy systems is estimated as the amount of consideration to which the group expects to be entitled. Revenue is
recognised on a percentage of completion basis proportionate to the work that has been completed and is based on
associated costs incurred.

e For sale of parts through servicing of equipment, revenue is recognised as the service work is performed based on parts
list price and standard billing labour rates. Product support is also offered to customers in the form of long-term contracts.
For these contracts, revenue is recognised on a basis proportionate to the service work that has been performed based on
associated costs incurred. For certain long-term product support contracts where flat-rate labour or a monthly
subscription service is provided, the group recognises revenue for labour on a straight-line basis. Revenue from product
support under long-term contracts is estimated based on the number and types of services expected to be performed using
the pricing terms set out in the contract.

Revenue from equipment rentals and operating leases is presented as equipment rental revenue:

e Revenue from equipment rentals and operating leases is recognised in accordance with the terms of the relevant
agreement with the customer, either recognised evenly over the term of that agreement or on a usage basis such as the
number of hours that the equipment is used.

Periodically, revenue from customers under long-term contracts may be recognised in advance of billing the customer. To
the extent the group has a right to receive consideration for the good or service transferred to the customer, the group
recognises a contract asset. Similarly, amounts may be received from customers under long-term contracts in advance of
the work being performed and the group recognises a contract liability. These amounts are recorded on the consolidated
statement of financial position as contract assets and contract liabilities, respectively.

If it is expected that the unavoidable costs required to satisfy the remaining performance obligations of a revenue contract
will exceed its expected economic benefits, the group recognises an onerous provision with a corresponding loss in the
consolidated statement of net income.

A number of the group’s sales agreements contain “buy-back” arrangements that may be exercised at the option of the
customer within specified periods in the future. Where there is an economic incentive for the customer to exercise their
option, revenue and costs are deferred and recognised over the buy-back period. The full value of the potential liability is
recognised immediately together with an equivalent inventory balance. The inventory balance is re-assessed on an on-going
basis and the value is impaired where indications are such that the market value of the item will be lower than the agreed
buyback price.

42

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Statement of accounting policies (continued)
(0) Revenue recognition (continued)

Revenue recognition — repurchase guarantees

Guaranteed residual values are periodically given on repurchase commitments with customers. The likelihood of the
repurchase commitments being exercised is assessed at the inception of the contract to determine whether significant risks
and rewards have been transferred to the customer and if revenue should be recognised. The likelihood of the repurchase
guarantees being exercised, and quantification of the possible loss, if any, on resale of the equipment is assessed at the
inception of the contract and at each reporting period thereafter. Significant assumptions are made in estimating residual
values. These are assessed based on past experience and take into account expected future market conditions and projected
disposal values. It is not practical to determine the sensitivity of such transactions due to fluctuations in the underlying
market value of the equipment. The carrying value of the current obligation and maximum potential exposure are disclosed
in note 30.

(p) Share-based payments

The group has share option plans and other share-based compensation plans for directors and certain eligible employees
including cash and equity settled schemes, as well as a scheme where the employee has a choice of settlement in either cash
or shares. Share-based awards are measured at fair value, excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions. Fair
value is measured by using the Black-Scholes model.

For equity settled share-based payments, fair value is determined on the grant date of the share option and recorded over the
vesting period, based on the group’s estimate of options that will vest, with a corresponding increase in intragroup payable.

When share options are exercised, the proceeds received by the ultimate group, together with any related amount recorded in
contributed surplus, are credited to the ultimate group share capital. Contributed surplus is made up of the fair value of share
options.

Cash settled share-based compensation plans are recognised as a liability. Compensation expense which arises from
fluctuations in the fair value of the group’s cash settled share-based compensation plans (net of hedging instruments) is
recognised in selling, general, and administrative expense in the consolidated statement of income with the corresponding
liability recorded on the statement of financial position in long-term obligations.

Total Shareholder Return Performance Share Units are measured at fair value using the Black-Scholes model and all other
cash-settled share-based awards are measured at fair value using the period-end closing share price. Cash settled share-based
compensation plans are recognised as a liability. Compensation expense which arises from fluctuations in the fair value of
the group’s cash settled share-based compensation plans (net of hedging instruments) is recognised in selling, general, and
administrative expense in the consolidated statement of income with the corresponding liability recorded on the statement of
financial position in long-term obligations. .

(q) Employee future benefits

The group and its subsidiaries offer a number of benefit plans that provide pension and other benefits to many of its employees
in the U.K. These plans include defined benefit and defined contribution plans.

Defined benefit plans: The cost of pensions and other retirement benefits is determined by independent actuaries using the
projected unit credit method prorated on service and management’s best estimates of assumptions including the salary
escalation rate and the use of a discount rate based on high quality corporate bond yields.

Administration costs (net of employee contributions) and net interest costs are recognised as a charge to operating profit and
finance costs, respectively, in the consolidated income statement. Net interest cost is calculated by applying the discount rate
at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset. Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience
adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are recognised in full directly in other comprehensive income in the period
in which they occur.

The amount recognised in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the present value of the defined benefit
obligation reduced by the fair value of plan assets. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by
discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that have terms to maturity
approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. Any asset is limited to the unrecognised past service costs, plus
the present value of available refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.

43

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229
Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Statement of accounting policies (continued)
(q) Employee future benefits (continued)

Defined contribution plans: The cost of pension benefits includes the current service cost, which comprise the actual
contributions made and accrued by the company during the year. These contributions are based on a fixed percentage of
member earnings for the year and are charged to the consolidated statement of income as they become due. Differences
between contributions payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the
consolidated statement of financial position.

(r) Discontinued operations

A discontinued operation is a component of the group’s business, the operations and cash flows of which can be clearly
distinguished from the rest of the group and which:

- represents a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations;

- is part of a single co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area of operations;
or

-  isasubsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to re-sale.

Classification as a discontinued operation occurs on disposal or when the operations meeting the criteria to be classified as
held-for-sale, if earlier. When an operation is classified as a discontinued operation, the comparative statement of
comprehensive income is re-presented as if the operation has been discontinued from the start of the comparative year.

(s) Financial instruments and hedges
Financial assets and financial liabilities

Classification
The group and company has made the following classification of its financial assets and financial liabilities:

Accounts receivable, instalment and other notes receivable, and supplier claims receivable are classified as Financial assets
measured at amortised cost. They are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Short-term and long-
term debt and accounts payable are classified as “other financial liabilities”. They are measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest method. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of a financial asset or financial
liability (except those classified as fair value through profit or loss “FVTPL”) are included in the carrying amount of the
financial asset or financial liability, and are amortised to finance income or finance charges using the effective interest
method. ,

Financial assets that are measured at amortised cost are assessed for impairment at the end of each reporting period. Financial
assets are considered to be impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that occurred
after the initial recognition of the financial assets, the estimated future cash flows of the asset have been affected. The carrying
amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade
receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account. When a trade receivable is
considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance
account are recognised in the income statement.

Included within the allowance account ‘is a provision for lifetime expected credit losses (ECL). The group always recognises
lifetime ECL for trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables. The expected credit losses on these financial assets
are estimated using a calculation based on the group’s historical credit loss experience, adjusted for factors that are specific
to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of both the current as well as the forecast direction of
conditions at the reporting date, including time value of money where appropriate.

Fair value of cash and cash equivalents, is estimated at its carrying amount where the cash is repayable on demand.
Derivatives

All derivative instruments are recorded on the consolidated statement of financial position at fair value.

Hedges

Gains and losses relating to forward foreign exchange contracts that are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes
are recorded in selling, general, and administrative expenses.

44

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Statement of accounting policies (continued)
(t) Amendments to Standards and New Accounting Standard

In the current year, the group has applied a number of amendments to IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards
Board (IASB) that are mandatorily effective for an accounting period that begins on or after 1 January 2023 (except as noted
below). Their adoption has not had any material impact on the disclosures or on the amounts reported in these financial
statements except to that noted below.

The group has adopted the following new accounting standard and interpretation:

e IFRS 17, /nsurance Contracts (effective January 1, 2023) replaces IFRS 4, Insurance Contracts, and establishes the
principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of insurance contracts. The amendments
apply to contracts existing at the date when the amendments are first applied. The adoption of this standard did not
have any impact on the group’s consolidated financial statements because the group is covered by a dealer exemption
and is not exposed to significant financial risk from contracts within the scope of IFRS 17.

e Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements (effective January 1, 2023) require entities to disclose
their material accounting policy information rather than significant accounting policy information. The amendments
provide guidance on how an entity can identify material accounting policy information and clarify that information
may be material because of its nature, even if the related amounts are immaterial. The adoption of these amendments
did not have any impact on the disclosure of material accounting policy information for the group’s December 31,
2023 consolidated financial statements.

© Amendments to IAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors (effective January 1, 2023)
introduce a definition of ‘accounting estimates’ and clarify the difference between changes in accounting policies and
changes in accounting estimates. The adoption of these amendments did not have any impact on the consolidated
financial statements.

e Amendments to IAS 12, Income Taxes:

e Clarify how companies should account for deferred tax related to assets and liabilities arising from a single
transaction, such as leases and decommissioning obligations. The amendments (effective January 1, 2023) narrow
the scope of the initial recognition exemption so that it does not apply to transactions that give rise to equal and
offsetting temporary differences. As a result, companies will need to recognize a deferred tax asset and a deferred
tax liability for temporary differences arising on initial recognition of the related asset and liability. Management
reviewed its global tax provision and concluded that there were no deferred taxes being netted or not recognized
from a single tax treatment and has not applied the initial recognition exemption. The adoption of these amendments
did not have any impact on the Company’s financial statements.

e Scope in income taxes arising from tax law enacted or substantively enacted to implement the Pillar Two model
rules published by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. The amendments (effective for
the Company’s June 30, 2023 Interim Financial Statements) provide temporary relief from accounting for and
disclosure of deferred income taxes arising from this international tax reform. The Company has applied the
temporary exception from the accounting requirements for deferred taxes in relation to Pillar Two legislation. The
amendments also introduce targeted disclosure requirements for current tax arising from this international tax
reform. Refer to Note 13 for additional information. Amendments to IAS 12, /ncome Taxes (effective January 1,
2023) clarify how companies should account for deferred tax related to assets and liabilities arising from a single
transaction, such as leases and decommissioning obligations. The amendments narrow the scope of the initial
recognition exemption so that it does not apply to transactions that give rise to equal and offsetting temporary
differences. As a result, companies will need to recognize a deferred tax asset and a deferred tax liability for
temporary differences arising on initial recognition of the related asset and liability. Management is currently
assessing the impact of these amendments.

45

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-45008468F229
Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Statement of accounting policies (continued)

(u) New and revised IFRSs in issue but not yet effective

As at the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the group has not applied the following new standards and
amendments to standards that have been issued but are not yet effective.

« Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements (effective January 1, 2024):

¢ — Clarify the classification of liabilities as current or non-current based on contractual rights that are in existence at
the end of the reporting period and is unaffected by expectations about whether an entity will exercise its right to
defer or accelerate settlement. A liability not due over the next twelve months is classified as non-current even if
management intends or expects to settle the liability within twelve months. The amendments also introduce a
definition of ‘settlement’ to make clear that settlement refers to the transfer of cash, equity instruments, other assets,
or services to the counterparty. Management does not expect the adoption of these amendments to result in any other
changes to the consolidated statement of financial position.

e — Clarify that only covenants with which an entity must comply on or before the reporting date will affect the
classification of a liability as current or non-current. In addition, the amendments require a company to disclose
information in the notes to the financial statements when liabilities are classified as non-current when the right to
defer settlement of those liabilities is subject to complying with covenants within twelve months after the
reporting date. Management expects no changes will be required to the group’s classification as a result of these
amendments.

e Amendments to LAS 7, Statement of Cash Flows and IFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures (effective January 1,
2024) add disclosure requirements that require companies to provide qualitative and quantitative information about
supplier finance arrangements that will assist users of financial statements to assess the effects of the company’s supplier
finance arrangements on its liabilities and cash flows. Management expects that adoption of these amendments will not
have a significant impact on the group’s disclosures and will continue to assess the impact on the disclosures of all
supplier finance arrangements in scope of these amendments.

e¢ Amendments to IFRS 16, Leases (effective January 1, 2024) explain how an entity accounts for a sale and leaseback
after the transaction date. The amendments clarify how a seller-lessee should subsequently measure lease liabilities and
when it is appropriate to record a gain or loss on these transactions. The amendments apply to all sale and leaseback
transactions entered since the effective date of IFRS 16 (January 1, 2019) and the effective date of this amendment.
These amendments are not expected to have any impact on the group’s financial statements at this time because from
January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2022 the group did not enter into any sale and leaseback transactions. However,
management will consider these amendments in the accounting treatment of future sale and leaseback transactions.

46

DocuSign Envetope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Statement of accounting policies (continued)

(v) Company exemptions taken

As permitted by FRS 101, exemptions from applying the following requirements have been adopted for the company
disclosures (full consolidated disclosures as required by IFRS have been included in consolidated elements of these financial

statements)

a)
b)

c)

qd)

8)
h)

D)
k)

IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’
JAS | ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38A, 38B, 38C, 38D, 40A, 40B,
40C, 40D, 111 and 134 to 136

IAS | ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ paragraph 38 (requirement to present comparative information) in
respect of

i. IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ paragraph 79 (a) (iv)

ii. TAS 16 ‘Property, Plant and Equipment’ paragraph 73(e)

iii. IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’ paragraph 118 (e) and

iv. IAS 40 ‘Investment Property’ paragraph 76 and 79 (d)
IAS 7 ‘Statement of Cash flows’
IAS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’ paragraph 30 and 31
1AS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ paragraph 17 and 18 (a)
IFRS 2 ‘Share-Based Payments’ paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52
IAS 36 ‘Impairment of assets’ paragraphs 130(f)(ii), 130(f)(iii), 134(d) to 134(f) and 135(c) to 135(e)

IFRS 3 ‘Business Combinations’ paragraphs 62, B64(d), B64(e), B64(g), B64(h), B64(j) to
B64(m), B64(n)(ii), B64(0)(ii), B64(p), B64(q)(ii), B66 and B67

IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’ paragraphs 91 to 99

IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ the second sentence of paragraph 110 and paragraphs 113(a),
114, 115, 118, 119(a) to (c), 120 to 127 and 129

IFRS 16 ‘Leases’ paragraph 52, the second sentence of paragraph 89, and paragraphs 90, 91 and 9

47

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
1 Revenue - group
An analysis of the group’s revenue and other income is as follows:
2023 2022
£000 £7000
Sale of goods 607,972 708,245
Revenue from construction contracts 41,487 28,987
Equipment leasing income 23,582 18,347
Revenue 673,041 755,579
Timing of revenue recognition
Point in time 484,926 586,181
Over time 164,533 144,613
Equipment leasing income : 23,582 24,785
Revenue : 673,041 755,579

2 Operating segments — group

Information reported to the group’s executives for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment
performance is focused on strategic business units that offer different products and services. They are managed
separately because each business has differing commercial, technological and marketing strategies.

The group has two reportable segments: equipment solutions and power systems. The equipment solutions segment
supplies and hires Caterpillar heavy and general construction equipment, and provides after-sales services, under
dealership agreements. The power systems segment provides Caterpillar, MaK and Perkins Sabre Power and Energy
Systems to marine, power generation, industrial and OEM customers.

All turnover and net assets originate from the United Kingdom. All non-current assets other than financial instruments,
deferred tax assets, and post-employment benefit assets are located in the UK.

Turnover by destination

2023 2022
£7000 £°000
United Kingdom 610,368 711,734
Treland 23,616 21,972
Rest of Europe 24,129 13,769
Middle East and Asia 8,078 2,183
Africa 290 102
Other 6,560 5,819

673,041 755,579

No single customer contributed 10% or more to the group’s revenue in either 2023 or 2022.

48

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
2 Operating segments — group (continued)
The reportable operating segments are as follows:
For the year ended 31 December 2023 Equipment Power Other Total
(£000) ofutions Systems
Revenue
Point in time 358,339 132,748 (6,161) 484,926
Over time 94,186 70,297 50 164,533
Equipment leasing income 17,984 5,598 : 23,582
470,509 208,643 (6,111) 673,041
Operating costs (427,043) (177,334) (40,989) (645,366)
Operating profit / (loss) 43,466 31,309 (47,100) 27,675
Finance income - 318 - 318
Finance charges (374) (129) (751) (1,254)
Profit / (loss) on ordinary activities before
taxation 43,092 31,498 (47,851) 26,739
Depreciation and amortisation (14,831) (651) (3,229) (18,711)
Short-term lease rentals (3,971) (587) (1,686) (6,244)
For the year ended 31 December 2022 Equipment Power Other Total
(£7000) Solutions Systems
Revenue
Point in time 479,104 114,248 (7,170) 586,182
Over time 91,101 53,536 (24) 144,613
Equipment leasing income 19,838 4,947 : 24,785
590,043 172,730 (7,194) 755,579
Operating costs (529,609) (150,547) (35,350) (715,506)
Operating profit / (loss) 60,434 22,183 (42,543) 40,073
Finance income 43 107 - 150
Finance charges (580) (100) 536 (144)
Profit / (loss) on ordinary activities before
taxation 59,897 22,189 (42,007) 40,079
Depreciation and amortisation (14,972) (559) (4,093) (19,624)
Short-term lease rentals - - (1,094) (1,094)

The Other operating segment largely relates to head office costs and intercompany revenue eliminations.

49

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

2

Operating segments — group (continued)

Finning (UK) Ltd

The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the group’s accounting policies.

Profit or loss on ordinary activities before taxation for each segment represents the profit earned by each segment after
allocation of certain central administration costs and taxation. This is the measure presented to the group’s executives for the
purpose of resource allocation and assessment of segmental performance, and the split of revenue above into operating

segments is also considered by management to be the split by similar products and services.

Segmental analysis of the net assets by reporting segment are not regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker
and have therefore not been disclosed.

3

Profit on ordinary activities before taxation - group

Profit on ordinary activities before taxation is stated after charging/(crediting)

Depreciation of owned assets
- rental equipment
- other
Depreciation of assets held under finance leases
- rental equipment
Depreciation of right-of-use assets
- buildings
- vehicles
- plant & equipment
- rental equipment
Loss/(gain) on disposal of tangible fixed assets
Amortisation of intangible assets
Loss allowance on trade receivables
Short-term leases
- plant and machinery
- other
Staff costs (note 4)
Net foreign exchange (gain)/loss

The analysis of auditor’s remuneration is as follows:

Fees payable to the company’s auditor for the audit of the company’s annual
consolidated financial statements

Fees payable to the company’s auditor for other services to the group — the audit
of the company’s subsidiaries pursuant to legislation

Fees payable to the group’s auditors and their associates in respect of associated
pension schemes

Non-audit services provided by the company’s auditor during the year amounted to nil (2022: £10,700).

2023 2022
£7000 £7000
7,936 7,823
3,092 2,847

895 1,478
752 618
1,491 2,681
243 250
4,086 3,952

2 (11)
Ll 1,345
253 733
38 110
6,206 984
97,846 91,574
(515) 501
2023 2022
£7000 £7000
456 456
456 456
12 12

50

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
4 Staff costs — group
The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) was:
2023 2022
Number Number
Sales and administration . 808 753
Production and engineering . 119 736
1,527 1,489
Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
2023 2022
£000 £000
Wages and salaries 86,874 77,004
Social security costs 8,034 8,051
Other pension costs (note 23) 1,782 4,876
Share-based payments 1,156 1,642
97,846 91,574

Staff costs include amounts charged to operating profit and finance costs associated with the defined benefit retirement
scheme.

Directors’ remuneration
Remuneration

The remuneration of the directors was as follows:

2023 2022
£7000 £000
Short-term employee benefits 1,163 1,041
Share-based payments 599 583
1,762 1,624

Three directors (2022: three) exercised options to purchase shares in Finning International Inc. during the year.
Pensions

The number of directors who were members of pension schemes was as follows:

2023 2022
Number Number
Defined contribution scheme 3 . 3

Defined benefit schemes 1 1

The defined benefit pension scheme which forms part of the above remuneration figures closed on 6 April 2012.

51

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229
Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

4 Staff costs — group (continued)

Highest-paid director

The above amounts for remuneration include the following in respect of the highest-paid director:

2023 2022
£000 £000

Emoluments and long-term incentive schemes 678 784

The highest paid director exercised options to purchase shares in Finning International Inc. during the year.
Share-based payments

The group has share schemes over shares of the ultimate parent. The group had five (2022: five) share schemes in
operation during the year, two of which are settled in shares (SIPs and stock options), two of which are cash-settled
(PSUs and RSUs) and one where the scheme may be settled in cash or shares at the option of the employee (DSU-
Bs). All share schemes in operation are in relation to the shares of the ultimate parent company, Finning International
Inc. Finning International Inc. makes awards to employees of the group for stock options, PSUs, RSUs and DSUs.
The group awards the share appreciation rights and the free matching shares under the share incentive plan.

The following table sets out the awards and options granted during 2023:

Share
‘Incentive Stock
Plan Options PSUs RSUs DSUs
Number of shares/options awarded in 46,844 36,984 31,560 19,457 -

2023

The vesting of all awards or options is generally conditional upon participants remaining in the employment of a
participating company during the vesting period.

The liabilities for the group’s share schemes are held by its ultimate parent Finning International Inc.. Liabilities are
settled in accordance with the vesting and exercise rules at the prevailing exchange rate.

The closing and average Canadian Dollar exchange rates for the year ended 3! December 2023 were £1 =
CAD$1.6837 (2022: CAD$1.6322) and £1 = CAD$1.6784 (2022: CAD$1.6562), respectively.

Share Incentive Plan (SIP)

The Share Incentive Plan is an all employee share scheme subject to a3 month service qualification period. Employees
are able to save up to the lower of £150 per month and 10% of salary to purchase shares. The group provides one free
matching share for every three partnership shares purchased by the employee. The group awards dividend accrued
shares in respect of the free matching shares in relation to the time held in trust on behalf of the employees. The free
matching shares are awarded to employees on a month by month basis as they purchase partnership shares and vest
immediately. The scheme runs indefinitely until the employee cancels the scheme or leaves the group. The group
retains the right to discontinue or vary the scheme. There is no performance condition for this scheme and the scheme
is settled in shares.

Stock Options

Finning International Inc. has one stock option plan for certain employees and directors with vesting occurring over a
three-year period and transactions being equity settled. The exercise price of each option is based on the weighted
average trading price of the common shares of Finning International Inc. on the date prior to the grant. Under the 2005
Stock Option Plan, Finning International Inc. may issue up to 7.5 million common shares pursuant to the exercise of
stock options. It is Finning International Inc.’s practice to grant and price stock options only when it is felt that all
material information has been disclosed to the market.

52

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

4 Staff costs — group (continued)

Share-based payments (continued)

Stock Options (continued)

Finning (UK) Ltd

The cost of all stock options granted is determined using the fair value-based method of accounting for stock options.
This method of accounting uses an option-pricing model to determine the fair value of stock options granted which is

amortised over the vesting period.

Details of the share option plans were as follows:

2023 2023 2022 2022

Weighted
Number of average Numberof Weighted average
options exercise price options exercise price
thousands CAD$ __ thousands CAD$
Options outstanding at 1 January 240 26.15 238 25.97
Granted 37 35.63 35 24.93
Exercised (49) 22.71 (33) 26.15
Options outstanding at 31 December 228 28.42 240 26.15
Options exercisable at 31 December 155 25.50 157 24.57
Range of option prices 17.75-35.63 17.75-34.02

The following tables set out weighted average information about how the fair value of each option grant was calculated

using the Black-Scholes model:

Weighted average share price
Option price

Expected dividend yield

Risk free interest rate
Expected volatility (i)
Expected life (years)

(i)

2023 2022
CAD$35.63 CAD$34.00
CAD$9.05 CAD$8.00
3.17% 3.07%
3.29% 2.81%
33.91% 31.73%

5.0 5.1

Expected volatility is based on historical share price volatility of TSX:FTT shares.

The fair value of the matching Share Incentive Plan shares is equal to the share price on the date of grant as there is
no option price to be paid and employees are entitled to dividend accrued shares. Hence the assumptions set out above

are not relevant to this scheme.

53

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

4

Staff costs — group (continued)

Share-based payments (continued)

Stock Options (continued)

Summarised information about options outstanding at 31 December 2023 is as follows:

Options outstanding

Number Weighted average
outstanding remaining contract

Option prices CADS (i): thousands life years
26.79 29 03?
33.68 17 1,37
32.03 ; 4 5
22.31 29 33?
17.75 46 3:36
33.11 3 37
33.09 , 2 3
34.02 ; 30 33?
33.90 4 337
35.63 36 6:36

228

Other share-based payments plans
Exec DSU

Executive Deferred Share Unit (Exec DSU) Plan Under the Exec DSU Plan, executives of the Company may elect to
have all or a portion of their annual bonus issued in the form of deferred share units and be awarded deferred share
units as approved by the Board of Directors. The Exec DSU Plan utilizes notional units that become fully vested at
the time of issuance or in accordance with terms set at the time of grant. Vested deferred share units are redeemable
for cash before December 15th of the year following the year in which cessation of employment with the Company
occurred. Only vested units accumulate dividend equivalents in the form of additional deferred share units based on
the dividends paid on the Company’s common shares.

DSU-Bs

Under the DSU-B Plan, executives of the Company may be awarded deferred share units as approved by the Board
of Directors. The DSU-B Plan utilizes notional units that become vested in accordance with terms set at the time of
grant. Vested deferred share units are redeemable for cash or for common shares of the Company for a period of 30
days following cessation of employment with the Company, or before December 31st of the year following the year
of retirement, death, or disability. Deferred share units expire if they have not vested within five years from the
grantdate. Only vested units accumulate dividend equivalents in the form of additional deferred share units based on
the dividends paid on the Company’s common shares. No units have been awarded under the DSU-B plan since 2005.

As at 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022 all outstanding DSU-B units had vested.
PSUs

Under the PSU Plan, executives of the Company may be awarded performance share units as approved by the

Board of Directors. This plan utilizes notional units that vest upon achieving future specified performance levels. All
units accumulate dividend equivalents in the form of additional performance share units based on the dividends paid
on the Company’s common shares. All units, including accumulated dividend equivalents, are redeemed upon
vesting.

54

DocuSign Envelope !D: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229
Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
4 Staff costs — group (continued)

Share-based payments (continued)

Other share-based payments plans (continued)

RSUs

Under the RSU Plan, the Scheme utilises notional units that may become vested in accordance with terms set at the
time of grant. All units accumulate dividend equivalents in the form of additional units based on the dividends paid
on the company’s common shares.

Restricted share units that have vested are redeemable in cash based on the five-day volume-weighted average trading
price of the company’s common shares at the end of the three-year period.

Details of the DSU, PSU, and RSU plans were as follows:

For the year ended 31 December 2023 DSU PSU RSU Total
Units, 000’s
Outstanding, beginning of year 26 137 72 235
Additions 1 31 21 53
Exercised - (70) (30) (100)
Cancelled/forfeited - (2) (2) (4)
Outstanding, end of year 27 96 61 184
Vested, beginning of year 26 69 - 95
Vested during the year 1 34 30 65
Exercised - (70) (30) (100)
Vested end of year 27 33 - 60
Liability (CAD$?000)
Balance, beginning of year

859 3,400 1,381 5,640
Expensed 145 1,381 952 2,478
Exercised - (2,327) (1,078) (3,405)
Cancelled - (61) (27) (88)
Balance, end of year 1,004 2,393 1,228 4,625

55

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 December 2023

4 Staff costs — group (continued)
Share-based payments (continued)
Other share-based payments plans (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2022 DSU PSU RSU Total
Units, 000’s
Outstanding, beginning of year 25 128 83 236
Additions 1 48 24 73
Exercised : G1) (30) (61)
Cancelled/forfeited - (8) (6) (13)
Outstanding, end of year 26 137 72 235
Vested, beginning of year 25 31 - 56
Vested during the year 1 69 29 99
Exercised - Gl) (29) (61)
Vested end of year 26 69 - 95
Liability (CAD$°000)
Balance, beginning of year 791 2,649 1,388 4,828
Expensed 68 1,895 1,063 3,026
Exercised - (995) (985) (1,980)
Cancelled - (149) (85) (234)

Balance, end of year 859 3,400 1,381 5,640

The fair value of the DSUs, ROIC PSUs, and RSUs outstanding as at 31 December 2023 has been estimated using the
period-end closing share price of CAD$38.32 (2022: CAD$33.66).

The ultimate holding company manages the DSU scheme and only recharges Finning (UK) Ltd the relevant credit or
expense on exercise of the DSUs. Exec DSUs are treated the same as RSUs and PSUs.

Exercises of DSU schemes resulted in a credit of £nil (2022: £ nil) from the ultimate holding company.

56

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229
Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
4 Staff costs — group (continued)

Share-based payments (continued)

Other share-based payments plans (continued)

The impact of the share based payment plans on the group’s consolidated financial statements was as follows:

2023 2022

Consolidated income statement £°000 £7000
DSU 66 23
PSU 355 1,006
RSU 560 499
Expense on liability settled schemes 981 1,528
Stock options expense 174 114
Total share based payment expense 1,155 1,642
2023 2022

Consolidated statement of financial position . £7000 £7000
Carrying amount of liabilities . 272 610

The total intrinsic value of liabilities for which the participating employees’ rights to cash had vested at 31 December
2023 amounted to £1.4 million (2022: £2.1 million).

5 Finance income - group
2023 2022
£000 £°000
Financial instruments measured at amortised cost:
Interest receivable and similar income 318 150
318 150
6 Finance charges ~ group
2023 2022
£7000 £7000
Interest payable and similar charges
Bank loans and overdrafts 1,771 184
Loans from group undertakings 1,686 638
Interest on obligations under finance leases 737 909
Net interest on pension scheme (note 23) (2,940) (1,587)

1,254 144

57

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

7

Tax on profit on ordinary activities - group

The tax charge comprises:

Current tax
Current UK corporation tax at 23.50% (2022: 19.00%)
Adjustments in respect of prior years

Deferred tax

Origination and reversal of timing differences
Effect of change in tax rates

Adjustments in respect of prior years

Tax on profit on ordinary activities

Factors affecting the total tax charge for the year

Finning (UK) Ltd
2023 2022
£7000 £7000
4,171 6,928

(909) (312)

3,262 6,616

2,387 766
155 242

2,023 457
4,565 1,465

7,827 8,082

The tax assessed for the year is higher than (2022: higher than) the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK 23.50%

(2022:19.00%). The differences are explained below:

Profit on ordinary activities before tax

Tax at 23.50% thereon (2022: 19.00%)

Effect of:

Expenses not deductible for tax purposes

Effect of tax rate reduction

Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods

2023 2022
£7000 £7000
26,739 40,091

6,284 7,617

319 277
155 242
1,069 (52)

7,827 8,082

58

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 December 2023

7

Tax on profit on ordinary activities — group (continued)

Finning (UK) Ltd

In addition to the amount charged to the income statement, the following amounts relating to tax have been recognised

in other comprehensive income:

Deferred tax

Arising on income and expenses recognised in other

comprehensive income:

Defined benefit pension scheme actuarial gain

Rate change effect on cumulative loss gain

Total income tax recognised in other
comprehensive income

Deferred taxation

Deferred taxation provided is as follows:

Accelerated tax depreciation
Other timing difference
Deferred tax liability related to pension scheme

Deferred tax liability

At | January

Charged to the profit and loss account
Effect of tax rate reduction

Deferred tax on pension costs

Other movement (reclass)

At 31 December

2023
£000

(279)
(18)

(297)

(297)

2023
£000

(4,382)
358

(16,167)

(20,191)

2023
£°000

(15,923)

(4,565)
18
279

(20,191)

2022
£7000

(10,387)
(3,280)

(13,667)

(13,667)

2022
£000

(2,286)
1,327

(14,964)

(15,923)

2022
£7000

(28,080)

(1,465)
3,280
10,387
(44)

(15,923)

At the balance sheet date, the group has unused tax losses of £nil (2023: £nil) available for offset against future profits.

The headline rate of corporation tax increased from 19% to 25% from ! April 2023. The UK statutory corporation tax

rate for the year ended 31 December 2023 was therefore a blended rate of 23.5%.

Under IAS 12 deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period
when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or

substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.

The deferred tax balances have been recognised at the 25% rate which is in line with the headline rate now in force.

59

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Dividends ~ group and company

2023 2022
£7000 £000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year
ended 3! December 2023 of £0.18 per share (2022: £0.06) 8,045 2,636
Goodwill — group
£7000
Cost
At 1 January 2023 and 31 December 2023 . 9,585 ©
Net book value
At 1 January 2023 and 31 December 2023 9,585

For impairment purposes, goodwill has been allocated to the following cash-generating units (CGUs): Equipment
Solutions (£9.2 million) and Power Systems (£0.4 million).

The recoverable amount of all cash generating units and groups of cash generating units are determined based on a
value-in-use calculation. The value-in-use calculation uses cash flow projections based on financial budgets which
employ the following key assumptions: future cash flows and growth projections, associated economic risk
assumptions and estimates of achieving key operating metrics and drivers, and the weighted average cost of capital
(WACC) rates.

The cash flow projection key assumptions are based upon the company’s financial budgets, which span a three-year
period and are discounted using post-tax WACC rate of 10.2% (2022: 8.8%). For 2023 annual impairment testing
valuation purposes, the cash flows subsequent to the three-year projection period are extrapolated using a growth rate
of 2.0% (2022: 2.2%). This growth rate is based on estimated long-term real gross domestic product and inflation
(where appropriate) in the markets in which the company operates.

Sensitivity testing was conducted as part of the 2023 annual impairment test, including stress testing the weighted
average cost of capital with all other assumptions being held constant. Management believes that any reasonable
change in the key assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount would not cause the carrying amount of any
other cash generating unit or group of cash generating units to exceed its recoverable amount. Management believes
its assumptions are reasonable. If future events were to adversely differ from management’s best estimate, key
assumptions and associated cash flows could be materially adversely affected and the company could potentially
experience future material impairment charges in respect of the intangibles with indefinite lives and goodwill.

60

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
10‘ Other intangible assets — group
Customer _ Distribution Order Software Total
Contracts Network Backlog
£7000 £7000 £000 £7000 £000
Cost
At ] January 2022 847 1,568 123 10,138 12,676
Additions - - - 405 405
Disposals - - - (6) (6)
At 31 December 2022 847 1,568 123 10,537 13,075
Additions - - - 433 433
Disposals - - - - -
At 31 December 2023 847 1,568 123 10,970 13,508
Amortisation
At | January 2022 847 - 123 6,942 7,912
Charge for the year - - - 1,343 1,343
At 31 December 2022 847 - 123 8,285 9,255
Charge for the year - - - 1,111 1,111
At 31 December 2023 847 - 123 9,396 10,366
Net book value
At 31 December 2023 - 1,568 - 1,574 3,142
At 31 December 2022 - 1,568 - "2,252 3,820
At 1 January 2022 - 1,568 - 3,196 4,764

Details regarding what comprise the major intangible assets classes are set out below.

Customer contracts were obtained on the acquisition of Sitech Technology Solutions Limited (formerly known as
Reaction One Limited) in 2014 and are now fully written down.

A distribution network from the Bucyrus acquisition, which is considered to have an infinite life and so is not
amortised, relates to the company’s ability to distribute Bucyrus. This asset has future economic benefits as long as
the company is able to distribute Bucyrus product. The company expects to use the distribution network as long as
there is customer demand and Caterpillar continues to manufacture Bucyrus product. The company’s distribution
agreement for existing Caterpillar product has been in place, uninterrupted, for over 75 years, therefore Bucyrus
distribution network is deemed to have an infinite life.

An order backlog from the Bucyrus acquisition which was amortised over the period in which the orders were fulfilled;
and software which is amortised over a period of 5 years.

61

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
11 Property, plant and equipment — group
Long Equipment,
Freehold Leasehold fixtures and
jand and land and fittings and Rental
Buildings buildings IT equipment Equipment Total
£7000 £7000 £000 £000 £000
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2022 29,681 4,234 26,940 65,682 126,537
Additions 748 361 3,460 11,726 16,295
. Disposals - - (62) (385) . (447)
Transfers to inventory - - (150) (6,150) (6,300)
At 31 December 2022 30,429 4,595 30,188 70,873 136,085
Additions 249 164 3,276 19,631 23,320
Disposals - (107) (50) (475) (632)
Transfers to inventory - - - (14,734) (14,734)
At 31 December 2023 30,678 4,652 33,414 75,295 144,039
Depreciation
At 1 January 2022 12,863 2,411 21,781 29,736 66,791
Charge for the year 569 163 2,115 7,823 10,670
Disposals - - (62) (260) (322)
Transfers to inventory - 8 141 (8) (2,892) (2,751)
At 31 December 2022 13,440 2,715 23,826 34,407 74,388
Charge for the year 945 224 1,923 7,936 11,028
Disposals - (120) (77) (354) (551)
Transfers to inventory - - - (9,529) (9,529)
At 31 December 2023 14,385 2,819 25,672 32,460 75,336
Net book value
At 31 December 2023 16,293 1,833 7,742 42,835 68,703
At 31 December 2022 16,989 1,880 6,362 36,466 61,697

At 1 January 2022 16,818 1,823 5,159 35,946 59,746

The rental equipment is hired to third parties under short-term rental agreements. Transfers to inventory comprise
rental equipment removed from the rental fleet and transferred to used equipment inventory held for resale.

Included within rental assets above are assets that were historically held under finance leases under IAS 17 with a net
book value as at 31 December 2023 of £1,170,000 (2022: £8,329,000). Included in Long leasehold land and buildings
are assets held under finance leases with a net book value of £1,576,000 (2022: £1,657,000).

Freehold land of £5,072,000 (2022: £5,072,000) included in the above is not being depreciated.

62

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

11 Property, plant and equipment — group (continued)

Freehold land and buildings are shown at professional valuations with subsequent additions and disposals at cost as
shown below:-

2023 2022

£°000 £7000

As professionally valued on an existing use basis 2,247 2,247
At cost 28,431 29,879
30,678 32,126

The freehold land and buildings at the group’s registered office were revalued during 1980 by Webster & Co.,
chartered surveyors. This revaluation has been incorporated in the financial statements in accordance with the policy
described in the accounting policies. .

All other tangible fixed assets are shown at cost.

The original cost, and depreciation based on cost, of land and buildings included

at valuation above, is as shown below: 2023 2022
£000 £000

Original cost . 2,203 2,203
Depreciation based on cost (2,203) (2,186)
Net book value at 31 December - 17

63

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-ACBE-4500B468F 229

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

12

13

Leases (the group as a lessee) — group

Right-of-use assets

Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2022
Additions
Disposals

At 31 December 2022

Additions
Disposals

At 31 December 2023

Depreciation

At 1 January 2022
Charge for the year
Disposals

At 31 December 2022
Charge for the year
Lease remeasurements
Disposals

* At 31 December 2023

Net book value
At 31 December 2023

At 31 December 2022

At 1 January 2022

Right-of-use
Plant &
Equipment
£°000

1,804

Right-of-use Right-of-use
Buildings Vehicles
£7000 £000
5,787 12,190
- 402
(379) -
5,408 12,592
- 1,316
(417) (7,699)
4,991 6,209
2,716 8,095
618 2,681
3,334 10,776
752 1,491
(417) (7,696)
3,669 4,571
1,322 1,638
2,074 1,816
3,071 4,095

Finning (UK) Ltd
Right-of-use
Rental
Equipment Total
£7000 £7000
21,412 41,193
401 803
(148) (527)
21,665 41,469
3,346 4,865
(12,245) (20,361)
12,766 25,973
12,273 23,693
3,952 7,501
(130) (130)
16,095 31,064
4,086 6,572
(780) (780)
(12,245) (20,358)
7,156 16,498
5,610 9,475
5,570 10,405
9,139 17,500

The maturity analysis of lease liabilities is presented in note 20.

Subsidiaries - group

A list of all investments in subsidiaries, including the name, country of incorporation, and proportion of ownership
interest is given in note 39 to the company separate financial statements. All subsidiaries share the same year end as
Finning (UK) Ltd and are all 100% (2022: 100%) owned and so are consolidated in all presented financial years.

64

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
14 Inventories — group
2023 2022
£7000 £7000
Work-in-progress 6,836 11,822
Finished goods and goods for resale 129,810 96,846
136,646 108,669
There is no material difference between the balance sheet value of inventory and their replacement cost.
For the year ended 31 December 2023 on-hand equipment, parts, supplies and internal work in progress recognised
as an expense amounted to £472,385,000 (2022: £554,017,000). For the year ended 31 December 2023, the write-
down of inventories amounted to £2,018,000 (2022: £1,435,000).
15 Finance lease receivables — group and company

Minimum
lease payments
2023 2022
£000 £°000
Amounts receivable under finance leases:
Year | 278 304
Year 2 - 304
278 608
Less: unearned finance income (10) (90)
Present value of minimum lease payments receivable 268 518
Analysed as:
Current finance lease receivables : 268 256
Non-current finance lease receivables - 262
268 518

The group enters into finance leasing arrangements for certain items of power systems equipment. The average term
of finance leases entered into is 20 years.

The interest rate inherent in the leases is fixed at the contract date for all of the lease term. The average effective
interest rate contracted approximates 7.86% per annum (2022: 7.86%).

Finance lease receivable balances are secured over the equipment leased.

The directors of the group estimate the loss allowance on finance lease receivables at the end of the reporting period
at an amount equal to lifetime ECL. None of the finance lease receivables at the end of the reporting period is past
due and taking into account the historical default experience and the future prospects of the industries in which the
lessees operate, together with the value of collateral held over these finance lease receivables.

The loss allowance recognised on finance lease receivables in the year is £nil (2022: £nil).

The fair value of the finance lease receivables as at 31 December 2023 is estimated to be £268,000 (2022: £518,000).

65

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-ACBE-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
16 ~—- Contract assets - group
2023 2022
£7000 £7000
Contracts in progress at the balance sheet date:
Power systems projects 390 1,161
Long term support contracts 15,646 13,386
Service work-in-progress 7,776 12,672
23,812 27,219
Invoices for sales of power systems projects are issued in accordance with milestone payments agreed within each
sales contract with the customer. Invoices for sales of parts and labour when servicing equipment under long-term
support contracts are issued in accordance with the billing arrangement over the contract term. Invoices for sales of
parts and labour when servicing equipment not under long-term contracts are issued when the work is complete. The
group recognises unbilled service work in progress for sales of complex power and energy systems and sales of parts
and labour when servicing equipment when revenue recognition criteria are met, and the group has the right to receive
amounts from customers but invoices have not yet been issued.
All contract assets are due within 1 year.
Impairment losses of £nil (2022: £nil) have been recognised on contract assets during the year.
The directors of the group always measure the loss allowance on amounts due from customers at an amount equal to
lifetime ECL, taking into account the historical default experience and the future prospects of the group’s key markets.
None of the amounts due from customers at the end of the reporting period is past due. .
There has been no change in the estimation techniques or significant assumptions made during the current reporting
period in assessing the loss allowance for the amounts due from customers under construction contracts.
17‘ Trade and other receivables - group

2023 2022
£000 £7000
Current:

Amounts receivable for the sale of goods 60,895 67,623
Loss provision (1,336) (1,185)
Net trade receivables 59,559 66,438
Contract assets (note 16) 23,812 27,219
Amounts owed by group undertakings 543 795
Other receivables 20,276 18,534
Prepayments and accrued income 1,022 1,704
105,212 114,690

Non-current:
Amounts owed by group undertakings 9,702 8,576
Other receivables 5,922 6,866

15,624 15,442

66

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-ACBE-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

17

Trade and other receivables — group (continued)
Trade receivables disclosed above are classified as financial assets measured at amortised cost.
No interest is charged on the receivables.

The directors of the group always measure the loss allowance on amounts due from customers at an amount equal to
lifetime ECL, taking into account the historical default experience and the future prospects of the group’s key markets.
There has been no change in the estimation techniques or significant assumptions made during the current reporting
period in assessing the loss allowance for the amounts due from customers.

The group writes off a trade receivable when there is information indicating that the debtor is in severe financial
difficulty and there is no realistic prospect of recovery, e.g. when the debtor has been placed under liquidation or has
entered into bankruptcy proceedings. None of the trade receivables that have been written off is subject to enforcement
activities. The group has recognised a loss provision of 100% against all receivables where official notification has
been received that the counterparty has gone into liquidation or administration, where an amount is disputed and
greater than 90 days from invoice date and a loss provision based on historical experience.

There was no exposure to individually impaired trade receivables due from companies which have been placed in
liquidation (2022: £nil) requiring a loss provision to be recognised.

The group measures the lifetime ECL based on historical experience by taking historical trade receivables write offs
as a percentage of revenue. The percentage is applied consistently to all aging categories of trade receivables. Included
within the loss provision is a lifetime ECL of £699,000 (2022: £579,000).

Before accepting any new customer, the group uses an external credit scoring system to assess the potential customer’s
credit quality and defines credit limits by customer. Limits and scoring attributed to customers are reviewed
periodically. Of the trade receivables balance at the year end, there are no customers who represent more than 5 per
cent of the total balance of trade receivables. The debtor days as at 31 December 2023 was 28 days (2022: 28 days).

The group does not hold any collateral or other credit enhancements over any of its trade receivables nor does it have
legal right of offset against any amounts owed by the group to the counterparty.

Movement in the loss provision

2023 2022

£000 £000

Balance at the beginning of the year (1,185) (1,024)
Amounts provided for during the year as uncollectable (531) (743)
Amounts utilised against write-offs in the period 380 581

(1,336) (1,185)

In determining the recoverability of a trade receivable, the group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade
receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited
due to the customer base being large and unrelated.

The recoverability of a trade receivable the group considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable
from the date credit was initially granted up to the reporting date. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the
customer base being large and unrelated.

67

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

17

18

Trade and other receivables — group (continued)
The following table detaits the risk profile of trade receivables based on the group’s provisioning policy.
Trade receivables — days past due
31 December 2023 Not past <30 31-60 61-90 91-120 >120 Total

due
£000 £7000 £7000 £000 £7000 £°000 £7000

Gross carrying amount 33,025 20,650 2,656 4,003 576 (15) 60,895

Specific provisions - (2) (52) (74) — (21) (196) (345)

Disputed invoice provision - - - (53) (71) (168) (292)

Loss provision based on (379) (237) ~~ (30) (46) (7) - (699)
historical experience

Loss provision (1,336)

Trade receivables — days past due

31 December 2022 Not past <30 31-60 61-90 91-120 >120 - Total
due
£7000 £7000 £7000 £000 £7000 £7000 £000

Gross carrying amount 45,928 16,599 7,982 1,981 (1,014) (3,853) 67,624
Specific provisions G) (13) (50) (88) (6) (208) (369)
Disputed invoice provision - - - (27) (27) (184) (238)
Loss provision based on (393) (142) (68) (17) 8 33 (579)
historical experience
Loss provision (1,185)
Contract liabilities - group

2023 2022
£7000 £°000

Contracts in progress at the balance sheet date:
Power systems projects 11,475 9,690
Long term support contracts 24,852 26,606

36,327 36,296

The group recognises deferred revenue when cash has been collected from the customer but control of the goods or
services has not yet been transferred to the customer. Contract liabilities are recorded in respect deferred revenue on
sales of parts and labour when servicing equipment and power system projects. Cash is typically collected as the
customer is billed while revenue is deferred and recognised evenly over the term of the contract, which can extend
beyond one year. The majority of revenue related to long-term product support contracts is recognised within one year
of collecting cash from the customer. All other streams of revenue are recognised within one year of recording deferred
revenue.

Contract liabilities on power systems projects and long term support contracts can vary year on year depending on the
value of progress billings relative to the value of work performed on the contract.

68

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F 472-91 AA-4509-ACBE-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
19 Trade and other payables - group
2023 2022
£000 £000
Current — group
Trade payables 54,055 43,147
Contract liabilities (note 18) 36,327 36,296
Amounts owed to group undertakings 16,534 14,870
Other taxation and social security 11,999 19,322
Accruals 20,192 26,316
139,107 139,951
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The
average credit period taken for trade purchases is 30 days (2022: 21 days). For most suppliers no interest is charged
on the trade payables for the first days from the date of the invoice. Thereafter, interest is charged on the outstanding
balances at various interest rates. The group has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables
are paid within the pre-agreed credit terms.
20 Lease liabilities — group

, £000 £°000
Maturity analysis: :
Year 1 6,504 7,828
Year 2 . 4,031 4,420
Year 3 2,428 3,158
Year 4 1,246 1,734
Year 5 543 999
Onwards 2,380 3,693
17,132 21,832
Less: future finance charges (4,621) (5,693)
Present value of lease obligations 12,511 16,139
Analysed as:
Current obligations under finance lease 5,266 6,383
Non-current obligations under finance lease 7,245 9,756
12,511 16,139

It is the group’s policy to lease certain items of its property, plant and equipment under finance leases. The average
lease term is 4 years (2022: 4 years). For the year ended 31 December 2023, the average effective borrowing rate was
4.02% (2022: 3.76%). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no
arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.

All lease obligations are denominated in sterling. The fair value of the group’s lease obligations is approximately
equal to their carrying amount.

The group’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ rights over the leased assets disclosed in note
12. :

69

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
21 Borrowings - group
2023 2022
£7000 £000
Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost
Other loans 297 537
Bank loans 4,927 -
Amounts owed to group undertakings 25,000 25,000
30,224 25,537
Total borrowings
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 274 25,240

Amount due for settlement after 12 months 29,950 297

On 1 June 2010 £25,000,000 of a Eurobond issue was assigned to Finning (UK) Ltd. In December 2020, the bonds
were further extended to be redeemed in May 2023, carrying an interest rate of 2.55%, payable quarterly.

The Eurobond was fully subscribed by a company which is a subsidiary of Finning International Inc. The amount
outstanding at the year end is £nil (2022: £25,000,000). This was paid in February 2023 and a new loan of £25,000,000
was obtained from Finning Finance Limited held at 31 December 2023. This new intercompany loan carries an interest
rate of 7.5% payable bi-annually and is set to expire on 27 February 2028.

At 31 December 2023 £4,927,000 (2022: £nil) was drawn down on the global credit facility. This is a facility of
CAD$1.3 billion held by the ultimate group of Finning Holdings. The facility carried an interest rate of SONIA+1.18%
as at 31 December 2023 (2022: 1.25%). In June 2023, Finning International Inc. completed a two-year extension to
its CAD$1.3 billion global operating credit facility, extending the maturity date to September 2026 from the previous
maturity in December 2024.

Finning International Inc. have a maximum Net Debt to Invested Capital level pursuant to a covenant within its
syndicated bank credit facility.

The group has one other unsecured loan totalling £297,000 (2022: £537,000). This loan commenced in November
2010. The loan carries an interest rate of 6.8% and will be repaid in full by January 2025. Repayments are being made
on a monthly basis.

The group holds a £20,000,000 rolling uncommitted overdraft facility with HSBC. The facility covers the Finning
Holdings group’s various bank accounts denominated in GBP, EUR, USD and DKK and is guaranteed across the
Finning Holding’s group through counter indemnity. The overdraft carries a range of interest rates chargeable at 0.40%
above the base rate in the account currency’s local jurisdiction.

The group also holds a £10,000,000 rolling short term uncommitted money market facility with HSBC. Interest is
charged at the Bank of England base rate plus 1.25%. No amounts were drawn on this facility at 31 December 2023
(2022: £nil).

Borrowings are repayable as follows: 2023 2022
£7000 £7000

Loans and overdrafts

On demand or within one year 274 240

Between one and five years . 4,950 297

Over five years - -
5,224 537

Amounts owed to group undertakings

On demand or within one year - 25,000

Between one and five years 25,000 -

70

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
22 Provisions for liabilities — group
2023 2022
£7000 £000
Provisions for dilapidations : 811 879
Warranty provisions 8,315 10,863
Provision for buybacks 912 936
Provision for product support 1,410 1,305
Provision for redundancy 352 -
11,800 13,982
Current 10,834 12,801
Non-current 966 1,181
11,800 13,982
Dilapidations Warranty Buybacks
£000 £000 —. £000
At 1 January 2023 879 10,863 936
Additional provision in year 10 10,574 347
Utilised during the year (78) (10,398) (67)
Released during the year - (2,724) (304)
At 31 December 2023 811 8,315 912
Product support Redundancy Total
£7000 £7000 £7000
At | January 2023 1,303 - 13,982
Additional provision in year 185 985 12,101
Utilised during the year (54) (565) (11,162)
Released during the year (24) (68) (3,120)

At 31 December 2023 , 1,410 352 11,800

‘71

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

22

23

Provisions for liabilities — group (continued)
The provision for dilapidations is a provision to make good any repairs on properties rented under operating leases and is
expected to be utilised at the expiry of each lease, with the longest lease expiring in 2078.

Warranty provisions on equipment sales are expected to be utilised over the lives of the given warranty periods. This is
expected to be utilised within a year.

The buyback provision relates to certain sales agreements that contain “buyback” arrangements that may be exercised at the
option of the customer within specified periods in the future, with the longest period being December 2024. This is utilised
when an option is exercised or expired.

Provisions for product support are those for product support claims and are recognised over the given product support periods.
This is expected to be utilised within a year.

The restructuring provision relates to redundancy costs incurred as part of a group reorganisation undertaken during the year.
This is expected to be utilised within a year.

Retirement benefit obligations — group and company

Analysis of income statement charge for the group:

2023 2022
£000 £000
Defined benefit (2,162) 1,210
Defined contribution 3,833 3,553
Stakeholder , 111 114

1,782 4,876

The company sponsors a funded defined benefit pension scheme for qualifying UK employees. The Scheme is administered
by a separate board of Trustees which is legally separate from the company. The Trustees are composed of representatives of
the employer and employees, plus an independent trustee. The Trustees are required by law to act in the interest of all relevant
beneficiaries and are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets plus the day to day administration of the
benefits.

Under the Scheme, employees are entitled to annual pensions on retirement at age 65 of one-sixtieth or one-eightieth of final
pensionable salary for each year of service depending on the level of membership. Benefits are also payable on death and
following other events such as ill health retirement. There are special provisions for certain ‘Executive’ members. The Scheme
ceased future accrual on 6 April 2012.

No other post-retirement benefits are provided to these employees.
The defined benefit obligation includes benefits for current employees, former employees and current pensioners.
Broadly, about 40% are attributable to non-pensioners and 60% to current pensioners.

The Scheme duration is an indicator of the weighted-average time until benefit payments are made. For the Scheme as a
whole, the duration is approximately 15 years.

72

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

23

Retirement benefit obligations — group and company (continued)

UK legislation requires that pension schemes are funded prudently. The last funding valuation of the Scheme was carried out
by a qualified actuary as at 31 December 2020 and showed a surplus of £18M. The company agreed to continue paying
contributions of £2,805,000 in 2022 and £3,375,000 in 2023. In addition the Company will meet the cost of any levies payable
to the Pension Protection Fund.

Risks associated with the Scheme
The Scheme exposes the group to a number of risks, the most significant of which are:

Changes in bond yields

A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed on the Scheme’s liabilities for accounting purposes,
although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the Scheme’s bond holdings.

Asset volatility

The DBO is calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields. If assets underperform this yield,
this will create a deficit. The Scheme holds a significant proportion of growth assets such as equities, which, though expected
to outperform corporate bonds in the long-term, create volatility and risk in the short-term. The allocation to growth assets is
monitored to ensure it remains appropriate given the Scheme's long-term objectives.

Inflation risk

The majority of the Scheme’s DBO is linked to inflation, and higher inflation leads to a higher DBO (although, in most cases,
caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect against extreme inflation).

Life expectancy

The majority of the Scheme’s obligations are to provide t benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy
will result in an increase in the liabilities.

Risk Management

The Scheme uses cash, gilts and corporate bonds as matching assets. Matching assets are used to protect the Scheme against
changes in bond yields and inflation risk. The remaining assets are used as growth assets.

The Trustees insure certain benefits payable on death before retirement.

73

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-ACBE-4500B468F 229
Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

23 Retirement benefit obligations — group and company (continued)

The principal assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries to calculate the liabilities under [AS 19 are set out

below:

2023 2022

% pa % pa
RPI Inflation 2.8 3.0
CPI Inflation 2.4 2.5
Rate of general long-term increase in salaries n/a n/a
Rate of increase to pensions in payment pre | February 2006 2.7 2.9
Rate of increase to pensions in payment post 31 January 2006 1.9 2.0
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 45 48
Expected rate of return on assets nla n/a

The mortality assumptions are based on standard mortality tables which allow for future mortality improvements. The
assumptions are that a member currently aged 65 will live on average for a further 21.9 years (2022: 21.8 years) if they are
male and for a further 23.7 years (2022: 23.6 years) if they are female.

The Schemes assets are invested in Pooled Investment Vehicles. The underlying assets of the pooled investment vehicles are
invested in the following asset classes (all assets have a quoted market value in an active market):

Value at31 = Value at 31
December December

2023 2022
£000 £000
Equities - -
Gilts 145,073 110,411
Corporate bonds 96,980 80,592
Multi-Asset Credit 45,835 82,737
Property - -
Other (cash/net current assets) 11,708 19,183
Total 299,596 292,923
The amounts recognised on the balance sheet are set out below:
Reconciliation of funded status to balance sheet
2023 2022
£000 £000
Fair value of scheme assets 299,596 292,923
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations , (234,926) (233,068)
Asset recognised on the balance sheet 64,670 59,855

When determining the adjustment in respect of the minimum funding requirement, it has been assumed that the company
would be entitled to a refund from the Scheme of any surplus arising in the Scheme in future. This reflects the provisions of
the Scheme documentation.

74

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
23 Retirement benefit obligations — group and company (continued)
The amounts recognised in comprehensive income are set out below:
Analysis of profit and loss charge and other comprehensive income
2023 2022
£000 £7000
Administration expenses 784 947
Interest on net defined benefit asset (2,946) (2,224)
Components of defined benefit costs recognised in profit and loss (2,162) (1,277)
Remeasurements in OCI:
Return on scheme assets (in excess of) /below that recognised in net , (1,262) 171,380
interest
Actuarial losses / (gains) due to changes in financial assumptions 4,758 (130,932)
Actuarial losses due to liability experience 5,664 14,220
Actuarial (gains)/losses due to changes in demographic assumptions (7,972) -
Total amount recognised in OCI 1,188 54,668
Total amount recognised in profit and loss and OCI (974) 53,391
Changes to the present value of the defined benefit obligation during the year
2023 2022
£°000 £000
Opening defined benefit obligation 233,068 35 8,042
Interest cost 10,933 7,018
Actuarial losses / (gains) on scheme liabilities arising from changes in financial 4,758 (130,932)
assumptions
Actuarial losses on scheme liabilities arising from experience 5,664 14,220
Actuarial gains on scheme liabilities arising from changes in demographic assumptions (7,972) -
Net benefits paid out . (11,525) (15,280)

Closing defined benefit obligation 234,926 233,068

75

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
23. __—~ Retirement benefit obligations — group and company (continued)
Changes to the fair value of scheme assets during the year
2023 2022
£7000 £7000
Opening fair value of scheme assets 292,923 468,275
Interest income on scheme assets 13,879 9,242
Remeasurement gains / (losses) on scheme assets 1,262 (171,380)
Contributions by the employer 3,840 3,013
Net benefits paid out (11,525) (15,280)
Administration costs (784) (947)
Closing fair value of scheme assets 299,595 292,923
Actual return on scheme assets
2023 2022
£000 £000
Interest income on scheme assets 13,879 9,242
Remeasurement gain / (loss) on scheme assets 1,262 (171,380)
Actual return on scheme assets 15,141 (162,138)
Analysis of amounts recognised in other comprehensive income
2023 2022
£000 £7000
Total remeasurement gains / (losses) 1,188 (54,668)
History of experience gains and losses
2023 2022
£7000 £7000
Experience gains / (losses) on scheme assets 1,262 (171,380)
Experience losses on scheme liabilities . 5,664 14,220

16

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

23

24

25

Retirement benefit obligations — group and company (continued) ‘

Sensitivity and key assumptions

Discount rates are determined based on high quality corporate bonds at the measured date, 31 December 2023 and 2022. The
accrued defined benefit pension obligation and expense are sensitive to changes in the discount rate, among other
assumptions. At the end of the most recent calendar year, the weighted average duration of the obligation is 19 years. A
decrease of 0.25% in the discount rate and 0.25% increase in the retail price inflation would impact the defined benefit
obligation by the amounts shown below:

Change in assumption Increase in defined

benefit obligation

£7000

Discount rate (0.25%) 8,262
Retail price inflation +0.25% 5,964
Life expectancy +4 8,375

A 0.25% movement in the discount rate and in the retail price inflation as outlined above would have an equivalent but
opposite effect on the above accounts in the amounts shown on the basis that all variables are unchanged.

The sensitivity analysis is based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this
is unlikely to occur, as changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined
benefit obligation to significant actuarial assumptions the same method (present value of defined benefit obligation calculated
with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting period) has been applied as when calculating the pension
liability recognised within the statement of financial position.

Share capital — group and company

Number of shares £7000
Allotted, authorised, called up and fully-paid ordinary shares of £1 each
At 31 December 2023, and 31 December 2022 45,882,002 45,882
Retained earnings — group
Retained
Earnings Total
£7000 £7000
At |] January 2023 129,160 129,160
Retained profit for the year , 18,912 18,912
Actuarial loss net of deferred taxation (891) (891)
Dividends paid (8,045) (8,045)

At 31 December 2023 139,136 139,136

Dividends of £8,045,000 were paid during the year (2022: £2,636,000).

77

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F.472-91AA-4509-ACBE-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

26

Financial instruments — group

The group is exposed to market, credit, liquidity, and other risks in the normal course of their business activities. This note
presents information about the group’s exposure to credit, liquidity, and market risks and the group’s objectives, policies, and
processes for managing these risks.

Capital risk management

The group manages its capital to ensure that it is able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to
stakeholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The group’s overall strategy remains unchanged from
2017.

The capital structure of the group consists of net debt, which includes the loans and intercompany balances disclosed in notes
17 and 19, less cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital,
reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 24 and 25. The group uses local facilities for daily operations and also
has the ability to call on the ultimate group’s CAD$1.3bn facility to meet liquidity needs.

The group is required to manage its capital risk by its ultimate parent undertaking to ensure it is able to continue as a going
concern whilst maximising the return to shareholders.

The group is required by its ultimate parent company to maintain an earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortisation (“EBITDA”) to adjusted net assets (excluding retirement benefit obligations) ratio of no less than 1:8. The group
is not subject to any externally imposed capita! requirements.

2023 2022

£°000 £°000

Operating profit 27,675 40,071
Depreciation and amortisation 18,711 12,123
EBITDA ; 46,386 $2,194
Net assets 185,018 175,027
Less retirement benefit surplus (note 23) (64,669) (59,855)
Adjusted net assets 120,349 145,172

Ratio 1:2.6 1:2.2

Significant accounting policies

Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted (including the criteria for recognition, the basis of
measurement and the bases for recognition of income and expenses) for each class of financial asset, financial liability and
equity instruments are disclosed in the Statement of Accounting Policies.

78

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
26 Financial instruments — group (continued)
Categories of financial instruments
2023 2022
Book Value Book Value
£2000 £7000
Financial assets
Cash and Cash Equivalents 3,403 28,140
Financial assets at amortised cost 119,720 128,942
Total financial assets 123,123 157,082
Financial liabilities
Amortised cost (133,842) (126,945)
Total financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (133,842) (126,945)
Total financial instruments (10,719) 30,137

At the reporting date there are no loans and receivables designated at FVTPL. The carrying amount reflected above represents
the group’s maximum exposure to credit risk for such loans and receivables.

The directors consider that the carrying amounts of the financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost in
the financial statements approximate their fair values.

The fair values of financial assets and liabilities are determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based
on discounted cash flow analysis using prices from observable current market transactions and dealer quotes for similar
instruments.

Credit risk

Credit risk refers to the risk that the counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in a financial loss to the
group. The group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties, as a means of mitigating the risk of
financial loss from defaults, as well as credit insurance cover being in place.

Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical areas. Ongoing
credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of trade and other receivables, Credit ratings for all of the group’s
financial assets are not applicable.

The carrying amount of the financial assets recorded in the financial statements represents the group’s maximum exposure to
credit risk as no collateral or other credit enhancements are held.

Further information with regards to credit risk has been outlined within note 17.

79

DocuSign Envelope 'D: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229
Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

26 Financial instruments — group (continued)
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The group’s approach

to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquid financial resources to fund its operations
and meet its commitments and obligations.

The following are the contractual maturities of non-derivative financial liabilities. The amounts presented represent the future
undiscounted principal and interest cash flows and therefore do not equate to the carrying amount on the consolidated balance
sheet. The tables have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date
on which the group can be required to pay and exclude upfront fees.

Weighted
average 3
effective Less months
interest than 1 1-3 tol 1-5
31 December 2023 rate month months year years 5+ years Total
% £7000 £7000 £000 £7000 £7000 £7000
Non-derivative financiat liabilities
Non-interest bearing - 83,569 6,942 441 155 - 91,107
Finance lease liability 2.03 435 870 3,961 7,245 - 12,511
Global credit facility SONIA+1.18 - - - 4,927 - 4,927
Fixed interest rate instruments 749 22 44 207 25,024 - 25,297
Total non-derivative financial 84,026 7,856 4,609 37,351 - 133,842
liabilities
Weighted
average 3
effective Less months
interest than 1 1-3 tol 1-5
31 December 2022 rate month months year years 5+ years Total
% ~ £7000 £7000 £000" £000 £7000 £7000
Non-derivative financial liabilities

Non-interest bearing - 81,296 3,680 8 302 - 85,286
Finance lease liability 3.77 572 1,057 4,755 9,756 - 16,140
Fixed interest rate instruments 6.60 1,688 21 42 192 + 1,943
Total non-derivative financial 83,556 4,758 4,805 10,250 - 103,369

liabilities

See note 21 for details regarding the above loans and borrowings.

80

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 December 2023

26 ~—“ Financial instruments — group (continued)

Finning (UK) Ltd

The following are the contractual maturities of non-derivative financial assets. The amounts presented represent the future
undiscounted principal and interest cash flows and therefore do not equate to the carrying amount on the consolidated balance
sheet. The tables below have been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual maturities of financial assets, The inclusion
of information on non-derivative financial assets in necessary to understand the group’s liquidity risk management as the

liquidity is managed on a net asset and liability basis.

Weighted
average
effective
interest
31 December 2023 rate
%
Non-derivative financial assets
Non-interest bearing -
Variable interest rate instruments 7.86
Total non-derivative financial
assets
Weighted
average
effective
interest
31 December 2022 rate
%
Non-derivative financial assets
Non-interest bearing -
Variable interest rate instruments 0.42

Total non-derivative financial
assets

Exposure to foreign exchange risk

Less
than 1 1-3
month months
£7000 £7000

105,753 7,560
3,427 71

109,180 7,631

3
months
tol
year
£000

217
173

390

Less
than 1 1-3
month months
£7000 £000

116,247 8,832

28,162 66

144,409 8,898

3
months
tol

year
£7000

(3,520)

168

(3,082)

The currencies of the group’s financial instruments were as follows:

31 December 2023
Cash and cash equivalents
Financial assets at amortised cost

Amortised cost

Net balance sheet exposure

USD
£7000

1,432
(1,014)

418

GBP
£’000
2,622

118,306

(134,840)

(13,912)

1-5
years
£7000

5,922

5,922

1-5
years
£000

6,866

262

7,128

EUR
£7000
781
(18)
2,012

2,775

5+
years Total
£000 £000

- 119,452
oe 3,671
- 123,123

5+
years Total

£7000 £000

- 128,425

- 28,658

- 157,083

Total
£000
3,403
119,720
(133,842)

(10,719)

81

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
26 _‘ Financial instruments — group (continued)
31 December 2022 USD GBP EUR Total
£000 £000 £7000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 775, 26,150 1,215 28,140
Financial assets at amortised cost (119) 128,417 644 128,942
Amortised cost (649) (123,705) (2,590) (126,944)

Net balance sheet exposure 7 30,862 (731) 30,138

The group is mainly exposed to US dollar and Euros.

The following table details the group’s profit or loss and other equity after a 5% increase and decrease in Sterling against the
relevant foreign currencies. The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary items
in the statement of financial position and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 5% change in foreign currency rates.
5% is the sensitivity rate used when reporting foreign currency risk internally to key management personnel and represents
management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates.

If the £ strengthens/weakens by 5% against the USD and Euro, and all other variables were held constant, the following
figures would have been presented as profit for the year:

£ strengthens by 5% USD impact EUR impact

2023 2022 2023 2022

£000 £°000 £7000 £000

Profit for the year (20) (1) (132) 35
£ weakens by 5% : USD impact EUR impact

2023 2022 2023 2022

£7000 £000 £7000 £000

Profit for the year 22 1 146 (193)

Fluctuations in foreign currency would have no impact of the amounts presented within other comprehensive income or other
reserves.

82

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

26

Financial instruments — group (continued)
Interest rate risk
Changes in market interest rates will cause fluctuations in the fair value or future cash flows of financial instruments.

The group is exposed to changes in interest rates on its interest bearing financial assets including cash and cash
equivalents and instalment and other notes receivable. The short term nature of investments included in cash and
cash equivalents limits the impact to fluctuations in fair value, but interest income earned will be impacted.

The group is exposed to changes in interest rates on its interest bearing financial liabilities including short and long
term debt. The group’s debt portfolio comprises both fixed and floating rate debt instruments, with terms to maturity
of in excess of five years. Floating rate debt, due to its short term nature, exposes the group to limited fluctuations in
changes to fair value, but finance expense and cash flows will increase or decrease as interest rates change.

The fair value of the group’s fixed rate debt obligations fluctuate with changes in interest rates, but absent early
settlement, related cash flows do not change. The group does not measure any fixed rate long-term debt at fair value.
The group is exposed to future interest rates upon refinancing of any debt prior to or at maturity.

The group manages its interest rate risk by balancing its portfolio of fixed and floating rate debt, as well as managing
the term to maturity of its debt portfolio.

The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure of interest rates for derivative and non-
derivative instruments at the balance sheet date. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the
amount of liability outstanding at balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year. A 1% increase or decrease
is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to management personnel and represents management’s assessment
of the reasonable possible change in interest rates.

If the interest rates had been 1% higher/lower and all other variables were held constant the following figures would
have been presented as profit for the year:

2023 2022
+1% -1% 41% -1%
£7000 £7000 £000 £000
Profit for the year 19,726 20,002 32,317 31,677

Fair values

Financial instruments measured at fair value are grouped into three levels based on the degree to which fair value is
observable:

Level 1 — quoted prices in active markets for identical securities
Level 2 — significant observable inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1
Level 3 - significant unobservable inputs

The group’s only financial instruments measured at fair value are derivative instruments. All of the derivative instruments
are measured at fair value using Level 2 inputs. The group did not move any instruments between levels of the fair value
hierarchy during the years ended December 31, 2023, and 2022.

83

DocuSign Envelope 1D: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

27

Notes to the cash flow statement - group

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and bank balances

2023
£000

3,403

Finning (UK) Ltd

2022
£7000

28,140

Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less, net
of outstanding bank overdrafts. The carrying amount of these assets is approximately equal to their fair value.

The table below details changes in the group’s liabilities arising from financing activities, including both cash and non-cash
changes. Liabilities arising from financing activities are those for which cash flows were, or future cash flows will be,
classified in the group’s consolidated cash flow statement as cash flows from financing activities.

1 January
2023
£7000

Borrowings (note 21)
Lease liabilities (note 20)

25,536
16,139

Other
changes
£000

1,634
4,288

1 January
2022
£7000

Borrowings (note 21)
Lease liabilities (note 20)

25,817
24,906

Other
changes
£7000

Financing Disposals
cash flows
£000 £7000
3,054 -
(6,700) (1,216)
(3,646) (1,216)
Financing Disposals
cash flows
£7000 £7000
(327) -
(8,652) -
(8,979) -

Other changes include opening balance adjustments, interest accruals and payments.

31 December
2023
£7000

30,224
12,511

42,735

31 December
2022

£7000

25,536
16,139

41,675

84

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

28

29

Operating lease arrangements — group

The group as lessor

At the balance sheet date, the group had contracted with lessees for the following operating lease payments:

2023 2022
£000 £000
Year 1 * 268 1,094

268 1,094

Operating lease receivables represent amounts payable to the group in relation to equipment rentals. Leases are negotiated
for an average term of | year.

Financial commitments — group and company
a) Capital commitments

Neither the group nor the company had any capital commitments at either year end.
b) Contingent liabilities

Due to the size and nature of the company’s trade, various legal matters arise from time to time. Those pending at the
balance sheet date are unsupported and the company believes without merit. It is the current opinion of management,
that these matters will not have a material effect on the company’s consolidated financial position or results of
operations.

c) Overdrafts and other liabilities

The group has guaranteed overdrafts and other liabilities of certain other companies within the Finning (UK)
Ltd group amounting to £5,681,000 as at 31 December 2023 (2022:£nil).

85

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229
Finning (UK) Ltd

‘Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

30 Guarantees and indemnifications — group and company

The group enters into contracts with rights of return, in certain circumstances, for the repurchase of equipment sold to
customers for an amount which is generally based on a discount from the estimated future fair value of that equipment.
As at 31 December 2023, the total estimated value of these contracts outstanding is £30,902,000 (2022: £35,073,000)
coming due at periods ranging from 2023 to 2027. The group’s experience to date has been that the equipment at the
exercise date of the contract is generally worth more than the repurchase amount. The total amount recognised as a
provision against these contracts is £882,000 (2022: £977,000).

The group enters into contracts with rights of return, in certain circumstances, for the trade-in of equipment sold to
customers for an amount which is generally based on a discount from the estimated future fair value of that equipment.
As at 31 December 2023, the total estimated value of these contracts outstanding is £nil (2022: £nil). The Company’s
experience to date has been that the equipment at the exercise date of the contract is generally worth more than the
trade-in amount. As at 31 December 2023, the group had no liability recorded for this guarantee (2022: £nil).

The group has issued certain guarantees to Caterpillar Finance to guarantee, on a pro-rata basis, certain borrowers’
obligations. The guarantees would be enforceable in the event that the borrowers defaulted on their obligations to
Caterpillar Finance, to the extent that any net proceeds from the recovery and sale of collateral securing repayment of
the borrowers’ obligations is insufficient to meet those obligations. As at 31 December 2023, the maximum potential
amount of future payments that the group could be required to make under the guarantees, before any amounts that may
possibly be recovered under recourse or collateralization provisions in the guarantees, is £nil (2022: £281,000) covering
various periods up to 2025 As at 31 December 2023, the group had no liability recorded for this guarantee (2022: £nil).

The group has also issued guarantees for certain equipment sold to Caterpillar Finance to guarantee their residual values.
The guarantees would be enforceable in the event that the market value of the equipment at the time of its ultimate
disposal is below the residual value guarantee issued by the company. As at 31 December 2023 the maximum potential
amount of future payments that the company could be required to make under the guarantees is £281,000 (2022:
£76,000) covering periods up to 2025. As at 31 December 2023 the company recognised a liability of £44,000 for these
guarantees (2022: £nil).

The company entered into a guarantee to guarantee the payments of deferment duty to HMRC Deferment Office. As at
31 December 2023 the maximum potential amount of future payments that the company could be required to make
under the guarantees is £60,000 (2022: £60,000).

The company entered into an advanced payment bond guarantee for non-delivery of project to customer specifications.
As at 31 December 2023 the maximum potential amount of future payments that the company could be required to
make under the guarantees is £nil (2022: £nil)

In the normal course of operations, the group has several long-term maintenance and repair contracts with various
customers which contain cost per hour guarantees.

86

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended'31 December 2023

3

Related party transactions - group

Balances and transactions between the company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated
on consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Transactions between the group and its associates are discussed
below.

Trading transactions

During the year, the group entered into the following trading transactions with related parties who are not members
of the group:.

Sales of goods to related parties Purchases of goods from
related parties

2023 2022 2023 2022

£7000 £000 £000 £000

Finning (Ireland) Ltd 19,511 18,407 - (2,028)
Finning International Inc 1,134 - (9,654) (7,021)
Finning Tractor Finance Ltd - - - (638)
Finning Finance Ltd - - (109) -
Finning Power Solutions Inc. - 2 - :
Hydraquip Hose & Hydraulics Ltd 46 - - -

Transactions with Finning International Inc. relate to recharges which occurred during the year for costs incurred on
behalf of the other party; charges incurred in relation to the share based payment schemes administered by Finning
International Inc; and charges for intangible asset development.

The transactions of £109,000 (2022: £638,000) represent the annual interest payments in relation to the £25,000,000 ,

(2022: £25,000,000) intercompany loan with Finning Finance Ltd (2022: Eurobond loan, subscribed by Finning
Tractor Finance Limited and held by Finning (UK) Ltd).

The following amounts were outstanding at the balance sheet date:

Amounts owed by related Amounts owed to related
parties parties

2023 2022 2023 2022

£7000 £7000 £7000 £000

Diperk (UK) Ltd 1,988 1,988 - -
Finning Canada - 1] (47) (136)
Finning Services Limited 1,590 1,549 (426) -
Hydraquip Hose and Hydraulics Limited - 1 - -
Finning Holdings Ltd 5,325 5,024 (12,621) (11,591)
Finning (Ireland) Ltd 1,342 423 (883) (1,124)
Finning International Inc. - 376 (1,930) (2,018)
Finning Tractor Finance Ltd - - - (25,000)
Finning Finance Ltd - - (25,627) -

10,245 9,371 (41,534) (39,869)

87

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the consolidated financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

31

Related party transactions — group (continued)

In 2022, Finning Services Ltd, a newly created company in Finning, acquired Hydraquip Hose and Hydraulics Limited
as well as Hoses Direct Limited. The amounts above are recorded in trade receivables at year end, and relate to normal
trading activity on an arm’s length basis.

The remaining related party transactions are all with companies in the group headed by the ultimate controlling party,
Finning International Inc..

Sale of goods and purchases of goods to and from related parties are made on arm’s length basis.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received.
No expense has been recognised in the year for a loss provision in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.

The £25,000,000 balance as at 31 December 2022 between Finning (UK) Ltd and Finning Tractor Finance Limited
represents the Eurobond loan and related interest owed subscribed by Finning Tractor Finance Limited, held by
Finning (UK) Ltd. This was paid in February 2023 and a new toan of £25,000,000 was obtained from Finning Finance
Limited held at 31 December 2023 including the accrued interest of £626,000 as at year end.

Remuneration of key management personnel

The remuneration of the directors, who are the key management personnel of the group, is set out in note 4 in aggregate
for each of the categories specified in 1[AS24 Related Party Disclosure. Further information about the remuneration of
individual directors is also provided in the directors’ remuneration disclosure note 4.

88

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the parent company financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

32

33

34

Significant accounting policies - company

The separate financial statements of the company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. As permitted
by that Act, the company separate financial statements and disclosures which form part of these financial statements
have been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure framework’, as issued by the Financial
Reporting Council. The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, with the exception of
freehold land and buildings which were are shown at professional valuations with subsequent additions and disposals
at cost. Refer to note 11 for further information. The principal accounting policies adopted are the same as those set
out in the consolidated financial statements notes.

Investment in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.

Operating profit - company

The auditor’s remuneration for audit and other services is disclosed in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements.
Staff costs - company

The company has share schemes over shares of the ultimate parent. The company has six (2022: six) share schemes
in operation during the year, two of which are settled in shares (SIPs and stock options), three of which are cash-
settled (SARs, PSUs and RSUs) and one where the scheme may be settled in cash or shares at the option of the
employee (DSU-Bs). All share schemes in operation are in relation to the shares of the ultimate parent company,
Finning International Inc. Finning International Inc. makes awards to employees of the company for stock options,
PSUs, RSUs and DSUs. The company awards the share appreciation rights and the free matching shares under the
share incentive pfan.

The average monthly number of employees (including executive directors) was:

2023 2022
Number Number
Sales and administration 781 729
Production and engineering 677 677
1,458 1,406

Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
£7000 £000
Wages and salaries 81,333 71,704
Social security costs 7,597 7,592
Other pension costs 1,693 4,777
Share-based payments 1,156 1,642
91,779 85,715

Staff costs include amounts charged to operating profit and finance costs associated with the defined benefit retirement
scheme.

The disclosures for share based payments are disclosed in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements and relate
entirely to the parent company.

89

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Notes to the parent company financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 December 2023

35 Goodwill - company

Cost
At 1 January 2023 and 31 December 2023

Net book value

At 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2023

36 Other intangible assets — company

Cost

At 1 January 2023
Additions
Disposals

At 31 December 2023
Amortisation

At 1 January 2023
Charge for the year
Disposals

At 31 December 2023

Net book value
At 31 December 2023

At 31 December 2022

Distribution
Network
£000

1,568

1,568

1,568

1,568

Customer
contracts
£000

123

123

123

123

Finning (UK) Ltd
Goodwill
£7000
232
232
Software Total
£000 £000
10,486 12,177
414 4l4
10,900 12,591
8,237 8,360
1,104 1,104
9,341 9,464
1,559 3,127
2,249 3,817

Intangible assets comprise a distribution network from the Bucyrus acquisition which is considered to have an infinite life
and so is not amortised; an order backlog from the Bucyrus acquisition which was amortised over the period in which the
orders were fulfilled; and software which is amortised over a period of 5 years.

The distribution network relates to the company’s ability to distribute Bucyrus. This asset has future economic benefits as
long as the company is able to distribute Bucyrus product. The company expects to use the distribution network as long as
there is customer demand and Caterpillar continues to manufacture Bucyrus product. The company’s distribution agreement
for existing Caterpillar product has been in place, uninterrupted, for over 75 years, therefore Bucyrus distribution network

is deemed to have an infinite life.

90

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the parent company financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
37 Property, plant and equipment — company
Long Equipment,
Freehold Leasehold fixtures and
land and land and fittings and Rental
buildings buildings IT equipment equipment Total
£7000 £°000 £000 £000 £000
Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2023 30,426 4,133 29,742 58,305 122,606
Additions 252 99 3,259 17,198 20,808
Transfers from inventory - - - - -
Disposals - - - - -
Transfers to inventory - - - (14,734) (14,734)
Other transfers - - - - -
At 31 December 2023 30,678 4,232 33,001 60,769 128,680
Depreciation
At 1 January 2023 13,803 2,474 23,463 27,780 67,520
Charge for the year 945 164 1,886 6,163 9,158
Imapirment Loss - - - - -
Disposals -. - - - -
Transfers to inventory - - - (9,529) (9,529)
Other Transfers 36 - - - 36
At 31 December 2023 14,784 2,638 25,349 24,414 67,185
Net book value
At 31 December 2023 15,894 1,594 7,652 36,355 61,495
At 31 December 2022 16,623 1,659 6,279 30,525 55,086

The rental equipment is hired to third parties under short-term rental agreements. Transfers to inventory comprise of
rental equipment removed from the rental fleet and transferred to used equipment inventory held for resale.

Freehold land of £5,072,000 (2022: £5,072,000) included in the above is not being depreciated.

See note 11 regarding Freehold land and buildings shown at professional valuations.

91

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Notes to the parent company financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

38

Leases (the group as a lessee) -company

Right of use assets

Right-of-use

Right-of-use
Vehicles
£7000

12,018
574

Right-of-use
Plant &
Equipment
£7000

Finning (UK) Ltd

Right-of-use

Buildings
£000

Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2022 6,168
Additions -
Disposals (760)
At 31 December 2022 5,408
Additions -
Disposals (417)
At 31 December 2023 4,991
Depreciation
At 1 January 2022 2,717
Charge for the year 617
Disposals -
At 31 December 2022 3,334
Charge for the year 752
Lease remeasurement -
Disposals (417)
At 31 December 2023 3,669
Net book value
At 31 December 2023 1,322
At 31 December 2022 2,074
At 1 January 2022 3,451

Rental
Equipment Total
£°000 £7000
21,204 41,081
609 1,183
(148) (908)
21,665 41,356
3,346 4,865
(12,245) (20,361)
12,766 25,860
12,271 23,643
3,954 7,500
(130) (130)
16,095 31,013
4,086 6,572
(780) (780)
(12,245) (20,358)
7,156 16,447
5,610 9,413
5,570 10,343
8,933 17,438

The maturity analysis of lease liabilities is presented in note 46.

92

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Notes to the parent company financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

39

Investments — company

Cost and net book value
At | January 2022
Additions

At 31 December 2022
Additions

At 31 December 2023

H. Leverton Limited

Sitech Technology Systems Limited

Murray Control Systems Limited
Finning Finance Limited
Finning Acquisition Co.

Sitech ROI

Finning Power Rental Limited
Finning Power Rental LP

Investment in subsidiaries

Details of the company’s subsidiaries at 31 December 2023 are as follows:

Subsidiary
H. Leverton Limited

Sitech Technology Systems
Limited (formerly Reaction One
Ltd)

Murray Control Systems Limited
Finning Power Rental Limited

Finning Power Rental LP

All investments are direct except Finning Power Rental LP which is 1% indirect

Registered address

Watling Street, Cannock, Staffordshire,
WS11 8LL, UK

Finning (UK) Ltd, Watling Street,
Cannock, Staffordshire, WS11 8LL, UK

Finning (UK) Ltd, Watling Street,
Cannock, Staffordshire, WS11 8LL, UK
Finning (UK) Ltd, Watling Street,
Cannock, Staffordshire, WS11 8LL, UK
Finning (UK) Ltd, Watling Street,
Cannock, Staffordshire, WS11 8LL, UK

Finning (UK) Ltd
£000
20,229
20,229
20,229
2023 2022
£000 £7000
11,031 11,031
3,067 3,067
500 500
1 1
0.001 0.001
0.001 0.001
5,179 5,179
451 451
20,229 20,229
Holding Nature %
Ordinary shares Dormant 100
Ordinary shares Trading 100
Ordinary shares Trading 100
Ordinary shares Trading 100
Profit share Trading 100

There are no significant restrictions on the ability of the group to access or use the assets and settle liabilities.

93

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-ACBE-4500B468F 229

Notes to the parent company financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

40

Deferred tax - company

Deferred taxation provided is as follows:

Accelerated tax depreciation

Other timing difference

Deferred tax liability related to pension scheme
Tax losses allowable

Deferred tax liability

Finning (UK) Ltd
2023 2022
£7000 £7000
(4,113) (1,971)
(511) (511)
(16,167) (14,964)
419 1,434
(16,012)

(20,372)

The deferred tax asset has been recognised as sufficient future taxable profits are forecast that will realise the asset.

At | January

Charged to the profit and loss account
Deferred tax on pension costs

At 31 December

2023
£7000

(16,012)

(4,657)
297

(20,372)

2022
£7000

(28,604)

(1,075)
13,667

(16,012)

The headline UK statutory corporation tax rate for the year ended 31 December 2022 was 19%. Legislation introduced in the
Finance Bill 2021 will maintain the 19% corporation tax rate for the period to 31 March 2023..

The headline rate of corporation tax will then be increased to 25% from 1 April 2023.

Under IAS 12 deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply to the period when the
asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by

the balance sheet date.

Accordingly, with enactment of the Finance Act 2021 on 10 June 2021 the deferred tax balances have been recognised at the

25% rate.

94

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the parent company financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
41 Inventories — company
2023 2022
£7000 £7000
Work-in-progress 6,837 11,822
Finished goods and goods for resale 121,430 84,447
128,267 96,269
There is no material difference between the balance sheet value of inventory and their replacement cost.
For the year ended 31 December 2023 on-hand equipment, parts, supplies and internal work in progress recognised as an
expense amounted to £464,346,000 (2022: £540,931,000). For the year ended 31 December 2023, the write-down of
inventories amounted to £2,018,000 (2022: £1,435,000).
42 Contract assets — company
2023 2022
£000 £°000
Contracts in progress at the balance sheet date:
Power systems projects 312 1,011
Long term support contracts . 15,645 13,386
Service work-in-progress 7,776 12,672
23,733 27,069

Invoices for sales of power systems projects are issued in accordance with milestone payments agreed within each sales
contract with the customer. Invoices for sales of parts and labour when servicing equipment under long-term support contracts
are issued in accordance with the billing arrangement over the contract term. Invoices for sales of parts and labour when
servicing equipment not under long-term contracts are issued when the work is complete. The group recognises unbilled
service work in progress for sales of complex power and energy systems and sales of parts and labour when servicing
equipment when revenue recognition criteria are met, and the group has the right to receive amounts from customers but
invoices have not yet been issued.

All contract assets are due within 1 year.
Impairment losses of £nil (2022: £nil) have been recognised on contract assets during the year.

The directors of the group always measure the loss allowance on amounts due from customers at an amount equal to lifetime
ECL, taking into account the historical default experience and the future prospects of the group’s key markets. None of the
amounts due from customers at the end of the reporting period is past due.

There has been no change in the estimation techniques or significant assumptions made during the current reporting period
in assessing the loss allowance for the amounts due from customers under construction contracts.

95

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the parent company financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
43 Trade and other receivables - company
2023 2022
£7000 £000
Current:
Amounts receivable for the sale of goods 57,221 60,778
Loss provision (1,200) (1,049)
Net trade receivables . 56,021. 59,729
Contract assets (note 42) 23,733 27,069
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 1,604 659
Amounts owed by other group undertakings 594 2,340
Other receivables 20,115 18,388
Prepayments and accrued income 864 371
102,931 108,556
Non-current:
Amounts owed by parent company 5,414 5,379
Amounts owed by subsidiaries 288 19
Amounts owed by other group undertakings 4,273 1,969
Other receivables 5,922 6,866
15,897 14,233
44 Contract liabilities — company
2023 2022
£000 £000
Contracts in progress at the balance sheet date:
Power systems projects 11,157 9,690
Long term support contracts : 24,852 26,606
36,009 36,296

The group recognises deferred revenue when cash has been collected from the customer but control of the goods or services
has not yet been transferred to the customer. Contract liabilities are recorded in respect deferred revenue on sales of parts and
labour when servicing equipment and power system projects. Cash is typically collected as the customer is billed while
revenue is deferred and recognised evenly over the term of the contract, which can extend beyond one year. The majority of
revenue related to long-term product support contracts is recognised within one year of collecting cash from the customer.
All other streams of revenue are recognised within one year of recording deferred revenue.

Contract liabilities on power systems projects and long term support contracts can vary year on year depending on the value
of progress billings relative to the value of work performed on the contract.

96

DocuSign Envelope 1D: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the parent company financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
45 Trade and other payables - company
2023 2022
£000 £000
Trade payables 52,428 40,971
Contract liabilities (note 44) 36,009 36,280
Amounts owed to parent company 8,977 9,222
Amounts owed to subsidiaries 1,032 1,145
Amounts owed to other group undertakings 11,180 10,993
Other taxation and social security 12,112 19,174
Accruals and deferred income 19,569 24,567
141,307 142,352
Amounts owed to group undertakings are repayable on demand.
Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average
credit period taken for trade purchases is 30 days (2022: 19 days). For most suppliers no interest is charged on the trade
payables for the first days from the date of the invoice. Thereafter, interest is charged on the outstanding balances at various
interest rates. The company has financial risk management policies in place to ensure that all payables are paid within the
pre-agreed credit terms.
46 Lease liabilities — company

2023 2022
£7000 £7000

Maturity analysis:
Year | 6,461 7,765
Year 2 4,011 4,420
Year 3 2,428 3,158
Year 4 : . 1,246 1,734
Year 5 - 543 999
Onwards 2,380 3,692
. 17,069 21,768
Less: future finance charges (4,621) (5,693)
Present value of lease obligations 12,448 16,075

Analysed as:

Current obligations under finance lease 5,223 6,339
Non-current obligations under finance lease 7,225 9,736
12,448 16,075

It is the company’s policy to lease certain items of its property, plant and equipment under finance leases. The average lease
term is 4.4 years (2022: 4.4 years). For the year ended 31 December 2023, the average effective borrowing rate was 4.02%
per cent (2022: 3.76%). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. All leases are on a fixed repayment basis and no
arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.

All lease obligations are denominated in sterling.

The fair value of the company’s lease obligations is approximately equal to their carrying amount.

The company’s obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors’ rights over the leased assets disclosed in note 12.

97

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229 . .

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the parent company financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
47 Borrowings — company
2023 2022
£7000 £7000
Unsecured borrowings at amortised cost
Bank overdraft 5,681 -
Bank loan 4,927 -
Other loans 297 537
Amounts owed to other group undertakings 25,000 25,000
35,905 25,537
Total borrowings
Amount due for settlement within 12 months 5,955 25,240
Amount due for settlement after 12 months 29,950 297

On 1 June 2010 £25,000,000 of a Eurobond issue was assigned to Finning (UK) Ltd. In December 2020, the bonds were
further extended to be redeemed in May 2023, carrying an interest rate of 2.55%, payable quarterly.

The Eurobond was fully subscribed by a company which is a subsidiary of Finning International Inc. The amount outstanding
at the year end is £ni) (2022: £25,000,000). This was paid in February 2023 and a new loan of £25,000,000 was obtained
from Finning Finance Limited held at 31 December 2023. This new intercompany loan carries an interest rate of 7.5% payable
bi-annually and is set to expire on 27 February 2028.

At 31 December 2023 £4,927,000 (2022: £nil) was drawn down on the global credit facility. This is a facility of CAD$1.3
billion held by the ultimate group of Finning Holdings. The facility carried an interest rate of SONIA+1.18% as at 31
December 2023 (2022: 1.25%). In June 2023, Finning International Inc. completed a two-year extension to its CAD$1.3
billion global operating credit facility, extending the maturity date to September 2026 from the previous maturity in December
2024.

Finning International Inc. have a maximum Net Debt to Invested Capital level pursuant to a covenant within its syndicated
bank credit facility.

The company has one other unsecured loan totalling £297,000 (2022: £537,000). This loan commenced in November 2010.
The loan carries an interest rate of 6.8% and will be repaid in full by January 2025. Repayments are being made on a monthly
basis. .

The company holds a £20,000,000 rolling uncommitted overdraft facility with HSBC. The facility covers the Finning
Holdings group’s various bank accounts denominated in GBP, EUR, USD and DKK and is guaranteed across the Finning
Holding’s group through counter indemnity. The overdraft carries a range of interest rates chargeable at 0.40% above the
base rate in the account currency’s local jurisdiction.

The company also holds a £10,000,000 rolling short term uncommitted money market facility with HSBC. Interest is charged
at the Bank of England base rate plus 1.25%. No amounts were drawn on this facility at 31 December 2023 (2022: £nil).

98

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-ACBE-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the parent company financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
47 Borrowings — company (continued)
Borrowings are repayable as follows:
2023 2022
£7000 £7000
Loans and overdrafts
On demand or within one year 5,955 240
Between one and five years 4,950 297
Over five years . - :
10,905 537
Amounts owed to other group undertakings
On demand or within one year - 25,000
Between one and five years . 25,000 -

48 Provisions for liabilities - company

2023 2022

£7000 £000

Provisions for dilapidations 811 879
Warranty provisions 8,315 10,863
Provision for buybacks 912 936
Provision for product support 1,309 1,204
Restructuring provision . 352 -
11,699 13,881

Current 10,733 12,700
Non-current 966 1,181

11,699 13,881

99

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the parent company financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
48 Provisions for liabilities - company (continued)
Dilapidations Warranty Buybacks
£000 £000 £°000
At 1 January 2023 879 10,863 936
Additional provision in year 10 10,574 . 347
Utilised during the year (78) (10,398) (67)
Released during the year : - (2,724) (304)
At 31 December 2023 811 8,315 © 912
Product support Restructuring Total
£000 £7000 £000
At 1 January 2023 1,203 - 13,881
Additional provision in year 184 985 12,100
Utilised during the year (54) (565) (11,162)
Released during the year (24) (68) (3,120)

At 31 December 2023 1,309 352 11,699

The provision for dilapidations is a provision to make good any repairs on properties rented under operating leases and is
expected to be utilised at the expiry of each lease, with the longest lease expiring:in 2078.

Warranty provisions on equipment sales are expected to be utilised over the lives of the given warranty periods. This is
expected to be utilised within a year.

The buyback provision relates to certain sales agreements that contain “buyback” arrangements that may be exercised at the
option of the customer within specified periods in the future, with the longest period being December 2023. This is utilised
when an option is exercised or expired.

Provisions for product support are those for product support claims and are recognised over the given product support periods.

The restructuring provision relates to redundancy costs incurred as part of a company reorganisation undertaken during the
year. This is expected to be utilised within a year.

No provision has been made for deferred tax on revaluing property to its market value. The tax on any gain arising from the
revaluation would only become payable if the property were sold without rollover relief being available. This is expected to
be utilised within a year

100

DocuSign Envelope !D: 2F94F472-91AA-4509-ACBE-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd
Notes to the parent company financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
49 Retained earnings — company
Retained
earnings Total
£000 £000
At | January 2023 113,353 113,353
Retained profit for the year 17,177 17,177
Actuarial loss net of deferred taxation (891) (891)
Dividends paid : (8,045) (8,045)
At 31 December 2023 . 121,594 121,594

Dividends of £8,045,000 were paid during the year to holders of fully paid ordinary shares (2022: £2,636,000) were paid to
holders of fully paid ordinary shares.

50 _— Related party transactions - company
Balances between the company and its subsidiaries are disclosed below.

The following amounts were outstanding at the balance sheet date:

Amounts owed by related Amounts owed to related
parties parties

2023 2022 2023 2022

£000 £7000 £000 £7000

Murray Control Systems Limited 137 59 (63) (29)

Diperk (UK) Ltd 1,988 1,988 - (63)

Finning Power Rental Solutions LP 613 202 (639) (110)

Finning Canada - 1] (47) (136)

Finning Holdings Ltd 5,414 5,379 (8,977) (9,222)

Finning (Ireland) Ltd 1,286 384 (250) (449)

Finning International Inc. - 376 (1,930) (2,018)

H Leverton Ltd - - (8,327) (8,327)

Finning Tractor Finance Limited - - - (25,000)

Finning Finance Limited - - (25,626) -
Sitech Technology Systems Limited (formerly Reaction

One Limited) 1,142 Al7 (330) (1,006)

Finning Services Limited 1,590 1,549 . - -

Hydraquip Hose & Hydraulics Limited 3 1 - -

12,173 10,366 (46,189) (46,360)

——

101

DocuSign Envelope ID: 2F94F 472-91 AA-4509-AC8E-4500B468F 229

Finning (UK) Ltd

Notes to the parent company financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023 2

50

51

52

$3

Related party transactions - company

The related party transactions are all with companies in the group headed by the ultimate controlling party, Finning
International Inc..

Sale of goods and purchases of goods to and from related parties are made on arm’s length basis.
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received.
No expense has been recognised in the year for loss provisions in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.

‘The £25,000,000 balance as at 31 December 2022 between Finning (UK) Ltd and Finning Tractor Finance Limited represents
the Eurobond loan and related interest owed subscribed by Finning Tractor Finance Limited, held by Finning (UK) Ltd. This
was paid in February 2023 and a new loan of £25,000,000 obtained from Finning Finance Limited held at 3] December 2023
including the accrued interest of £626,000 as at year end.

See note 4 for remuneration of key management personnel.

Parent company guarantee — group and company

The following subsidiaries are exempt from the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 relating to the audit of
individual accounts for the year ended 31 December 2023 by virtue of s479A of the Act, for which Finning UK Ltd is
providing the guarantee:

Sitech Technology Systems Limited 08760819 United Kingdom
04547569 United Kingdom
04745929 | United Kingdom

Finning Power Rental Limited

Murray Control Systems Limited

Ultimate controlling party — group and company

The company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Finning Holdings, a company registered in England and Wales which is a
wholly-owned subsidiary undertaking of Finning International Inc., a company incorporated in Canada. The latter company
is considered by the directors to be the ultimate holding company and controlling party. The largest and smallest groups in
which the results of the company and its subsidiary undertakings are consolidated are those headed by Finning International
Inc..

The consolidated financial statements of Finning International Inc. are available from 300-565 Great Northern Way,
Vancouver, BC, V5T 0H8, Canada.

Events after the reporting period — group and company

Dividends of £2,1 19,000 were paid from Finning (UK) Ltd to its parent company Finning Holdings after the reporting
date in February 2024.

102

