Registered no: 08205871

Go North West Limited

Annual Report and Financial Statements

For the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

*ADCLHEZ7*
Alt #435

28/09/2024
COMPANIES HOUSE

SATURDAY

Go North West Limited

Directors
N P Featham
JL Croxford
M R Dean

C Seddon

M Walsh

Company Secretary
C Ferguson

Bankers

The Royal Bank of Scotland pic
250 Bishopsgate

London

EC2M 4AA

Solicitors

Womble Bond Dickinson LLP
St Ann's Wharf

112 Quayside

Newcastle upon Tyne

NEI] 3DX

Registered office
3rd Floor

41-51 Grey Street
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE! 6EE

Registered no: 08205871


Go North West Limited

Strategic report
The directors present their strategic report for the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023.

This is the first period of results since the acquisition of the intermediate parent company, The Go-Ahead Group
Limited (Go-Ahead) and its subsidiaries (together the Go-Ahead Group), on 10 October 2022 by Go-Ahead
Investment Bidco Limited, (previously Gerrard Investment Bidco Limited) (the Acquisition).

The restructure resulting from the Acquisition included a change in the financial year end from the end of June to
end of December, resulting in an extended current reporting period of 18 months compared to a 12-month prior
period. Prior period comparisons are therefore limited, although current period results are in line with expectations.

Results and dividends
The profit for the period, after taxation, amounted to £2,713,000 (year ended 2 July 2022: £298,000).

The directors do not recommend a final ordinary dividend for the period (year ended 2 July 2022: £nil).

Principal activities and review of the business
The Company runs commercial! and tendered local bus services in the Greater Manchester conurbation.

The financial results show an increase in profit after tax of £2,415,000 in the prior year to. The key factors to
explain this are:

Length of financial period
The prior period is a 12-month period whereas the current period is an 18 month period.

Revenue
Revenue increased from £30,106,000 to £72,958,000. When current period revenue is normalised to 12 months,
the comparison becomes £48,639,000 which represents a 61.6% increase on prior year (£18,533,000).

Passenger revenue

Normalised passenger revenue increased from £22,972,000 to £33,367,000 which represents an increase
of £10,395,000. This predominantly relates to the return of passenger numbers to pre-COVID levels that
continued to increase incrementally well into the current period. This can be offset by a reduction in
government grants of £4,139,000. The company received no government grants in the current period.

Contract wins
Normalised contract revenue increased by 507% to £14,622,000 from £2,408,000. This contributes
£12,214,000 to the increase in normalised revenue. The notable contracts are:

1. Bolton / Wigan Large Franchises — In December 2022, the company was awarded the Bolton
Large Franchise Contract and the Wigan Large Franchise Contract, the first of the franchises
awarded in Greater Manchester. These contracts commenced on 24" September 2023 resulting
in a tripling in size of operations

2. Emergency Contract — In April 2023, the company were awarded an additional 25 buses of
work to run services that were dropped by another operator in the area on short notice. There
was no revenue risk for the contract and the cost basis was well-known.

Capital expenditure

Capital investment was significant in the period due to the tripling in size of operations. The Bolton and Wigan
contracts resulted in £48,000,000 of investment in vehicles, 50 of which were brand new electric buses. In addition
to this, £1,000,000 was invested in setting of facilities for these operations.

Future developments

Franchising

As at the time of publication of this document, Transport for Greater Manchester have completed the award of all
franchise operations in the region. Two other regions within proximity to the companies current operations have
stated their ambitions to franchise bus networks. These are in Merseyside, who intend to start their procurement
process in late 2024, and West Yorkshire. The company have a team ready to prepare bids for all franchise
opportunities that present themselves in the North West and have begun work on bids for Merseyside.

Strategic Report (continued)

Go North West Limited
Future developments (Continued)

Acquisitions

The Company has identified its principal growth opportunity to be franchising and is not reliant upon expansion
through acquisition to achieve its growth ambitions. However, it continues to identify and pursue potential
acquisition opportunities in order to expand its geographical area of operation, spread its overhead and build its
revenue base in order to grow profits.

Risk management objectives and policies

The Company has procedures in place to assess, prioritise, monitor, and mitigate business risks. The Company
ensures that its board of directors and senior managers have considerable experience in the industry and can
address key issues as they arise. The principal business risks monitored in this way include political, economic,
environmental, financial, interest rate, commodity price, credit, liquidity, and foreign exchange risks.

Political risk

National policy and strategy change for buses continues to be a potential source of risk, in terms of governance,
funding priorities, and planning. This is managed through regular and constructive engagement with local
authorities and the DfT at a Company and The Go-Ahead Group Limited (Go-Ahead) level.

The Bus Services Act 2017 gives local authorities powers to form stronger partnerships with bus operators and
impose ‘franchising’ schemes. The Company works closely with public sector partners to improve air quality and
promote economic growth, making significant changes to the regulatory structure unlikely.

Following the Labour Party’s 2024 election victory, the Better Buses Bill presented in the King’s speech gives
local authorities the power to franchise local bus services. The Company works closely with public sector partners
to provide reliable and cost-effective services, improve air quality and promote economic growth. The Company
therefore considers itself well positioned to participate in and adapt to any forthcoming changes in the regulatory
environment, especially after it’s success in the first franchised network in the country.

Economie risks

Strong economies mean high traffic volumes presenting further challenges to operational performance.
Infrastructure projects in some of the regions we operate may further contribute to these challenges. We continue
our partnership work with highways authorities mitigating the impact of this, whilst also continuing to improve
our own planned and day-to-day responses to the changing highways’ conditions. Short term increases are
anticipated to dissipate as pro-active and sustainable travel strategies begin to impact.

There is a risk that the conflict in Ukraine and other economic factors continue to lead to high levels of inflation
and pressure on supply chains affecting the Company. This would result in increased cost of living and higher fuel
and energy prices causing increased operational costs, slowing the economic recovery from the COVID-19
pandemic. If required, this could be mitigated through contract renegotiations, bus fare reviews and reviews of
less profitable routes.

Environmental risks

Mitigating the environmental impact remains high on the Company agenda. Substantial investments in fleet are
planned in future years which will improve air quality and the efficiency of the fleet whilst reducing carbon
emissions. The Company continues to participate in funding initiatives for electric vehicles. Climate change is
an identified risk and mitigations are in place to safeguard against climate related disruptions.

These mitigations and safeguards include rigorous health and safety programmes, regular training of colleagues,
collaborative working with industry partners and adaptation of workstreams as part of Go-Ahead’s Climate
Change Task Force.

Go-Ahead Group Limited and its subsidiaries (the Go- Ahead Group) aims to reduce emissions and adapt to
climate change, with a target of becoming a net-zero business by 2045. Go-Ahead’s climate change strategy is
published on its website at www.go-ahead.com.


Go North West Limited

Strategic Report (continued)

Risk management objectives and policies (Continued)

Financial risk management objectives and policies

The main risks associated with the Company’s financial assets and liabilities are set out below. Given that the
majority of the risks below derive from transactions with other Go-Ahead Group companies, the Company does
not undertake any hedging activity locally. Significant financial risks from a Go-Ahead Group perspective are
addressed on a case-by-case basis at The Go-Ahead Group Limited level.

Interest rate risk

All surplus cash is swept by Go-Ahead Group Limited (Go-Ahead) which is invested at a Group level. Interest is
charged at a variable rate plus margin on Company loans . Therefore financial assets, liabilities, interest income,
interest charges and cash flow can be affected by movements in interest rates. However, the exposure is reduced
because of Go-Ahead’s control.

Commodity price risk

There is no significant exposure to changes in the carrying value of financial liabilities because all of these bear
interest at floating rates. The Company is not exposed to commodity price risk as a result of fuel usage due to the
the majority of it’s operations being franchised, where the contracts provide a mechanism to remove the risk of
fluctuations in the price of diesel. From 24" March 2024, all of the Companies operations are protected in this
way.

Credit risk

The Company’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its financial assets, comprising trade and other receivables,
cash and cash equivalents and fuel hedge derivatives. The maximum credit risk exposure comprises amounts from
a number of unconnected parties.

The considerable majority of the Company’s receivables are with public (or quasi-public) bodies or sales are paid
as they arise and historically the annual cost of bad debts has been immaterial, so limited disclosures are therefore
provided. The trade receivables from such public bodies are not considered to present a significant credit risk,
which is supported by cash payment performance.

Smaller sundry individual trade receivables with third parties that have arisen are assessed as required for credit
loss and a provision accrued when considered appropriate. The Go-Ahead Group applies the IFRS 9 simplified
approach and measures the loss allowance on the lifetime expected credit losses at each reporting date. Expected
credit losses are assessed based on the number of days past due, the customer type, a judgement on credit risk,
consideration of macroeconomic forecasts, as well as past experience when relevant. Movement in the provisions
for the impairment of trade receivables are recorded within operating costs within the income statement.

Liquidity risk

The Company aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash generated by its operations in line with Go-Ahead
Group policies. A cash sweeping facility exists with The Go-Ahead Group Limited, and therefore further
information regarding the liquidity risk can be found in The Go-Ahead Group Limited financial statements. Capital
expenditure is approved at The Go-Ahead Group Limited level.

Foreign currency risk
The Company has no foreign currency risk, all of the transactions, assets and liabilities are in sterling.

Section 172(1) of the Companies Act 2006 Statement

This report sets out how the directors comply with the requirements of Section |72(1) of the Companies Act
2006 and how these requirements have impacted the Board’s decision-making throughout the |8-month period
ended 31 December 2023.

Go North West Limited

Strategic Report (Continued)

Section 172 statement (continued)

The likely consequences of any decision in the long term:

Principal board decisions are based on a consideration of, and seek to align with, the purpose and strategy set by
The Go-Ahead Group Limited’s investors, Kinetic TCo Pty Ltd (Kinetic) and Global Via Infraestsructuras SA
(Globalvia). for The Go-Ahead Group Limited (Go-Ahead) and its subsidiaries (together the Go-Ahead Group) as
a whole. Our key stakeholder groups are identified as most likely to be affected by the principa! decisions of the
Company and include our passengers, our people, our strategic partners and suppliers. our government, our
communities and Go-Ahead.

Views of stakeholders are include in Board papers and inform the principal decisions, the process for which
includes balancing competing interests, whether short or long term. The impact on each stakeholder group forms
an integral part of board debate, with adequate time provided in board meetings for such discussion and directors
having the opportunity to request clarification or further information from management.

Examples of principal decisions taken during the 18-month period were bidding for the Queens Road Large
Franchise in Tranche 2, bidding for all contracts in Tranche 3 and relocating the companies central office to the
Bolton depot.

The interests of the Company’s employees:
The Company has an experienced, diverse, and dedicated workforce which it recognises is fundamental to its
success, both in the short and long term.

Health, safety, and wellbeing of the workforce is a top priority for the directors and is promoted through the
Company’s engagement strategy. The Board uses a variety of methods to engage with the workforce such as
colleague engagement surveys, effective leadership and line management, communication through the Company
intranet, newsletters, forums and ad hoc meetings, colleague training programmes and workshops, performance
and development reviews, Board and senior management site visits and engagement with trade unions.
Additionally, business update presentations and regular forums keep employees informed and involved in
performance and aware of financial and economic factors affecting the Company.

The effect of this engagement creates a constructive, two-way dialogue, ensuring colleagues have a platform to
have their voices heard. It also helps maintain a highly engaged and motivated workforce ensuring colleagues
are developed through professional development and training

Customers and others
Positive business relationships with suppliers, customers, government and other key stakeholders underpin the

Company's delivery of services.

Passengers

Communication methods used during the period such as online communications, customer satisfaction surveys,
feedback, panels and focus groups and events identified priority areas for improvement to maintain our high
level of customer satisfaction and enabled us to respond quickly and effectively to meet changes in customers’
needs and preferences.

Our People
See “The interests of Company’s employces above”.

Strategic Partners and Suppliers

During the period. the Company engaged with strategic partners and suppliers through joint membership of
industry groups, collaborative working with partners. engagement groups. periodic surveys of current suppliers
and regular meetings.

Relations with suppliers are guided by Go-Ahead’s Sustainable Procurement Supply Chain Charter, particularly
in relation to dealings with smaller suppliers. which can be found in the sustainability section of Go-Ahead’s
website.

Go North West Limited

Strategic Report (Continued)

Section 172 statement (continued)

Government

Working closely with both central and local government enables us to contribute our private sector experience and
expertise to the public agenda and produce better policy outcomes and service delivery. Examples of engagement
during the period included ongoing engagement with government bodies and clients, such as Transport for Greater
Manchester, membership of the All Party Group on environment, participation in various expert working groups,
select committees and government consultations, engaging in policy discussions over key industry topics and
advising on delivery implementation, ongoing dialogue with local MPs and focal authorities, membership of the
Zemo Partnership, membership of International Association of Public Transport and partnering with campaign
groups such as Campaign for Better Transport.

The Go-Ahead Group Limited (Go-Ahead)

Quarterly Business Review Board meetings held during the period facilitated the opportunity to meet with the Go-
Ahead’s Group Executive Team ensuring the Company’s long-term strategy was aligned with the interests of the
Go-Ahead Group and the potential growth of the business was maximised. Detailed Board meeting papers also
provided updates relating to financial and non-financial performance and the position of the business. Additionally,
cross-business forums served to facilitate the sharing of knowledge, ideas and best practice.

Communities
See “The impact of the Company’s operations on the community and the environment” below.

The impact of the Company’s operations on the community and the environment:

As an operator of public transport, the Company aims to enhance the lives and wellbeing of every community
where it operates by providing them with vital transport services. Engagement with this key stakeholder group
helps us to understand their needs and how we can further contribute to the communities we serve from an
economic, social and environmental perspective.

Environmental! considerations are central to the strategy of the Go-Ahead Group, and therefore to the Company.
The Go-Ahead Group has committed to reduce carbon emissions by 75% by 2035, and consolidating zero
emissions capabilities is one of five key enablers underpinning the Group’s strategic priorities. Further information
on the Go-Ahead Group’s approach to environmental considerations can be found in its Annual Report & Accounts
2023.

The desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct:

The directors acknowledge their responsibility for setting and monitoring the Company’s culture, values and
reputation. Management drives the embedding of the desired culture through the organisation and the Board
monitors adherence to our policies and compliance with local corporate governance requirements across the
Company to ensure that high standards of business conduct are upheld. This is undertaken in line with Go-
Ahead’s purpose and values and the Go-Ahead Code of Conduct which sets out what is expected from
colleagues and stakeholders to ensure they protect themselves as well as the Go-Ahead Group’s reputation and
assets.

The need to act fairly as between members of the Company:

The Company’s immediate parent and controlling party is Go-Ahead Holding Limited which in turn is owned by
The Go-Ahead Group Limited (Go-Ahead). The ultimate parent company and controlling party of Go-Ahead
Holding Limited and Go-Ahead, and therefore the Company is Go-Ahead Investment Topco Limited,
(previously Gerrard Investment Topco Limited) (Topco) which is indirectly owned by Kinetic TCo Pty Ltd
(Kinetic) (51%) and Global Via Infraestsructuras SA (Globalvia)(49%).

The Go-Ahead Group is structured around a devolved operating model and the Company is managed by its
board of directors as a standalone business unit.

The strategic report was approved by the Board of directors on 25 September 2024 and signed on their behalf by:

Chris Seddon
Director

Go North West Limited

Directors’ report

The directors present their annual report together with the financial statements and auditor's report for the 18-
month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023.

On 10 October 2022, The Go-Ahead Group plc (the ultimate parent company and controlling party of Go North
West Limited (the Company) up to this date) was acquired by Go-Ahead Investment Bidco Limited (previously
Gerrard Investment Bidco Limited) (Bidco) and re-registered as The Go-Ahead Group Limited on 13 October
2022. Bidco is wholly owned by Go-Ahead Investment Topco Limited (previously Gerrard Investment Topco
Limited) (Topco), which is in turn indirectly owned by Kinetic TCo Pty Ltd (“Kinetic”) and Global Via
Infraestsructuras SA. (“Globalvia”).

At 31 December 2023, the Company was a member of the group of companies consisting of Topco and its
subsidiaries (the “Group”)

The Company has chosen in accordance with section 414C(11) of the Companies Act 2006 to set out in the
Company’s strategic report the following which the directors believe to be of strategic importance:

« Future developments

« Financial risk management objectives and policies

« Engagement with employees

* Engagement with suppliers, customers and others in a business relationship with the Company

Dividends
Total dividends paid and proposed in the year were £nil (year ended 2 July 2022: £nil). The directors do not
recommend a final ordinary dividend for the year.

Directors
‘The directors who served the Company during the year, and up to the date of approval of the financial statements,
were as follows:

N P Featham

J L Croxford

MR Dean

C Seddon (appointed 4 October 2022)
M Walsh (appointed 16 October 2023)

Management and staff
The average number of employees increased by 153 to 682 in the 18-month period ended 31 December 2023.

Employees are encouraged to discuss with management matters of interest to the employees and discussions take
place regularly with trade unions on a wide range of issues.

It is the Company’s policy to give full consideration to suitable applications for employment by disabled persons.
Disabled employees are eligible to participate in all career development opportunities available to staff.
Opportunities also exist for employees who become disabled to continue in their employment or to be trained for
other position in the Company.

Details of how the directors have engaged with employees and other stakeholders, had regard to their interests and
the effect of that regard, including on principal decisions made by the directors, are set out in the Section 172(1)
Statement on pages 4 - 6.

Going Concern

The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which assumes that the Company will
continue in operational existence for at least twelve months from the date of approval of these financial statements
and meet its liabilities as they fall due.

The Company has net assets of £408,000 (2022:Net liabilities of £2,292,000) and net current liabilities of
£54,232,000 (2022: £11,147,000) including amounts owed to Group undertakings of £47,783,000 (2022:
£11,150,000).


Go North West Limited

Directors’ report (continued)

Going Concern (continued)

Net assets excluding amounts owed to Group undertakings described above is £48,191,000 (2022: £8,858,000) and
net current liabilities excluding amounts owed to Group undertakings is £6,449,000 (2022:Net current assets of
£3,000).

The Company’s ultimate parent is Go-Ahead Investment Topco Limited, (previously Gerrard Investment Topco
Limited) (Topco) (as disclosed in note 21).

The Company has received a parent company guarantee from Topco, under which the parent company commits to
providing financial support if necessary, ensuring that sufficient funds will be made available to settle liabilities
and meet the Company’s obligations as they fall due.

The liquidity of the Group has been assessed and shown to be significant such that there are no material concerns
that such financial support will not be available. Furthermore, the Directors of the Group have prepared financial
forecasts which show that the Group will have sufficient financial resources available for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the directors are confident that the Company will have sufficient funds to continue to meet its
liabilities as they fall due for at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements and therefore
have prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis.

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting

As a subsidiary of The Go-Ahead Group Limited (Go-Ahead), the Company’s energy and carbon results have
been included in Go-Ahead’s consolidated report. As a result, the Company has chosen not to present an individual
energy and carbon report within these financial statements. Please refer to The Go-Ahead Group Limited 2023
Annual Report and Financial Statements for further details, on pages 21-24.

Stakeholder interests

A summary of how the directors have had regard to the need to foster the Company’s business relationships with
suppliers, customers and others, and the effect of that regard, including on the principal decisions taken by the
Company during the financial period, is set out in the $172 (1) statement on pages 4-6.

Directors’ indemnities

Prior to the acquisition of The Go-Ahead Group Limited (Go-Ahead) by Go-Ahead Investment Bidco Limited
(previously Gerrard Investment Bidco Limited) (Bidco) on 10 October 2022, Go-Ahead maintained directors’ and
officers’ liability insurance for both Go-Ahead and its subsidiaries, which gave appropriate cover for any legal
action brought against their directors (the “Policy”). From 10 October 2022, the Policy cover transferred from Go-
Ahead to Bidco’s ultimate parent company, Go-Ahead Investment Topco Limited (previously Gerrard Investment
Topco Limited) and remains in place. The Policy does not provide cover in the event that a director is proven to
have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.

No qualifying third-party indemnity provisions (as defined in Section 234 of the Act) were in force during the 18-
month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023 and the date of this Report.

Events after the balance sheet date
See note 22 for information on significant events requiring disclosure occurring after the balance sheet date, up to
the date of approval of these financial statements.

Registered office: Approved by the Board and signed on their behalf:
3rd Floor .
41 - 51 Grey Street ote
Newcastle upon Tyne fe 4 4 t \
NE1 6EE , Sea i a
United Kingdom oe
C Seddon
Director

25 September 2024

Go North West Limited

Directors’ responsibilities statement

The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), including FRS 101 “Reduced
Disclosure Framework”, Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of
the Company for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:

select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent.

e state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

¢ prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included
on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Go North West Limited

Income statement
For the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

Revenue
Operating costs

Operating profit pre exceptional items
Exceptional items

Profit before taxation
Tax charge

Profit for the period/year from continuing activities

Statement of comprehensive income
for the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

Profit for the period/year from continuing operations
Other comprehensive income

tems that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss
Unrealised gains on cashflow hedges

Tax relating to items that may be reclassified

Other comprehensive income for the period/year, net of tax

Total comprehensive income for the period/year

10

Period ended

31 December Year ended 2
2023 July 2022

Notes £°000 £°000
3 72,958 30,106
4 (69,498) (29,670)
"3460 436
8 (30) -
3,430 2~—~*”:*«C8G
9 (717) (138)
2713298

Period ended

31 December Year ended 2

2023 July 2022

£°000 £7000

2,713 298

- 5

. q)

- 4

2,713 302


Go North West Limited

Statement of changes in equity
for the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

At3 July 2021 -

Profit for the year
Net movement on hedges, net of tax -

Profit and total comprehensive income for the year / -

Share based payments -

11

At2 July 2022 -

Profit for the period

Profit and total comprehensive income for the period -

Share based payments

Share capital Hedging Retained Total equity
reserve earnings

£'000 £'000 £000 £000

(4) (2,598) (2,602)

- : 298 298

4 - 4

4 298 302

- 8 8

_ (2,292) (2,292)

- - 2,713 2.713

- 2,713 2,713

- - (ly (14)

- (2,699) (2,699)

At31 December 2023 -


Go North West Limited

Balance sheet
for the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

Notes

Assets

Non-current assets
Intangible assets

Tangible assets

Deferred tax assets

Trade and other receivables

Current assets

Inventories

Trade and other receivables
Cash at bank

Total assets

Liabilities

Current liabilities

Trade and other payables
Current tax liabilities
Derivative financial liabilities

Net current liabilities

Total assets less current liabilities

Non-current liabilities
Provisions

Total liabilities

Net assets/(liabilities)

Capital and reserves
Share capital
Hedging reserve
Retained earnings

Total equity

12

Registered no: 08205871

Period ended
31 December
2023

£'000

s
10 786
It 10,924

9 889
13 43,449

56,048

12 960
13 17,260
392

18,612
74,660

14 (71,506)
9 (1,338)
20 -

(72,844)

(34,232)
1,816

15 (1,408)
(1,408)
(74,252)

408

18 -

408
408

Year ended 2
July 2022
£'000

80
8,738
440

9,258
144

3,523
91

5,758
15,016

(16,223)
(682)

(16,905)

(11,147)
(1,889)

(403)
(403)
(17,308)

_@.29)

2.292)
(2,292)

For the 18-month period ended 31 December 2023, the Company was entitled to exemption from audit under

section 479A of the Companies Act 2006 relating to subsidiary companies.

e The members have not required the Company to obtain an audit of its Financial Statements for the 18-
month financial period ended 31 December 2023 in accordance with section 476 of the Companies Act

2006.

e The Directors acknowledge their responsibilities for complying with the requirements of the Companies
Act 2006 with respect to accounting records and the preparation of the Financial Statements.

Go North West Limited

The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors, authorised for issue and signed on their
behalf by:

o sq!

C Seddon
Director
25 September 2024

13

14
Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements
for the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

1. Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with FRS 101

2.1

The financial statements of Go North West Limited (the “Company”) for the 18-month period of accounts ended
31 December 2023 were authorised for issue by the board of directors on 25 September 2024 and the balance sheet
was signed on the board’s behalf by C Seddon. The Company is a private Company limited by shares incorporated
in the United Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 and is registered in England and Wales. The address of
the Company’s registered office is shown on page 1.

The financial period reported was greater than 12 months due to the acquisition of The Go-Ahead Group Limited
and its subsidiaries, and therefore the amounts presented in the financial statements are not entirely comparable.

These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced
Disclosure Framework (FRS 101).

The principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out in note 2.

Accounting policies

Basis of preparation

In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement, and disclosure
requirements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” and
Companies Act 2006 but makes amendments where necessary in order to comply with the Companies Act 2006
and has set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has been taken.

The Company has taken advantage of the exemption provided under section 400 of the Companies Act 2006 from
the requirement to prepare consolidated financial statements as the Company’s ultimate parent undertaking, Go-
Ahead Investment Topco Limited (previously Gerrard Investment Topco Limited) (Topco), includes the Company
in its consolidated financial statements. The Company’s results are also included in the consolidated financial
statements of The Go-Ahead Granp Limited, an intermediate parent undertaking of the Company. The
consolidated financial statements of both Topco and The Go-Ahead Group Limited are prepared in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards and are available to the public and may be obtained from
Companies House, Cardiff.

The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, as modified by the fair value of financial
instruments. The presentation and functional currency used is sterling and amounts have been rounded to the
nearest thousand and presented as such (£’000) except where otherwise specified.

In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the
following disclosures:

e The requirements of paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, provided that for a
qualifying entity that is:
(i) a subsidiary, the share-based payment arrangement concerns equity instruments of another
group entity;
(ii) an ultimate parent, the share-based payment arrangement concerns its own equity instruments

and its separate financial statements are presented alongside the consolidated financial
statements of the group;

and, in both cases, provided that equivalent disclosures are included in the
* consolidated financial statements of the group in which the entity is consolidated.

e The requirements of paragraphs 62, B64(d), B64(e), B64(g), B64(h), B64(j) to B64(m), B64(n)(ii),
B64(0)(ii), B64(p), B64(q)(ii), B66 and B67 of IFRS 3 Business Combinations provided that equivalent
disclosures are included in the consolidated financial statements of the group in which the entity is
consolidated.

© The requirements of paragraph 33(c) of IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued
Operations.

15

Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements
for the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting Policies (Continued)

2.1 Basis Preparation (Continued)

The requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, provided that equivalent disclosures are
included in the consolidated financial statements of the group in which the entity is consolidated.

The requirements of paragraphs 91} to 99 of IFRS 13, provided that equivalent disclosures are included in
the consolidated financial statements of the group in which the entity is consolidated.

The requirements of the second sentence of paragraph | 10 and paragraphs 113(a), 114, 115, 118, 119¢a)}
to (c), 120 to 127 and 129 of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers.

The requirements of paragraph 52, the second sentence of paragraph 89, and paragraphs 90, 91 and 93 of
IFRS 16 Leases.

The requirements of paragraph 58 of IFRS 16, provided that the disclosure of details of indebtedness
required by paragraph 61(1) of Schedule | to the Regulations is presented separately for lease liabilities
and other liabilities, and in total.

The requirement in paragraph 38 of LAS | to present comparative information in respect of:
(i) paragraph 79(a){iv) of IAS 1;
(ii) paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment;
(iii) paragraph 1 1 8(e) of IAS 38 Intangible Assets;
(iv) paragraphs 76 and 79(d) of IAS 40 Investment Property; and
{v) paragraph 50 of IAS 41 Agriculture.

The requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38A, 38B, 38C, 38D, 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D, [11 and 134
to 136 of IAS 1.

The requirements of JAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows.

The requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting
Estimates and Errors.

The requirements of paragraph 74A(b) of IAS 16.
The requirements of paragraphs 17 and 18A of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures.

The requirements in 1AS 24 to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more
members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by
such a member.

The requirements of paragraphs 130(f)(ii). 130(fCiit), 134(d) to 134( and 135(c) to 135(e) of IAS 36
Impairment of Assets, provided that equivalent disclosures are included in the consolidated financial
statements of the group in which the entity is consolidated.

The Company has not applied the following standard issued by the {nternational Accounting Standards Board
(IASB) with an effective date after the date of these financial statements:

IFRS 17/1AS 7 Amendments regarding supplier finance arrangements
IFRS S! General Requirements for Disclosure of Sustainability-related Financial Information
IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures

IFRS 16 Amendments to clarify how a seller-lessee subsequently measures sale and leaseback
transactions

IAS 1 Amendments regarding the classification of liabilities
IAS 1 Amendment to defer the effective date of the January 2020 amendments

IAS | Amendments regarding the classification of debt with covenants

2.2

16
Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements
for the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting Policies
2.1 Basis Preparation (Continued)

The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods
presented in these financial statements.

New standards

The following new standards or interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the financial period ended 31
December 2023:

« Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and IFRS Practice Statement 2 Making
Materiality Judgements—Disclosure of Accounting Policies

e IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts (including the June 2020 and December 2021 Amendments to IFRS 17)

e Amendments to IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors-—Definition of
Accounting Estimates

« Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes—Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a
Single Transaction

e Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes—International Tax Reform—Pillar Two Model Rules

Adoption of the standards and interpretations had no material impact on the Company’s financial position or
related performance.

Critica] accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions about the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may differ ftom these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates
are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period
of the revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods. Although these judgements
and estimates are based on management’s best knowledge, actual results ultimately may differ from
these estimates.

Critical judgements in applying the Company’s accounting policies

The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations (as detailed below), that the
directors have made in the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies and that have the most
significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements:

Exceptional operating items

In certain years the Company presents as exceptional operating items on the face of the income statement material
items of revenue or expense which, because of the size or the nature and expected infrequency of the events giving
rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow better understanding of financial performance. The determination
of whether items merit treatment as exceptional in a particular year is therefore a matter of judgement.

Key sources of estimation uncertainty
In the director’s view, there are no key sources of estimation uncertainty that could have a significant risk of
causing material adjustments to the carrying value of assets and liabilities within the next financial year

17
Go North West Limited
Notes to the financial statements
for the 18- month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.3 Significant accounting policies

Going concern

The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis which assumes that the Company will
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and meet its liabilities as they fall due.

Further detailed information is provided in the going concern statement in the directors’ report and is therefore not
replicated here.

Revenue recognition

The revenue of the Company mainly comprises income from road passenger transport. Revenue is recognised on
satisfaction of performance obligations which are generally clear. Revenue is measured based on the fair value
of the consideration reccived or receivable (excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and other sales taxes or duty) to
which the Company expects to be entitled to and excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties.

An explanation of the main revenue streams is set out below:

Passenger revenue

Passenger revenue mainly relates to revenue from ticket sales. Passenger revenue mainly consists of commercial
and concessionary revenue. Commercial passenger revenue relates to ticket sales for travel on the Company’s
transport services and is recognised in the period in which the travel occurs. Season tickets and travel cards enable
passengers to use travel services over a period of time. Management assess the revenue recognised in the period
and future revenue is deferred, within liabilities, and subsequently recognised in the income statement within the
applicable accounting period.

Concessionary revenue is received from public bodies, such as local authorities, with a performance obligation
to transport certain eligible passengers free of charge. Revenue is recognised in the period of travel and the
transaction price varies between agreements and can include areas of estimation. Revenue is only recognised
when the amount can be measured reliably and it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of
cumulative revenue wil] not occur.

Contract revenue
Revenue generated from services provided on behalf of local transport authorities is also recognised as income in
the period to which it relates.

Other revenue

Other revenue mainly relates to revenue received for advertising on the sides of rolling stock and revenue received
from the local authority for the carriage of tram passengers for free when the tram operation fails. Other revenue
is recognised in the period to which it relates.

Revenue in relation to the Bus Recovery Grant (BRG) has been recognised within other revenue and is recognised
in the period in which the operational revenue and costs it is supporting relate to. BRG is based upon mileage
operated and a portion of the overall funding based on the operating company. The Group has recognised revenue
where the amount can be measured reliably, and it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of
cumulative revenue will not occur. Judgement is applied in determining whether some amounts are allowable in
applying the terms of the scheme.

Interest receivable and similar income
Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest
rate applicable.

18
Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.3 Significant accounting policies (continued)

Fixed assets and depreciation
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation.

Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets, at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual
value based on prices prevailing at the date of acquisition of each asset evenly over its expected useful life, as

follows:

Freehold land - Not depreciated
Buildings - 35 years

Plant & equipment -  5to 10 years
Rolling stock - 8 to 15 years

The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in circumstances
indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.

Inventories

Inventories of fuel and engineering spares are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due
allowance for obsolete and slow moving items. Cost comprises direct materials and costs incurred in bringing the
items to their present location and condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less costs
of sale. Inventory is calculated using the first in first out method (FIFO).

Taxation

Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation
authorities on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or
the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance
sheet date.

Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between
the tax base of assets and liabilities for taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. It
is provided for on all temporary differences.

Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will be
reversed in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred income
tax asset to be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part
of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.

Tax relating to items recognised outside the tncome Statement is recognised in other comprehensive income or
directly in equity in correlation with the underlying transaction. Otherwise, tax is recognised in the Income
Statement.

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past
events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate
of the amount can be made. If the effect is material, expected future cash flows are discounted using a current pre-
tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.

Where the Company expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a
separate asset but only when recovery is virtually certain. The expense relating to any provision is presented in the
income statement net of any reimbursement. Where discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to
unwinding the discount is recognised as a finance cost.

19
Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)
2.3 Significant accounting policies (continued)

Uninsured liabilities

The Company limits its exposure to the cost of motor, employer and public liability claims through insurance
policies issued by third parties. These provide individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits and an annual
aggregate stop loss for total claims within the excess limits. An amount is recognised within Provisions for
liabilities for the estimated cost to the Company to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet
date, subject to the overall stop loss.

The estimation of this liability is made after taking appropriate professional advice and is based on an assessment
of the expected settlement of known claims, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect
of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but that have not yet been reported to the Company by the
insurer.

Provisions are accounted for on a gross basis with a separate reimbursement asset recognised for amounts
recoverable from insurance providers.

Government grants

Government grants are recognised at their fair value where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be
received and all attaching conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to an expense item, it is
recognised in operating costs within the income statement over the period necessary to match on a systematic basis
to the costs that it is intended to compensate. Where the grant relates to a non-current asset, value is credited to a
deferred income account and is released to the income statement over the expected useful life of the relevant asset.

Pensions

The Company is a member of the Go-Ahead Group Pension Scheme operated by The Go-Ahead Group Ltd for
the majority of its employees. The scheme is split into two sections, a defined benefit and a defined contributions
section. The defined benefit section is closed to future accrual and therefore no contributions are paid by the
Company. The assets and liabilities for the defined benefit section are all held by The Go-Ahead Group Ltd.

For the defined contribution scheme, the amount charged to the income statement in respect of pension costs and
other post-retirement benefits is the contributions payable in the year. Differences between contributions payable
in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either accruals or prepayments in the balance sheet.

Intangible assets

Intangible assets are capitalised at cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of
five years. The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment at the end of the first full year
following acquisition and in other years if events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not
be recoverable.

Impairment of assets

The Company assesses at each reporting date whether there is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any
such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required, the Company makes an estimate
of the asset’s recoverable amount, being the higher of the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s fair value less costs to
sell and its value in use. Value in use is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash
inflows that are largely independent of those from other assets or groups of assets, and the estimated future
cashflows are discounted te their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.

Where the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered to be impaired and
is written down to its recoverable amount.

20
Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.3 Significant accounting policies (continued)

Impairment of assets (continued)

Impairment losses of continuing operations are recognised in the income statement in those expense categories
consistent with the function of the impaired asset. An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether
there is any indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed
only if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last
impairment loss was recognised. Goodwill impairment losses are not reversed. The reinstated amount cannot
exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no impairment loss been
recognised for the asset in prior years. After such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future periods
to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, on a systematic basis less any residual value, over its remaining
useful life.

Financial instruments
Financial assets

The Company’s financial assets are initially recognised at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case
of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or loss in the income statement, directly attributable
transaction costs. Financial assets are subsequently classified as being measured at amortised cost, fair value
through other comprehensive income, or fair value through the income statement.

The Company’s financial assets at amortised cost are non-derivative financial assets held for collection of
contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest. Financial
assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the effective interest method and are subject to
impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised, modified
or impaired.

The Company does not have any financial assets held at fair value through the income statement.
The Company does not have any financial assets held at fair value through other comprehensive income.

The Company uses an impairment model with impairment provisions based on expected credit losses rather than
incurred credit losses. The Company applies the IFRS 15 simplified approach and measures the loss allowance
on the lifetime expected credit losses at each reporting date.

Financial liabilities

The Company’s financial liabilities include trade payables, accruals and derivative financial instruments. At
initial recognition, the Company measures financial liabilities at fair value plus, in the case of a financial liability
not at fair value through the income statement, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the
financial liability.

With the exception of derivative financial instruments, all other financial liabilities are subsequently measured
on an amortised costs basis. The Company derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the
Company’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or have expired. The difference between the carrying amount
of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid and payable is recognised in the income
statement When the Company exchanges with the existing lender one debt instrument into another one with the
substantially different terms, such exchange is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial
Jiability and the recognition of a new financial liability. Similarly, the Company accounts for substantial
modification of terms of an existing liability or part of it as an extinguishment of the original financial liability
and the recognition of a new liability. It is assumed that the terms are substantially different if the discounted
present value of the cash flows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees received and
discounted using the original effective rate is at least 10 per cent different from the discounted present value of
the remaining cash flows of the original financial liability.

21
Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)
2.3. Significant accounting policies (continued)

Financial instruments (continued)
Financial liabilities (continued)

If the modification is not substantial, the difference between: (1) the carrying amount of the liability before the
modification; and (2) the present value of the cash flows after modification should be recognised in profit or loss
as the modification gain or loss within other gains and losses.

Derivative financial instruments

Previously, the Company used derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel price fluctuations, however, this
is now carried out at Group level only. Such derivatives are initially recognised at fair value by reference to
market values for similar instruments, and subsequently remeasured at fair value at each balance sheet date.

At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Company documents the relationship between the hedging
instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking
various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Company
documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cashflows of
the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk, which is when the hedging relationships meet all of the following
hedge effectiveness requirements:

« There is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument
The effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes that result from that economic relationship
The hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is the same as that resulting from the quantity of the hedged
item that the Company actually hedges and the quantity of the hedging instrument that the Company
actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged item

If a hedging relationship ceases to meet the hedge effectiveness requirement relating to the hedge ratio but the
risk management objective for that designated hedging relationship remains the same, the Company adjusts the
hedge ratio of the hedging relationship (i.e. rebalances the hedge) so that it meets the qualifying criteria again.

Loans and receivables

Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in
an active market are classified as ‘loans and receivables’. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost
using the effective interest method, less any impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying the effective
interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.

Share-based payment transactions
Prior to the acquisition of The Go-Ahead Group Limited (previously The Go-Ahead Group ple) (Go-Ahead) on
10 October 2022, Go-Ahead operated both a share incentive plan and a deferred share bonus plan.

The cost of options granted to employees was measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they
were granted, determined by an external valuation using an appropriate pricing model. In granting equity-settled
options, conditions were linked to some or all of the following: the price of the shares of Go-Ahead (market
conditions), conditions not related to performance or service (non-vesting conditions); performance conditions (a
vesting condition); and service conditions (a vesting condition).

The cost of options was recognised in the income statement of the Company over the period from grant to vesting
date, being the date on which the relevant employees became fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding
increase in equity. The cumulative expense recognised at each reporting date reflected the extent to which the
period to vesting had expired and the directors’ best estimate of the number of options that would ultimately vest
or, in the case of an instrument subject to a market or non-vesting condition, were treated as vesting as described
above. This included any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of Go-Ahead or the employee
were not met. When the shares vested, they were purchased from the market by Go-Ahead and recharged to the
Company through an inter-company account.

2.3

22
Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

Accounting policies
Significant accounting policies (continued)

Share-based payment transactions (continued)

No cost was recognised for awards that did not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting was conditional
upon a market or non-vesting condition. These were treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market
or non-vesting condition was satisfied, provided that all other performance and/or service conditions were
satisfied. Where an equity-settled award was cancelled, it was treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation,
and any cost not yet recognised for the award was recognised immediately.

Operating lease agreements
Rentals payable under operating leases are charged in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease
term.

Leases

At inception of a contract, the Company shall assess whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or
contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in
exchange for consideration.

Short term and low value asset leases

The Company has elected not to recognise right of use assets, lease liabilities for short term leases that have a lease
term of less than 12 months, and leases of low value assets. Lease payments relating to short term leases and leases
of low value assets are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Certain items of rolling stock purchased from other operators, through the Franchise Agreement’s Residual Value
scheme, are accounted for under IFRIC 12, partly as a result of being obliged to sell these to the next operator at
the end of the relevant contracts. The residual value guaranteed by the Franchise Agreement at any point during
Company’s contracts are recognised as a receivable on the consolidated balance sheet and is amortised to the
income statement as the value of the guarantee decreases over time.

23
Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

3. Revenue

Revenue recognised in the Income Statement is analysed by class of business as follows:
Period ended 31 Year ended 2

December 2023 July 2022

£'000 £°000
Passenger revenue 50,051 22,972
Contract revenue 21,933 2,408
Government Grants - 4,139
Other revenue 974 587
72,958 30,106
4. Operating costs
Period ended

31 December Year ended 2
2023 July 2022

£°000 £000
Materials and external charges 21,567 8,843
Staff costs 43,275 18,546
Depreciation of owned tangible fixed assets 3,545 2,240
Amortisation of owned intangible fixed assets (note 10) 106 41
Amortisation of trade receivables (note 13) 1,005 -
69,498 29,670
5. Operating Profit
This is stated after charging:
Period ended

31 December Year ended 2
2023 July 2022

£000 £°000
Depreciation of owned tangible fixed assets 3.545 2,239
Amortisation of owned intangible fixed assets (note 10) 106 41
Amortisation of trade receivables (note 13) 1,005 -
6. Staff costs
Period ended
31 December Year ended 2
2023 July 2022
£'000 £°000
Wages and salaries 38,390 16,462
Social security costs 3,375 1,554
Other pension costs 1,510 518
- 12

Share based payments
43,275 18,546


Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

Staff costs (continued)

The monthly average number of employees during the year was as follows:
Period ended

31 December
2023
No.

Administration and supervision 15
Maintenance and engineering, 98
Operations 569

Directors’ emoluments

Period ended
31 December
2023
£'000

Aggregate emoluments in respect of qualifying services 1,109

Aggregate of Company contributions paid in respect of money purchase schemes 56

Period ended
31 December
2023

No.

Number of directors remunerated 4

Period ended
31 December
2023

No.

Number of directors accruing benefits under defined benefit schemes

Number of directors accruing benefits under money purchase schemes 4

Number of directors who exercised share options

24

Year ended 2
July 2022
No.

12
16
441

529

Year ended 2
July 2022
£000

492

12

Year ended 2
July 2022
No.

3

Year ended 2
July 2022
No.

During the period, one director was a statutory director across all UK regional bus subsidiaries of The Go-Ahead
Group Limited (Go-Ahead) and was remunerated by Go-Ahead rather than the Company. [t is not practical to
allocate his remuneration between his services as director of each Go-Ahead UK regional bus subsidiary.

Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

Exceptional items

Takeover legal and professional! fees.

18-month period ended 31 December 2023

Takeover legal and professional fees

Period ended
31 December
2023
£7000

30

25

Year ended 2
July 2022
£'000

On 10 October 2022, the Go-Ahead Group was acquired by Go-Ahead Investment Bidco Limited, (previously
Gerrard Investment Bidco Limited) (Bidco) a newly formed company wholly owned by Go-Ahead Investment
Topco Limited (previously Gerrard Investment Topco Limited) (the Acquisition). Costs incurred by the
Company in the period ended 31 December 2023 in relation to this totalled £30,000 and have been recognised as

exceptional given that they are expected to be one-off in nature.
Year ended 2 July 2022

There were no exceptional items recognised during this year.

Go North West Limited
Notes to the financial statements (continued)

for the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023
Taxation

(a) Tax recognised in the income statement
The tax charge is made up as follows:

Period ended
31 December
2023
£7000
Current tax:
UK corporation tax 85!
Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 316
Total current tax 1,167
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of timing differences (100)
Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous years (336)
Effect of rate change on opening deferred tax balance (14)
Total deferred tax (note 9e) (450)
Tax reported in the income statement (note 9(c)) TN7
(b) Income tax recognised in other comprehensive income
Period ended
31 December
2023
£°000

Tax relating to items that may be reclassified

Total tax recognised in other comprehensive income -

(©) Reconciliation

26

Year ended 2
July 2022
£°000

Year ended 2

A reconciliation of income tax applicable to accounting profit before tax at the statutory tax rates for period ended

31 December 2023 and the year ended 2 July 2022 is as follows:

The tax assessed on the profit for the financial period is the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. The
standard rate of corporation tax for the period ended 31 December 2023 was 22% (year ended 2 July 2022: 19%).

Period ended

3/1 December Year ended 2

2023 July 2022

£°000 £°000

Profit before taxation 3,430 436
Tax at UK corporation tax rate of 22% (year ended 2 July 2022: 19%) 755 83
Expenses not deductible for Tax purposes 3 4
Adjustment in respect of deferred tax of previous periods (336) (65)
Difference between deferred and corporation tax rates (7) (GB)
Adjustments in respect of current tax of previous years 316 89
Effect of rate change on opening deferred tax balance (14) 30
138

Tax reported in income statement (note 9(a)) 77

Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

for the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December

Taxation (continued)
(ad) ‘Current tax assets and liabilities

2023

27

Period ended
31 December Year ended 2
2023 July 2022
£°000 £°000
Current tax liability at start of the period (682) (218)
Current tax paid/(received) in the period S11 (279)
Corporation tax reported in income statement (note 9(a)) (1.167) (185)
Current tax liability at end of the period (1,338) (682)
(e) Deferred tax assets and liabilities
The deferred tax included in the balance sheet is as follows:
Period ended
31 December Year ended 2
2023 July 2022
£'000 £'000
Deferred tax asset
Accelerated capital allowances 557 440
Other temporary differences 332 -
Deferred tax asset 889 440
The movements in deferred tax in the income statement and in equity are as follows:
Recognised Recognised
3 July 2021 in income in equity 2 July 2022
£'000 £'000 £°000 £'000
Accelerated capital allowances 394 46 - 440
On cash flow hedges i - (1) -
395 46 qd) 440
Recognised Recognised 31 December
2 July 2022 in income in equity 2023
£'000 £000 £'000 £000
Accelerated capital allowances 440 117 - 557
Other temporary differences - 332 - 332
On cash flow hedges - - - -
Accelerated capital allowances 440 449 - 889

The deferred tax asset is recognised as it is considered probable that there will be future taxable profits available.

Factors affecting future tax charges

(o)

The standard rate of UK corporation tax is 22% and therefore 22% applies to the current tax charge arising
during the period ended 31 December 2023. Legislation within the Finance Bill 2020 advised a UK corporation
tax rate of 19.0% from 1 April 2020 and this rate was applied, where applicable, to the Company’s deferred tax
balance at the prior year end. Legislation substantively enacted in the Finance Bill 2021 amended this rate to
25.0% with effect from April 2022 and therefore 25.0% has been applied, where applicable, to the Company's

deferred tax balance as at the balance sheet date for balances arising after this date.

10.

11,

Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

for the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

Intangible assets

Cost:

At 2 July 2022
Additions
Disposals

At 31 December 2023

Depreciation:

At 2 July 2022

Provided during the period
Disposals

At 31 December 2023

Net book value:
At 31 December 2023

At 2 July 2022

Software licenses

Software Franchise
licences setup costs Total
£000 £'000 £'000
207 - 207
- 812 812
207 812 1,019
127 - 127
62 44 106
189 44 233
18 768 786
80 - 80

28

Software licenses are amortised over the expected useful life of five years, dependent on the period of the licence
acquired. These costs are included within the operating costs line of the income statement.

Franchise setup costs

Franchise setup costs are amortised over the life of the franchise contact they relate to. These costs are included

within the operating costs line of the income statement.

Property, plant, and equipment

Cost:

At 2 July 2022
Additions
Disposals

At 31 December 2023

Depreciation:

At 2 July 2022

Provided during the period
Disposals

At 31 December 2023

Net book value:
At 31 December 2023

At 2 July 2022

Details of capital commitments are detailed in note 19.

Plant &
Buildings equipment Rolling stock Total
£'000 £°000 £°000 £°000
575 1,194 12,603 14,372
63 813 5,596 6,472
(596) (253) (159) (1,008)
42 1,754 18,040 19,836
li 523 5,100 5,634
35 315 3,195 3,545
(37) 71) (159) (267)
9 167 8,136 8,912
33 987 9,904 10,924
564 671 7,503 8,738


12.

13.

29
Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

Inventories
Period ended
31 December Year ended 2
2023 July 2022
£'000 £'000
Raw materials and consumables 960 144

The amount of any write down of inventories recognised as an expense during the period is £nil (year ended 2 July
2022: £nil).

Trade and other receivables

Period ended
31 December Year ended 2
2023 July 2022

£°000 £°000
Amounts due within one year
Trade receivables 924 512
Other receivables 5,955 2,776
Accrued income 649 109
Other taxation and social security 9,178 366
Prepayments 231 159
Amounts receivable from central government 323 1,601

17,260 5,523

During the financial period £nil (year ended 2 July 2022: £nil) was recognised in respect of impairment losses
arising from contracts with customers.

The credit risk associated with the Company’s trade and other receivables is explained in the Strategic Report.

Period ended
31 December Year ended 2
2023 July 2022

£000 £ ‘000!
Contract assets* 649 1,710

*Contract assets is comprised of accrued income which principally relates to contracts with customers. This is
billed on a regular basis and is reclassified to trade receivables at the point at which it is billed.

Non-current trade and other receivables

Period ended
31 December Year ended 2
2023 July 2022

£000 £000
Other receivables* 43,449 -

* This balance relates to a receivable from Transport for Greater Manchester (TfGM) in respect of a residual
value guarantee for buses used in fulfilling the Company's franchise agreements. The receivable amortises over
the life of the franchise agreements down to the expected residual value of the buses at that time with an
amortisation expense of £1,005,000 recognised in the period (2022: £nil).

14.

15.

30
Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

Trade and other payables
Period ended
31 December Year ended 2
2023 July 2022

£'000 £'000
Trade payables 16,024 3,110
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 47,783 11,150
Other taxation and social security 1,235 491
Other payables 2,464 301
Accruals 2,895 1,169
Deferred income 1,105 2
71,506 16,223

Amounts owed to Group undertakings are repayable on demand and non-interest bearing.

Period ended

31 December Year ended 2
2023 duly 2022

£°000 £'000

Contract liabilities* - 2

*Contract liabilities is comprised of deferred income which principally relates to contracts with customers.
These contract liabilities at each balance sheet date are expected to be recognised as revenue within the next
financial year.

Provisions
Period ended
31 December Year ended 2
2023 July 2022
£°000 £000
Uninsured claims provision: 403 335
At beginning of period/year (103) (27)
Provision utilised (265) (15)
Provision adjustment 1,373 110
At end of period/year 1,408 ~ 403

Uninsured claims represent the cost to the Company to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance
sheet date based on an assessment of the expected settlement, together with an estimate of settlements that will be
made in respect of incidents that have not yet been reported to the Company by the insurer, subject to the overall
stop loss. It is estimated that the majority of uninsured claims will be settled within the next six years.

Both the estimate of settlements that will be made in respect of claims received, as well as the estimate of
settlements made in respect of incidents not yet reported, are based on historic trends which can alter over time
reflecting the length of time some matters can take to be resolved. No material changes to carrying values are
expected within the next 12 months.

Uninsured claims are provided on a gross basis and a separate reimbursement asset, for amounts due back from
the insurance providers, of £79,504 (year ended 2 July 2022: £17,931) is included within other receivables.

16.

17.

18.

19.

31
Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

Pension commitments
The Company participates in a defined contribution scheme:

Defined contribution:

During the 18-month period ended 31 December 2023, the Company participated in The Go-Ahead Group Pension
Plan (Go-Ahead Plan). The defined contribution sections of the Go-Ahead Plan are not contracted-out of the State
Second Pension Scheme. The Money Purchase Section is now closed to new entrants, except by invitation from
the Company, and has been replaced by the Workplace Savings Section, which is also a defined contribution plan.
The expense recognised for the Money Purchase Section of the Go-Ahead Plan is £869k (year ended 2 July 2022:
£325k), being the contributions paid and payable. The expense recognised for the Workplace Saving Scheme is
£642k (year ended 2 July 2022: £193k), being the contributions paid and payable.

Related party transactions

The Company is a 100% subsidiary of Go-Ahead Investment Topco Limited, (previously Gerrard Investment
Topco Limited) (Topco). Advantage has been taken of the exemption in paragraph 8 (k) of Financial Reporting
Standard 101 and transactions entered into between two or more members of the Group, provided that any
subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member, have not been disclosed.

The following shows the amounts due to related parties as at the period-end:
Period ended
31 December Year ended 2
2023 July 2022

Group Group

subsidiaries subsidiaries

£7000 £°000

Amounts due to related parties 47,783 11,150

"47,783 11,150

Share capital and reserves

Share capital:
Authorised, allotted, called up and fully paid

Period ended 31 December

2023 Year ended 2 July 2022
No. £ No. £
Ordinary shares of £1 each 2 2 2 2

2 2

Derivatives and financial instruments

A derivative is a security whose price is dependent upon or derived from an underlying asset. During the year
ended 2 July 2022, the Company ceased to use energy derivatives to hedge its risks associated with fuel price
fluctuations and this is now considered at a group level.

(a) Fair values

The Company uses the following hierarchy for determining and disclosing the fair value of financial instruments
by valuation technique:
e Level 1: quoted (unadjusted) prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;
« Level 2: other techniques for which all inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value
are observable, either directly or indirectly; and
© Level 3: techniques which use inputs which have a significant effect on the recorded fair value that are
not based on observable market data.

During the period ended 31 December 2023, there were no transfers between valuation levels.

19,

20.

32
Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the 18 month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

Derivatives and financial instruments (continued)
(b) Hedging activities

The Company is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of fuel usage. The Company closely monitors fuel
prices. During the year ended 2 July 2022, the Company ceased to use fuel derivatives to hedge its exposure to
increases in fuel prices, when it deemed this to be appropriate. This is instead now considered at a Group level and
so there is now a nil (2022: £nil) asset or liability value associated with fuel derivatives on the Company’s balance
sheet

The fair value of the asset or liability has been recognised on the balance sheet. The value has been generated since
the date of the acquisition of the instruments due to the movement in market fuel prices.

The changes in the fair values of the fuel derivatives during the year are as follows:
Period ended
31 December Year ended 2
2023 July 2022

£'000 £°000
Changes in fair value of hedged item - (5)
Changes in fair value of hedging instrument - 5
Changes in fair value through the hedging reserves (net of tax) - 4

In relation to the hedging reserve, the following balances are included with respect to the fuel derivatives:

Period ended
31 December Year ended 2
2023 July 2022

£7000 £°000

Balance in the cash flow hedging reserve for continuing hedges - -

Share based payments

Deferred Share Bonus Plan

On 10 October 2022, The Go-Ahead Group ple (subsequently reregistered as The Go-Ahead Group Limited) (Go-
Ahead) and its subsidiaries was acquired by Go-Ahead Investment Bidco Limited (previously Gerrard Investment
Bidco Limited) (Bidco), a wholly owned subsidiary of Go-Ahead Investment Topco Limited, (previously Gerrard
Investment Topco Limited (Topco) (the “Acquisition”).

Prio to the Acquisition, the Company participated in a Deferred Share Bonus Plan (DSBP). The DSBP was operated
by Go-Ahead and provided for executive directors and certain other senior employees to be awarded shares in Go-
Ahead conditional on the achievement of financial and strategic targets. The shares were deferred over a three-year
period.

Following the Acquisition, as disclosed in note 21, all live granted DSBP awards which were yet to vest (or had
previously vested but remained unexercised) were settled in cash in line with the terms of the Scheme of
Arrangement. For each option held, participants received £15.50 (£14.50 cash consideration plus £1.00 special
dividend).

As at 31 December 2023, there were no outstanding options held under the DSBP (2022: 2,946).

The expense recognised for the DSBP during the 18-month financial period to 31 December 2023 was £nil (year
ended 2 July 2022: £8,500).

20.

21.

22,

33
Go North West Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
for the 18-month period of accounts ended 31 December 2023

Share based payments (continued)
Deferred Share Bonus Plan (continued)

The DSBP options were not subject to any market-based performance conditions. Therefore, the fair value of the
options was equal to the share price at the date of grant.

The weighted average fair value of options granted during the period was Enil (year ended 2 July 2022: £8.32).

The weighted average remaining contractual life of the options was 0.0 years at year end (2022 1.5 years).

Ultimate parent Company and controlling party

The immediate parent company and immediate controlling party of Go North West Limited is Go-Ahead Holding
Limited, a Company incorporated in United Kingdom and whose registered office is 3rd Floor, 41 - 51 Grey Street,
Newcastle upon Tyne NEI 6EE, United Kingdom.

In the opinion of the directors, The Go-Ahead Group ple was the ultimate parent company and controlling party
until 10 October 2022 when it was acquired by Go-Ahead Investment Bidco Limited, (previously Gerrard
Investment Bidco Limited) (Bidco) and re-registered as The Go-Ahead Group Limited on 13 October 2022. The
Go-Ahead Group Limited is a company incorporated in England and Wales whose registered office is 3rd Floor,
41 —51 Grey Street, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 6EE.

Bidco’s ultimate parent company is Go-Ahead Investment Topco Limited, (previously Gerrard Investment Topco
Limited) (Topco), which is indirectly owned by Kinetic TCo Pty Ltd and Global Via Infraestsructuras SA. As such,
fron 10 October, and as at 31 December 2023, in the opinion of the directors, the Company’s ultimate parent
company and controlling party is Topco, a company incorporated in England and Wales and whose registered
office is 27 Old Gloucester Street, London WCIN 3AX, United Kingdom.

Topco, along with its subsidiaries (together the Group), is the largest group of undertakings for which consolidated
financial statements have been drawn up and of which the Company is a member and The Go-Ahead Group
Limited, along with its subsidiaries, is the smallest such group of undertakings. Copies of both Topco’s and the
Company’s.

Post balance sheet events

The directors confirm that there have been no material post balance events or circumstances arising after the
balance sheet date that would require adjustment to, or disclosure in, the financial statements for the period ended
31 December 2023.

