Registered no: 07934306

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements

For the year to 31 March 2024

SATURDAY

*ADSPBROC*
AO3

17/08/2024 #41
COMPANIES HOUSE

CONTENTS

Directors and professional adViSOFS...........0....000: ccc eee cee erect eet re reer net eee 1
Strategic report... 0... ee EEE EEE eee EE eee Eee eee nee e eae 2
- Business review
- Key performance indicators
- Principal risks and uncertainties
- Future developments
- Section 172 statement

Corporate governance report... i... cee ee eee EE EEE aE ene eee ee eee eee 18
Directors’ report. .

Directors’ responsibilities statement............... 00. cece tees ee teense eee ears neesrensene een eee 26
Independent auditor's report...... 2... ee renee nner nner ner reer n eee nena 27
Financial statements............... 30

Notes to the financial statement. ..... 2.0.00... cece cece ee ee reer ener eee renee eee er ten ee nee betas 133

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited
Registered No: 07934306

DIRECTORS AND PROFESSIONAL ADVISORS

Directors
I Grose

H Verwer
A Doll

L Frances
D Lavelle
V Merle
R Pidsley

Company Secretary
R Swan

Auditor

MHA

Statutory Auditor

2 London Wall Place
London

EC2Y SAU

United Kingdom

Banker

The Royal Bank of Scotland plc
250 Bishopsgate

London

EC2M 4AA

United Kingdom

Solicitor

Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP
St Ann's Wharf

112 Quayside

Newcastle upon Tyne

NE1 3DX

United Kingdom

Registered office

3rd Floor

41-51 Grey Street
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE1 6EE

United Kingdom

Actuary

Willis Towers Watson
1 Wellington Place
Wellington Street
Leeds

LS1 4AP

United Kingdom

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Strategic report

For the year ended 31 March 2024

The directors present their Strategic report for the year ended 31 March 2024.
Govia Thameslink Railway Limited (the “Company”) is a member of The Go-Ahead Group Ltd (the “Group”).
Business review

The principal activity of Govia Thameslink Railway Limited (GTR) is the operation of passenger services on the
Thameslink, Great Northern, Southern and Gatwick Express routes. This franchise is the largest of its type in the
UK, representing approximately 17% of national passenger journeys. The GTR franchise was structured to
facilitate the transformation and modernisation of passenger services, enabling capacity improvements through
the government’s Thameslink Programme infrastructure project. These improvements included the introduction
of several new fleets of trains as well as the introduction of revised timetables and working practices.

On 25 March 2022 the Department for Transport (DfT) awarded a National Rail Contract (NRC) to GTR to
continue operating the Thameslink, Great Northern, Southern and Gatwick Express rail services. The new contract
commenced on 1 April 2022 and will run until at least | April 2025, and will continue thereafter to March 2028
at the Secretary of State's discretion. Like the Emergency Recovery Measures Agreement (ERMA) it replaced, the
NRC is a management contract through which GTR provides agreed rail services for a fee which consists of a
fixed management fee and a Performance Based Fee (PBF). GTR holds limited revenue and cost risk in relation
to disallowable costs, which is managed through the Company’s internal processes and controls, and the ROM
mechanism capped downside risk to PBF to 5% of the ROM benchmark. Changes in allowable costs (as defined
in the contract) are at the risk of the DfT provided that GTR manage the costs within agreed contracted budget and
act as a good and efficient operator. In addition to the fixed management fee and potential PBF stipulated by the
contract, the NRC also allows for individual project fees to be eamed by GTR on the delivery of specific industry
change initiatives as directed by the DfT. ,

In the first year of the NRC the PBF was assessed against specific targets in four areas, namely: Operational
Performance, Customer Experience, Financial Performance and Business Management. In the second year of the
NRC the components and weightings of the PBF have been updated to consist of; Operational Performance 35%,
Customer Experience & SQR 35% and Financial Performance 30%. All operational performance measures and
the majority of Customer Experience measures are quantitative measures, therefore the PBF value for these
elements can be calculated using the actual scores for the period. The ticketless travel sub-element of Financial
Performance is also a quantitative measure (QTM). The other elements of Financial Performance consist of Cost
and Revenue. The Cost is a score card measure (SCR) and Revenue was a scorecard measure until September
2023. For SCR measures, the actual scores will be confirmed by the DfT within 2 months of the measurement
period.

On 30 November 2023 GTR entered into a Revenue Outturn Mechanism (ROM) as an NRC Amendment
Agreement with Dff which means that the revenue component of the finance measure under PBF became a
quantifiable measure from October 2023. Under the ROM, the defined actual revenue will be measured against
the benchmark set for the ROM assessment period on a cumulative basis. The first ROM assessment period is
October 2023 to March 2024. At year-end GTR recognized the PBF value in relation to ROM for the first
assessment period based on our best estimate at the date of these accounts.

The Williams-Shapps Plan for Rail highlighted the need for fares and ticketing reform to grow customer
satisfaction. Stations Workforce Reform was born out of this requirement to serve the customer better. As part of
that, during the year, private sector owning groups and Train Operating Companies undertook analysis to
determine how best to implement the overall strategy for reform of station service models. The Task and Finish
Group has submitted a package of cross-industry workforce reform initiatives to improve the financial
sustainability of the passenger railway industry and to meet budgetary targets. Subsequently, GTR entered into an
agreement with DfT on 4 July 2023 to consult on these plans with customers and stakeholders to determine the
best way forward. Consultation took place and was completed in Autumn 2023. Based on the agreement signed
with DfT, GTR has met the requirements of the initiation and completion of the consultation process defined under
the proposal and therefore is eligible to receive a milestone payment. The first milestone payment has been
recognised in the assessment and calculation of PBF for the year.

2

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

During the year, GTR worked to deliver plans and commitments from the second year of the National Rail Contract,
with our Corporate Purpose acting as a beacon throughout the year: bringing people together, to help our
communities thrive.

In support of the Government’s effort to create a sustainable railway, GTR worked closely with the industry,
placing emphasis on controlling costs and encouraging more passengers to use the railway, while continuing the
relentless focus on running a safe, on time service that meets customer needs. Much time was spent collaborating
and building strong local partnerships to help regions grow and prosper, with a timetable that met their needs.
GTR’s commitment to making improvements right across the customer experience and the business ranged from
removing barriers for disabled people, to encouraging a more diverse workforce.

In September 2023, The Go-Ahead Group and Keolis appointed Angie Doll to become GTR’s Chief Executive
Officer, replacing Patrick Verwer, who after five years at GTR moved to Go-Ahead Group (GAG) as Rail CEO.
Having previously been Chief Operating Officer, her appointment to the role of CEO provided continuity of focus
on NRC deliverables while allowing her passion for customer service to invigorate teams right across the business.

A key strategic theme GTR’s new CEO is championing is skills and employability. It is considered a key enabler
to nurturing greater diversity of thoughts within the business and the wider rail industry, to help innovate and
improve at every level for our customers. GTR is on a strong footing to demonstrate achievements in this area and
launched its work in this space at a Parliamentary event with delivery partners and Members of Parliament in
March 2024.

During the year, the Company saw travel patterns settle with customer volumes plateauing at circa 85% on
weekdays and 100% at weekends. Mindful of the need to reduce Government subsidies and build a thriving railway,
the Company used customer insight to encourage higher passenger numbers, showcasing the fantastic destinations
to visit across the network and the good ‘value fares available. The Company used innovative and creative
approaches to ensure it inspired existing and potential customers to travel on GTR services. In December 2023,
GTR won the gold award at the Digital Marketing Awards for Travel & Leisure category for its leisure campaign
‘every stop is a story’.

A major challenge customers continued to face was the national industria! relations dispute which saw a total of
16 days of industrial action, and 57 days of action short of strike during the year. The Company deeply regrets the
impact industrial action is having on customers, and continues to urge the unions to engage towards a national
resolution. For each strike, GTR mobilized resources to re-phase its plans and prioritise raising customers’
awareness of travel arrangements over the need to grow passenger numbers. For each strike that impacted
weekends, GTR also created bespoke timetables to accommodate planned engineering works and events such as
football fixtures, that are unique to each strike day.

The Company consistently communicated the impact of industrial action on services as early as possible using the
most appropriate channels, to ensure a high level of awareness and avoid any customer being caught out. This
would typically involve offering media interviews with directors, as well as updates being made available on
stations, online and digital channels. Particular attention continued to be given to engaging with more vulnerable
customers, so they felt supported throughout, including people with booked assistance, schools and hospitals.

GTR was pleased to be able to celebrate the much-anticipated opening of the upgraded Gatwick Airport Station,
as well as the opening of Brent Cross West Station. These major achievements were the culmination of several
years of work with key partners, to bring about much needed capacity and accessibility improvements expected of
major stations.

In addition to this, in 2023 GTR celebrated the first year of its community fund. Through the grant GTR
successfully funded 19 projects to the tune of £338k in support of causes important to local communities on its

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

routes and reflects the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy’s key themes; mental health, education and
employability skills, as well as diversity and inclusion, and environmental sustainability.

The Company’s services continued to be built based on insight from engagement with local stakeholders, feedback
received from customers, Rail User Groups (RUGs) and other local contacts. This more targeted and local approach
to seeking input has proven to be effective and ensures the solutions GTR is delivering meet the actual needs of
the communities the Company serves, including Local Authorities, schools and hospitals.

GTR successfully applied best practice consultation methodology in seeking input to shape the West Coastway
timetable. This collaborative work began in Spring 2023 and saw local stakeholders as well as members of the
public actively involved in shaping the timetable. The consultation methodology focused on understanding local
needs. GTR made multiple amendments to the original proposals, which incorporate hundreds of smatler changes
to the times of individual trains, for example to meet the needs of students who require specific connectivity for
schools. The Company is delighted to have been able to jointly shape a timetable that will better serve its customers’
needs. The new timetable will be implemented in May 2024, bringing improved connections and more regular
service frequency.

Throughout the year, major work continued to introduce digital signalling on the East Coast Main Line, with
new technology rolled out in several places including between Welwyn Garden City and Hitchin. Great Northem
passenger trains have already been operating using digital signalling since November 2023 between Finsbury
Park and Moorgate. It is expected that the Northern City Line will be a ‘no signals’ railway from early 2025.

GTR’s Accessibility Policy outlines in detail the Company’s commitment to accessible travel. In the last year,
GTR continued to build and improve its offering to make travel more accessible so its customers can travel with
confidence. This year GTR implemented its accessibility refresher training including additional in-person training
at stations, delivered by disabled trainers. GTR has also rolled out its Mobile Assistance Team, with teams now
providing assistance from hub locations to 51 of nearby smaller stations (unstaffed or partially staffed). GTR
continues to look at industry-leading innovations such as the Aira app which is now being successfully trialed at
12 key stations to support blind & partially-sighted passengers to navigate their environment. Furthermore, the
Company continues to support independent travel through collaborations with partnerships such as ‘Whizz Kids”
and the ‘Try a Train’ programme. Through collaboration and user feedback GTR launched a range of ‘Making
Rail Accessible’ (MRA) videos, titled “what to expect when travelling” covering various elements of the journey
including ‘Planning your journey’, ‘What’s available at the station’, ‘Getting on board’ and ‘Arriving at your
destination’. They are available through the Company’s assisted travel pages providing both a visual, aural, and
BSL overview.

GTR participates in the Go-Ahead Accessibility Forum, which meets regularly to share best practices from across
the Group and to enable continuous improvement and innovation for passengers both in the UK and internationally.

GTR’s zero harm ambition is now embedded across the Go-Ahead Group and has moved to its next phase post-
pandemic of getting back to basics, ensuring all colleagues are equipped to deliver on the promise of caring for
each other, customers and vulnerable persons. GTR is amplifying this with an internal and external call to action
to; Be Safe, Feel Safe, Travel Safe. A newly optimized Safety Directorate is now in place to set the standards,
provide the tools and training and work with stakeholders to ensure that call to action is delivered.

GTR continues to be at the forefront in the use of app technology, continually refining app-based products. GTR’s
safety reporting app, which was introduced in 2021 and enables faster and more accurate reporting of all safety-
related incidents, is now on version 4 and has been instrumental in improving reporting, realising an increase in
reporting of all incidents of approximately 40%. With better data and insights, GTR has been able to ensure that
initiatives are targeted, and resources focused, in the right areas.

GTR continues to refine its messaging and assess the residual risk associated with post-pandemic life and the

current socio-economic environment. The Company recognises that its customers and people in its local

communities can be vulnerable, which is why GTR was the first rail company to employ a dedicated suicide
4

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

prevention manager and to train colleagues to make life-saving interventions. Recognising the vulnerability
landscape has evolved, this portfolio has been expanded and redefined to include safeguarding and wellbeing and
is committed to industry benchmark of Safeguarding on Rail scheme accreditation.

Additionally, new risks have emerged, such as an increase in antisocial behaviour. To respond to this, GTR has
pioneered the first-ever joint policing plan which has been countersigned by GTR and the British Transport Police.
It pledges to collectively improve passenger and colleague confidence by increasing visibility and engagement
and reducing violence and antisocial behaviour. The plan also aims to reduce assaults and increase prosecutions
and protect, support and safeguard vulnerable people and those at risk of exploitation and harm, as well as tackle
violence against females, hate crimes and sexual harassment. GTR has appointed a Head of Security and Policing
to ensure the partnership with the British Transport Police continues to flourish and the tangible outputs assumed
in the joint policing plan are delivered for our colleagues and passengers. This includes a continuation of Travel
Safe Officers across the network, the replacement of the existing body worn video with a newer model, a joint
data and intelligence led resource plan and amplified internal and external messaging.

The past couple of years have been difficult on everyone’s mental health, and the industry is seeing an increasing
trend in unsafe behaviours. To help support people who travel with GTR and in some cases save lives, GTR invited
stakeholders and partners to join the employee training programme, so more people could be equipped with the
Tight tools to help those in need. Education and training can make a real difference, and more people are now able
to identify vulnerable people at the Company’s train stations so they can intervene when support is needed. To
date 55% of all colleagues have completed the training.

To further support GTR’s front-line teams, ensuring they are equipped to deal with the wide range of challenges
they often have to navigate working in customer facing roles, additional training packages include homelessness,
managing difficult situations, safety brilliant basics and introduction to safety everyday actions, MIND mental
health training and ACT for Rail security training. Training is continually refreshed and improved based on
emerging risks and industry insights.

GTR is committed to ensuring its colleagues’ wellbeing is a priority with a Wellbeing strategy that includes an
associated communication plan, education sessions, proactive health monitoring and promotion and an in-house
Occupational Health team, all led by a newly appointed Chief Medical Officer.

The Company continues to make progress in relation to talent, diversity, and inclusion, including against key
diversity targets. There have been several successes over the past year:

National Equality Standard (NES) and Reaccreditation

Since January 2020, GTR has evolved from having a limited Diversity & Inclusion strategy, no dedicated D&I
resource, or employee network groups, to achieving Ernst & Young’s D&I Accreditation, and the National
Equality Standard (NES) in October 2022. In an audit of 35 relevant competencies across the business, GTR met
26 of those competencies and partially met the remaining 9, to become the first in the transport sector to receive
this accolade. Building on that success, GTR continues to pursue best practice in this area and in May will begin
working with EY on reaccreditation for October 2024.

Culture Change Programme

One NES competency that was partially met focused on Culture. Recognising this as an area for improvement, in
September 2023 GTR began a culture change programme with EY. Through this programme GTR has developed
a comprehensive action plan which will be implemented over the next two years.

Returners Programme

Through our ongoing partnership with the Career Returners (formerly Women Retumers), five women trainee
train drivers have entered employment with GTR and continue to feedback positive experiences both within the
training and with their dedicated mentors. Engaging with this programme has provided GTR the opportunity to
access a high-calibre, highly motivated and experienced diverse talent pool and GTR continues to work closely
with Career Retumers with a goal of bringing an additional three women to the business in the coming year.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Respect at Work e-learning

In October 2023 GTR began the rollout of its ‘Respect at Work’ e-learning module. The module is mandatory for
all GTR employees and was developed in partnership with law firm Eversheds Sutherland, so content is
independent and quality assured. It covers the Equality Act 2010, allowing learners to develop their understanding
of the law and their rights and obligations in the workplace, using realistic scenarios for context. The module
includes an online assessment and certificate upon completion. All new joiners complete this training as part of
their on-boarding process.

Armed Forces Covenant

GTR continues its efforts to support veterans and reservists within the business and help more armed forces leavers
into employment. GTR has begun posting available roles on platforms dedicated to service leavers and their
families and is working with the Ministry’s Career Transition Partnership for further GFR presence at leaver job
fairs. GTR is also in the process of creating an Armed Forces Network Group, for veterans, reservists, cadet
volunteers and family/allies, likely to launch in Summer 2024.

Work Experience

Partnering with Women in STEM and the Mayor's European Social Fund and Education Development Trust with
Croydon Council, GTR has broadened its work experience outreach, connecting with schools who had over 19%
students on free school meals, BME above 70%, and SEND above 14%. As a result, GTR welcomed 20 work
experience students in 2023 and offered mock interviews and career advice. GTR is also pursuing a partnership
with Open Doors scheme (East Sussex County Council) discussing 2024 placements for Females, BME and
students receiving free school meals.

Employability

As part of GTR’s successful long-term relationship with the Prince’s Trust the Company ran the 19th cohort of
their ‘Get into Rail’ programme, with four young people successfully completing and being offered roles within
the business. Likewise, GTR’s other get into work scheme, a Sector-based Work Academy Programme (SWAP)
was delivered in collaboration with East Sussex College, providing employability skills to 8 individuals who were
long-term unemployed and hiring one into a role at GTR, with a possible two additional for future placement.

Apprenticeships

GTR’s apprenticeship provision continues to grow with an additional 225 people joining these programmes,
bringing the total starters since May 2017 to 1,352 with 409 currently studying. At present 29.3% of our apprentice
starters are female, with 30.3% of starters identifying as black or minority ethnic (BME). The train driver
apprenticeship is one of the most popular programmes with 376 starts in total. Of these, 30.1% are female and
27.39% BME. Working with ‘Not Going To Uni’, we led targeted campaigns for Females, BME and those with
free school meals for Engineering Apprenticeship, contributing to hiring 42% Female and 57% BME for that 2023
cohort.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited
Strategic report (continued)

For the year ended 31 March 2024
Key Performance Indicators
For the year to 31 March 2024, the key operating statistics were as follows:

Year ended Year ended
31 March 2024 = 31 March 2023

Revenue £1,811m £1,661m
Operating profit £37m £32m
Public Performance Measure (PPM) 91.6% 91.0%
On Time Performance Measure 68.8% 68.4%

Total revenue on a like-for-like basis increased year-on-year, driven by the underlying growth of passenger
journeys and the rail fare increase of 5.7% in March 23. The operating profit consists of the fixed management
fee, PBF including the new ROM fee and any other incentive payments, disallowable and Pre-EMA costs and the
lease impact of IFRS16.

Year-on-year, operating profit has increased, mostly driven by a higher PBF driven by better operational
performance and SQR, the new ROM fee in the year, a one-off workforce reform milestone payment which
increased the max PBF value and a favourable year-on-year movement on IFRS 16 lease costs and adverse impact
on late recognition of charges in Pre-EMA period.

Cash generation from passenger activity was strong, supported by regular DfT subsidy support per the NRC. The
balance sheet remains robust.

GTR holds provisions for income and costs which relate to unsettled historical performance regimes and
contractual obligations. The measurement of franchise commitments, comprising dilapidation provisions on
rolling stock, depots and stations, particularly in relation to the settlement as part of the transition from the ERMA
franchise to the NRC is set out in note 18. Significant elements of the dilapidation provisions are subject to
interpretation of franchise agreements and rolling stock agreements. The Company has significant internal
expertise to assess and manage these aspects of the agreements and to enable management to assess the appropriate
provisions required. Where appropriate, and specifically in assessing dilapidation provisions, this process is
supported by valuations from external surveyors to support provision levels.

The Company has disclosed contingent liabilities for (i) Boundary Zone Fare proceedings against GTR and other
parties (London & South Eastern Railway, The Go-Ahead Group Limited, Govia Limited and Keolis (UK)
Limited); and (ii) Pricing Practice proceedings against GTR, The Go-Ahead Group Limited and Keolis (UK)
Limited. No provision associated with the claim has been made as the Company cannot make a reliable estimate
of any contingent liability in respect of this matter at the time of publishing the Annual Report and Accounts. Refer
to note 26 for further details. Provisions for legal fees of £11.9m have been recognised.

The Company has met all its financial obligations contained within the various contractual arrangements entered
into within the year, without the need to call on financial support from its shareholders. As at the year end, other
than the commitments detailed in note 20, the Company has not required any permanent financial support from its
shareholders over the life of its franchise.

Performance for the year ended 31 March 2024 was greatly improved compared to the previous year. GTR
experienced the outputs following its remedial plans and the Operational Improvement Programme, which resulted
in higher levels of traincrew being available for duty throughout the year, and especially during those times of the
year when the Company usually sees higher levels of unavailability, notably during the Summer and around
Christmas. This improved level of performance was seen mostly during the first two quarters of the year, along
with fleet cancellation improvements being seen from the second quarter onwards.

With regards to the Company’s QTM measures for Train Operating Companies (TOC) on Self Cancellations, GTR
was able to achieve 8 of 13 periods at maximum fee, 4 of 13 periods at the expected target and only lof 13 periods

7

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

at minimum fee. For TOC on Self-Delay Minutes, GTR achieved 11 of 13 periods at expected target level or
stretch target level, with only 2 of 13 periods being at minimum fee. Total Cancellations also had a strong year,
with only 2 of 13 periods at minimum fee and the remainder achieving 2 of 13 periods at expected target, 4 of 13
at stretch and 5 of 13 periods at maximum fee.

GTR’s network did not experience the same levels of extreme heat as seen in the previous year, which allowed the
Summer periods to operate more reliably. The infrastructure was not impacted as significantly as last year with
regards to Soil Moisture Deficit, leading to a lower number of speed restrictions being imposed. Autumn this year
was longer compared with previous years, however due to robust plans with GTR’s partners at Network Rail, the
Autumn period did not cause us many operational issues. The Company did experience some extreme weather
events in the third quarter with storms impacting the railway, bringing the Company challenges with the
infrastructure including emergency speed restrictions during periods of high winds and heavy rain.

GTR's annual stakeholder survey continues to produce results in line with the industry. Whilst still positive
overall, stakeholders have expressed their frustration with continued disruption due to strikes and with the
funding challenge. The results show high levels of satisfaction with engagement from the stakeholder
management team, but frustration at service performance and the reduced ability to make improvements or
resolve long running issues connected to the impact of strikes and action short of a strike. These have been
resolved, but have contributed to some reductions in scores.

Principal risks and uncertainties

The Company has procedures in place to assess, prioritise, monitor and mitigate business risks. The Company
ensures that its board of directors and senior managers have considerable experience in the rail industry and can
address key issues as they arise. The principal business risks monitored in this way include, environmental,
political, infrastructure performance, economic, information security and industrial relations risks.

Environmental Risks

Weather events (flooding, storms, low temperatures, heatwaves) have a significant impact on both the long-term
business model and current operations including infrastructure, operations, supply chain and customers. For
example, landslips, tunnel flooding, risk of flooding and water ingress at depots and tunnels; freezing
infrastructure, increased incidents of snow fall and high winds, customer health and safety. The Company focuses
on analysing and understanding causes and effects to enable it to take appropriate action to minimise its
environmental impact. The Head of Environment attends the industry-wide Climate Change Adaptation Working
Group chaired by the RSSB and chairs a Joint Working Group with NR and TOCs in the Eastern and Southern
regions. Within the NRC there are a number of obligations which are overseen by the Head of Environment. These
obligations include annual reporting of environmental performance data, to both the DfT and the Rail Safety and
Standards Board (RSSB), and the maintenance of both ISO 50001 and ISO 14001 environmental sustainability
accreditations.

Political Risks

As an operator of one of the UK’s largest rail contracts, the Company is actively working with the Government to
shape the future of the industry, now under the transition to Great British Railway (GBR), the proposed state-
owned body which is to oversee all rail transport in Great Britain when it is established. The General Election on
Thursday 4 July 2024 resulted in a new Labour government. While this means a different ruling party for the first
time in 14 years, the Company will remain focused on its strategy of delivering for customers.

In the aftermath of COVID-19 there is greater state control of the rail industry to ensure the continuity of services.
The NRC has been in place since 1 April 2022 and transfers additional risk to the operator, notably a significant
tightening of controls over sub-contracts, in particular affiliate trading; disallowance of costs above budget by cost
category; and a commitment to adapt and respond to changes directed by the DfT.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Infrastructure Performance Risks
Network Rail has responsibility for infrastructure performance, which impacts the Company. Both organisations
continue to work closely together to understand the underlying cause of delays and agree improvement strategies
which will minimise disruption to customers. In addition to the Alliance Board, established between Network Rail
and the Company, GTR and Network Rail also operate a joint senior performance board to ensure that this area
gets the highest level of attention.

Very careful preparations are made for major service and infrastructure changes. Timetable enhancements are
being made progressively to minimise the risk of disruption. The underlying reliability of the network
infrastructure will continue to be of significant concern in relation to the Company’s ability to operate at the levels
of punctuality that customers expect.

Economic Risks

Under the NRC the DfT underwrites both revenue and cost risk. On this basis, there is no significant economic
tisk from the contract. Management is focussed on performance, cost control and compliance with the obligations
contained within the NRC. Fundamentally, for the Company to remain compliant with the NRC, management
needs to ensure the Company remains a ‘good and efficient’ operator in all aspects of its business.

Failure to comply with the obligations contained in the NRC could lead to financial penalties or, in an extreme
situation, termination of the contract. Compliance with the contractual terms is closely monitored by an
experienced franchise compliance team.

Information Security Risks

Cyber security is a key focus area. Specifically, there is continued focus regarding General Data Protection
Regulation (GDPR) and Network and Information System (NIS) compliance, as well as the formalising of an
information security management system framework. Monthly KPI reporting of information security issues is in
place, and initiatives continue to increase awareness of cyber risks, such as phishing.

As part of the agreement with the DfT when entering the NRC, the Company is currently in the process of
implementing an IT separation project, which involves removing all remaining links between GTR and Go-
Ahead's IT systems.

Industrial Relations Risks

Even though revenues have recovered, they remain below pre-pandemic levels, with the shortfall continuing to be -
funded by the taxpayer, a situation generally acknowledged to be unsustainable. To ensure the future sustainability
of the sector, cost savings must be found, which will necessitate significant reforms to working practices.

Train Operating Companies (TOCs) in England have been subject to ongoing industrial action since June 2022. In
late 2023, trade unions reached a set of national principles with the Rail Delivery Group recorded in Memoranda
of Understanding for RMT and Unite and a Dispute Resolution Agreement for TSSA. These principles provided,
among other things, that GTR would enter into pay talks in relation to a pay increase for 2022 (which was paid to
colleagues in December 2023) and indicated that 2023 pay would be negotiated in the first quarter of 2024, together
with engagement over certain proposals GTR may make. These talks are currently in progress.

However, ASLEF currently have minimal levels of engagement and have continued to take strike action. To
mitigate these effects, GTR has, among other actions, engaged external legal support in relation to industrial
relations and litigation; continued with weekly briefings of Regional Organisers and local union representatives;
provided training for managers on Trades Union relations and sharpened its focus on employee communication
and engagement. GTR maintains high levels of collaboration with other operators through the Rail Delivery Group
and other industry bodies, with Network Rail and with the DfT and on a practical level, have established effective
operational contingency plans.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting
Overview

As custodians of a railway operating in a changing climate, GTR are dedicated to creating great journeys every
day for a sustainable future. GTR integrates environmental and social considerations into the decision-making
processes, to minimise the impact of the operations, and influence good practice across the industry and beyond.

GTR remains fully certified to [S014001:2015 Environmental Management Systems as GTR manages its
environmental responsibilities in a systematic manner that contributes to the environmental pillar of sustainability.
ISO 14001:2015 helps GTR to achieve the intended outcomes of its environmental management system. This
provides enhancement of its environmental performance, fulfilment of compliance obligations and achievement
of its environmental objectives.

GTR is also fully certified to [SO 50001:2018 Energy Management Systems which is the Company’s approach
to managing energy use and consumption, including measurement, documentation and reporting, design and
procurement practices for equipment, systems, processes, and personnel that contribute to energy performance.
Both management systems were externally audited in June 2024 and remain fully certified.

The organisation has trained an enthusiastic team of employees to be Environmental Champions across the
network. These Champions are monitoring for any environmental issues and communicating good practice to their
colleagues.

Climate change has been identified as one of the key areas of corporate risk, and as such GTR has put in place
several measures to mitigate and adapt to the impacts of a changing climate. With continued support from top
management and engagement at all levels of the business GTR has begun to provide a level of resilience that will
continue to develop into the future.

How GTR is working to mitigate against the impacts of climate change

GTR and Network Rail are working together to decarbonise the routes GTR operates and achieve carbon net-zero
targets by 2050. Both organisations have created carbon reduction programmes and are working together on joint
initiatives and collaborative projects to ensure a whole-system industry approach to tackling climate change. The
net-zero strategy contains multiple objectives and targets and is reviewed annually by the Department for Transport
and is due to be updated in September 2024, with a full review scheduled for the financial year ending 31 March
2026.

Following on from the ground-breaking industry first scheme that GTR delivered in collaboration with the not-
for-profit community benefit society Energy Garden to instal 526 solar photovoltaic panels on our engineering
depot at Streatham Hill, GTR have recently completed installation of 932 panels at Bedford Cauldwell
Engineering Depot. The panels at Bedford are projected to generate 322,000 kWh a year and save around 1,335
tonnes of carbon over the next 20 years.

As at Streatham, GTR will be purchasing around 50% of the generated energy, with profits from all energy
generated reinvested to support local community development. Over the next 12 months GTR will be extending
the programme to its engineering depots at Three Bridges and Selhurst, and on completion GTR will have nearly
6,000 solar panels on depot roofs, projected to generate around 42.6 GWh of electricity and save over 9,000
tonnes of CO2 over 20 years. As this demonstrates, there can be wider benefits to transport decarbonisation
beyond the traditional means, not only do these schemes support GTR’s strategy of achieving net zero by 2050,
they also directly benefit the wider community.

GTR commissioned a series of feasibility studies, the aim of which is to provide a portfolio-based approach to
assessing renewable energy options for identified stations that provide the best overall benefits (measured in
terms of overall decarbonisation, cost implications (LCOE) and outline capital investment required).

The key objectives of this study are to review the current energy demands for the stations selected, provide a
clear breakdown of the renewable energy options for each of the stations selected and to prioritise opportunities
for implementation. The initial phase of this project is expected to be completed in Summer 2024.

10

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

SEE Energy continues to supply green energy to GTR for non-traction electricity used on GTR stations, offices
and depots. Traction electricity continues to be purchased via Network Rail.

GTR submitted near-term Science Based Targets to the Science Based Targets Institute for validation. Upon
validation these targets will commit GTR to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 42%, and absolute
scope 3 GHG emissions by 24%, by 2029 from a 2021 base year. These targets will be validated and announced
publicly in Summer 2024.

How GTR is adapting to the impacts of climate change

Climate change remains a key area of corporate risk. Following the year ending 31 March 2024 submission GTR
have put in place several measures to monitor and understand the impacts of a changing climate.

Extreme weather impacts have been included in incident reporting, allowing the Company to better measure
frequency and intensity of severe weather. Additionally, the Environment and Sustainability Team are measuring
specific events such as named storms to report back to the business around the ongoing effect on the business.

With continued support from top management and engagement at all levels of the business GTR have begun to
develop a climate adaptation plan which is expected to be complete by the end of the financial year ending 31
March 2025.

This plan will outline current trends across the GTR network including observed impacts across the geographical
network. The plan will provide a baseline to assess climate-related risk using evidence-based scoring
methodology, and will strategise integrated adaptation planning that will allow us to;

- Deliver a seasonally agnostic railway that gives our customers confidence to travel with GTR during
extreme weather events.

- Reduce the financial impacts of extreme weather and guide GTR to spend wisely when planning
opportunities for adaptation.

- Enhance GTR’s organisation's capacity to adjust its operational and planning decisions to safeguard staff,
customers, and contractors.

11

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption and energy efficiency

Energy Consumption
Dataset

Traction Electricity
(kWh)

April 2020 -
March 2021

734,936,984

_ April 2021 -
March 2022

709,299,458

April 2022 -
March 2023

667,264,811

April 2023 -
‘March 2024

652,104,863

Traction Diesel
(kwh 54,222,068 | 49,572,117 | 42,199,337 | 42,206,473
Non-Traction Electricity | 47 465.930 | 48,164,350 | 46,924,558 | 45,059,646

(kWh)
Non-Traction Gas
(kWh)

15,783,746 16,788,057 17,764,156 12,030,340

* | diesel litre equivalent to 10.88 kWh (https://assets. publishing.
technical-guidance-app-b.x!s)

Scope | and Scope 2 April 2020 - April 2021 - April 2022 - April 2023 -
Emissions (T COze) March 2021 March 2022 March 2023 March 2024
Scope 1 Emissions from x 11,447 . 10,689
combustion of diesel fuel
for traction

Scope 1 Emissions from
combustion of site gas
Scope 1 Emissions from
Ancillary Vehicles*
Scope 1 Emissions from
HVAC*

Total Scope 1 Emissions ee 591 14,831 13, [es

Scope 2 emissions from ee 150,606 — 036
traction electrici
Scope 2 emissions from 11,066 fp 8

non-traction** electricity
Total Scope 2 Emissions | 182,409 129,036

2,201

280

135,034

150,606 144,365

*No HVAC or ancillary vehicle data available for 2020-21. 2022-23 HVAC and ancillary vehicle data was not received in time for report

verification and submission.
**Non-Traction’ refers to built infrastructure such as railway stations, depots, and offices.

Emissions Ratio 7 . = >
April2020- | April2021- "| April2022- | April 2023 - -

soe P er Passenger March 2021 | March 2022 | March 2023 | March 2024

Passenger Journeys*

76,104,215 179,000,656 250,372,054 278,957,596

Total Scope 1 & 2

Emissions (Tonnes)
COnve Per Passenger
Journeys (kg) 0.92 0.57

Methodology GHG GHG
—— _ Reporting Reporting Reporting
otoco Protocol Protocol Protocol

*Passenger joumey information provided by ORR hitps://www.orr.gov.uk/node/2926,

198,000 165,436 142,550 157,573

12

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Future developments

The NRC runs to the end of March 2028, with an option for the DfT to terminate the contract after March 2025.

The General Election on Thursday 4 July 2024 resulted in a new Labour government. While this means a different
tuling party for the first time in 14 years, there will be no immediate change for the Company, which will remain
focused on its strategy of delivering for customers.

Section 172(1) of the Companies Act 2006 Statement

In their discussions and decisions during the year, the directors of the Company acted in a way that they considered,
in good faith, was most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its sole member. In doing
so, they had regard to the Company’s key stakeholders and the matters set out in section 172(1)(a)-(f) of the
Companies Act 2006 as explained below.

The tikely consequences of any decision in the long term:

The directors recognise that their decisions will have an impact on the Company’s long-term success. Board
discussions take account of stakeholder interests, and the decision-making process includes balancing competing
interests, whether short or long term. Further information on stakeholder engagement and its impact on principal
decisions made during the year is set out in the respective sections below.

The interests of the Company’s employees:

The Company’s employees are fundamental to its success, both in the short and long term, and their health, safety
and wellbeing is a priority for the directors. “Health and safety”, “People and engagement” and “Industrial
relations” have been mandated by the Group as items to be considered at each scheduled board meeting of every
operating company within the Group, supported by detailed briefing papers circulated in advance of each meeting.

The need to foster the Company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others:

Positive business relationships with suppliers, customers, government and other key stakeholders underpin the
Company’s delivery of services. Relations with suppliers, particularly in relation to dealings with smaller
suppliers, are guided by the Group’s Sustainable Suppliers policy, which can be found, together with other related
policies, on the Group website www.go-ahead.com/sustainability/policies. The Board regularly reviews how the
Company maintains positive relationships with all stakeholders, including suppliers, customers and others. Details
of stakeholders are set out in Principle 6 of the Corporate Governance Report. Please refer to the Corporate
Governance Report on page 18 for further details on how GTR engages with its suppliers, customers and others.

The impact of the Company’s operations on the community and the environment:

As an operator of public transport, the Company aims to help our communities to thrive by connecting
communities via vital transport services. Environmental considerations are central to the strategy of the Group,
and therefore to the Company. The Group has committed to reduce carbon emissions by 75% by 2035 and
consolidating zero emissions capabilities is one of five key enablers underpinning the Group’s strategic priorities.
Further information on the Group’s approach to environmental considerations can be found in the Group’s Annual
Report & Accounts published on www.go-ahead.com.

The Company aims to align its business values, purpose and strategy with the social, economic and environmental
needs of its stakeholders, embedding responsible and ethical business policies and practices in everything it does.
GTR has a variety of programmes aimed at recruiting and upskilling, through work experience, employability
schemes and apprenticeships programmes. GTR also focuses on giving people the confidence they need to use
public transport, to connect them to society as GTR knows just how important it is to take down those barriers.
GTR’s industry-leading Try a Train programme and Mobile Assistance Teams have helped people grow in
confidence to use rail and have proven to be an efficient route for colleagues to provide assistance at smaller
stations.

With many people using GTR’s trains everyday to get to work, school or see friends, GTR understands the
importance of rail to passengers, communities, its colleagues, and the economy. Therefore, the Company’s
commitment is to strengthen its contribution to the economy by connecting communities, increase customer

13

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

satisfaction through reliable services that meet the needs of passengers, and focus on helping communities to thrive
through schemes and projects like the Your Station, Your Community fund and working with station partners and
community rail partners to increase safety awareness and wellbeing.

Highlights for the year ending 31 March 2024 were as follows:

3,000 children participated in rail safety discussions since April 2022

3,000 children learnt how to use the railway network, buy a ticket and choose a train

1,700 children visited stations and trains, creating Social value of about £18m since 2022

Suicide Prevention Training was rolled out to 400 members of staff

GTR currently has 530 apprentices, and 1/3 of new apprentices are women

In 2023, the youngest apprentice was 18 years old, and the oldest was 58

Apprenticeships created Social value of £14m since October 2022

‘Try a Train’ events was held to build confidence in using the train with a variety of disadvantaged

community groups

. "Your Station, Your Community Fund provided £339,000 grant funding in 2023/24 to community
groups based in and around GTR stations. GTR received 370 applications, with 19 schemes receiving
funding. A third grant round is to be launched later this year.”

* Abandoned bikes donated to community partners to support upcycle and upskilling programmes.

¢ Multiple station partnerships making local stations more welcoming and vibrant.

© Involvement of stakeholders in the development of a new timetable for services on the West Coastway

(all figures taken from the GTR Measuring Social Value report 2023)

The desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct:

The directors acknowledge their responsibility for setting and monitoring the Company’s culture, values and
reputation. This is undertaken in line with the Group’s purpose and values and the Group policies for responsible
business management, which can be found at www.go-ahead.com/sustainability/policies.

The need to act fairly between members of the Company:

The Company is owned by Govia Limited which is itself owned by the Group (65%) and Keolis (UK) Limited
(35%). The Group is structured around a devolved operating model and the Company is managed by its board of
directors as a standalone business unit in accordance with the arrangements established by the shareholders of
Govia Limited. Further details are set out in the corporate governance arrangements section of the Directors’
Report.

For details of how the Company engages with the Group, please refer to Principle 6 in the Corporate Governance
Report on page 18.

14

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Stakeholder Engagement

GTR’s relationships with its stakeholders are key to its success. By engaging meaningfully, the Company gains
insights into their needs. This feedback forms part of the Company’s decision-making process at every level of the
business, from the Board to its local management teams. The diagram below shows how GTR has engaged with
its key stakeholders in the past year, whilst contemplating a potential change of government.

Shows we work collaboratively wilh the rest of the industry 40 improve pertarmance and raliahity)
SRovatve woiKeurihroursiakehalders (o.delver,bellepauicomes for passengers
show, GTR has'a plan.to become financiallyindependeni, Ol government
Stow wevafe,a responsiblesbusiness inal cares about our employ
Shove that we give bacs [o sociciyrand that increasing the ssocial.

sTimetable development focused on ooking oi future needs and opportunities fon engagement!
omed uprapproach lo distiplionvand planned disruption
yAvjoined up.mulitagency approach io, solving problemssuch aS ASB)
thind as ourscorporate charity to, bring the work*ot i

aint

orkras backdrops fonvisis and meetings
PS LOLVIsis ahd Meeting
Poniule ou, marketing campaigns to increase passenger journeys

ramme OGTR

speak al industiy events)
Iarralvernindata hogetounmessage.out,

feolsvand)
CSieeiies | COREREEEEES | | AoE

Focus on 253 major]
Sianor development
projects fogcommunity)

Use penyeal]

[is fas felfecive and
honestawhere,a)
fsolutiongcarnol be)
found.

15

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

internal and external stakeholders

Our people

Communities Customers

Strategic
Government partners and
suppliers

Principal Decisions

The Board’s principat decisions for the year ended 31 March 2024 addressed the following areas:

Actions necessary to address poor operational performance and a change to the Company’s operating
model

During the prior year, as GTR learned more about the requirements and dynamics of the NRC contract and the
need to have a central focus on PBF delivery, GTR concluded that our devolved structure was no longer fit for
purpose. After an extended period of under-performance in relation to train cancellations and poor punctuality
during the year, and to give the matter clear focus outside the day-to-day train and service management, GTR
decided to create a centralised taskforce under discrete leadership. Through this team GTR developed and
successfully delivered a Remedial Plan to address operational performance.

The decision to centralise Train Service leadership under the Chief Operating Officer and focus on delivery and
optimisation of the Performance Based Fee was a trigger to revisit GTR’s operating model to one of centralised
control of Business Plan delivery. The changes introduced to GTR’s high level organisation structure enabled
stronger focus on NRC delivery and led to much improved performance, as illustrated by the increase in PBF.

Stations workforce reform

The Williams-Shapps Plan for Rail highlighted the need for fares and ticketing reform to grow customer
satisfaction. Stations Workforce Reform was born out of this requirement to serve the customer better. As part of
that, during the year, private sector owning groups and Train Operating Companies undertook analysis to
determine how best to implement the overall strategy for reform of station service models. Subsequently, GTR
entered into an agreement with DfT to consult on these plans with customers and stakeholders, then to determine
the best way forward. A national Public Consultation by the Industry Bodies, London Travel Watch and

16

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Strategic report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Transport Focus took place during the Summer and Autumn of 2023 in order to gather views of customers and
stakeholders. Following this process, a ministerial statement was published on 31% October 2023 with the
Secretary of State for Transport announcing that Government had asked “train operators to withdraw their
proposals”.

Decision to adopt the Revenue Outturn Mechanism (ROM)

After a period of focus solely on cost efficiency measures the Company, with other owning groups and Train
Operating Companies, made the case with the DfT to broaden the scope of the NRC and consider how best to
incentivise performance across the whole profit and loss account, including incentives for revenue growth. GTR
worked closely with industry partners and the DfT to develop appropriate mechanisms to provide suitable rewards
for revenue generating initiatives, which took effect in the second half of the financial year. This is discussed
further in the Business Review section of the Strategic Report.

The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors and signed on their behalf by:

Ralph Pidstey

Director
24 July 2024

17

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Corporate governance report
For the year ended 31 March 2024

During the year ended 31 March 2024, the Company applied the Wates Corporate Governance Principles for
Large Private Companies (the “Wates Principles”). The Wates Principles are published by the Financial
Reporting Council (the “FRC”) and are available on its website. The way in which the Company applied the
Wates Principles during the year is set out below.

Principle 1 - Purpose and Leadership

The Board continued during the year to embed and reinforce the Company purpose which is: “Bringing people
together”. The Company is focused on the communities it serves and has effective and longstanding partnerships
with local user groups, commuter associations, local authorities and elected representatives. Within the
Company, GTR is continuing to bring improvements to its services and customer experiences across the
network, so that customers feel GTR is with them.

The Company has worked closely with industry groups and partners to develop its thinking around the purpose
and strategy to deliver to its maximum potential. This has taken the form of canvassing views and opinions in
forums and meetings and has been briefed out to colleagues and stakeholders in business-wide events.

The purpose of the Company and the three strategic pillars of “brilliant basics, strong partnerships and shifting
perceptions" are now embedded in the corporate governance of the business, with business cases, organisational
design and resource prioritisation reflecting these pillars. The strategic objectives of the Company remain:

.

Advancing the business — targeting scarce resource and investment in key strategic areas.

e Providing robust governance — recognising the growing importance of capturing, storing and providing
secure, effective access to data that is growing exponentially year on year.

e Supporting operational excellence — providing structural solutions that support the business and various
departmental service excellence initiatives.

e Simplifying system complexity and supporting one version of the truth — reducing the burden of
maintaining and evolving existing systems and services, thereby making resources available to further
deliver advances to the business.

The Company is additionally required to produce an Annual Business Plan for the DfT, aligned to the DfT’s rail
sector objectives. This Business Plan not only establishes financial parameters for operations but also articulates
a number of Business Plan Commitments and performance measures that are jointly monitored with the DfT.

GTR’s purpose is supported by a set of values (Accountable, Transparent, Collaborative, Agile, Open Minded)
and behavioural frameworks. All of these aspects are aligned to the strategic objectives and embedded and
integrated throughout the employee life cycle through recruitment, induction, training, internal communications,
performance development reviews, colleague engagement surveys, HR policies and procedures, and a National
Equality Standard (NES) accreditation process. [nitiatives such as the Star Awards recognition scheme are
directly aligned to these values and behaviours and provide useful measures of how GTR’s people bring the
value of the Company’s culture to life in their day-to-day roles.

The Company’s three-year People Strategy was approved by the Board in April 2023. This replaced the previous
three-year People Strategy which was approved by the Board in February 2020. The company’s ambition is to
have a highly-capable, engaged and inclusive workforce delivering its promises. GTR believes that if it looks
after its people, they will grow and love to work at GTR, they will deliver GTR’s promises and help build an
inclusive and high-performing organisation. In line with its People Strategy, the Company’s focus has therefore
been on the following:

* Leadership provides a strong strategic narrative; a clearly expressed purpose so all colleagues understand
who we are, what we are seeking to achieve and where their contribution fits in - GTR continued to hold
monthly management forums to provide a regular platform for employee-director communication

* Get the best from our operating model; decentralised, agile and responsive, ensuring that GTR continuously
learns and improve its business — GTR continued to hold senior leadership meetings at a brand level,
empowered to undertake their own localised projects

18

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Corporate governance report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

+ Provide the basics for our colleagues; to demonstrate that they are valued and respected — in the current year
GTR continued to encourage engagement through intranet postings and internal social media platform

* Make diversity and inclusion part of our DNA; ensure that GTR is representative of the communities it serves
and that all colleagues can succeed and thrive in its inclusive culture — in the current year GTR has seen an
increase in female and BME candidates applying for roles

* Foster a culture of life-long learning; colleagues are encouraged to take ownership of their own development
and access to on-line development resources are available to all — in the current year GTR continued to invest
in its online training portal

* Develop capable and engaging managers; managers are empowered; GTR expects them to care, coach,
support, resolve problems and develop their people

° Ensure our colleagues have a voice — and show we are listening; GTR seeks feedback from colleagues and
check-in regularly to know how they are feeling and hear their ideas for improvement — in the year GTR ran
a company-wide colleague engagement survey and developed and delivered actions plans in response to the
findings

* Recognise and celebrate our everyday heroes; GTR ensures colleagues feel valued and recognised for a job
well done — in the prior year GTR implemented an employee recognition scheme

Principle 2 — Board Composition

Chair
Meetings of the Company’s board of directors were chaired by Christian Schreyer up until his departure from the
Group, after which meetings were chaired by Hendrikus Verwer.

Balance and diversity

The Board comprises representatives from both The Go-Ahead Group Limited and Keolis (UK) Limited as well
as other members with a range of skills and knowledge, and includes key operational roles — the Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and, since July 2023, the Chief Customer Officer.
Appointments to these roles are based on merit, and each individual appointed is experienced both in their field of
expertise and in the wider transport industry in which the Company operates. As a subsidiary within the Group,
the Company applies the Group Equal Opportunities, Diversity & Inclusion policy, further details of which can be
found on the Group’s website www.go-ahead.com/sustainability/policies. Diversity in appointments to the
Company’s board is promoted by GTR.

Size and structure

The number of directors appointed to the Company’s board is calibrated to the size and complexity of the
Company’s operations. As the Board benefits from the support of the Group’s executive directors and
representatives from Keolis (UK) Limited, it considers the appointment of independent non-executive directors to
be unnecessary. However, with effect from 1 April 2022, the Group’s audit committee Chair was appointed to the
Company’s board to provide an enhanced connection between the boards of the Company and the Group.

Effectiveness

The Company’s board held monthly and quarterly deep dive review meetings during the year. In accordance with
the Group’s operating company board procedures manual (the “Board Manual”), board meetings addressed
standing agenda items, and meeting papers were circulated to all directors in the week prior to each meeting to
allow sufficient time for preparation. All directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Company’s board.
Attendance and contribution to board discussions is a key element of the Company’s senior leadership roles.
Explanation and guidance on the role and statutory duties of a director are provided to the board in the Board
Manual, and further support is available to the directors from both the Group’s Company Secretary and its Legal
Director.

The Board continues to receive regular training on NRC contract compliance and contract changes from external
counsel to support their assessment of compliance requirements.

19

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Corporate governance report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Principle 3 — Director Responsibilities

The Board holds eleven scheduled meetings a year with all directors expected, wherever possible, to attend all
Board meetings. The Board receives regular and timely information (at least every four weeks) on all key aspects
of the business including financial performance and KPIs, capital expenditure, contracts and tendering, health and
safety, operating and engineering performance, people and engagement, market and competition and industrial
relations. The Board continuously challenges itself and its governance procedures against the strategy set out in
Principle 1 (Purpose and Leadership).

The Group Board reviews governance processes, including policies and procedures, on at least an annual basis to
ensure that these remain fit for purpose and strengthen the governance of the Company. The Company complies
with the Group Policies and Procedures Manual and reports its compliance to the Group annually on a self-
certification basis. This includes an Operating Company Board Procedures Manual which sets out formal
procedures for the working of the Board, delegated authorities, the timely provision of appropriate information
and the duties and responsibilities of directors, including standards of conduct and compliance. The Company’s
HR policy sets out, amongst other things, policies on code of conduct, conflicts of interests and public interest
disclosure.

The Board has established robust procedures for ensuring that its power to authorise conflicts of interest is operated
in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. All directors are required to make the Board aware of any other
commitments and actual/potential conflicts of interest that could interfere with their ability to act in the best
interests of the Company. The authorisations given by the Board in respect of such actual/ potential conflicts of
interests are for an indefinite period, but the Board retains the power to vary or terminate the authorisation at any
time. The Board believes that this system operates effectively.

The Board believes in equal opportunities and applies fair and equitable employment practices. Our Code of
Conduct states that all employees should be treated with respect and that their health, safety and basic human rights
’ should be protected. All our colleagues are required to adhere to our Anti-bribery and Corruption policy.

Principle 4 — Opportunity and Risk

The Board seeks out opportunity whilst mitigating risk. The Company produces a corporate plan which includes
identified risks and opportunities. The time limited structure of the NRC however mitigates against long term
value excepting that delivery of good results and performance is important in securing future management
contracts. Risk appetite is set at Group level and is monitored-in aggregate for operating companies. Risk tolerance
is advised to operating companies and is included in the Group’s annual report.

Ultimate accountability for risk identification and management lies with the Company’s Chief Executive Officer,
supported by all other directors on the Board. The Head of Internal Audit and Compliance co-ordinates a quarterly
review and update of the corporate risk register for board approval.

The assessment of principal and emerging risks is embedded within the day-to-day operations of the Company.
Such assessments are consolidated and reviewed as part of periodic board reporting and reported to the Group. As
part of this reporting process, risk reports are completed which outline the key principal and emerging risks facing
the Company, provide an explanation of the procedures in place to mitigate and manage such risks and prioritise
the most important risks from a residual risk perspective. These reports are then discussed with the Group
executive directors at quarterly Board meetings with discussion focused on the most important risk and control
areas within the business.

A summary of the Company’s principal risks and mitigations are outlined in the Strategic report.

20

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Corporate governance report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Principle 5 —- Remuneration

Remuneration arrangements are based on the principles that reward should be sufficient to attract and retain high
calibre directors, senior management and the wider workforce. As a principle, all salaries, benefits, pensions and
other elements of remuneration are benchmarked regularly to ensure they remain competitive in the markets in
which GTR operates.

For the Group’s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Customer
Officer, remuneration is determined by the Group Board in line with the Group’s Senior Management
Remuneration Policy. Remuneration is structured to support both the financial objectives and the strategic
priorities of the Group in a manner which is aligned with shareholders’ and stakeholders’ long-term interests.
Directors’ remuneration is disclosed within note six of the financial statements.

Station staff, workshop and cleaning staff at depots received back-dated pay awards for 2022. This was paid in
December 2023. Remuneration for 2023, along with remuneration for drivers for 2022 and 2023 is under
discussion with relevant trade unions led by industry group RDG. This process is on hold while the Rail Delivery
Group seeks resolution to the current disputes. Per the NRC, DfT approval is required for all pay increases, bonus
payments and discretionary benefits. Bonus payments and most discretionary benefits are currently suspended.

Following a review of Gender Pay Reporting in the previous financial year, the Board made changes to the
Company’s recruitment process to attract a more diverse range of applicants, supporting network groups and
training for all managers on how to address unconscious bias.

Principle 6 — Stakeholder Relationships and Engagement

The Board is clear that good governance and effective communication are essential on a day-to-day basis to deliver
its vision and protect the Company’s brand, reputation and relationships with all its stakeholders.

A full commentary on the Company’s stakeholder engagement is contained in the Section 172 statement as part
of the Strategic report.

21

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Directors’ report
For the year ended 31 March 2024

The directors present their Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2024.

The Company, in accordance with section 414C(11) of the Companies Act 2006, has set out in the Company’s
strategic report the following which the directors believe to be of strategic importance:

« Streamlined energy and carbon reporting; and
e Financial risk management objectives and policies.
Dividends

In July 2023, following permission given by the Department for Transport and Board approval, the Company
made a dividend payment of £62.3m to its shareholders. Following a similar approval and internal governance
process, a further dividend amounting to £20.1m was distributed to the immediate shareholder in April 2024.

Management and staff

The Company is committed to involving all employees in its performance and development. Employees are
encouraged to discuss with management matters of interest to the employees and subjects affecting the day-to-day
operations of the Company. The Company recognises that increasing the level of employee engagement with the
Company’s objectives can increase motivation and performance and invests in programmes to measure and
develop engagement.

For details on how the directors have engaged with employees, had regard to their interests and the effect of that
regard including on principal decisions made by the directors, please see our Section 172 statement within the
Strategic Report and our stakeholder engagement and principal decisions disclosures that follow it.

Following the acquisition of The Go-Ahead Group Limited’s entire issued share capital by Gerrard Investment
Bidco Limited, and the subsequent delisting of the Group’s equity shares in October 2022, the Group’s share
schemes were closed (see notes 23 and 25).

Discussions take place regularly with trade unions representing the employees on a wide range of issues.

The Company believes in equal opportunities regardless of gender, age, religion or belief, sexual orientation, race
and, where practicable, disability. This approach is underpinned by a commitment to providing equal opportunities
to current and potential employees and applying fair and equitable employment practices. The Company gives
full and fair consideration to job applications from people with disabilities, considering their skills and abilities.
In respect of existing colleagues who may become disabled, the Company’s policy is to provide continuing
employment, training and career development.

Stakeholder interests
A summary of how the directors have had regard to the need to foster the Company’s business relationships with
suppliers, customers and others, and the effect of that regard, including on the Company’s principal decisions, is

set out in the stakeholder engagement section of the Strategic Report.

Corporate governance arrangements

The Company’s statement of corporate governance arrangements is included within the Corporate Governance
Report and is incorporated by reference into this Directors’ Report.

22

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Directors’ report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Going Concern

The Company’s business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, its financial
position and financial risk management objectives and policies are described in the Strategic report.

On 25 March 2022 the Department for Transport (DfT) awarded the Company a National Rail Contract (NRC) to
continue operating the Thameslink, Gatwick Express, Southern and Great Northern rail services, the UK's largest
railway network. The new contract commenced on | April 2022 and will run until at least 1 April 2025, and will
continue thereafter to March 2028 at the Secretary of State's discretion. After 1 April 2025, the Secretary of State
has the authority to give three reporting periods’ notice if they wish to end the NRC before March 2028.

The NRC is a management contract which has limited exposure to changes in passenger demand. There is cost
risk to the Company, but this risk is managed through the Company’s internal processes and controls. Disallowable
expenditure, based on current and historical trends, is forecast at less than £1m per financial year. The Board and
management team of GTR will continue to employ robust cost control measures to prevent any significant
disallowable costs being incurred.

The NRC sets out the deliverables required by the DfT from the Company over the contract term. The NRC
includes a large number of performance measures and deliverables spread across the business that need to be met
to avoid contractual default. A specialist Contract Compliance Team is in place within the Company to ensure
NRC deliverables are met within the timescales set out by the DfT. As a result of the NRC being in place, the
Company is somewhat insulated from the economic impacts of passenger travelling trends, industrial action and
cost inflation. The Company earns a fixed management fee, performance-based fee, revenue incentive fee (ROM)
and industry reform fee for specific Industry Change Projects (“ICPs”) during the NRC period which gives
reasonable certainty on the Company’s financial results. Whilst there is uncertainty over the final amounts to be
received for the performance-based fee, ROM fee and industry reform fee, the management fee is sufficient to
mitigate GTR’s cost risk under normal trading conditions. During the first two years of the NRC contract the Board
and management has successfully mitigated the risks in the contract and achieved a sustainable level of profit.

As part of their going concern assessment, the directors considered a number of forecast sensitivities inherent
within the NRC including the performance-based fee, the risk of incurring disallowable expenditure, the risk of
exceeding the cost budget agreed within the contract, the DfT making a claim against the Company, additional
regulatory obligations and revenue foregone. None of the conclusions suggested the financial statements should
not be prepared on a going concern basis. The directors have, based on their assessment of the prospects and going
concern of the Company, concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to
continue in operation and meet all of its liabilities as they fall due during the going concem period.

However, the directors do recognise that there is a three reporting periods’ notice break clause within the NRC
from 1 April 2025, together with the Labour party’s manifesto to renationalise passenger rail, this does create a
material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt on the Cornpany’s ability to continue as a going concern.

While the contract could theoretically be ended within the next twelve months, the directors currently believe it is
more likely than not that the Secretary of State will not exercise this option. This is due to the timescales involved
in taking the franchise back into public ownership, and the directors’ belief that the Company has acted as a good
and efficient operator. The directors have received no clear indication as at the date of signing these accounts that
the break clause within the NRC will be exercised within the next 12 months.

In conclusion, despite the material uncertainty, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the Annual Report and Financial Statements.

23

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Directors’ report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Events subsequent to the end of the year

For details of events subsequent to the end of the year, please refer to note 28 Post Balance Sheet Events.

Directors’ indemnities

The Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal
action brought against the directors. The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its directors and the
Company Secretary which represent “qualifying third party indemnity provisions” (as defined by section 234 of
the Companies Act 2006), in relation to certain losses and liabilities which the directors (or Company Secretary)
may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors (or Company Secretary) or employees of the Company
or of any associated Company.

Directors of the company

Except as noted, the directors who served the Company during the year, and up to the date of signing the
financial statements, were as follows:

C Schreyer (resigned 31 October 2023)
I Grose (appointed | November 2023)
H Verwer

A Doll

L Frances

D Lavelle

V Merle

R Pidsley (appointed 30 January 2024)

1 Grose and H Verwer are directors of The Go-Ahead Group Limited. C Schreyer was a director of The Go-
Ahead Group Limited.

24

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Directors’ report (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Directors’ statement as to disclosure of information to the auditor

The directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Directors’ report are listed on page 1.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Company’s auditor, each of these directors confirms that:

© — to the best of each director’s knowledge and belief, there is no information (this is, information needed by the
Company’s auditor in connection with preparing their report) of which the Company’s auditor is unaware;
and

© each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.

This statement is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of $418 of the Companies Act
2006.

Auditor

MHA have expressed their willingness to continue as auditor and appropriate arrangements are being made for
them to be deemed reappointed as auditor in the absence of an Annual General Meeting.

Registered office: The Directors’ report was approved by the Board of

3rd Floor Directors on 23 July 2024 and signed on their behalf by
41 - 51 Grey Street

Newcastle upon Tyne OR

NE1 6EE

United Kingdom “etl,
Ralph Pidsley

Director
24 July 2024

25

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited
Directors’ responsibilities statement

The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), including FRS 101 “Reduced
Disclosure Framework”. Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the profit or loss of the
Company for that year.

In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:

select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

¢ — prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included

on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

26

Independent auditor’s report
to the members of Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Govia Thameslink Railway Limited (the ‘Company’) for the year
ended 31 March 2024 which comprise the Income statement, Statement of comprehensive income, Statement of
changes in equity, Balance sheet and notes to the financial statements, including significant accounting policies.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the company’s financial statements
is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 101
Reduced Disclosure Framework (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:

* give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2024 and of the Company’s profit
for the year then ended;

* have been properly prepared in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and

* have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor Responsibilities
for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in
accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK,
including the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with those
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
basis for our opinion.

Material uncertainty related to going concern

We draw your attention to Note 2 of the financial statements, which explains the Company has a twelve-week
(three reporting periods) notice break clause within the National Rail Contract (from 1 April 2025), the exercise
of the break clause would terminate further passenger and subsidy revenues. In addition to this, the Labour party
won the July 2024 general election, the party's manifesto included proposals to renationalise passenger rail. These
conditions indicate that there exists material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt on the Company's ability
to continue as a going concern. Our opinion is not modified in respect of this matter.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concer basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report other than the financial statements
and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the annual
report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent
otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. Our
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements,
we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements
themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this
other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

27

Independent auditor’s report (continued)
to the members of Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

* the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

* the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the
audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires
us to report to you if, in our opinion:

* adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from
branches not visited by us; or

+ the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and retums; or

* certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

* we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such
internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to
continue as a going concem, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concem basis of accounting untess the directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or
have no realistic alternative but to do so.

28

Independent auditor’s report (continued)
to the members of Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

es for the audit of the financial statements

Auditor’s responsib

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our

opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in

accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.

Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures
in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities,
including fraud. The specific procedures for this engagement and the extent to which these are capable of
detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below:

* Enquiry of management, those charged with governance and legal advisors around actual and potential
litigation and claims;

* Enquiry of entity staff in compliance functions to identify any instances of non-compliance with laws and
regulations;

* Performing audit work over the risk of management override of controls, including testing of journal entries
and other adjustments for appropriateness, evaluating the business rationale of significant transactions outside
the normal course of business and reviewing accounting estimates for bias;

+ Reviewing minutes of meetings of those charged with governance;

« Weconsidered the nature of the industry, the key laws and regulatory environment in which the Company
operates. We identified the potential for bias in applying judgement in classification of expenses as allowable for
reimbursement under the terms of the NRC to have the greatest potential for fraud or non-compliance. Our
procedures to address this risk included:

o Testing a sample of allowable and disallowable expenses to assess the accuracy of classification;

o Evaluating the reasonableness of reporting submissions to the Department for Transport (‘DfT’); and

o Holding direct enquiries with the DfT to ascertain if any breaches or suspicion of breaches had been
identified

+ Reviewing financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with
applicable laws and regulations.

Because of the inherent limitations of an audit, there is a risk that we will not detect all irregularities, including
those leading to a material misstatement in the financial statements or non-compliance with regulation. This risk
increases the more that compliance with a law or regulation is removed from the events and transactions
reflected in the financial statements, as we will be less likely to become aware of instances of non-compliance.
The risk is also greater regarding irregularities occurring due to fraud rather than error, as fraud involves
intentional concealment, forgery, collusion, omission or misrepresentation.

A further description of our responsibilities for the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at:
www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities . This description forms part of our auditor’s report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the
Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

feito

Andrew Moyser FCA FCCA

(Senior Statutory Auditor)

for and on behalf of MHA, Statutory Auditor
London, United Kingdom

24 July 2024

MHA is the trading name of MacIntyre Hudson LLP, a limited liability partnership in England and Wales
(registered number OC3 12313)
29

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Income statement
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2024 2023

Notes £7000 £'000
Revenue 3 1,812,102 1,661,361
Operating costs 4 (1,776,513) (1,632,527)
Reversal of impairment losses on financial assets 4,16 1,113 4,388
Operating profit before exceptional items 36,702 33,221
Exceptional operating costs 4 - (1,070)
Operating profit after exceptional items 36,702 32,151
Interest receivable and similar income 7 2,270 720
Interest payable and similar expenses 8 (11,562) (18,801)
Profit before taxation 27,410 14,070
Tax on profit 9 ~ (7,192) (2,642)
Profit for the year from continuing operations 20,218 11,428

Operating activities from continuing operations comprise operation of the Thameslink and Great Northern routes
and the operation of Southern and Gatwick Express routes.

30

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Statement of comprehensive income

for the year ended 31 March 2024

Profit for the year from continuing
operations

Total comprehensive income for the year

Statement of changes in equity

for the year ended 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2022

Profit and total comprehensive income for the year
Share based payments (note 23)

Equity dividends paid (note 10)

At 31 March 2023

Profit and total comprehensive income for the year
Share based payments (note 23)
Equity dividends paid (note 10)

At 31 March 2024

31

Year ended 31
March 2024

£'000
20,218

20,218

Retained
Share capital earnings

£'000 £°000

5,000 82,829
- 11,428
- (591)
- (16,912)

5,000 76,754
- 20,218

- (62,296)

5,000 34,676

Year ended
31 March
2023

£'000
11,428

11,428

Total
Equity
£'000

87,829
11,428
(591)
(16,912)

81,754
20,218

(62,296)

39,676


Govia Thameslink Railway Limited
Registered No: 07934306

Balance sheet
at 31 March 2024

31 March 31 March

2024 2023
Notes £000 £'000
Assets
Non-current assets
Right of use assets 13 293,814 587,399
Finance lease receivables 14 - 3,771
Deferred tax assets 9 4,234 4,977
298,048 596,147
. Current assets
inventories 15 5,246 5,349
Trade and other receivables 16 353,128 350,694
Finance lease receivables 14 3,564 3,269
Cash and cash equivalents 24 & 27 46,695 66,640
Current tax assets 9 96 -
408,729 425,952
Total assets 706,777 1,022,099
Liabilities
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 17 (299,626) (268,794)
Lease liabilities 13 (284,767) (282,939)
Current tax liabilities 9 - (3,483)
Provisions 18 (67,371) (71,599)

(651,764) (626,815)
Non-current liabilities

Lease liabilities 13 - (298,436)
Provisions 18 (15,337) (15,094)
(15,337) (313,530)
Total liabilities (667,101) (940,345)
Net current liabilities (243,035) (200,863)
Total assets less current liabilities 55,013 395,284
Net assets 39,676 81,754
Capital and reserves
Share capital 22 5,000 5,000
Retained earnings 34,676 76,754
Total equity , 39,676 81,754
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 24 July 2024 and
signed on their behalf by: OR

Ralph Pidsley, Director

32

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 March 2024

1. Authorisation of financial statements and statement of compliance with FRS 101

These financial statements of Govia Thameslink Railway Limited (the “Company”) for the year ended 31 March
2024 were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 24 July 2024 and the balance sheet was signed on the
Board’s behalf by Ralph Pidsley. The Company is a private company limited by shares incorporated in the United
Kingdom under the Companies Act 2006 and is registered in England and Wales. The address of the Company’s
registered office is shown on page 1.

These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced
Disclosure Framework (“FRS 101”).

Principal accounting policies adopted by the Company are set out in note 2. They have been applied consistently
throughout the year and the prior period unless otherwise stated.

2. Accounting policies
2.1 Basis of preparation

This note details the accounting policies which have been applied in the financial statements. In preparing these
financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the United Kingdom (“UK-adopted IFRS”) but
makes amendments where necessary in order to comply with the Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where
advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has been taken.

The Company’s ultimate parent undertaking, Go-Ahead Investment Topco Limited (previously Gerrard
Investment Topco Limited), includes the Company in its consolidated financial statements. The Company’s results
are also included in the consolidated financial statements of The Go-Ahead Group Limited, an intermediate parent
undertaking of the Company. The consolidated financial statements of both Go-Ahead Investment Topco Limited
and The Go-Ahead Group Ltd are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. Both
sets of accounts will be made available to the public and obtainable from Companies House, Cardiff.

The financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for financial instruments that are
measured at fair value as explained in the accounting policies below. The financial statements are presented in
pounds sterling which is also the functional currency of the Company and all values are rounded to the nearest
thousand (£7000) except when otherwise indicated.

In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the
following disclosures and standards:

e the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures;

e the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement;

« the requirements in paragraph 38 of IAS | Presentation of Financial Statements to present comparative
information in respect of paragraph 73(e) of [AS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment;

© the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 111 and 134 of [AS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements;
e the requirements of [AS 7 Statement of Cash Flows;

e — the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of [AS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates
and Errors;

e the requirements of paragraph 17 of [AS 24 Related Party Disclosures;
e the requirements of paragraphs 45(b) and 46-52 of IFRS 2 Share based payments;
e the requirements of paragraphs 134 (d)-(f} and 135(c)-(e) of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets;

e the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into
between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the
transaction is wholly owned by such a member;

33

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.1 Basis of preparation (continued)
e the requirements of paragraphs 110 (2nd sentence), 113(a), 114, 115, 118, 119(a)-119(c), 120-127 and
129 of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers; and

e the requirements of paragraph 52, 89 (2nd sentence), 90, 91 and 93 of IFRS 16 Leases and the
requirements of paragraph 58 of IFRS 16, provided that the disclosure of details of indebtedness
required by paragraph 61(1) of Schedule 1 to the Regulations is presented separately for lease liabilities
and other liabilities, and in total.

Going Concern

The Company’s business activities, together with factors likely to affect its future development, its financial
position and financial risk management objectives and policies are described in the Strategic report.

On 25 March 2022 the Department for Transport (DfT) awarded the Company a National Rail Contract (NRC) to
continue operating the Thameslink, Gatwick Express, Southern and Great Northem rail services, the UK's largest
railway network. The new contract commenced on | April 2022 and will run until at least 1 April 2025, and will
continue thereafter to March 2028 at the Secretary of State's discretion. After | April 2025, the Secretary of State
has the authority to give three reporting periods’ notice if they wish to end the NRC before March 2028.

The NRC is a management contract which has limited exposure to changes in passenger demand. There is cost
risk to the Company, but this risk is managed through the Company’s internal processes and controls. Disallowable
expenditure, based on current and historical trends, is forecast at less than £1m per financial year. The Board and
management team of GTR will continue to employ robust cost control measures to prevent any significant
disallowable costs being incurred.

The NRC sets out the deliverables required by the DfT from the Company over the contract term. The NRC
includes a large number of performance measures and deliverables spread across the business that need to be met
to avoid contractual default. A specialist Contract Compliance Team is in place within the Company to ensure
NRC deliverables are met within the timescales set out by the DfT. As a result of the NRC being in place, the
Company is somewhat insulated from the economic impacts of passenger travelling trends, industrial action and
cost inflation. The Company earns a fixed management fee, performance-based fee, revenue incentive fee (ROM)
and industry reform fee for specific Industry Change Projects (“ICPs”) during the NRC period which gives
reasonable certainty on the Company’s financial results. Whilst there is uncertainty over the fina! amounts to be
received for the performance-based fee, ROM fee and industry reform fee, the management fee is sufficient to
mitigate GTR’s cost risk under normal trading conditions. During the first two years of the NRC contract the Board
and management has successfully mitigated the risks in the contract and achieved a sustainable level of profit.

As part of their going concern assessment, the directors considered a number of forecast sensitivities inherent
within the NRC including the performance-based fee, the risk of incurring disallowable expenditure, the risk of
exceeding the cost budget agreed within the contract, the DfT making a claim against the Company, additional
regulatory obligations and revenue foregone. None of the conclusions suggested the financial statements should
not be prepared on a going concern basis. The directors have, based on their assessment of the prospects and going
concern of the Company, concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company will be able to
continue in operation and meet all of its liabilities as they fall due during the going concern period.

However, the directors do recognise that there is a three reporting periods’ notice break clause within the NRC
from 1 April 2025, together with the Labour party’s manifesto to renationalise passenger rail, this does create a
material uncertainty that may cast significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

While the contract could theoretically be ended within the next twelve months, the directors currently believe the
Secretary of State will not exercise this option. This is due to the timescales involved in taking the franchise back
into public ownership, and the directors’ belief that the Company has acted as a good and efficient operator. The
directors have received no clear indication as at the date of signing these accounts that the break clause within the
NRC will be exercised within the next 12 months.

In conclusion, despite the material uncertainty, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing
the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
34

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)

New standards
The following new standards or interpretations are mandatory for the first time for the year ended 31 March
2024:
° Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and IFRS Practice Statement 2 Making
Materiality Judgements— Disclosure of Accounting Policies
+ IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts (including the June 2020 and December 2021 Amendments to IFRS 17)
* Amendments to IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors—Definition
of Accounting Estimates
* Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes—Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a
Single Transaction
° Amendments to IAS 12 Income Taxes— International Tax Reform—Pillar Two Model Rules

Adoption of the standards and interpretations had no material impact on the Company’s financial position or
related performance.

2.2 Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions
about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates
and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.
Actual results may ultimately differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis. Revisions to accounting estimates
are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year, or in the year of
the revision and future years if the revision affects both current and future years.

Critical judgements in applying the Company’s accounting policies
The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations, that the directors have made in
the process of applying the Company’s accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts
recognised in the financial statements:

Accounting for the Railways Pension Scheme (RPS)
The Company participates in the Railways Pension Scheme (RPS), a defined benefit pension scheme which covers
the whole of the UK rail industry. In contrast to the pension schemes operated by most businesses, the RPS is a
shared cost scheme which means that costs are formally shared between the employer and employee at 60% and
40% respectively. The Company only recognises amounts in relation to its share of costs in the income statement.
The RPS is partitioned into sections and the Company is responsible for the funding of these sections whilst it
operates the relevant franchise. At the end of the franchise term, responsibility for the funding, and consequently
any deficit or surplus existing at that date, is passed to the next franchisee. At each balance sheet date, a franchise
adjustment is recognised to the IAS 19 net pension asset or liability to reflect that portion expected to pass to the
next franchisee.

The directors view this arrangement as synonymous to the circumstances described in paragraphs 92-94 of IAS
19 Employee Benefits (Revised), with a third party taking on the obligation for future contributions. As there is
no requirement to make contributions to fund the current deficit, then it is assumed that all of the current deficit
will be funded by another party and hence none of the deficit is attributable to the current franchisee. In respect of
the future service costs, there is currently no pension obligation in respect of those costs. When the costs are
recognised in the income statement, the extent to which the committed contributions fall short determines the
amount that is to be covered by contributions of another party in the future, which is recognised as an adjustment

to service costs in the income statement. As a result, any portion of service costs not expected to be covered by _

contributions paid during the franchise but expected to transfer at the end of the franchise is treated as an
adjustment to the income statement.

Under circumstances where contributions are renegotiated, for example, following a statutory valuation, an
adjustment will be recognised in the income statement.

35

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)
2.2 Critical judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)

The directors deem this to be the most appropriate interpretation of IAS 19 to reflect the specific circumstances of
the RPS where the franchise commitment is only to pay contributions during the period in which the Company
runs the franchise. An alternative approach would involve not limiting the measurement of the service cost through
the recognition of an income statement franchise adjustment, but recognising all movements on the franchise
adjustment as a movement in a reimbursement right in other comprehensive income. For the year ended 31 March
2024 the impact of this alternative treatment, on a post-tax basis, would be an increase in costs of £6.5m (2023:
increase of £12.2m) to the income statement and a credit to other comprehensive income of £154.1m (2023: credit
of £390.5m). Since the franchise contract only refers to the contribution requirements during the franchise term,
and not any reimbursement rights, the directors consider that viewing the treatment as contribution sharing with
the next franchisee is most appropriate.

Contract and franchise accounting

The commercial entities in the UK rail industry were.created at the time of privatisation and the relationships
between them are governed by a number of contracts between the major participants, the DfT, Network Rail and
train operating companies. These contracts include detailed performance regimes which determine the allocation
of financial responsibility relating to the attribution of delays. The processes for attribution, whilst well understood,
require detailed assessment and can take significant time to resolve, particularly in unusual circumstances.

The useful economic lives of assets (Right of use assets and finance lease receivable capitalised under IFRS 16)
within the Train Operating Companies (TOCs) are determined by reference to the length of the franchise and are
matched to the contractual franchise end date. The residual value of assets is determined by their condition at the
franchise end date and by the level of maintenance that has been undertaken during the period of operation.

The Company makes provisions for income and costs relating to performance regimes and contractual obligations
relating to operating delays caused by Network Rail or caused by our own operating companies. This process is
based primarily on previous experience of settling such claims, or in certain circumstances, based on
management’s view of the most likely outcome of individual claims. The Company has significant internal
expertise to assess and manage these aspects of the agreements and the issues relating to delay attribution to enable
management to assess the most probable outcomes; nonetheless significant judgements are required, which can
have material impacts on the financial statements.

Accordingly, judgements in these and other areas are made on a continuing basis with regard to amounts due and
the recoverable carrying value of related assets and liabilities arising from franchises and other contracts. Regular
reviews are performed on the expected outcome of these arrangements, which require assessments and judgements
relating to the expected level of revenues and costs. Please refer to note 26 for details of contingent liabilities
relating to these judgements and estimations.

The measurement of franchise commitments, comprising dilapidation provisions on rolling stock, depots and
stations is set out in notes 18 and 26. Significant elements of the provisions required are subject to interpretation
of franchise agreements and rolling stock agreements. The Company has significant internal expertise to assess
and manage these aspects of the agreements and to enable management to assess the most probable outcomes.
Where appropriate, and specifically in assessing dilapidation provisions, this process is supported by valuations
from professional external advisors to support provision levels. Sensitivity analysis with respect to franchise
commitments is provided in note 18.

Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing material adjustments to the
carrying value of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are in relation to:

Pre-Emergency Measures Agreement (EMA) settlements

For the year ended 31 March 2024, provisions are being held relating to dilapidations which will be settled at the
end of the NRC. These will constitute pre-EMA settlements and are explained in detail in note 18.

36

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)
2.3 Material accounting policies

Revenue Recognition

The revenue of the Company mainly comprises income from rail passenger transport. The Company has a number
of revenue streams which consist of revenue from passengers, contracts, franchise subsidies as well as other
miscellaneous revenue streams. Revenue is recognised on satisfaction of performance obligations. Revenue is
measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, (excluding discounts, rebates, VAT and
other sales taxes or duty) to which the Company expects to be entitled to and excludes amounts collected on behalf
of third parties. An explanation of the main revenue streams is set out below:

Passenger revenue

Passenger revenue mainly relates to revenue from rail ticket sales.

Revenue comprises amounts based principally on agreed models of route usage, by Railway Settlement Plan
Limited (which administers the income allocation system within the UK rail industry), in respect of passenger
receipts and other related services such as rolling stock maintenance and commission on tickets sold. Passenger
revenue is collected and remitted to the DfT net of management charges payable by the DfT as revenue. In
accordance with the Company’s franchise agreement and IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers,
passenger revenue is regarded as income and an expense is recognised for the net amount paid to the DfT. Over
their lifetime, the Company may switch between being in a ‘premium’ position (when the amounts payable to the
DfT exceed the amounts received from them) and being in a ‘subsidy’ position (when the amounts received from
the DfT exceed the amounts paid to them). When the Company is in a subsidy position subsidy revenue is
recognised, in addition to passenger revenue.

Passenger revenue is recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the customer’s journey or for other
services based on the proportion of services provided. The attributable share of season ticket or travel card income
is deferred within liabilities and released to the income statement over the life of the relevant season ticket or travel
card.

Delay Repay is a national scheme that train companies use to compensate customers for unexpected delays and
cancellations. Where the customer arrives 15 minutes or more late at their destination because of a delay or
cancellation to a GTR service, the customer can claim Delay Repay compensation. The amount of compensation
the customer is entitled to depends on the length of delay and ticket type. Delay Repay compensation is offset
against Passenger revenue in the period to which it relates.

Other revenue

Other revenue mainly relates to revenue for ancillary services to other rail passenger service providers, for services
such as maintenance and cleaning. Other revenue is recognised in the period to which it relates. Other revenue
also includes rental income which is generated from rental of surplus properties and subleasing of rolling stock
and railway infrastructure access. Other revenue is recognised in the period to which it relates, for the transaction
price specified in the contract.

Franchise subsidy

Franchise subsidy revenue comprises revenue from the relevant local transport authorities which are recognised
under the terms of the franchise agreements. The franchise agreements include minimum specifications of
passenger services to be provided by the operator, which is determined to be the performance obligation within
the contract. Franchise premium payments to the DfT, for amounts due under the terms of the Company, are
recognised in operating costs.

The NRC transferred substantially all revenue and cost risk to the Government. The Company is paid a
management fee to continue running a revised National Rail timetable across the UK. Net NRC funding, including
the management fee, is recognised as franchise subsidy within revenue. For the duration of the year ended 31
March 2024, the performance-based fee (PBF) is assessed through a review process on a list of quantitative and
scorecard measures under operational performance, customer experience & Service Quality Regime, and finance.
When assessing the PBF for the year, management consider historical contract performance and key events during
the performance period to inform their judgement. When individual scores are known, up to the date of the signing
of the accounts, adjustments are made to the PBF recognised (see note 28 for further details). The PBF is
recognised in accordance with IFRS 15 paragraph 56 only to the extent that it is highly probable that

37

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)
2.3 Material accounting policies (continued)

Revenue Recognition (continued)

Franchise subsidy (continued)

a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur. The most likely method is
applied in estimating the variable consideration.

From October 2023, GTR agreed with the DfT additional contractual terms known as the Revenue Outturn
Mechanism (ROM) regime. The impact of the ROM is an upside or downside to the PBF based on actual revenue
compared to DfT benchmarks for the assessment period. The first assessment period ran from October 2023 to the
end of the financial year. Both the potential upside or downside of the ROM fee are capped as a proportion of the
PBF, which represents limited opportunity or risk. Unlike the PBF, there is no equivalent variability in the ROM
fee as actual revenue is known at the year-end for the full assessment period.

All franchise subsidies are recognised in the period to which they relate.

Interest receivable and similar income
Interest on deposits is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the effective interest
rate applicable.

Interest payable and similar expenses

Debt is initially stated at the amount of the net proceeds, being the fair value of the consideration received after
deduction of issue costs. Following initial recognition, the carrying amount is measured at amortised cost using
the effective interest method. Amortisation of liabilities and any gains and losses arising on the repurchase,
settlement or other derecognition of debt are recognised directly in the income statement. Issue costs relating to
any term extensions are offset against the proceeds and amortised over the life of the extension.

Intangible fixed assets

Software costs, that are not integral to the related hardware, are capitalised as an intangible asset and stated at cost
less amortisation and any impairment in value. Amortisation is charged to the income statement evenly over its
expected useful life of three years.

Plant, property and equipment
Plant, property and equipment are stated at cost, or deemed cost, less accumulated depreciation, any impairment
in value and any residual value. Freehold land is not depreciated.

Residual values and useful economic lives are reviewed annually. Where there is a contract end date, useful
economic lives are based on this, not including any possible extensions not yet confirmed. Depreciation is charged
on all additions to, or disposals of, depreciating assets in the year of purchase or disposal and over their expected
useful life on a straight-line basis as follows:

Plant & equipment -  1to7 years

The carrying values of items of property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment when events or changes
in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. If any such indication exists the assets are
written down to their recoverable amount, being the higher of value in use or fair value less costs of disposal. Any
impairment in value is recognised immediately in the income statement.

Inventories

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, after making due allowance for obsolete and
slow-moving items. Cost comprises direct materials and costs incurred in bringing the items to their present
location and condition. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less costs of sale. Inventories are
calculated using the first in first out method (FIFO).

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and short-term deposits in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand, and short-term deposits with
an original maturity of three months or less from inception.

38

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.3 Material accounting policies (continued)

Taxation

Current tax assets and liabilities are measured at the amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation
authorities on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or
the liability is settled, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance
sheet date.

Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between
the tax base of assets and liabilities for taxation purposes and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. It
is provided for on all temporary differences except on the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction
that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor
taxable profit or loss.

Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will be
reversed in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred

tax asset to be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part
of the deferred income tax asset to be utilised.

Tax relating to items recognised outside the income statement is recognised in other comprehensive income or
directly in equity in correlation with the underlying transaction. Otherwise, tax is recognised in the income
statement.

Leases

Lease identification

At inception of a contract, the Company assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or
contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in
exchange for consideration.

Right of use asset

Right of use assets are measured initially at cost based on the value of the associated lease liability, adjusted for
any payments made before inception, initial direct costs and an estimate of the dismantling, removal and restoration
costs required in the terms of the lease. The right of use assets are subsequently depreciated on a straight-line basis
over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the lease term. The lease term includes the period of an
extension option where it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised. Where the lease contains a
purchase option the asset is written-off over the useful life of the asset when it is reasonably certain that the
purchase option will be exercised. In addition, the right of use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses,
if applicable, and adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability.

Lease liability

At the commencement date of the lease, the lease liability is initially measured at the present value of lease
payments to be made over the lease term with payments discounted at the rate implicit in the lease or, where that
cannot be measured, at the Company’s incremental borrowing rate, being the rate that the individual lessee would
have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of similar value to the right of use asset in a similar
economic environment with similar terms, security and conditions.

The lease payments include fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments) less any lease incentives
receivable, variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, and amounts expected to be paid by the
Company under residual value guarantees. The lease payments also include the exercise price of a purchase option
if the Company is reasonably certain to exercise that option. Payments of penalties for terminating a lease, if the
lease term reflects the Company exercising the option to terminate the lease, are also included.

The lease liability is subsequently measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect the interest on the lease

liability and reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made. Interest is charged at a constant rate
on the carrying amount of the lease liability.

39

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.3 Material accounting policies (continued)
Leases (continued)
Finance Lease Receivable
At the commencement date, the Company recognises assets held under a finance lease in its Balance Sheet and
presents them as a receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. The Company uses the interest
rate implicit in the lease to measure the net investment in the lease. In the case of a sublease, if the interest rate
implicit in the sublease cannot be readily determined, the Company uses the discount rate used for the head lease
(adjusted for any initial direct costs associated with the sublease) to measure the net investment in the sublease.
Initial indirect costs are included in the initial measurement of the net investment in the lease and reduce the
amount of income recognised over the lease term.

The lease payments include fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives
payable, variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, any residual value guarantees provided to the
Company by the lessee, a party related to the lessee or a third party unrelated to the Company that is financially
capable of discharging the obligations under the guarantee. The lease payments also include the exercise price of
a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option. Payments of penalties for terminating
the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising an option to terminate the lease, are also included.

The Company recognises finance income over the lease term, based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate
of return on the Company’s net investment in the lease and applies the lease payments relating to the period against
the gross investment in the lease to reduce both the principal and the unearned finance income. The Company
regularly reviews the estimated unguaranteed residual values used in computing the gross investment in the lease.
If there has been a reduction in the estimated unguaranteed residual value, the Company revises the income
allocation over the lease term and recognises immediately any reduction in respect of amounts accrued.

All Finance lease receivable relates to trains sub-leased to SE Trains Limited. The risk is managed through
contracts countersigned by the DfT.

The Company remeasures the lease liability (and makes a corresponding adjustment to the related right-of-use
asset) whenever:

+ The lease term has changed or there is a significant event or change in circumstances resulting in a change in
the assessment of exercise of a purchase option, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting
the revised lease payments using a revised discount rate.

+ The lease payments change due to changes in an index or rate or a change in expected payment under a
guaranteed residual value, in which cases the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease
payments using an unchanged discount rate (unless the lease payments change is due to a change in a floating
interest rate, in which case a revised discount rate is used).

- A lease contract is modified and the lease modification is not accounted for as a separate lease, in which case
the lease liability is remeasured based on the lease term of the modified lease by discounting the revised lease
payments using a revised discount rate at the effective date of the modification.

Short term and low value asset leases

The Company has elected not to recognise right of use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases that have a
lease term of less than 12 months and leases of low-value assets. Lease payments relating to short-term leases and
leases of low-value assets are recognised as an expense on a Straight-line basis over the lease term.

Retirement benefits .

The Company participates in the Railways Pensions Scheme (RPS), which is an industry-wide defined benefit
scheme. The Company is obligated to fund the relevant section of the scheme over the period for which the
franchise is held.

All the costs, and any deficit or surplus, are shared 60% by the employer and 40% by the members. In addition, at
the end of the franchise, any deficit or surplus in the scheme passes to the subsequent franchisee with no
compensating payments from or to the outgoing franchise holder. The Company’s obligations are therefore limited
to its contributions payable to the schemes during the period over which it operates the franchise, these

40

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.3 Material accounting policies (continued)
Retirement benefits (continued)
contributions being subject to change on consideration of future statutory valuations. The net liability reflects the
Company’s obligation to fund the statutory deficits of the relevant RPS sections over the franchise term.

The last statutory valuation of the RPS scheme sections in which the Company is involved, carried out on 31
December 2022, and its IAS 19 actuarial valuation are carried out for different purposes and may result in
materially different amounts. There are ongoing funding deficits across the RPS schemes in which the Company
participates and the IAS 19 valuation is set out in the disclosures below.

The accounting treatment for the time-based risk-sharing feature of the Company’s participation in the RPS is
not explicitly considered by IAS 19 Employee Benefits (Revised). Since the contributions currently committed
to being paid to each TOC section are lower than the share of the service cost (for current and future service)
than would normally be calculated under IAS 19 Employee Benefits (Revised), the Company does not account
for uncommitted contributions towards the section’s current or expected future deficits. This reflects the legal
position that some of the existing deficit and some of the service costs in the current period will be funded in
future years beyond the term of the current franchise and committed contributions. As a result, the Company
consequently reduces any section deficit balance and reduces any service costs that would give rise to an
increase in such deficit through the use of a franchise adjustment. The franchise adjustment reflects the extent to
which third parties are expected to contribute towards the cost of the plan as a consequence of the deficit
transferring at the end of the franchise, which is deemed, in the directors’ view, in line with paragraphs 92~94 of
IAS 19 Employee Benefits (Revised). Under circumstances where contributions are renegotiated, for example,
following a statutory valuation, an adjustment will be recognised in the income statement, whilst changes in
actuarial assumptions continue to be recognised through the statement of other comprehensive income.

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal obligation as a result of past events, it is probable
that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate of the amount can be
made. If the effect is material, expected future cash flows are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects,
where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. The discount rate also reflects the current market assessments
of the time value of money.

The Company provides for property, station and fleet dilapidations, where appropriate, based on the future
expected repair costs required to restore them to their fair condition at the end of their respective lease terms,
where it is considered a reliable estimate can be made. The Company also provides for penalties where appropriate.

A provision is recognised in the balance sheet for any contract that is onerous. A contract is considered onerous
where the unavoidable costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected
to be received under it. The unavoidable costs under a contract reflect the lease net cost of exiting from the contract,
which is the lower of the cost of fulfilling it and any compensation or penalties arising from failure to fulfil it.
Determining the amount of an onerous contract provision may involve forecasting future financial performance.
The amount of any onerous contract provision is re-assessed at each balance sheet date. Any increase or decrease
required to the amount of the provision is charged or credited to the income statement.

Uninsured liabilities

The Company limits its exposure to the cost of motor and other assets, employer and public liability claims through
insurance policies issued by third parties. These provide individual claim cover, subject to high excess limits and
an annual aggregate stop loss, for total claims within the excess limits. A discounted provision is recognised for
the estimated cost to the Company to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.

The estimation of this provision is made after taking appropriate professional advice and is based on an assessment
of the expected settlement on known claims, together with an estimate of settlements that will be made in respect
of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date but that have not yet been reported to the Company by the
insurer.

Provisions are accounted for on a gross basis with a separate reimbursement asset recognised for amounts
recoverable from insurance providers.

Al

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)
2.3 Material accounting policies (continued)
Financial instruments

Financial assets

The Company’s financial assets are initially recognised at fair value, being the transaction price plus, in the case
of financial assets not recorded at fair value through profit or loss in the income statement, directly attributable
transaction costs. Financial assets are subsequently classified as being measured at amortised cost, fair value
through other comprehensive income, or fair value through the income statement.

The Company’s financial assets at amortised cost are non-derivative financial assets held for collection of
contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest. Financial assets
at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the effective interest method and are subject to impairment.
Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised, modified or impaired.

The Company does not have any financial assets held at fair value through the income statement.
The Company does not have any financial assets held at fair value through other comprehensive income.

The Company uses an impairment model with impairment provisions based on expected credit losses (ECL). The
Company applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach and measures the loss allowance on the lifetime expected credit
losses at each reporting date for trade receivables, contract assets, accrued income and lease receivables using a
provision matrix based on the Company’s historical credit loss experience. The loss allowance on the receivables
from central government is measured at an amount equal to 12-months’ expected credit losses because these assets
have a low credit risk at the reporting date.

For all other financial instruments, the Company recognises lifetime ECL when there has been a significant
increase in credit risk (such as changes to credit ratings) since initial recognition. However, if the credit risk on
the financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Company measures the loss
allowance for that financial instrument at an amount equal to 12-month ECL.

For the purposes of impairment assessment, receivables from governments are considered to be low risk as a result
of the ability of governments to meet contractual cashflows.

Trade receivables, amounts recoverable on contracts and accrued income are written-off when there is no
reasonable expectation of recovery. Impairment losses on trade receivables are presented as net impairment losses
within operating profit. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written-off are credited against the same line
item.

Financial assets are derecognised when the right to receive cash flows from the asset has expired, the right to
receive cash flows has been retained but an obligation to on-pay them in full without material delay has been
assumed or the right to receive cash flows has been transferred together with substantially all the risks and rewards
of ownership.

Financial liabilities

The Company’s financial liabilities include trade payables and accruals. At initial recognition, the Company
measures financial liabilities at fair value plus, in the case of a financial liability not at fair value through the
income statement, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issue of the financial liability. All other
financial liabilities are subsequently measured on an amortised costs basis under the effective interest method.

The Company derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Company’s obligations are discharged,

cancelled or have expired. The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and
the consideration paid and payable is recognised in the income statement.

42

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.3 Material accounting policies (continued)

Share based payment transactions

The cost of options granted to employees is measured by reference to the fair value at the date at which they are
granted, determined by an external valuation using an appropriate pricing model. In granting equity-settled options,
conditions are linked to some or all of the following: the price of the shares of The Go-Ahead Group Ltd (market
conditions); conditions not related to performance or service (non-vesting conditions); performance conditions (a
vesting condition); and service conditions (a vesting condition).

The cost of options is recognised in the income statement over the period from grant to vesting date, being the
date on which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award, with a corresponding increase in
equity. The cumulative expense recognised at each reporting date reflects the extent to which the period to
vesting has expired and the directors’ best estimate of the number of options that will ultimately vest or, in the
case of an instrument subject to a market or non-vesting condition, be treated as vesting as described above.
This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of the Group or the employee are not
met. As these relate to shares of The Go-Ahead Group Ltd when the awards are vested the amounts are
recharged from the Group. :

No cost is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional upon
a market or non-vesting condition. These are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-
vesting condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied. Where an equity-settled
award is cancelled, it is treated as if it had vested on the date of cancellation, and any cost not yet recognised for
the award is recognised immediately.

Exceptional operating items

In certain years the Company presents as exceptional operating items, on the face of the income statement, material
items of income or expense which, because of the size, nature or expected infrequency of the events giving rise to
them, merit separate presentation to allow a better understanding of financial performance. The determination of
whether items merit presentation as exceptional in a particular year is therefore a matter of judgement. For further
details see note 4.

43

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Revenue

Revenue recognised in the income statement is analysed by class of business as follows: :
Year ended 31 Year ended 3
March 2024 March 2023

£°000 £°000
Passenger Revenue : 1,428,265 1,222,457
Subsidy Revenue 218,489 284,166
Other Revenue 165,348 154,738

1,812,102 1,661,361

Since 1 March 2020, when the DfT awarded the Company an EMA contract and then subsequently an ERMA
contract and an NRC contract, the Company has switched from a ‘premium’ to a ‘subsidy’ position. See the
passenger revenue accounting policy note for further detail.

All trading activities of the Company take place within the United Kingdom, and as such, the total revenues
generated by the Company in both the current and prior financial periods are attributable in whole to the United
Kingdom.

44

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 March 2024

4. Operating costs

Staff costs (note 5)
Rail operating charges

- rail access
- vehicle and rolling stock

Total rail operating charges
Auditor’s remuneration

- audit fee for the audit of the financial statements
-  non-audit services

Total auditor’s remuneration

Depreciation of right of use assets (note 13)

Other operating costs
Operating costs excluding impairment losses on financial

assets
Reversal of impairment on financial assets

Total operating costs
Costs of restructuring

Exceptional costs

Year ended 31
March 2024
£'000 £'000
498,132
514,601
31,243
545,844
742
6
748
294,352
437,437
1,776,513
(1,113)

1,775,400

Year ended 31
March 2023
£'000 £'000
496,236
434,585
29,661
464,246
600
50
650
293,040
378,355
1,632,527
(4,388)
1,628,140
1,070
1,070

The Company holds agreements with Network Rail for access to the railway infrastructure (track, stations and
depots). These are classified as rail operating charges as they do not constitute a right of use asset.

The majority of other operating costs relate to railway infrastructure costs, including track, depot and station access

and costs of electrification.

Exceptional costs relate to amounts payable to the DfT as a result of triggering contractual payments under the

NRC following the change in group ownership.

45

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 March 2024

Staff costs and numbers

Wages and salaries

Social security costs

Pension costs

Share based payments (note 23)

The average number of employees during the period was as follows:

Administration and supervision
Maintenance and engineering
Operations

Directors’ remuneration

Aggregate emoluments in respect of qualifying services

Number of directors accruing benefits under defined benefit schemes
Number of directors who exercised share options

The amounts in respect of the highest paid director are as follows:

Emoluments

Year ended 31
March 2024
£'000

426,452
45,508
26,172

498,132

Year ended 31
March 2024
No.

1,447
607
5,285

7,339

Year ended 3]
March 2024
£'000

707

Year ended 31
March 2024

No.

Year ended 31
March 2024
£°000

351

Year ended 3]
March 2023
£'000

422,725
48,197
25,500

(186)

496,236

Year ended 31
March 2023
No.

1,407
609
5,420

7,436

Year ended 31
March 2023
£'000

1,084

Year ended 31
March 2023
Ne

Ss

Year ended 31]
March 2023
£'000

Included within Emoluments, the Company contributed £nil (2023: £nil) to the defined benefit pension scheme of
the highest paid director. During the year the highest paid director did not exercise any share options (2023: nil)
and nil (2023: nil) shares were granted in respect of a deferred share bonus plan (DSBP). See note 23.

Certain directors are also directors of The Go-Ahead Group Ltd and are remunerated by The Go-Ahead Group
Ltd. It is not practicable to allocate their remuneration between their services as directors of The Go-Ahead Group
Ltd and their services to the Group’s subsidiaries. For details on the remuneration of the directors of The Go-
Ahead Group Ltd please refer to the Go-Ahead Group Ltd's consolidated financial statements, available as

described in note 25.

46

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 March 2024

Interest receivable and similar income

Bank interest receivable
Interest receivable on net investment

Year ended 31 Year ended 31
March 2024 = March 2023

£'000 £'000
2,142 502

128 218
2,270 720

Interest receivable on net investment constitutes finance income earned on the Finance lease receivable.

Interest payable and similar expenses

Other finance charges
Discounting of provisions
Interest payable on lease liabilities (note 13)

Taxation

(a) Tax recognised in the income statement
The tax charge is made up as follows:

Current tax:
UK corporation tax
Corporation tax in respect of previous periods

Total current tax
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences

Adjustments in respect of deferred tax of previous periods
Effect of rate change on deferred tax balance

Total deferred tax (note 9(d))

Total reported in the income statement (note 9(b))

47

Year ended 31 Year ended 31
March 2024 — March 2023

£°000 £'000
489 558
56 2
11,017 18,241
11,562 18,801

Year ended 3! Year ended 31
March 2024 — March 2023

£'000 £'000
6,449 2,278
- (425)
6,449 1,853
691 645
52 328

- (184)

743 789
7,192 2,642


Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

For the year ended 31 March 2024
Taxation (continued)

(b) ‘Factors affecting current tax charge

A reconciliation of taxation applicable to accounting profit before tax at the statutory tax rates for the years ended

31 March 2024 and 31 March 2023 respectively is shown below.

The tax assessed on the profit before taxation for the period is the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. The
standard rate of corporation tax for the year ended 31 March 2024 was 25% (2023: 19%).

The differences are reconciled below:

Profit before taxation

Tax at the UK corporation tax rate of 25% (2023: 19%)

Expenses not deductible net of income not taxable for tax purposes

Non-deductible capital expenditure
Depreciation on non-qualifying assets

Adjustment in respect of deferred tax of previous periods
Effect of the difference between current period corporation tax and deferred tax

rates

Adjustment in respect of corporation tax of previous periods

Impact of rate change on deferred tax balances
Tax reported in the income statement

Effective tax rate

(oe Current tax assets/(liabilities)

Current tax liabilities at start of year

Corporation tax reported in income statement (note 9(a))

Paid in the year

Current tax assets/(liabilities) at end of year

48

Year ended 31 Year ended 31
March 2024 March 2023

£'000 £'000
27,410 14,070
6,853 2,673
143 (87)
144 -

52 328

- 337

- (425)

- (184)
7,192 2,642
26.2% 18.8%

Year ended 3! Year ended 31
March 2024 — March 2023

£°000 £'000
(3,483) (5,178)
(6,449) (1,854)
10,028 3,549
96 (3,483)


10.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

9. Taxation (continued)
(d) ‘Deferred tax

The movement in deferred tax asset during the year is as follows:

Recognised in
Year ended 31 income Year ended 31
March 2023 statement March 2024
£'000 £°000 £'000
Decelerated capital allowances 4,941 (707) 4,234
Other temporary differences 36 (36) -
4,977 (743) 4,234

The deferred tax asset, as shown above, is recognised as it is considered probable that there will be future taxable
profits available.

fe) Factors that may affect future tax charge

The standard rate of UK corporation tax is 25% and therefore 25% applies to the current tax charge arising
during the year ended 31 March 2024.

Pillar 2 rules will apply to UK companies with accounting periods beginning on or after 31 December 2023 and
will include the need to recognise balances in respect of Qualified Domestic Minimum Top-up Tax (QDMTT)
where the effective tax rate is less than 15%. GTR is a UK company with no overseas exposure, in addition to an
effective tax rate higher than 15%. Therefore no material tax impact is expected, and no deferred tax balances
have been recognised or disclosed in respect of QDMTT in line with the temporary exception set out in [AS 12.

Dividends

Year ended 31 Year ended 31
March 2024 — March 2023

£'000 £'000
Paid during the year
Equity dividends on ordinary shares:
Final dividend for 2024: £12.46 per share (2023: £3.38 per share) 62,296 16,912

Distributions of profit in respect of the period prior to the commencement of the EMA on 1 March 2020, in addition
to the period operating under the first year of the NRC from 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2023, amounting to
£20,107,932, were authorised by the DfT and distributed to the immediate shareholder in April 2024.

49

11.

12.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Intangible assets

Software &
Licence Costs
£'000
Cost:
At 31 March 2023 and 31 March 2024 2,250
Amortisation:
At 31 March 2023 2,250
Provided during the year -
At 31 March 2024 2,250
Net book value:
At 31 March 2024 -
At 31 March 2023 -
Amortisation is included within operating costs in the income statement.
All intangible assets are fully amortised and therefore not presented on the face of the balance sheet.
Plant, property and equipment
Plant &
Equipment
£'000
Cost:
At 31 March 2023 and at 31 March 2024 60,075
Depreciation:
At 31 March 2023 60,075
Provided during the year -
At 31 March 2024 60,075

Net book value:
At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

All plant, property and equipment is fully depreciated and therefore not presented on the face of the balance sheet.

50

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

. Right of use assets and lease liabilities

Right of use assets
Land & Plant & Rolling
Buildings Equipment Stock Total
£'000 £'000 £°000 £'000

Cost:
At 31 March 2023 1,767 - 1,686,362 1,688,129
Additions 766 - - 766
Disposals - - - -
Transfers - - - -
At 31 March 2024 2,533 - 1,686,362 1,688,895
Depreciation:
At 31 March 2023 (416) - (1,100,314) (1,100,730)
Provided during the year (926) - (293,425) (294,352)
Disposals - - - -
At 31 March 2024 (1,342) - (1,393,739) (1,395,081)
Net book value:
At 31 March 2024 1,191 - 292,623 293,814
At 31 March 2023 1,351 - 586,048 587,399

Right of use asset additions comprise new leases which were signed during the year for various buildings used by
the Company.

The Company expensed £0.86m (2023: £4.21m) on short term leases during the year. The Company does not have
any low value leases.

Lease liabilities
The balance sheet includes the following amounts:
31 March 31 March

2024 2023

£'000 £°000

Current (284,767) (282,939)
Non-current - (298,436)
Lease liabilities (284,767) (581,375)

The remaining contractual maturities of the lease liabilities, which are gross and undiscounted, are as follows:

31 March = 31 March

2024 2023

£'000 £°000

Less than one year (288,282) (293,931)
One to two years - (301,933)

Total undiscounted lease liabilities (288,282) (595,864)

51

Govia Thamestiink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

13. Right of use assets and lease liabilities (continued)

14,

15.

Amounts recognised in the income statement

31 March
2024
£'000
Interest payable on lease liabitities (note 8) (11,017)
Depreciation on right of use assets (note 4) (294,352)
(305,369)
Finance lease receivables
Amounts receivable under finance leases:
31 March
2024
Undiscounted lease payments analysed as: £'000
Recoverable within one year 3,604
Recoverable within one to two years -
Undiscounted lease payments 3,604
Less: unearned finance income (40)
Net investment in the lease 3,564

31 March
2023

£'000

(18,241)
(293,040)

(311,281)

31 March
2023
£'000

3,397
3,812

7,209
(169)

7,040

During the financial year £127,788 (2023: £217,287) was recognised within interest receivable and similar

income (note 7).

Inventories
31 March
2024
£'000
Raw materials and consumables 5,246

31 March
2023
£'000

5,349

During the financial year £nil (2023: £1.07m) of inventories was written down and recognised as an expense,
relating to obsolete stock. The amount of any other write downs of inventories recognised as an expense during

the year is immaterial.

During the financial year £9,233,000 (2023: £9,603,000) of inventories was recognised as an expense, included

within ‘Other operating costs’ at note 4.

52

16.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Trade and other receivables
31 March 31 March

2024 2023

£'000 £'000

Trade receivables 154,005 97,243
Other receivables 16,739 19,133
Accrued income 29,596 21,638
Central government debtors 152,788 212,680
353,128 350,694

31 March 2024 31 March 31 March

2023 2022
£°000 £'000 £'000
Contract assets 143,573 196,099 86,305

Contract assets are the sum of accrued income and amounts receivable from central government excluding VAT
receivables.

Accrued income and amounts receivable from central government principally comprise amounts relating to
contracts with customers. Accrued income primarily comprises contract income which is billed on a regular basis
and which is reclassified to trade receivables at the point at which it is billed.

The credit risk associated with the Company’s trade and other receivables is explained in the Strategic report.

Provision for impairments of receivables

Trade receivables at nominal value of £1.6m (2023: £3.2m) were impaired and fully provided for. Movements in
the provision for impairment of receivables were as follows:

31 March 31 March

2024 2023
£°000 £'000
At 31 March 2023 3,167 8,448
(Reversal)/charge for the year (1,113) (4,388)
Utilised (429) (893)
At 31 March 2024 1,625 3,167

During the financial year a reversal of £1,113,076 (2023: reversal of £4,388,267) was recognised in respect of
impairment losses arising from contracts with customers. The reversal of receivable impairments during the year
relates to continued recoveries of property rental debts following Covid. There were no impairments on contract
assets during the year (2023: £nil).

53

17.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Trade and other payables

Amounts owed to group undertakings (note 21)
Trade payables

Other taxation and social security

Other payables

Central government creditors

Deferred season ticket income

Accruals

Deferred income

31 March
2024
£'000

Contract liabilities 34,543

31 March
2024
£'000

1,824
89,629
13,055
24,891

8,079
20,450

121,056
20,642

299,626

31 March
2023
£'000

34,317

31 March
2023
£'000

1,873
81,042
14,543
21,161

8,526
17,557

101,828
22,264

268,794

31 March
2022
£'000

23,481

Contract liabilities are the sum of deferred season ticket income and income ahead of journeys, which is included
within the deferred income balance above. Contract liabilities at each balance sheet date are then recognised as

revenue within the next financial year.

Amounts owed to group undertakings are repayable on demand and non-interest bearing.

Other payables include pension contributions payable amounting to £3,220,522 (2023: £2,989,460).

Deferred season ticket income and deferred income principally comprise amounts relating to contracts with

customers.

54

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

18. Provisions

Uninsured Franchise

claims commitments Total

£°000 £000 £000
At 31 March 2022 1,511 72,087 73,598
Provided in year (after discounting) 1,155 17,387 18,542
Utilised in year (489) (4,275 (4,764)
Released in year (683) - (683)
At 31 March 2023 1,494 85,199 86,693
Provided in year (after discounting) 1,133 13,655 14,788 .
Utilised in year (456) (17,710) (18,166)
Released in year (607) - (607)
At 31 March 2024 1,564 81,144 82,708

31 March 31 March

2024 2023

£'000 £'000

Current 67,371 71,599
Non-current 15,337 15,094
82,708 86,693

The present value of the provisions has been calculated using a real pre-tax annual discount rate, based on UK
government gilt bonds. The discount rate used was 4.29% (2023: 4.66%). The discount rate used resulted in a
discount on provisions of £0.7m (2023: £1.26m).

Uninsured claims

The uninsured claims provision represents the cost to settle claims for incidents occurring prior to the balance
sheet date based on an assessment of the expected settlement, together with an estimate of settlements that will be
made in respect of incidents that have not yet been reported by the insurer, subject to the overall stop loss. Claims
can primarily be categorised as either motor insurance-related claims or employers’ liability and public liability
claims. Of the uninsured claims, £1.6m (2023: £1.5m) are classified as current and £nil (2023: £nil) are classified
as non-current based on past experience of uninsured claims paid out annually. It is estimated that the majority of
uninsured claims will be settled individually within the next 12 months. Both the estimate of settlements that will
be made in respect of claims received as well as the estimate of settlements made in respect of incidents not yet
reported are based on historic trends which can alter over time reflecting the length of time some matters can take
to be resolved. No material changes to carrying values are expected within the next 12 months. Uninsured claims
are provided on a net basis, being the gross amount of the claim less amounts due back from the insurance
providers.

Franchise commitments

Franchise commitments of £81.1m (2023: £85.2m) relate to dilapidation provisions on vehicles, depots and *
stations and maintenance obligation provisions arising from the contractual relationships in place with the lessors.
Of these provisions, £67.4m (2023: £71.6m) are classified as current and £15.3m (2023: £15.1m) are classified as
non-current. During the year £nil (2023: £nil) of dilapidation provisions which had been previously provided for
were released. The remaining dilapidation costs will be incurred as part of a rolling maintenance contract. The
provisions are based on management’s assessment of most probable outcomes, supported where appropriate by
valuations from professional external advisors. Reflecting the nature of the judgements associated with the
provisioning for dilapidations it is not practicable to provide further sensitivity analysis of the extent by which
these amounts could change in the next financial year.

55

18.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Provisions (continued)

Included within the franchise commitments at 31 March 2022 of £72.1m are provisions relating to the settlement
of dilapidation obligations as part of the transition from the GTR Emergency Recovery Measures Agreement
(ERMA) franchise to the NRC, amounting to £65.2m. Under this transition, future obligations for dilapidations
become the responsibility of the DfT. Therefore, a settlement agreement is required between lessors, the Company
and the DfT, which is expected to be completed by March 2025 once the DfT have finalised their own analysis
and review. This will involve consideration of the build-up of the provision over the life of the franchise (pre-
EMA) against historical contract and funding positions and the amounts utilised over the same period for which
the directors do not consider it likely that a significant credit to the Income Statement will be recognised.
Consequently, these factors will impact how any liabilities or credits that may arise following the settlement would
be attributed between the different parties involved. The amounts held reflect the Company’s best estimate of the
amounts to be paid to settle the remaining franchise obligations.

Estimation uncertainties arise with respect to dilapidation provisions, due to the complex nature of the assets.
Estimated dilapidations can range significantly depending on the specific asset being considered. The range of
outcomes are assessed on an asset-by-asset basis and the range can vary between a plus or minus 5%-30%
dependant on procurement, production or maintenance efficiencies as well as potential economies of scale. Based
on the individual assessments, the provision at the period end could fall between an estimated range of £8.9m and
£37.8m.

Franchise commitments also comprise an estimate for legal fees in connection to the contingent liabilities within
note 26.

56

19.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Retirement benefit obligations

Defined benefit plans

The majority of employees are members of sections of the Railways Pensions Scheme (RPS), an industry-wide
defined benefit scheme. The Company is obligated to fund the relevant section of the scheme over the period for

which the franchise is held.

The RPS is governed by the Railways Pension Trustee Company Limited and is subject to regulation from the
Pensions Regulator and relevant UK legislation.

All the costs, and any deficit or surplus, are shared 60% by the employer and 40% by the members. The RPS
sections are all open to new entrants and the assets and liabilities are separately identifiable and segregated for
funding purposes.

In addition, at the end of the franchise, any deficit or surplus in the scheme passes to the subsequent franchisee
with no compensating payments from or to the outgoing franchise holder. The Company’s obligations are therefore
limited to its contributions payable to the schemes during the period over which it operates the franchise.

Changes in financial assumptions include the effect of changes in the salary cap agreed to offset additional national
insurance costs as a result of the schemes no longer “opting out”.

The accounting policy for the Railways Pension Scheme (RPS) is detailed in note 2 and the accounting judgements
are covered in the critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty section.

British Railways Additional Superannuation Scheme (BRASS) matching Additional Voluntary Contributions
(AVC) Company contributions of £64,000 (2023: £88,000) were paid in the year.

The contributions made by the company in the year were £25,200,000 (2023: £25,500,000).

57

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

19. Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

Summary of year end assumptions:
31 March 31 March

2024 2023

% %

Rate of increase in salaries 3.4 3.5

Rate of increase in pensions in payment 29 3.0

Rate of increase in deferred pensions 29 3.0

Discount rate 49 48
Inflation assumptions:

RPI 3.1 3.2

CPI 29 3.0

Salary increases are set at 0.25% above RPI as per the initial results of the funding valuation as at 31 December
2022, which has not yet been completed.

The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed rate of longevity. The table below shows the life
expectancy assumptions used in the accounting assessments based on the life expectancy of a male member of
each pension scheme at age 65.

31 March 31 March

2024 2023
Years Years
Pensioner 20 21
Non-pensioner 21 22

The mortality assumptions adopted as at 31 March 2023 are based on the initial results of the funding valuation as
at 31 December 2022, which has not yet been completed. and the mortality assumptions adopted as at 31 March
2022 are based on the initial results of the funding valuation as at 31 December 2019.

Sensitivity analysis:
Due to the nature of the franchise adjustment, the balance sheet position in respect of the rail pension schemes is
not sensitive to small movements in any of the assumptions and therefore we have not included any quantitative
sensitivity analysis.

Category of assets at the year end:

31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Value Value
£'000 % £000 %
Equities . 1,700,400 99.7 1,565,900 99.6
Properties 500 60.0 500 0.0
Others 5,200 0.3 5,300 0.4
Total market value of assets 1,706,100 1,571,700

All of the asset categories above are held within pooled funds and are therefore unquoted in active markets. None
of the assets are invested in property occupied by the Company or the Company’s own financial instruments.

58

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

19. Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

Funding position of the Company's pension arrangements:

31 March
2024
£'000
Employer’s 60% share of pension scheme:
Liabilities at the end of the year (1,700,900)
Assets at fair value 1,706,100
Gross deficit 5,200
Franchise adjustment (5,200)
Pension scheme liability -
Pension cost for the financial year:
Year ended 31
March 2024
£000
Service cost 43,600
Franchise adjustment to current period costs (20,800)
Administration costs 2,400
Interest cost on net liabilities 8,600
Interest on franchise adjustments (8,600)
Pension cost 25,200

59

31 March
2023
£'000

(1,742,600)
1,571,700

(170,900)
170,900

Year ended
31 March
2023
£'000
78,300
(55,900)
3,100
16,200
(16,200)

25,500


Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

19. Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

Analysis of change in the employer’s 60% share of pension scheme liabilities over the financial year:

31 March 31 March

2024 2023

£'000 £'000

Employer’s 60% share of pension scheme liabilities at start of year 1,742,600 2,203,100
Franchise adjustment (100%) , (170,900) (580,900)

1,571,700 1,622,200

Liability movement for members’ share of assets (40%) 71,800 900
Service cost (60%) 43,600 78,300
Franchise adjustment to current year costs (20,800) (55,900)
Interest cost (60%) 53,300 41,900
Interest on franchise adjustment (100%) (8,600) (16,200)
Re-measurement loss due to experience (60%) (109,900) 139,000
Re-measurement loss due to financial assumptions (60%) (49,900) (667,400)
Re-measurement gain due to demographic assumptions (60%) 400 -
Benefits paid (100%) (55,000) (53,200)
Franchise adjustment movement (100%) 205,500 482,100
1,702,100 1,571,700
Franchise adjustment (100%) (5,200) 170,900
Employer’s 60% share of pension scheme liabilities at end of year 1,696,900 1,742,600

Analysis of change in the pension scheme assets over the financial year:

31 March 31 March

2024 2023

£'000 £'000
Fair value of assets at start of year (100%) 1,571,700 1,622,200
Interest income of plan assets (60%) 44,700 25,700
Re-measurement gain/(loss) on assets (60%) 46,100 (46,300)
Company contributions (100%) 25,200 25,400
Benefits paid (100%) (55,000) (53,200)
Administrative expenses incurred (100%) (4,000) (5,100)
Members share of movement of assets (40%) 77,400 3,000
Fair value of assets at end of year (100%) 1,706,100 1,571,700

Estimated contributions for future:
Company contributions expected to be paid in financial year 2025 are considered to be the principal risk to which
membership of the RPS exposes the Company.

£'000
Estimated company contributions in financial year 2025 25,800
Estimated employee contributions in financial year 2025 17,200
Estimated total contributions in financial year 2025 43,000

60

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

19. Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

Franchise adjustment:
The effect of the franchise adjustment on the financial statements is provided below:
Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March

2024 2023
£°000 £'000
Balance sheet
Defined benefit pension plan 5,200 (170,900)
Deferred tax asset (1,300) 42,725

3,900 (128,175)

Other comprehensive income
Re-measurement gains (205,500) (482,100)
Tax on re-measurement gains 51,375 91,599

(154,125) (390,501)

Income statement

Operating costs — franchise adjustment (8,600) (16,200)
Deferred tax charge 2,150 4,050
(6,450) (12,150)

Experience recognised in other comprehensive income:
Year ended 3! Year ended 31
March 2024 March 2023

£°000 £'000
Gain on pension scheme liabilities 159,400 528,400
Experience (loss)/gains on assets 46,100 (46,300)
Franchise adjustment movement (205,500) (482,100)

Total gain recognised in other comprehensive income during the year - -

Risks associated with defined benefit plans:

Despite remaining open to new entrants and future accruals, the risks posed by the RPS are limited as under the
franchise arrangements, the Company is not responsible for any residual deficit at the end of a franchise. As such,
there is limited short term cash flow risk within this business and if agreed it would also be proportionately borne
by the employees as well as the Company.

61

20.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Commitments

Rail operating charges — company as lessee
At 31 March 2024, the Company holds commercial leases on certain properties and other items. Renewals are at
the option of the lessee. There are no restrictions placed upon the lessee by entering into these leases.

The Company previously categorised the majority of rail leases (rolling stock, access charges, stations and depots)
as operating leases, under IAS 17. The majority of rail rolling stock leases are now deemed to be right of use
assets, following the implementation of IFRS 16, and are now recognised on the balance sheet, with a
corresponding lease liability. At the year end the Company did not have any short-term leases.

Also, at 31 March 2024, the Company holds agreements under which it leases secure access to railway
infrastructure (track, stations and depots). These are classified as rail operating charges, as they do not result in a
right of use asset on the basis that the Company does not retain control of the asset. The rail contracts typically
run for the period until the end of the relevant franchise.

Future minimum rentals payable for rail operating charges under non-cancellable financial commitments as at 31
March 2024 and 31 March 2023 were as follows:

31 March 2024 31 March 2023

£'000 £'000

Within one year 526,605 524,969
In the second to fifth years inclusive - 524,969
Over five years - -
526,605 1,049,938

Rail operating charges — company as lessor
The Company holds agreements under which it leases rolling stock, and agreements with Network Rail for access
to the railway infrastructure (track, stations and depots).

Future minimum rentals receivable under non-cancellable financial commitments as at 31 March 2024 and 31
March 2023 were as follows:

31 March 2024 31 March 2023

£'000 £'000

Within one year 2,971 2,971
In the second to fifth years inclusive - 2,971
Over five years - -
2,971 5,942

Performance bonds and other guarantees
The Company has provided a loan guarantee bond of £36,250,000 (2023: £36,250,000) to the DfT in support of
the Company's rail franchise operations.

As part of the NRC the Company entered into a £3,000,000 (2023: £3,000,000) funding deed and £3,000,000
(2023: £3,000,000) guarantee financial bonds to the DfT in support of the Company's rail franchise operations.

In addition, the Go-Ahead Group Ltd, together with Keolis, has a joint parental company commitment to provide
funds of £136,000,000 (2023: £136,000,000) to the DfT in respect of the Company. At the year-end £nil (2023:
£nil) has been provided.

These bonds and guarantees are counter-indemnified by the shareholders of Govia Limited, the Company’s parent
company.

Capital commitments

At 31 March 2024, amounts contracted for but not provided in the financial statements for plant and equipment
amounted to £nil (2023: £nil).

62

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

21. Related party transactions

The Go-Ahead Group Ltd &

Subsidiary Companies
31 March
31 March 2024 2023
£000 £000
Purchases from related party 24,523 22,104
Sales to related party 646 . 1,237
Interest payable to related party - -
Amounts owed to related party 1,824 1,873

The Go-Ahead Group Ltd owns 65% and Keolis (UK) Limited owns 35% of the ordinary shares in Govia Limited.
Govia Thameslink Railway Limited is 100% owned by Govia Limited.

The Company is a 100% subsidiary of a group whose ultimate parent company is Go-Ahead Investment Topco
Limited (previously Gerrard Investment Topco Limited). Advantage has been taken of the exemption in paragraph
8(k) of the Financial Reporting Standard 101 and transactions entered into between two or more members of the
Group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member, have
not been disclosed.

The Go-Ahead Group Limited owns 65% of the ordinary shares in Govia Limited. As required under the NRC,
the Company enters into arms-length transactions with various subsidiaries of the wider Go-Ahead Group, for the
provision of train maintenance, hire of staff and rail replacement bus services. In line with the wider Go-Ahead
Group Limited policy, receivable and payables balances held with each related party are settled monthly on a net
basis, therefore the balances are presented net in the financial statements. Details of these transactions are as
follows:

Year ended 31 Year ended 31
March 2024 — March 2023

Purchases from related party £°000 £'000
Brighton & Hove Bus and Coach Company Ltd (390) (892)
London General Transport Services Ltd (15,446) (13,369)
On Track Retail Ltd (1,698) (1,468)
The Go-Ahead Group Ltd (6,989) (6,375)

(24,523) (22,104)

Year ended 31 Year ended 31
March 2024 March 2023

Sales to related party £'000 £'000
Brighton & Hove Bus and Coach Company Ltd 44 41
Go-Ahead Retail Services Ltd : 67
London & Birmingham Railway Ltd - 60
London & South Eastern Railway Ltd - 521
The Go-Ahead Group Ltd 602 548

646 1,237

63

22.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

21. Related party transactions (continued)

31 March 2024 31 March

2023

Amounts owed to related party £'000 £'000
Brighton & Hove Bus and Coach Company Ltd 7 77
London General Transport Services Ltd 1,502 1,574
Go-Ahead Retail Services Ltd - -
Govia Ltd (83) (13)
London & Birmingham Railway Ltd - -
London & South Eastern Railway Ltd - -
On Track Retail Ltd 360 208
The Go-Ahead Group Ltd 38 27
1,824 1,873

Angela Doll, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, is also Managing Director of Railway Children Ball
Limited, a company registered in England and Wales. Railway Children Ball Limited hosts the annual Railway
Ball, which is an industry-wide event that raises funds for Railway Children, a UK charity. During the year, the
Company incurred £22,500 (2023: £42,000) in expenses related to Railway Children fundraising.

Called up share capital and reserves
Allotted, called up and fully paid

31 March 2024 31 March 2023
No. £'000 No. £°000
Ordinary shares of £1 each 5,000,000 5,000 5,000,000 5,000

Ordinary £1 shares have the following rights, preferences and restrictions: .
The holders of the shares are entitled to receive dividends from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share
at meetings of the Company.

The entirety of reserves within equity represents retained earnings. Retained earnings represent the cumulative
profits of the Company less any dividends paid.

64

23.

24.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Share based payments

Share Incentive Plan ,

Up until 10 October 2022, the Company participated in an HMRC approved share incentive plan, known as The
Go-Ahead Group plc Share Incentive Plan (the “SIP”). The SIP was operated by The Go-Ahead Group ple
(subsequently re-registered as The Go-Ahead Group Limited) (the “Group”), and was open to all Group employees
who completed at least six month’s service with a Group company at the date they were invited to participate in
the plan.

Whilst four different types of awards were permitted under the SIP (free shares, partnership shares, matching
shares, and dividend shares), the Group made awards of partnership shares only. Under these awards, qualifying
employees were invited to apply between £10 and £150 per month in acquiring shares in the Group at the prevailing
market price, and certain tax advantages were available to the Group and employees.

On 10 October 2022, the Group was acquired by Gerrard Investment BidCo Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary
of Gerrard Investment Topco Limited, and the SIP ceased to operate.

Deferred Share Bonus Plan

Up until 10 October 2022, the date of Acquisition, the Company participated in a Deferred Share Bonus Plan
(DSBP). The DSBP was operated by the Group and provided for executive directors and certain other senior
employees to be awarded shares in the Group conditional on the achievement of financial and strategic targets.
The shares were deferred over a three-year period.

Following the Acquisition, all DSBP awards which vested (or had previously vested but remained unexercised)
were settled in cash in line with the terms of the Scheme of Arrangement. For each option held, participants
received £15.50 (£14.50 cash consideration plus £1 special dividend). As at 31 March 2024, there were no
outstanding options held under the DSBP.

The expense recognised for the DSBP during the year was £nil (2023: credit of £186,296).

The DSBP options were not subject to any market-based performance conditions. Therefore, the fair value of the
options was equal to the share price at the date of grant.

The weighted average fair value of options granted during the year was £nil (2023: £nil).

The weighted average exercise price of options exercised during the year was £nil (2023: £15.50). There was no
range of exercise prices.

Effective from 10 October 2022, Gerrard Investment BidCo Limited (BidCo) acquired the entire issued and to be
issued share capital of the Go-Ahead Group. Consequently, all DSBP awards were paid out in line with the terms
in the Scheme of Arrangement. In the prior year, holders received £14.50 cash consideration plus a £1 special
dividend per option. There were therefore no outstanding options as at 31 March 2024.

Restricted cash

Restricted cash balances are included in cash and cash equivalents. The restricted cash is not available for
immediate or general business use and can only be distributed with the agreement of the DfT, normally up to the
value of revenue reserves or based on a working capital formula. Under the terms of the NRC which commenced
on | April 2022 all cash and cash equivalents are restricted. An additional restriction exists in that no distribution
can be made during the year without the DfT providing formal confirmation.

Included within cash and cash equivalents is an amount of £46,695,000 (2023: £66,640,000) held, which cannot
be distributed by means of a dividend. During the year, in July 2023, following permission given by the DfT, the
directors agreed to make a dividend payment of £62.3m to its shareholders.

65

25.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Ultimate parent company

The immediate parent company and controlling party of Govia Thameslink Railway Limited is Govia Limited, a
Company registered in England and Wales and registered office is 3rd Floor, 41 - 51 Grey Street, Newcastle upon
Tyne, NE1 6EE, United Kingdom. Govia Limited is jointly owned by Keolis (UK) Limited (35%) and The Go-
Ahead Group (65%).

As such, from 10 October 2022 and as at 31 March 2023, in the opinion of the directors, the Company’s ultimate
parent company and controlling party is Go-Ahead Investment Topco Limited (previously Gerrard Investment
Topco Limited), a Company incorporated in England and Wales and whose registered office is 27 Old
Gloucester Street, London WC1N 3AX, United Kingdom.

Topco, along with its subsidiaries, is the largest group of undertakings for which consolidated financial
statements have been drawn up and of which the Company is a member and the Group, along with its
subsidiaries, is the smallest such group of undertakings. Copies of both Topco’s and the Group’s financial
statements will be made available from Companies House, Crown Way, Cardiff, CF14 3UZ.

66

26.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Contingent Assets & Liabilities

Pricing practices proceedings against Govia Thameslink Railway Limited (GTR)

On 10 June 2021 a Collective Proceedings Application (CPA) was filed at the Competition Appeal Tribunal (CAT)
under Section 47B of the Competition Act 1998, against GTR, as well as The Go-Ahead Group Ltd and Keolis
(UK) Limited (together, the Defendants). The collective proceedings combine claims against the Defendants
caused by alleged infringements of the Chapter II prohibition on abuse of dominance in Section 18 of the
Competition Act 1998 in respect of alleged loss suffered by rail passengers travelling on the London-Brighton
mainline as a result of pricing and other practices of GTR.

The claim was certified by the Competition Appeal Tribunal (CAT) on 25th July 2022 (i.e. permitted to proceed
to trial) and tribunal ordered defendants on the case to pay £250k for Claimant’s legal costs. As ordered by the
court, the Class Representative filed a revised claim form on 19 May 2023, as well as an expert report from the
Class Representative’s new expert (Davis 2). GTR filed its application in respect of the Class Representative’s
new expert methodology on 28 July 2023. A case management conference took place on 12-13 October 2023, to
consider the Defendants’ applications arising out of the revised claim form and Davis 2. In its ruling following the
October 2023 CMC (the Ruling), the Tribunal ordered that:

(a) the Class Representative submit his full case in respect of all issues in the claim, including by submitting the
full and final expert report of the Class Representative’s expert (Dr Davis), by 31 July 2024;

(b) a further case management conference will be held in Q4 2024 (the Q4 2024 CMC) to determine any challenges
by GTR or the DT to the Class Representative’s case, the trial structure and the timetable to trial; and

(c) a trial will be listed for 2025.

The Q4 2024 CMC represents an opportunity for GTR to seek decertification of the claim (or parts thereof) on the
basis of the Class Representative and his expert’s submissions on 31 July 2024.

The claim is disputed in respect of its technical merits and the basis of the claim appears to be an initial estimate
with assumptions that cannot be substantiated by GTR at this stage. It is therefore not yet possible to assess with
any certainty the likely outcome of this case, or to quantify any potential liability of GTR. There is no legal
precedent both in respect of this type of claim or how it would be valued if found to be a valid claim. Finally,
determining how such a claim would be allocated amongst the various parties, and other stakeholders including
the Department for Transport (DfT), is highly uncertain. No provision associated with the claim (other than for
legal costs of £8.8m (2023: £7.1m)) has been provided.

Accordingly, GTR cannot make a reliable estimate of any contingent liability in respect of this matter at the time
of publishing the Accounts.

Boundary Zone Fare proceedings against Govia Thameslink Railway Limited (GTR)

On 24 November 2021 a Collective Proceedings Application (CPA) was filed at the Competition Appeal Tribunal
(CAT) under Section 47B of the Competition Act 1998, against GTR, as well as Govia Limited, The Go-Ahead
Group Ltd and Keolis (UK) Limited (together, the Defendants). The claim alleges, similarly to the allegations
made against London & South Eastern Railway (LSER) in relation to Boundary Zone Fares, that GTR failed to
make Boundary Zone Fares sufficiently available to those rail passengers who held TfL travelcards across its
multiple sales channels and failed to ensure that customers were aware of these.

On 15 December 2021 the CAT stayed proceedings pending the determination of any appeals in the Boundary
Zone Fare proceedings against LSER. The stay has now expired, and the claim will proceed to a determination on
certification to decide whether this is a claim that meets the legislative criteria for this type of claim to proceed to
a full trial. This means that proceedings are at an earlier stage than both the collective proceedings against LSER
in relation to Boundary Zone Fares, and the proceedings against GTR in respect of pricing practices on the London-
Brighton mainline (see above). At a hearing held on 22 March 2023, the claim was certified to proceed. The
Tribunal permitted the DfT to intervene by filing written submissions to assist the Tribunal’s understanding of the
railway regulation and framework.

67

26.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Contingent Assets & Liabilities (continued)

The defences for the case were filed on 12 May 2023. On 7 July 2023, the Tribunal ordered the proceedings should
be a split three-stage trial. Trial 1 commenced on 17 June 2024 but judgement won’t be handed down until
December 2024, Trial 2 is listed to commence on 23 June 2025, and the date for Trial 3 has not yet been set.

The claim is disputed in respect of its technical merits and the basis of the claim appears to be an initial estimate
with assumptions that cannot be substantiated. It is not yet possible to assess with any certainty the likely outcome
of this case, or to quantify any potential liability of the Defendants. There is no legal precedent both in respect of
this type of claim or how it would be valued if found to be a valid claim. Finally, determining how such a claim
would be allocated amongst the various parties, and other stakeholders including the Department for Transport
(DfT), is highly uncertain. No provision associated with the claim (other than for legal costs of £2.1m (2023:
£3.1m)) has been provided.

Accordingly, GTR cannot make a reliable estimate of any contingent liability in respect of this matter at the time
of publishing the Accounts.

Visa Interchange Fees Claim

On behalf of several Train Operating Companies including GTR, the Rail Delivery Group has instructed lawyers
to negotiate compensation for over payment of the multilateral interchange fee to Visa on credit card sales from
2011 to date. Negotiations are ongoing with an initial settlement offer made from two of the defendants. The terms
underpinning such a settlement are not certain and are yet to be ratified by all involved Train Operating Companies.

Accordingly, GTR cannot make a reliable estimate of any contingent asset in respect of this matter at the time of
publishing the Accounts.

68

27.

28.

Govia Thameslink Railway Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 March 2024

Cash and cash equivalents

The majority of the Company’s cash is held in bank deposits which have a maturity of three months or less to
comply with the DfT short term liquidity requirements.

31 March 31 March

2024 2023

: £°000 £'000

Cash at bank and in hand 44,935 65,509
Cash equivalents 1,760 1,131

_ Cash and cash equivalents 46,695 66,640

Cash at bank and in hand earns interest at floating rates based on daily bank deposit rates. Short term deposits are
made for varying periods of between one day and three months, depending on the immediate cash requirements
of the Company, and earn interest at the respective deposit rates. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents is not
materially different from book value.

Amounts held by the Company included in cash at bank and on short-term demand deposit can be distributed only
with the agreement of the DfT, normally up to the value of distributable reserves or based on a working capital
formula. Following the introduction of the NRC from 1 April 2022, all of the Company’s cash continues to be
restricted. Distributions of profit in respect of the period operating under the EMA and ERMA from | March 2020
to 31 March 2022, amounting to £62,296,409, were paid by the DfT in July 2023.

Post balance sheet events
Since 31 March 2024 there have been the following significant events.

© Litigation: There have been further developments after the year end in both the Boundary Fare Zone
proceedings against GTR and others and the Pricing practices proceedings against GTR and others, for
which more detail is provided in note 26 Contingent liabilities. The provision for legal costs has been
updated accordingly and is reflected in the provisions at note 18.

e Confirmed PBF scores on Non-Financial measures related to FY24: the DfT confirmed the Non-Financial
scores element of PBF related to FY24 in a letter dated 29 May 2024. These scores were more favourable
than previously assumed in management’s judgement at 31 March 2024 and the consequent improvement
in PBF is reflected in profit for the year.

As part of the NRC requirements, the Company is seeking to finalise its franchise commitments position with the
relevant contracted third-party suppliers as at 31 March 2022. Once the position is finalised, a separate full and
final settlement will also be agreed with the DfT. As at the date of issuance of these financial statements this
process has not yet been completed.

For information on Board changes that occurred subsequent to the period ended 31 March 2024, please see the
Directors Report on page 24.

69

