Charity registration number 1086183

Company registration number 04089288 (England and Wales)

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST
ANNUAL REPORT AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

mua

A25 28/11/2024 #6:
COMPANIES HOUSE


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION

Trustees

Chair
Vice Chair
Treasurer

Secretary

Senior management

Chief Executive
Charity number
Company number

Service address

Registered office

Auditor

ZAAli (Appointed 16 November 2023)
H J Barber

L Burrows

R J Craven

AHamid

HL Hunter

S Hussain

T Male

G Rhodes

RM Sweeney

H J Barber
R J Craven
L Burrows

A Haskins

S Nazar - Group Finance Lead

J Bell - Business Centres Lead (Up to 31/5/24)

A Hussain - Community Programmes Lead

C Parkinson - Children and Families Lead

F Gilling - Marketing and Communications Lead (Up to 15/3/24
M Ciewiertnia - Quality and Systems Lead

J Graham - Chief Operating Officer (Up to 19/8/24)

A Haskins
1086183
04089288

Elsie Whiteley innovation Centre
Hopwood Lane

Halifax

West Yorkshire

HX1 5ER

Hanson Lane Enterprise Centre
Hanson Lane

Halifax

West Yorkshire

HX1 5PG

BK Pius Audit Limited
52 St Johns Lane
Halifax

West Yorkshire
England

HX1 2BW


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION

Bankers Unity Trust Bank
9 Brindley place
Birmingham
B1 2HB

Solicitors Finn Gledhill
1-4 Harrison Road
Halifax
West Yorkshire
HX1 2AG


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

CONTENTS

Trustees’ report

Independent auditor's report

Consolidated Statement of financial activities

Group and Charity Balance sheet

Consolidated Statement of cash flows

Notes to the consolidated financial statements

21-24

25

26

27

28 - 49

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES' REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS’ REPORT)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The trustees present their annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024.

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out in note 1 to the
financial statements and comply with the Charity's [governing document], the Companies Act 2006 and "Accounting
and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in
accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102)" (effective
1 January 2019).

Objectives and activities
Halifax Opportunities Trust (HOT) has the following objects, which are registered and approved by the Charity
Commission:

To promote any charitable purpose for the benefit of the inhabitants of the metropolitan district of Calderdale in the
county of West Yorkshire and surrounding areas within a radius of 30 miles from Halifax Town Hall, including but not
exclusively the area known as Park Ward in the Metropolitan Borough of Calderdale to ensure the regeneration of
those areas for the public benefit of the community, by all or any of the following means:

a) the relief of poverty in such ways as may be thought fit;

b) the relief of unemployment; :

c) the advancement of education, training, or re-training, particularly among unemployed people and providing
work experience for the unemployed;

d) the provision of financial assistance, technical assistance, business advice or consultancy in order to provide

training and employment opportunities for unemployed people in cases of financial or other charitable need
through help in setting up their own business or to existing businesses;

e) the creation of training and employment opportunities by the provision of workspace, buildings and/or land
for use on favourable terms;

f) the provision of recreational facilities for the public at large or those who by reason of their youth, age, infirmity
or disablement, poverty or social and economic circumstances, have need of such facilities;

9) the protection or conservation of the environment;

h) the provision of childcare;

i) the promotion of public safety and prevention of crime; and

)) the provision of public health and well-being activities; and

k) such other means as may from time to time be determined subject to the prior consent of the Charity
Commission.

The trustees, in making decisions about planning and delivery of activities, have had due regard to the Charity
Commission's public benefit guidance when exercising any powers or duties to which the guidance is relevant. The
approach to public benefit is described in summary below and in more detail throughout this report.


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

‘TRUSTEES' REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Halifax Opportunity Trust's purpose as described in its Strategic Plan is ‘to work to make a vibrant multi-cultural and
self-sustaining community’. In order to achieve this, the Trust and its trading subsidiary (HOT Enterprises Ltd) carries
out the following activities: .

+ provides office space and support for business and enterprise development through two business centres.

* provides opportunities for learning via a range of apprenticeships, ESOL provision, life skills and integration
for new arrivals to the UK.

« provides assistance to job seekers by working with employers and through employment support initiatives.

+ provides childcare and family support through the Upper and Central Calderdale Family Hubs and other
projects.

+ provides support for physical and mental wellbeing by running social activities, networks and community
groups which encourage socialization and take up of new hobbies and activities.

« promotes community and wellbeing via the Outback community kitchen garden and projects aimed at
encouraging active, healthy lifestyles.

* provides community development support via the outreach activities of Community Organisers

The Board reviews the Charity's objectives and areas of operation periodically. For the year under review (2023-24)
it is agreed that priority interventions should continue fall into six main areas over the next year:

- Support enterprise, business start-up and growth
« Help local people into employment

« Support and deliver work-based learning

+ Support children and families

+ Support and promote community and wellbeing

+ Support inclusive integration of new arrivals to the UK

The board continues to explore acquisition of new property (to support the areas above and also to support the Trust's
sustainability). This includes buildings in which to provide decent housing, deliver community activity and provide
space for enterprise.

The trustees believe the strategy for achieving these objectives should continue to be thraugh programme and project
delivery primarily using a social enterprise model. This is achieved on either a contracted full-cost-recovery basis or
through our own commercial trading operations, thereby allowing the infrastructure of the Charity to be maintained
whilst achieving the designated charitable objectives. The Trust does seek grant income to enable the start-up of new
projects or initiatives, with the usual aim of ensuring these are self-sustaining via trading once established.

Public benefit

The trustees confirm that they have each complied with their duty under section 4 of the Charities Act 2006 to have
due regard to the guidance on public benefit published by the Charity Commission when carrying out their role and
duties.

HOT operates in disadvantaged areas, providing multiple economic, social and environmental benefits to individuals
in those areas. The trustees believe that public benefit has been achieved through the provision of support to local
businesses, individuals, community members and families via this diverse programme. This has provided multiple
economic, social, and environmental benefits to the individuals reached by the Charity’s activities. Details of our
support are set out in this report.


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS’ REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The Charity’s main programmes, projects and services are:

(1) Support enterprise, business start-up and growth

This is mainly achieved through the Trust's trading subsidiary company HOT Enterprises Ltd, which runs Hanson
Lane Enterprise Centre (HLEC) and Elsie Whiteley Innovation Centre (EWIC). EWIC provides office space and
meeting rooms and HLEC provides light industrial units and a smaller amount of office space. The Trust offers an 18
month grant to start up and early trading businesses which subsidises their rent. The business centres also act as a
focal point for physical regeneration and community cohesion in Park Ward, with a regular business networking event
being held at EWIC.

(2) Help local people into employment

The Trust provides practical, holistic and creative support to people looking for employment, especially those who are
disadvantaged in the labour market. The Trust provides this through a key worker model which enables support to be
customised around an individual's needs and delivered on a one-to-one basis. An important part of the service is pro-
active engagement with local employers to source vacancies to assist unemployed people back into work.

(3) Support and deliver work-based learning

Halifax Opportunities Trust is-a well-established learning provider in West Yorkshire, delivering work-based
apprenticeships. We are currently working with a range of employers including primary and secondary schools and
childcare providers across West Yorkshire offering qualifications in learning support, early years and business
administration. Our apprenticeship provision is directly registered with OFSTED and we are accredited with the Matrix
standard.

(4) Support children and families

HOT has developed and delivered a range of community-based services for families with young children in Calderdale
for many years. The services are run from five neighbourhood Family Hubs and also from local community venues.
The Hubs are busy and informative venues and are well used by parents in the community. The Hubs support families
in many ways helping them improve their health, parenting, employability, their education, family safety and provide
excellent childcare. For part of the year under review, the Trust also ran its own nursery (Little Gems) which was
based at Hanson Lane Enterprise Centre and was closed in July 2023. All nurseries run by the Trust have received
Good or Outstanding inspection results from OFSTED.

(5) Support and promote community and wellbeing

Heaith and wellbeing outcomes for residents of Park Ward and other areas where HOT operates compare badly with
those of the more prosperous parts of the borough. In response to this inequality, HOT has increasingly been
delivering activities which help improve social connections, nutrition and physical activity. Many activities run via the
Family Hubs educate parents and families about breastfeeding and healthy eating. In addition, the Trust runs a Staying
Well programme aimed at adults in the community, especially those who are experiencing isolation and loneliness as
a result of their age, mild mental ill-health or limiting medical conditions. The Outback community garden and kitchen.
helps people connect via gardening and healthy, nutritious food. The Trust also carries out ‘greening’ activity at its
Family Hubs and business centres, by planting flowers, vegetables and fruit to create pleasant environments and
contribute positively to these community settings. Finally, we have an ambitious plan to bring a well-loved local
community centre back into use and to purchase empty properties to refurbish and bring back into use as family
homes.

{6) Support inclusive integration of new arrivals to the UK

Calderdale has a long and proud history of welcoming new arrivals into the borough. HOT supports this by delivering
ESOL courses, embedded within an inclusion approach which enables new arrivals to learn how the UK functions.
This includes access to public services; history & heritage; government; culture & leisure; and social activities.


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS’ REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Achievements and performance

Specific activities and achievements from April 2023 to March 2024 for each objective are described below. in addition
to the information provided under each thematic area of work. This year we are focussing the review of activities on
our Community & Wellbeing and Inclusive Integration work, with briefer information about the other areas of our
charitable activity.

(1) Support enterprise, business start-up and growth

As at April 2024, Elsie Whiteley Innovation Centre and Hanson Lane Enterprise Centre both had occupancy levels of
90%, which meant that both were meeting marketing targets. HOT Networking, our free business networking event
continued to run successfully over the year, covering topics such as ‘Looking After Your Team’; ‘Perfect Your Pitch’;
‘Getting Paid on Time, Every Time’; and ‘Overcoming Presenting Nerves’. Each session attracted around 20
networkers.

(2) Help local people into employment

The Employment Services team has faced a chaltenge over the reporting period due to a difficult funding landscape.
These challenges directly impacted the team’s capacity, with two staff members being made redundant, leaving just
one employment advisor to deliver our services. Despite this reduction in staffing and the resulting pressure on
tesources, we have continued to provide vital support to individuals seeking employment.

Although the reduction in staff has inevitably affected our ability to maintain previous levels of support and employment
outcomes, we are proud to report that we have still managed to support over 100 individuals, with 39 successfully
moving into good quality & sustainable employment and more into training & education. This demonstrates the
resilience of the team and the importance of the services we provide, even under constrained circumstances.

Despite delays, we have made progress in establishing the necessary processes for the Youth Mentoring project,
including the recruitment, training and matching of 9 Mentors to their Mentees. The project aims to support younger
people from The Halifax Academy through matching them with professional mentors from across the region. Securing
additional resources to enable this project to continue remains a key focus.

Unsurprisingly, given the information above, other key management activity has been to secure further funding to
ensure the sustainability of our minimised team. Current capacity has been protected and opportunities to expand
explored, so that we can once again meet the ongoing demand for our services more comprehensively.

While the past year has undoubtedly been challenging, the Employment Services team has remained committed to
its mission of helping individuals secure meaningful employment. With continued efforts to secure additional funding
and resources, we are confident that we can rebuild and expand our team, ensuring that more people are supported
on their journey to employment in the coming year.

(3) Support and deliver work-based learning

The highlight of 2023/24 was the achievement of an Ofsted ‘Good' grading in a full inspection which was conducted
in November 2023. To enable this, the Apprenticeship provision focused on key quality improvements, employer
engagement and collaborations with large locally-based businesses. We also cantinued to build positive partnerships
with local businesses which provided levy transfer funding to enable local SMEs and charities to recruit apprentices.
As of April 2024 we had 68 learners on provision and a steady completion rate, including significant numbers of
apprentices achieving an ‘Outstanding’ grade. The qualifications offered by HOT include Level 3 Business Admin,
Level 2 Early Years Practitioner, Level 3 Early Years Educator, Level 5 Early Years Lead Practitioner and Level 3
Teaching Assistant.


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES' REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024 ,

(4) Support children and families

HOT has developed and delivered a range of community-based services for families with young children in Calderdale
for over 21 years. These services, operating from Family Hubs (previously known as Children’s Centres) and
community venues, have mostly been delivered in partnership with Calderdale Council via contractual agreement.
During the year under review, the Trust worked closely with CMBC and other partners to establish and progress the
work of the Starting Well Board and the launch of Family Hubs on 12th September 2023 at Jubilee Family Hub with
240 individuals attending.

The Family Hubs provide a one stop shop’ for families, bringing together all the support a family may need from
pregnancy to young people turning 19 (or 25 for children with Special Educational Needs and Disabilities). This is
done by supporting families with:

The challenges of becoming a new parent

Building loving and responsive relationships

Infant feeding

Speech and Communication

Play at home

Access to support services for young people

Activities such as baby massage, baby groups and stay and play sessions

Peer support for parents and carers including dads and partners and those families with children who have
SEND needs

+ Increased access to digital resources and information.

ee ee ew ewe

During 2023-2024:

4731 families were provided with advice and support

2072 families were signposted or given advice about family life issues

1473 families attended our universal groups

509 families have accessed our holiday activities for families with children aged 0-8 years old

594 people have been supported to understand the benefits of breastfeeding and supported to maintain this
847 dads/male carers have accessed services

127 children accessed one of our 3 nursery settings (Todmorden, Siddal and Jubilee)

62 people have received specific advice and support around their mental ill health

46 families have received specific speech and language support/advice

In Q3 we piloted a group to support families around neurodiversity. In Q4 we successfully engaged with 5
such families. Parents commented that attending was “like having a lightbulb moment” in understanding
their children. Neurodiversity training has also been delivered to 28 staff.

95% of families felt that by attending the Family Hub Services their parenting skills had improved

87% of families réported that by attending Family Hub Services their family’s health and wellbeing had
improved
+ 89% of families reported that by attending Family Hub Services, their child's development had improved and
they were developing the skills required to be ready for school.

(5) Support and promote community and wellbeing

HOT runs a range of projects and activities under this theme. One of our key programmes is called Staying Well which
we have run for 8 years, working collaboratively with local partner agencies and community members promoting
wellbeing and social activities in Halifax and surrounding areas. In January 2024 we launched the Apna Staying Well
HUB at Hanson Lane Enterprise Centre with new activities that have been coproduced with participants who attend
the HUB. Apna is a word used in many South Asian languages to describe “my own’ or “our own". The idea was to
give local residents a feeling of something that belongs to them and to use the community space where they feel safe
and build on social connections. We have received positive feedback since the opening of our new space with many
community members reporting feeling welcomed, happy and being a part of something positive. Staying Well supports
people by providing people with individualised support and group-based activities. In the last year we have supported
around 115 individuals via one-to-one interventions. Staying Well groups and activities include:


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES' REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS’ REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Arts Group and Knit & Natter
The group participants regularly attend the weekly sessions and have built social connections with one another.

Participants feel an integral part of the group and provide each other with emotional and practical support and
guidance. The groups give participants a sense of belonging and something to look forward too. Many participants
report feeling safe, protected and welcomed. As this is a diverse group of different religions, faiths, cultures and beliefs
it allows diverse cultures to come together and promote cross-cultural awareness.

Yaadein (reminiscence) Group

The Yaadein Group have been going for walks on Wednesdays regularly to the Outback garden, People’s Park and
Savile Park. The group are really keen to participate as the physical activity lifts their mood. Visits to the Outback
have been particularly successful and Yaadein group participants have shown an interest in gaining access to a plot
to grow their own fresh produce. The group also visited the beehives at The Outback and were fascinated in the
honey-making process and are looking forward to sampling the honey once it has been collected. The group also
teally enjoy learning about the growing conditions/process in the greenhouse and how this enhanced growth of the
tomatoes, aubergine and cucumbers in comparison to the environment outside. Some participants wish to volunteer
at the Outback to promote their emotional and physical wellbeing.

Halifax Minster Summer Festival (Tea dance)

Staying Well participants were invited to the annual Summer Festival at Halifax Minster which was aimed at people
that are lonely and isolated. The event included afternoon tea, music and dance and enabled Staying Well participants
to get to know other members of the community who attended the event.

The dancing was popular and pushed individuals out of their comfort zone but increased their confidence and
emotional wellbeing. Also, for many participants it was their first social outing post-Covid. For many individuals it was
their first time at the Halifax Minster. The Summer Festivals was culturally inclusive therefore it was welcoming for all.

Tandrusti Project
The Tandrusti project raised awareness in the Park Ward community about diabetes and the health risks associated

to diabetes. We successfully did this by:

- Promoting positive life-style changes that will mitigate the risk of developing Type 2 diabetes.

+ Professionally challenging the misconceptions and myths in relation to diabetes that are common in the South
Asian community and to educate the facts about Type 2 diabetes.

+ Developing strategies and interventions working with.the community to prevent and manage diabetes —
tailoring the delivery and interventions to meet the specific

The South Asian community are particularly vulnerable to developing type 2 diabetes. It is estimated by Diabetes UK
that life expectancy of a person with type 2 diabetes is likely to be reduced by 10 years.

The Tandrusti project delivers both practical and theory-based diabetes awareness and prevention sessions. The
theory-based model is via an interactive presentation that is visually stimulating and works for individuals at all levels
of English language. The practical sessions are in collaboration with the Outback where there is a ‘show me’ session
where South Asian cuisine dishes are cooked in a healthier alternative way to promote healthier lifestyle choices.

During the period of April 2023- April 2024 the Tandrusti project engaged 101 BAME women from Park ward running
diabetes awareness sessions at various locations in Park Ward and beyond within Calderdale. A number of people
are now active as diabetes champions within the community and have made positive lifestyle changes.


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES' REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

See te ce eri

Tandrusti ¢ ‘Case Study
‘Seema was diagnosed with type 2 diabetes one year ago. She experienced symptoms such as weight loss, feeling
tired and frequent passing of urine. After seeking medical help, Seema received a HBA1c blood test, which indicated
that her sugar levels were too high and led to her needing insulin for six months. Due to her health Seema was
struggling and wanted help and support with steps to improve and manage hor diabetes through diet and exercise. {
*When ! was diagnosed with Type 2 diabetes / knew | have to make some changes.” }

The Tandrusti diabetes workshops are delivered at HOT sites, Hanson Lane Enterprise Centre and the Outback
‘Community Kitchen and Garden. Seema became aware of the workshops {trough her English classes that she,
attends at Hanson Lane Enterprise Centre. i
; .

Seema was very keen to attend the workshop because, they are delivered in the relevant language she speaks, which
is Mirpuri. Previously, she struggled to understand the advice she was given due to her language barrier and it was
too clinical: She wanted advice that is culturally tailored. .

When Seema attended the’ Tandrusti diabetes workshop she started to engage and interact with other participants
‘confidently. She talked openly about her condition and how it has affected her life: For Seema, the workshop motivated
her to improve and manage her diabetes through diet and exercise. She has given up-sugar in her hot drinks, given
up fizzy drinks, reduced.carbahydrates, has more fruit and vegetables. She also uses olive oil, has more protein and
grilled food in her diet, as well as being physically more active, walking five miles a day. Seema is motivated and has,
the willpower to manage her diabetes through lifestyle changes such.as diet and exercise. Through the workshop.
‘Seema has also become more aware that making a few simple changes in her lifestyle can help to avoid the Serious
health complications that diabetes can cause, such as nerve, kidney and heart damage. She also highlighted that due
to the higher risks for South Asian people, it is important from-the age of 25 to get tested far a HBATc. She now says!
it strongly advise anyone from a South Asian background to get tested for Type 2 diabetes once they are 25. Knowing
the 4isks. and how to manage. them through lifestyle can make so much difference. and prevent. Type 2 from
developing.” i

The Outback Kitchen and Garden
Our other main wellbeing activity is our beautiful community garden and kitchen called The Outback. Due to ongoing

demand from local communities, in 2023-24 we expanded and increased health and wellbeing focused activities at
the garden. Funding from the NHS Creative Minds programme enabled us to offer 3 Gardening for Wellbeing courses
providing opportunities for people accessing community mental health services to engage in nature based and
gardening activities to improve wellbeing. We were also successful in our application to the D’Oyly Carte Foundation
for a grant to deliver social and therapeutic horticultural sessions. Facilitated by our Community Gardener, these
sessions used gardening and seasonal outdoor activities to help people improve their mental health and reduce
isolation, with a particular focus on engaging with people who were disadvantaged and/or vulnerable.

We collaborated with our colleagues in other HOT teams and the Outback hosted some iarge community events
during the year, including HOT's 21st birthday party and a Refugee and Asylum Seeker celebration, along with hosting
some smaller scale workshops and sessions. Among these were gardening activities for the Moving Forward Together
project, the Tandrusti team’s practical cooking sessions and forest school sessions for the Fun 4 Youths group.

An Active Calderdale grant enabled us to improve signage and pathways around the garden and the create a
wellbeing walk. The aim of the project was to encourage more local people to access the Outback to increase their
levels of physical activity whilst being in a safe and welcoming community green space. We also used a Calderdale
Council Small Grant to install an off-grid solar energy kit into the Hive room to make it a more usable space and it has
now become the base for our Park Ward Pollinators community beekeeping project.


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES' REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The cost of living crisis continues to have a significant impact on people living in the area and there is still a high
demand for food support. Having provided a free weekly takeaway meal for the local community since September
2020, we wanted to move to a more sustainable and choice-based model of food support. We worked alongside
people from Park to establish our Outback Community Pantry — a weekly service offering basic pantry items at
affordable prices. The pantry is staffed by local volunteers with support from our staff team, helping to empower people
to play an active role in finding solutions to the challenges they face. By the end of 2023-24, over 40 local households
had signed up to be members of the Community Pantry.

Volunteering input into maintaining the garden remained strong with 26 regular volunteers. Our weekly kitchen and
garden volunteering sessions are friendly, welcoming and open to all and our community kitchen and garden team
create a supportive and nurturing environment, helping to build relationships and social connections across different
groups of people, Through volunteer support we have built more compost bays, installed solar power to the Hive,
repaired and renovated all veg beds and maximised growing space throughout the garden. The pop-up seasonal fruit
and veg shop had its most successful year with 100% of all produce grown being sold at affordable prices to the loca!
community.

We continue to build Jocal partnerships to enable a wide variety of people of all ages to benefit from the Outback and
in 2023-24 we hosted regular visits from 3 local schools/pre-schools, Calderdale College, Healthy Minds, the local
childminder network and the Calderdale Council Portage Team.

rarer es

(Outback Case "Stud; eG - ‘.

Outback garden. volunteer AB lives: on his’ own locally: AB was looking for opportunities to'keep’ ‘him busy and’ active
‘and when he found out about the Outback, he thought he would give it a try. Due to iliness AB has lost some mobility,
but, our Community Garden team have welcomed and worked alongside AB to ensure that he has a range of ‘jobs ne
‘can get involved with to help him get: the most out of his time in the Outback. AB says:

yi live on my own and although J have always: been active having had cancer twice | have recently become an old
man Very quickly. | push myself at every opportunity to try and regain the movement that I enjoyed in my youth, hence.
working at the Outback. | look.forward to the Tuesday and Thursday volunteering sessions s working with ‘tkeminded
people-who-inspire me:to.carry ¢ the Outback has. been. a godsend’.

_— ‘ _!

Queens Road Neighbourhood Centre
Significant progress on this ambitious project was made during the year. Calderdale council cabinet agreed to the

asset transfer of the building to HOT, and significant grant funding was secured from the Architectural Heritage Fund
and UK Shared Prosperity Fund which will pay for specialist VAT advice, bid writing, project management support and
architectural/professional fees. An initial Expression of Interest was submitted to the National Lottery Heritage Fund
which, if accepted, will pave the way to a Development grant bid to progress the project to the next stage of delivery.

Housing
HOT purchased its first house which was both an investment decision by trustees and also fits with HOTs charitable

objects to support local people. The house has been leased for 10 years to a local charity, which will manage the
property and have placed a vulnerable family into the accommodation.


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Community Organising

2023/24 has been another busy year for HOTs Community Organisers (COs), through our Place Based Social Action
project, funded by the National Lottery Community Fund. As an established and important arm of the Community and
Wellbeing team. CO’s encourage people from the local community to bring positive change to their neighbourhoods.
A key activity over the past year has been to galvanise local people to attend ward forum meetings. Past meetings
saw only a few of the same residents attending. Now the ward forum regularly attracts between 30-50 local residents
per meeting to have a say on their local community and hold elected members, the police and other services
accountable for what is happening in the local area. The CO's have been active across various projects at HOT and
are often the first point of contact for other agencies wanting local engagement. We support finding raw data and
ensuring that the local voice is part of establishing a understanding of what's relatable and beneficial. This was well
demonstrated when the community organisers were asked to do a large piece of work regarding People’s Park which
helped provide vital information towards establishing a committed Friends of People’s Park group. The COs also
supported consultation around a Community Arts trail, helped to link the launch of HOTs new Apna Staying Well Hub
to the wider neighbourhood and encouraged local residents to become involved with The Outback community garden,
to the point where there is now a waiting list for garden volunteers! The COs have built really productive connections
with various other local initiatives. Examples include Halifax Central Initiative, especially around seasonal events such
as Ramadan, Eid Easter and Bonfire night; Culturedale, to inform larger community celebration events within local
parks and community spaces; and engagament with Playzones.

(6) Support inclusive integration of new arrivals to the UK

This year marks the most extensive rollout in the history of our ESOL and Integration provision to date. We significantly
expanded our reach, delivering services to a record number of participants throughout this past year. Alongside
existing contracts, HOT was awarded two new ESOL & Integration programmes designed not only to improve English
language skills but also to facilitate long-term social, economic, and personal growth for learners. Through facilitation
of language learning with holistic support services, the programmes have helped empower individuals to become
active, self-sufficient members of the local communities, leading to lasting impacts on their quality of life.

This expansion reflects our commitment to meeting the growing demand for ESOL and integration services, ensuring
that more people have the opportunity to benefit from our service delivery.

This year's post-integration delivery has had a transformative impact on participants, fostering meaningful
improvements in both individuals’ lives and the community. Through targeted support services, participants have
acquired qualifications & many learners have successfully secured employment. High numbers of learners have also
reported enhanced social integration, as reflected in increased involvement in local community activities and volunteer
work. Additionally, a high proportion of learners have successfully progressed to further education, equipping them
with skills for long-term success. These outcomes illustrate the significant and lasting benefits of post-integration
initiatives & innovative curriculum design.

Our focus has remained in maintaining our commitment to making language and integration support accessible to
individuals that face barriers to participation (focussing on women in particular). Being able to successfully reach out
to isolated individuals, newly arrived migrants, refugees & marginalised communities has enhanced the reach of
HOT's services.

The increased number of contracts have enabled us to enhance programme impact by bringing language support
closer to the communities that need it most through alleviation of barriers resulting in higher engagement rates.
Additionally, the program has strengthened local networks by fostering partnerships with local stakeholders that has
introduced more specialist input for our learners. Programmes delivered are as follows:

CAL - Calderdale Adult Learning Continuation of our partnership with the LA to deliver accredited/non- accredited
ESOL & Digital skills. Despite challenges in mainstream eligibility criteria to access CAL provision, we successfully
delivered Year 2 of our contract to multiple groups of new learners.

CAL Functional Skills Maths provision Another highly successful year of partnership working to deliver Maths to
individuals expressing interest in Numeracy learning. High numbers of diverse groups enrolled onto the programmes
& were successful in achieving Level 1 & Level 2 Maths qualifications.


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS’ REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

CAL Multiply programme Successfully delivered Year 2 of the newly introduced initiative to engage individuals that
are furthest away in learning & support uptake in basic Numeracy learning with a view to equip individuals with
Numeracy skills in order to strengthen parental input in children's learning as well as improving prospects for economic
participation.

VPRS -Vulnerable Person's Resettlement Scheme Continuation of our contract to deliver ESOL/Integration &
Employment support to all individuals that are on the Government Resettlement Scheme. All learners have
significantly improved their language acquisition, improved social networking, increased their confidence levels &
have demonstrated adaptation to life in Britain. All learners participated in the enrichment activities throughout the
year, evidencing commitment to learning & contributing to diversity & multi culturalism in Calderdale.

Innovation Fund A new initiative commissioned by Calderdale council in promoting language learning, strengthening
community cohesion & addressing gaps in local services. A customised curriculum was designed to address local
women's needs to specialist services, incorporating context-specific topics such as navigating local services,
employment opportunities and cultural integration activities.

Maximus A pilot ESOL & Employability programme to support individuals in improving English tanguage skills to
improve chances of securing employment. .

ESOL Partnership Forum is a council-facilitated forum created to bring together all Calderdale ESOL providers in
mapping local need & identifying gaps in local area. HOTs Inclusion & Integration Manager attends to support the
strategic development of localised ESOL delivery. ,

Exams All accredited programme areas have seen excellent results with all learners achieving qualifications. This
has further developed confidence & motivation of learners to progress onto higher levels.

CultureDale is a creative celebration of Calderdale council's 50 years of service delivery. Based on popular demand,
HOT facilitated two highly successful community cultural events (Chand Ali Khan Qawwali & Brunch with Lala
Qadeer). Both events were well attended & fantastic feedback was received regarding HOT's contribution to local
culture & heritage.

Active Calderdale A series of workshops delivered to ascertain physical activity levels & promoting the Active
Calderdale initiative.

An important aspect of HOTs inclusion provision are the enrichment activities that enable participants to better
understand the UK way of life and how society operates. In the year under review, the following took place:

Houses of Parliament visit Our annual visit where learners have the opportunity to broaden their knowledge of UK
Parliament (learn about the House of Commons & House of Lords in addition to exploring selected London sites).
Learners were fascinated to sit in the public gallery listening to live debates!

Bridlington visit An opportunity for learners to visit the wider UK geography/landscape & for many a first-time.
experience of experiencing life at the seaside.

international Women’s Day celebrations HOT collaborated with Park Community Initiative in bringing together local
women & celebrating IWD Error in formula ->#inspirelnclusion<- & Error in formula ->#investinWomen<-.

BBC Make a Difference Last but not least, a highlight for the year was Halifax Opportunities Trust's Inclusion &
Integration Manager winning the prestigious BBC ‘Make A Difference Award’ in the ‘Together Award’ category through
her work with migrants and refugees at Halifax Opportunities Trust. The ceremony was held at the Leeds Royal
Armouries, on 30th September 2023.

-10-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

(7) Leadership, governance and central support functions

Governance

Underpinning the outward-facing work of the Trust is a central services team and a board of trustees whose role is to
ensure that the leadership and operational aspect of HOT is of high quality. During the year under review, one new
trustee, Zohaib Ali, was elected. In addition to being a local resident, Zohaib brings HR experience to the board.
Trustees underwent ‘bite-size training’ at their board meetings on the following subjects: political campaigning;
apprenticeship provision; safeguarding. A full skills audit was also carried out, which will inform the training programme
for 2024/25. This ensures that trustees are fully aware of their legal duties and the specific issues that they need to
focus upon. The tenure of trustees was reduced to 9 years (from 15) to better meet best practice and governance
guidance from Companies House

Staffing and professional development
As at 31st March 2024, HOT had 178 staff, 88% of whom are women and 36% of BAME heritage. Staff stay at HOT

for around 7 years, which means we are successful in retaining staff members. Key developments during the year
include the introduction of an improved HR dashboard. This is an important tool to help make informed decisions and
support staff development. The HR dashboard is broken down into individual areas of the business and is the most
efficient way to monitor, manage and track data, extract valuable insights and create a plan for the future from a
strategic level/perspective. The workforce quarterly report provides the opportunity to explore and discuss issues
identified from analysis of the data arising from the organisation’s workforce transactions. The indicators represented
in this report gives SMT an instant view of selected trends over the last year to see the wider picture of what is
changing in the workforce. We re-established the Employee Forum which has a new name of Hear Our Thoughts
(HOT). The aim of the Employee Forum is to provide a two-way communication process, involving and engaging
employees through consultation and enabling them to contribute to the success of the business.

Quality assurance/systems and processes
In November 2023 the Trust was accredited with the Contractors Health and Safety Assessment Scheme (CHAS)

having demonstrated compliance with and sound management of current health and safety legislation. In December
2023 HOT successfully secured accreditation for Cyber Essentials. The certification demonstrates we have robust
data security measures and gives our clients, partners and staff the confidence and assurance that we are working
to a recognised level. In March 2024 HOT secured Matrix accreditation for Apprenticeships and Employment provision
and (for the first time) for our Children and Families provision.

Marketing
2023 marked our 21st anniversary, and we implemented a strong campaign which celebrated our impact over the

past two decades. More importantly it gave us an opportunity to commemorate and acknowledge the individuals who
have contributed to the achievements of the Trust. Our 21st Birthday celebrations drove a lot of the marketing activity
for 2023, not only in what the Trust communicated, but in its strategic vision for the next 21 years and beyond. A new
website was developed and launched, which places emphasis on providing dynamic information about the Trust
including a calendar of events.

Future Commitments

The Children's Centre contract forms the major source of future commitments/liabilities for the Charity, in relation to
the defined benefit pension scheme for TUPE’d staff who were originally employed by Calderdale council. The current
contract is due to finish on 31st September 2025. HOT has met the level of required pension contributions since it
took on the contract in 2014 and therefore has met all its obligations in terms of keeping the scheme adequately
financed. As at 31 March 2024 under the FRS 102 (LGPS funded benefits) disclosure requirement, the Charity has
recognised a much-reduced pension liability on the balance sheet of £82,000 in relation to the Children's Centre.
contract (see note 19 of the financial statements for further details). This is the difference between the fair value of
the assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation as valued under FRS 102 and using the assumptions
presented to the Trustees in the actuary's report.

The FRS 102 deficit shown as at 31 March 2024 is a snapshot at a point in time and the deficit disclosed in our
accounts is not reflective of our ongoing obligations under the Scheme. These are assessed every 3 years as part of
the triennial actuarial valuation process. As at the last actuarial valuation carried out as at 31 March 2022 we were
104.9% funded, with a surplus of £188,000. We are also defined as a ‘subsumption body’ in the Scheme which reflects
a guarantee provided by Calderdale Council which means that should we exit the scheme at any point any liability
due would be picked up (“Subsumed") by the Council. The Trust will continue to make contributions at the agreed rate
to fund the pensions being built up. .

-W-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

’

Financial review
The Group is reporting net operating income of £68,243 for the year ended 31 March 2024, before movement on the
pension scheme.

Following recognition of the actuarial movement on the defined benefit pension schemes, the Group is showing a
total net income position of £70,942.

The Group receives funding from a range of sources including local and national government contracts, local and
national government grants, grant income from Trusts and Foundations as well as generation of its own income via
its subsidiary company. The Trustees have adopted diversification of income streams to mitigate the risks around
sustainable income sources.

Details of the specific grants received by the Group are included in note 3 of the accounts and the results of the
trading subsidiary are included in note 15 of the accounts. The income sources of the Charity's restricted funds are
included in note 20 of the accounts.

Going concem
Based on a high level of secured contractual and grant income and free reserves of £913,136, the Trustees are
confident that Halifax Opportunities Trust can continue as a going concern.

Reserves policy

Reserves are required by the Charity because there is a need to match variable future income with fixed commitments,
grants are often received after the relevant expenditure has been paid out, and the Trust at times supports certain
projects beyond the life of specific funding or bridges between contracts. The policy agreed by the Board of Trustees
is described below:

The HOT Board have agreed to determine the target level of reserves using the following approach:

50% of all non-Children's Centre salaries PLUS all current contractual payment commitments. The reserves levels
will be reviewed each year when budgeting is being carried out and will therefore fluctuate as salary costs increase/
decrease and contractual commitments increase/decrease. Based on this Policy, the target level of reserves for 2023/
24 will be £646,422

Unrestricted reserves as of 31st March 2024 were actually £2,243,036. In 2022 trustees designated £150,000
reserves towards the purchase of empty properties in Park ward. £66,500 has since been spent from that designated
reserve and so £83,500 is still designated to that purpose. A revaluation reserve is held to recognise the valuation of
charity property, this totals £1,328,400, with £82,000 held in relation to the pension scheme deficit at 31/3/24. The
remainder of £913,136 are general reserves to support the ongoing operation of the charity.

Investment policy : :
Under the Memorandum and Articles of Association the trustees have the power to make any investment they see fit.
During the year under review the trustees have chosen to hold the surplus funds of the Charity in the bank account
with Unity Trust Bank PLC. These are held in current accounts in order to facilitate the day to day operations of the
Charity. £623,458 of the Trust's funds are held in an interest-bearing current account with Unity Trust Bank in order
to maximise income from the Trust's surplus funds and to meet the fiduciary requirement of the trustee board.

-12-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES' REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Plans for future periods

(1) Support enterprise, business start-up and growth

Since April 2024 there has been a drop in occupancy at our business centres and so we have reset targets to improve
occupancy at both sites through a plan of inward investment to maintain and improve the sites and remain the local
market leader in office and conferencing space. We are also reviewing our operational systems and staffing structure
for both sites to ensure excellent provision for tenants and conference attendees.

(2) Help local people into employment

We continue to engage with potential funders, develop partnerships, and advocate for the importance of employment
services within the VCS sector. Our aim for the next period is to secure the resources necessary to not only maintain
our services but also to expand them in response to growing community need, including the delayed implementation
of the Youth Mentoring project.

Priority 1: Youth Employment in Park Ward & wider Calderdale

Supporting young people into employment remains one of our highest priorities. This focus is especially critical for
areas like Park ward, where youth unemployment rates continue to exceed local and national averages. The economic
and social challenges faced by young people in this community have only been exacerbated by the current funding
crisis, making it even more urgent to address the barriers they face in accessing sustainable employment.

In response to this need, we are actively exploring partnerships with local funders, businesses, and community
organisations to develop tailored projects aimed at empowering young people in Park Ward. These projects will focus
on building essential skills, offering mentorship, and creating pathways into employment for those who are often left
behind in traditional job markets. .

While our Youth Mentoring project remains a key component of this strategy, we recognise that a broader, multi-
faceted approach is needed to make a significant impact. This includes not only securing funding for the mentoring
programme but also developing targeted initiatives.

Priority 2: Expanding Support for a Diverse Client Base

In addition to our focus on youth employment, a key priority for the coming year is to continue providing tailored
support to people across a wide demographic range. Our services are designed to meet the needs of individuals from
various backgrounds, including long-term unemployed adults, older workers facing career transitions, individuals with
disabilities, and people from ethnic minority groups, all of whom may experience unique barriers to entering or re-
entering the workforce.

To ensure that we can continue to meet the diverse needs of our community, it is essential that we expand our team.
Currently, with only one employment advisor, our capacity to provide the holistic, personalised support that is
necessary has been stretched thin. This limits our ability to reach more clients and deliver the comprehensive services
we Strive for.

-13-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES' REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS’ REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

(3) Support and deliver work-based learning
Key future activity includes:

- Programme development and further growth to achieve financial independence and stability

+ Plan to increase provision in the following areas — Customer service, Team Leader and Leadership &
Management

+ To continue to develop quality sustainability growth in line with Sustainability Through Skills approach to
achieve a path to a greener society and network with colleagues from the skills sector

+ To alternative ways of employer engagement to provide a high quality experience for leaners and employers

+ To continue to work with local employers to tackle skills shortage in the early years sector

+ Introduction of new staff posts to expand the skills mix of the team

(4) Support children and families

We anticipate that the service will be retendered during the coming year with initial indications that the current contract
lots will be restructured to create pan-Calderdale provision. We are therefore preparing for a possible tender
submission.

In terms of the current contracted service, which is in place until September 2025, these are some of the key areas
of activity over the coming year for this service:

Level 4 Understanding Autism — a course delivered and funded by Calderdale College in Q1 24/25 in Todmorden
for parents and anyone working with children.

Support Afong the Spectrum — to continue to deliver this support group for families with neurodiverse children and
to expand training to more partner agnecies.

Wellbeing Group - A working party was established to gather feedback about how this course can be improved
following feedback from the pilot session. After consulting with parents, the program was amended, and will be
delivered during Qt 24/25. This will offer support needed in this area to our open cases, and cases awaiting allocation
for Family Support & Outreach.

Breastfeeding Group at Todmorden Health Centre — due to high demand for 1:1 breastfeeding support the group
time will be extended to allow enough time for support to be offered. 2

Tots Talking — an 8-week programme to improve 2 year old language skills supported through the |Can Foundation.
The sessions will run weekly with small groups of 6-8 parents and children at risk of delayed language. The Early
Years Team have now all been trained in how to facilitate these sessions.

-14-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Literacy Trust Events - Funding from the National Literacy Trust to work in partnership with North Halifax Partnership,
to deliver 5 sessions to help to support and improve speech and language {evels across Calderdale. The events will
be delivered by Story Trails, who deliver interactive stories which encourage imagination and creativity. This will take
place in Q1 24/25.

(5) Support and promote community and wellbeing
Key future plans are as follows for this area of HOTs work:

Calderdale Cancer Aware Project
HOT (Staying Well Central Halifax) is leading a cancer awareness project developed in partnership with Macmillan.

The project aims to empower and support BAME residents of Calderdale by enhancing their understanding and
knowledge of cancer, promoting earlier diagnosis and treatment. This initiative is one of only 12 projects funded
nationally by Macmillan and will receive support for three years. Based on community engagement and insights
gathered by HOT, the project has influenced the national Macmillan model to better reflect the needs of Calderdale.
It will actively promote awareness of various types of cancer, symptom recognition, and screening services through a
series of cancer awareness workshops, outreach activities, and published literature. The project will also run cancer
awareness campaigns, debunk misconceptions, and address taboos and stigmas, providing culturally sensitive and
accurate information. The project is currently being finalised and expect to be rolled out in June 2024.

- Secure Staying Well
The Staying Well service has been delivered collaboratively by three community anchor organisations across

Calderdale, as follows:

+ Halifax Opportunities Trust — Central Halifax
« North Halifax Partnership ~ North Halifax and Lower Valley
« Hebden Bridge Community Association — Upper Valley

Initially launched as a pilot project in 2014, the service has been renewed annually by Calderdale Council. Following
extensive discussions and consultations, the Council has now decided to commission the service for a longer term,
potentially up to five years. This is a positive development for the service, with the commissioning process expected
to begin around May 2024.

The Outback

Securing longer-term funding to help cover core costs, salaries and rising utility costs remains a priority for 2024-25.
We will also explore opportunities for corporate sponsorship of the Outback. We want to increase footfall to the kitchen
and garden through the provision of a wide range of wellbeing, gardening and cooking activities. We plan to inspire
more people to build a stronger connection with the natural environment so that they make everyday changes in their
lives to take action to protect it.

Queen’s Road Neighbourhood Centre
Key activity for the forthcoming year is to secure project management support through a competitive tender process

and to ensure our EO! to the National Lottery Heritage Fund is successful. We will also enter into a formal partnership
with Calderdale council to progress the project until HOT takes on the leasehold for the building. This is an ambitious
capital project requiring external finance and specialist advice, therefore a robust, steady, risk-based approach is
being taken. :

Community Organising

As community organising is predicated on what emerges from the local community, it is harder to have set plans about
what will happen in the future! However, the two Organisers are in place for one more year and we plan to secure
funding to keep capacity in place as organising is so important to HOT’s work with the local community. We have had
positive feedback from funding partners and so hope to secure our team for 2025 and beyond.

(6) Support inclusive integration of new arrivals to the UK

Our aim is to continue with our efforts to seek funding solutions that help sustain our delivery in order to fully meet the
growing demand for English language & integration support. Limited financial resources would create huge challenges
& risks & restrict the number of participants we can engage as well as reducing the geographic reach of our services.
Addressing these financial limitations is essential for sustaining and scaling up the services to meet the evolving
needs of our communities. We would as always like to remain optimistic in continuing to offer more comprehensive
integration support so will focus on sustaining our contracts & explore new initiatives.

-15-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

- TRUSTEES' REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

(7) Governance, Management and Central Services

HR
We will be reviewing the full life cycle ‘of recruitment including sourcing, screening, employing and onboarding/
induction with a view to:

+ Drive an increase in quality applicants per vacancy. We currently have either a low number of applicants or
a high number of unqualified/poor candidates

+ Reduce the time-to-hire - reduce the number of days between advert posting to day one in role.

+ Reducing our cost per hire — we will look at attributing a current average cost and look to reduce this, setting
a realistic percentage reduction.

We will also be implementing a Performance Management Module into Cezanne (our online HR system) which will
streamline our’current performance management process. This will support efficient leadership ensuring that we
accurately record the performance of our employees and it will enable leaders to quickly identify and manage
performance issues as well as helping to identify and support succession planning for future leadership positions and
other career advancement opportunities.

Marketing

The focus for marketing in the coming year is our business centres and apprenticeship provision, to ensure we are
maximising our reach to potential tenants and customers. The marketing strategy includes plans for carbon reduction,
digital transformation and place-based delivery that all support the Trust in remaining relevant, accessible and
authentic. We are also reviewing the style and messaging of our marketing to ensure we are reaching local residents
and organisations.

Quality and Systems

A priority for 2024/25 is to review and improve our internal quality assurance systems to ensure they are as efficient
and effective as possible. We will be introducing new digital systems to enable this. We will be working towards
retention of all our current quality marks (Quality for Health & Wellbeing; Matrix; Ofsted; CHAS, Cyber Essentials) to
ensure we have external scrutiny as well as a robust internal audit.

-16-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES’ REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS’ REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Structure, governance and management

Halifax Opportunities Trust, was incorporated in 2000, achieved charitable status in 2002 and has been operational
since April 2002. It is a membership organisation and its trustees are elected from its membership as laid out in the
Memorandum and Articles of Association. The Trust can also co-opt trustees to sit on its board but currently is not
using this option.

HOT has two commercial properties on long term peppercorn leases from the local council. They are used as a base
for HOT's charitable activities and are also let to local businesses to promote and encourage local business growth.
The property interests are managed by a wholly owned subsidiary company, HOT Enterprises Ltd. For this reason,
HOT produces consolidated accounts.

Governance
HOT is a registered charity and a company limited by guarantee. Board members are therefore both trustees of the
charity and company directors. There are currently ten trustees.

Elected trustees serve for a maximum of nine years and the co-opted trustees are co-opted annually. Elected trustees
are elected by the HOT membership at the AGM. Co-opted trustees are appointed by the Board. All new trustees
receive an induction pack and complete a register of interest document. They are also provided with opportunities for
governance and sector specific training and development.

The charity's board meets quarterly and the HOT Enterprises board meets every two months. In addition to these
meetings there is a Finance, Audit & Risk Committee and an HR & Apprenticeships Committee. Special purpose task
and finish groups are formed to meet specific needs. These meetings take place between formal board meetings to
explore issues in depth and help trustees and directors better understand the changing environment in which the
organisation operates. Any such groups report back to the full Board. Currently there are a Buildings Sub Committee
and a Children’s Centre Sub Committee.

An annual away day is held for trustees and staff at which future direction and priorities are agreed. The Strategy Plan
is reviewed annually and each team produces a short operational plan which outlines key activities for the year ahead.
KPIs are drawn from these plans and are used as the basis for performance management within the organisation.

Management

There is an experienced senior management team of five at the core of the organisation that meets monthly to plan
pan-organisational operational activity. The team is led by the Chief Executive. The Chief Executive and the senior
managers report directly to the Board at the charity and trading subsidiary board meetings. They produce written
exception, risk and recommendation reports for these meetings and attend to respond to questions and provide further
information as required. The senior team attend regular training and personal development opportunities to ensure
they are keeping their professional development up to date.

Risk management

The trustees agreed a Risk Management Plan for 2023/24 and have agreed the plan for the forthcoming year 2024/
25. The Plan describes HOTs approach to risk management and assesses the strategic risks for the organisation,
based on Charity Commission guidelines and using a RAG system. Red (high level) risks are dealt with immediately,
with Amber being dealt with as soon as possible. Risks highlighted for 2023/24 were all mitigated or negated within
the year under review. Detailed scrutiny of the risk plan, including emerging risks identified by SMT, is delegated to
the Risk and Governance Committee. This Committee agrees and summarises key risks which are then presented to
the full board.

Company limited by guarantee
Halifax Opportunities Trust is a company limited by guarantee and accordingly does not have a share capital.

Every member of the company undertakes to contribute such an amount as may be required not exceeding £1 to the
assets of the charitable company in the event of its being wound up while he or she is a member, or within one year
after he or she ceases to be a member.

-17-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES' REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The trustees, who are also the directors for the purpose of company law, and who served during the year and up to
the date of signature of the financial statements were: .

ZAAIi (Appointed 16 November 2023)
H J Barber

L Burrows

R J Craven

AHamid

HL Hunter

S Hussain

T Male

SE Morrell (Resigned 27 November 2023)
Cc J Pinder (Resigned 9 July 2024)

AK Qureshi (Resigned 9 May 2024)

G Rhodes

S Sadiq (Resigned 12 July 2024)

R M Sweeney

Statement of trustees’ responsibilities

The trustees, who are also the directors of Halifax Opportunities Trust for the purpose of company law, are responsible
for preparing the Trustees’ Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

Company Law requires the trustees to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Charity and of the incoming resources and application of resources, including the
income and expenditure, of the charitable company for that year.

In preparing these financial statements, the trustees are required to:

- select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

- observe the methods and principles in the Charities SORP;

- make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and

- prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Charity
will continue in operation.

The trustees are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any
time the financial position of the Charity and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Charity and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Auditor
In accordance with the company's articles, a resolution proposing that BK Plus Audit Limited be reappointed as auditor
of the company will be put at a General Meeting.

-18-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

TRUSTEES' REPORT (INCLUDING DIRECTORS' REPORT) (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The trustees' report was approved by the Board of Trustees.

H J Barber
Trustee


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

STATEMENT OF TRUSTEES’ RESPONSIBILITIES
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The trustees, who are also the directors of Halifax Opportunities Trust for the purpose of company law, are responsible
for preparing the Trustees’ Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

Company Law requires the trustees to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Charity and of the incoming resources and application of resources, including the
income and expenditure, of the charitable company for that year.

In preparing these financial statements, the trustees are required to:

- select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

_ * observe the methods and principles in the Charities SORP;

- make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and

- prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Charity
will continue in operation.

The trustees are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any
time the financial position of the Charity and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Charity and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

-20-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT
TO THE TRUSTEES OF HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Halifax Opportunities Trust (the ‘parent charitable company’) for the year
ended 31 March 2024 which comprise the statement of financial activities, the balance sheet, the statement of cash
flows and notes to the financial statements, including significant accounting policies, The financial reporting framework
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable Jaw and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including
Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:

- give a true and fair view of the state of the group and parent charitable company's affairs as at 31 March 2024
and of its incoming resources and application of resources, for the year then ended;

- have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and

- have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the group and parent charitable company in
accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including
the FRC's Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the trustees’ use of the going concern basis of accounting
in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or coliectively, may cast significant doubt on the group and parent charitable company’s
ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are
authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the trustees with respect to going concern are described in the relevant
sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report other than the financial statements and
our auditor's report thereon. The trustees are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon. Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether
the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course
of the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent
material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial
statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement
of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Charities (Accounts and Reports)

Regulations 2008 require us to report to you if, in our opinion:

- the information given in the financial statements is inconsistent in any material respect with the trustees' report;
or

- sufficient accounting records have not been kept; or

- the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records; or

- we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

-21-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT (CONTINUED)
TO THE TRUSTEES OF HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

Responsibilities of trustees

As explained more fully in the statement of trustees’ responsibilities, the trustees, who are also the directors of the
parent charitable company for the purpose of company law, are responsible for the preparation of the financial
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the trustees
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the trustees are responsible for assessing the
parent charitable company's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the trustees either intend to liquidate the charitable
company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
We have been appointed as auditor under section 144 of the Charities Act 2011 and report in accordance with the Act
and relevant regulations made or having effect thereunder.

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from

.Material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.

A further description of our responsibilities is available on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at: https://
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

-22-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT (CONTINUED)
TO THE TRUSTEES OF HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

Our approach to identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including
fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, was as follows:

« The engagement partner ensured that the engagement team collectively had the appropriate competence,
capabilities and skills to identify or recognise non-compliance with applicable laws and regulations;

+ We identified the laws and regulations applicable to the company through discussions with directors and
other management, and from our commercial knowledge and experience of the industry sector;

+ We focused on specific laws and regulations which we considered may have a direct material effect on the
financial statements or the operations of the company, including the Companies Act 2006, taxation legislation
and data protection, anti-bribery, employment, environmental and health and safety legislation;

« We assessed the extent of compliance with the laws and regulations identified above through making
enquiries of management and inspecting legal correspondence; and

« Ensured laws and regulations were communicated within the audit team regularly and the team remained
alert to instances of non-compliance throughout the audit.

We assessed the susceptibility of the company's financial statements to material misstatement, including obtaining
an understanding of how fraud might occur, by:

+ Making enquiries of management as to where they considered there was a susceptibility to fraud, their
knowledge of actual, suspected and alleged fraud;

+ Considering the internal controls in place to mitigate risks of fraud and non-compliance with laws and
regulations; and

« Understanding the design of the company's remuneration policies.
To address the risk of fraud through management bias and override of controls, we;
+ Performed analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships;
+ Tested journal entries to identify unusual transactions

+ Assessed whether judgements and assumptions made in determining the accounting estimates set out in
note 2 were indicative of potential bias; and

« Investigated the rationale behind significant or unusual transactions.

In response to the risks of irregularities and non-compliance with laws and regulations, we designed procedures which
included, but were not limited to:

« Agreeing financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation;

+ Reading the minutes of meetings of those charged with governance;

« Enquiring of management as to actual and potential litigation and claims; and

« Reviewing correspondence with HMRC, relevant regulators and the company’s legal advisors.

There are inherent limitations in our audit procedures described above. The more removed that laws and regulations
are from the financial transactions, the less likely it is that we would become aware of non-compliance. Auditing
standards also limit the audit procedures required to identify non-compliance with laws and regulations to enquiry of
the directors and other management and the inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.

Material misstatements that arise due to fraud can be harder to detect than those that arise from error as they may
involve deliberate concealment or collusion.

-23-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT (CONTINUED)
TO THE TRUSTEES OF HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the parent charitable company's members, as a body, in accordance with section 391 of
the Companies Act 2014. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the parent charitable company and
the parent charitable company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have
formed.

Victoria Atkinson FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of BK Plus Audit Limited 25 November 2e2F

Aifiws hud

Chartered Accountants

Statutory Auditor himi Kee 52 St Johns Lane
Halifax
West Yorkshire
England
HX1 2BW

BK Plus Audit Limited is eligible for appointment as auditor of the parent charitable company by virtue of its eligibility
for appointment as auditor of a company under section 1212 of the Companies Act 2006.

-24-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES
INCLUDING INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Unrestricted Restricted Total Unrestricted Restricted Total
funds funds funds funds
2024 2024 2024 2023 2023 2023
Notes £ £ £ £ £ £
Income from:
Donations and legacies 3 103,239 - 103,239 108,275 - 108,275
Charitable activities
Provision of employment, education and training
services 4 230,357 354,657 685,014 100,045, $87,305 657,350
Provision of childcare and family support services 4 2,653,743 442,138 3,095,881 2,299,079 526,760 2,825,839
Promoting health and wellbeing 4 24,842 156,042 180,884 67,655 117,310 184,965
Management administration and membership 4 1,029 250 4,279 100,237 . 100,237
Other trading activities 5 727,630 - 727,630 675,907 - 675,907
Investments 6 19,840 - 19,840 8,676 - 8,676
Total Income 3,760,680 953,087 4,713,767 3,359,874 1,201,375 4,561,249
Expenditure on:
Charitable activities
Provision of employment, education and training |
services 7 169,875 359,191 529,066 152,175 566,212 718,387
Provision of childcare and family support services 7 2,294,072 448,004 2,742,076 2,058,408 526,106 2,584,514
Promoting health and wellbeing 7 178,376 135,181 313,557 162,344 109,234 271,578
Management administration and membership 7 419,208 250 419,458 442,157 - 442,157
Other trading costs 8 641,367 - 641,367 634,708 - 634,708
Total charitable expenditure 3,702,898 942,626 4,645,524 3,449,792 1,201,552 4,651,344
Net Income 57,782 10,461 * 68,243 - 89,918 - 177 - 90,095
Transfers between funds - 53,364 53,364 7 - 37,349 37,349 -
Taxation - 20,780 - - 20,790 - 3,196 - - 3,196
Other recognised gains and losses:
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension schemes 5,000 - 5,000 1,498,000 - 1,498,000
Net movement in funds 10 - = 41,372 63,825 52,453 1,367,537 37,172 1,404,709
Reconcillation of funds:
Fund balances at 1 April 2023 2,235,919 7,550 2,243,469 868,382 - 29,622 838,760

2,224,547 71,375 2,295,922 2,235,919 7,550 2,243,469

The statement of financial activities includes all gains and losses recognised in the year. All income and expenditure derive from continuing activities.

-25-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

GROUP AND CHARITY BALANCE SHEET
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Fixed assets
Tangible assets
Investments

Current assets
Debtors
Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors : amounts falling due within one year
Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Pension scheme liability

Provisions for liabilities

Net assets excluding pension liabitity

The funds of the charity

Restricted funds

Unrestricted funds

Fund balances at 31 March 2024

Notes

14
15

16

17

19

20
21

GROUP CHARITY
2024 2023 2024 2023
£ £ £ £
1,574,389 1,543,028 1,424,411 1,357,956
- - 101 101
1,574,389 1,543,028 1,424,512 1,358,057
328,970 484,730 420,660 588,288
1,345,122 1,289,720 1,019,952 1,016,558
1,674,092 1,774,450 1,440,612 1,804,846
833,474 - 952,225 668,504 - 793,081
840,618 822,225 772,108 811,765
2,415,007 2,365,253 2,196,620 2,169,822
82,000 - 87,000 82,000 - 87,000
37,085 - 34,784 - -
2,295,922 2,243,469 2,114,620 2,082,822
71,375 7,550 484,318 420,494
2,224,547 2,235,919 1,630,302 1,662,328
2,295,922 2,243,469 2,114,620 2,082,822

The company is entitled to the exemption from the audit requirement contained in section 477 of the Companies Act 2006, for the year

ended 31 March 2024, although an audit has been carried out under section 144 of the Charities Act 2011.

The directors acknowledge their responsibilities for complying with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 with respect to
accounting records and the preparation of financial statements. :

The members have not required the company to obtain an audit of its financial statements under the requirements of the Companies Act

2006, for the year in question in accordance with section 476.

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the provisions applicable to companies subject to the small

companies regime.

The financial statements were approved by the trustees on alway

H J Barber
Trustee

Company registration number 04089288 (England and Wales)


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASHFLOWS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

2024
Notes £
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 26 155,243
Tax paid - 20,790
Investing activities
Purchase of tangible fixed assets - 98,892
Investment income received 19,840
Net cash generated from/(used in) investing
activities -
Net cash used in financing activities
; Net increase in cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

-27-

134,453

79,052

55,401

1,289,720

1,345,122

175,207
3,196

85,965
8,676

2023

178,403

77,289

255,692

1,545,412

1,289,720

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1.1

Accounting policies

Charity information
Halifax Opportunities Trust is a private company timited by guarantee incorporated in England and Wales. The
registered office is Hanson Lane Enterprise Centre, Hanson Lane, Halifax, West Yorkshire, HX1 5PG.

Accounting convention

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Charity's [governing document], the
Companies Act 2006, FRS 102 "The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland”
(FRS 102") and the Charities SORP "Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended
Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102)" (effective 1 January 2019), The Charity is a Public
Benefit Entity as defined by FRS 102.

The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the Charity. Monetary
amounts in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest £.

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, with the exception of
investments which are included at market value, as modified by the revaluation of certain assets.

Group financial statements

The Statement of Financial Activities (SOFA) and balance sheet consolidate the financial statements of the
charity and its subsidiary undertaking. The results of the subsidiary are consolidated on a line-by-line basis. The
Charity has availed itself of Paragraph 3 (3) of Schedule 4 of the Companies Act 2006 and adapted the
Companies Act formats to reflect the special nature of the Charity's activities. No separate SOFA or Income and
Expenditure Account have been presented for the Charity alone as permitted by section 230 of the Companies
Act 2006 and paragraph 327 of the SORP.

1.2 Going concern

1.3

1.4

At the time of approving the financial statements, the trustees have a reasonable expectation that the Charity
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus the trustees
continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.

Charitable funds

Unrestricted funds are available for use at the discretion of the trustees in furtherance of their charitable
objectives.

Restricted funds are subject to specific conditions by donors or grantors as to how they may be used. The
purposes and uses of the restricted funds are set out in the notes to the financial statements.

Endowment funds are subject to specific conditions by donors that the capital must be maintained by the Charity.

Income

Income is recognised when the Charity is legally entitled to it after any performance conditions have been met,
the amounts can be measured reliably, and it is probable that income will be received.

Cash donations are recognised on receipt. Other donations are recognised once the Charity has been notified
of the donation, unless performance conditions require deferral of the amount. Income tax recoverable in relation
to donations received under Gift Aid or deeds of covenant is recognised at the time of the donation.

Legacies are recognised on receipt or otherwise if the Charity has been notified of an impending distribution,
the amount is known, and receipt is expected. If the amount is not known, the legacy is treated as a contingent
asset.

-28-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1.5

1.6

1.7

1.8

1.9

Accounting policies (Continued)

Expenditure

Expenditure is recognised once there is a legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic benefit to a third
party, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required in settlement, and the amount of the
obligation can be measured reliably.

Expenditure is classified by activity. The costs of each activity are made up of the total of direct costs and shared
costs, including support costs involved in undertaking each activity. Direct costs attributable to a single activity
are allocated directly to that activity. Shared costs which contribute to more than one activity and support costs
which are not attributable to a single activity are apportioned between those activities on a basis consistent with
the use of resources. Central staff costs are allocated on the basis of time spent, and depreciation charges are

allocated on the portion of the asset's use.

Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost or valuation, net of
depreciation and any impairment losses.

Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets less their residual values over their
useful lives on the following bases:

Leasehold land and buildings Over the term of the lease
Fixtures and fittings 15% on cost
Computers 33% on cost
Motor vehicles 33% on cost
Kitchen equipment 15% on cost
Office Equipment 15% on cost

The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds
and the carrying value of the asset, and is recognised in the statement of financial activities.

Fixed asset investments

Fixed asset investments are initially measured at transaction price excluding transaction costs, and are
subsequently measured at fair value at each reporting date. Changes in fair value are recognised in net income/
(expenditure) for the year. Transaction costs are expensed as incurred. -

A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Charity. Control is the power to govern the financial and operating
policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities.

Impairment of fixed assets

At each reporting end date, the Charity reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible assets to determine whether
there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the
recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any).

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown
within borrowings in current liabilities.

-29-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

4.11

1.12

Accounting policies (Continued)

Financial instruments
The Charity has elected to apply the provisions of Section 11 ‘Basic Financial Instruments’ and Section 12 ‘Other
Financial Instruments Issues’ of FRS 102 to all of its financial instruments.

Financial instruments are recognised in the Charity's balance sheet when the Charity becomes party to the
contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset, with the net amounts presented in the financial statements, when there
is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis
or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

Basic financial assets

Basic financial assets, which include debtors and cash and bank balances, are initially measured at transaction
price including transaction costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest
method unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the transaction is measured at the
present value of the future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest. Financial assets classified as
receivable within one year are not amortised.

Basic financial liabilities

Basic financial liabilities, including creditors and bank loans are initially recognised at transaction price unless
the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the debt instrument is measured at the present value
of the future payments discounted at a market rate of interest. Financial liabilities classified as payable within
one year are not amortised.

Debt instruments are subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of
operations from suppliers. Amounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year
or less. if not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Trade creditors are recognised initially at transaction
price and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

Derecognition of financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are derecognised when the Charity’s contractual obligations expire or are discharged or
cancelled.

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Charity has a tegal or constructive present obligation as a result of a past
event, itis probable that the Charity will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made
of the amount of the obligation.

The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present

obligation at the reporting end date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount expected to be required to settle the
obligation is recognised at present value. When a provision is measured at present value, the unwinding of the
discount is recognised as a finance cost in net income/(expenditure) in the period in which it arises.

Employee benefits
The cost of any unused holiday entitlement is recognised in the period in which the employee’s services are
received.

Termination benefits are recognised immediately as an expense when the Charity is demonstrably committed
to terminate the employment of an employee or to provide termination benefits.

-30-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1.13

Accounting policies (Continued)

Retirement benefits
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.

Critical accounting estimates and judgements

In the application of the Charity’s accounting policies, the trustees are required to make judgements, estimates
and assumptions about the carrying amount of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other
sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that
are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised where the revision affects only that
period, or in the period of the revision and future periods where the revision affects both current and future
periods.

-31-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

3 income from donations and legacies
Unrestricted Restricted Total Unrestricted Restricted Total
funds funds funds, funds
2024 2024 2024 2023 2023 2023
£ £ E £ £ “OE
Donations and legacies - 74 - - 74 618 - 618
Grants received 103,313 - 403,313 107,657 - 107,657
Total Income 403,239 - 403,239 108,275 : 108,275
Grants receivabfe for core activities
National Milk Grant Scheme 2,069 - 2,069 2,835 - 2,835
Staying Well Project 401,244 - 101,244 104,822 - 104,822

103,313 - 103,313 107,657 - 107,657

-32-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

4 Income from charitable activities
Provision of Provision of Promoting Management Total
employment, childcare and health and administration
education and family support wellbeing and membership
training services
services
2024 ‘2024 2024 2024 2024
£ £ £ £ £
Charitable activities income 585,014 3,095,881 180,884 1,279 3,863,058
585,014 3,095,881 180,884 1,279 3,863,058
Analysis by fund
Unrestricted funds 230,357 2,653,743 24,842 1,029 2,909,971
Restricted funds 354,657 ~ 442,138 - 156,042 250 953,087
585,014 3,095,881 180,884 1,279 3,863,058
2023 2023 2023 2023 2023
£ £ £ £ £
Charitable activities income 657,350 2,825,839 184,965 100,237 3,768,391
657,350 2,825,839 184,965 100,237 3,768,391
Analysis by fund
Unrestricted funds 100,045 2,299,079 67,655 100,237 2,567,016
Restricted funds 557,305 526,760 117,310 - 1,201,375
657,350 2,825,839 184,965 100,237 3,768,391

. -33-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

5 Other trading activities
Unrestricted Unrestricted
funds funds
2024 2023
£ £
HOT Enterprises Limited 727,630 675,907
727,630 675,907
6 Income from investments
Unrestricted Unrestricted
funds funds
2024 2023
£ £
Interest receivable . 19,840 8,676
19,840 8,676
——[— =

-34-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1 Expenditure on charitable activities
Provision af Provision ot Promoting Management Total Provision of Provision of Promoting Management Total
employment, childearo_heatthand administration : employment, chiktcare heath and administration
education and = and family wellbeing and membership education and and family wellieing and
support ‘training ‘support momborship
sorvicos services services
2026 2024 2026 2026 2024 2023 2023 2023 2023 2023
£ g € € £ £ € € & €
Diet costs
Steff costs 380,708 (2,313,607 208,146 377,588 3,280,048 486,46 2,162,680 190,524 340,231 3,179,781
Depreciation and impairment : 2182, 2834 16,200 20,916 1 10.680 4758 44,041 26,491
Premises costs 45,158 78,855 : 40,534 102,003 29,768 62,870 15912 - 12.736 95,014
Repalrs and maintenance 6,390 55179 47292 116,334 eats 48572 4.253 25.461 87,101
Office costs 866 66614 2,802 10,129 e041 12.265 85,184 4921 + 808 98,461
Motor and tavel casts 3.969 18,299 470 4,223 23,961 10,775 15,850 29 7192 27446
Advertising 44 : 2.200 egot 8.935 2,700 - 8 6,836 8.544
Training and conferences - 18.127 - 639 18,766 : 9.134 - 3,343 12,677
Staff and volinteer costs 4878 6.928 19,926 4.992 36,484 1,770 6118 19,785 18,680 52,363
Surestant costs : 149,568 - 33.232 102,776 : 139,494 - - 139,496
Course costs 26837 : 6.933, - 33,870 20,958 1,365 12,348 a 94,712
Management charges 44,648 : ex - waa - 1 . - - - :
Legal and professional fees : 20,266 : 2.267 22613 : 31277 - 9513 40,790
Bad debts - 2.205 - 5.263 7,468 - " - - 78
recoverable VAT - - 10 9818 9.628 - 25 - 17437
Benk charges - 1,734 : 1.583 3317 - 2.518 - 4212
Other costs 6.434 4.856 5.514 7838 22,242 6.224 8662 5.830 26573
817,828 2,739,076 305,564 409,501 3,971,569 645.622 2,584,514 252,387 430271 3,912.774
Grant funding of activitios - . - : - 58,100 - - - 58,100
Share of suppost and governance costs (see note 7)
‘Support 11,538 3.000 7.983 9.987 32.488 14,665 : q92i1 41,886 45,762
529,086 (2.742.076 343,557 439,658 4,006,157 718,387 2,584,514 271,578 442.157 4,016,636

Analysis by fund

Unrestricted funds 169.875 2,294,072 178,378 419,208 3,061,531 152,175, 2,058,408, 162,364 462,157 2,815,084
Restricted funds 359,191 448,006 135,181 250 942,626 566,212 526,106 109,234 - 1,201,852

529,066 2,742,076 313,557 419.458 4,004,157 718,387 2,684,514 271,578 442,157 4,016,636


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

8 Other trading costs

HOT Enterprises Limited

9 Support costs allocated to activities

Governance costs

Analysed between:

Provision of employment, education and training services
Provision of childcare and family support services
Promoting health and wellbeing

Management administration and membership

10 Net movement in funds

The net movement in funds is stated after charging/(crediting

Fees payable for the audit of the charity's financial statements
- Audit services
Depreciation of owned tangible fixed assets

ai Trustees

Unrestricted
funds
2024
£
641,367

641,367

2024

32,488

11,538
3,000
7,993
9,957

2024

12,649
67,532

Unrestricted
funds

2023

£

634,708

634,708

2023

45,762

14,665

19,211
11,886

45,762

—_=_

2023

11,260
71,413

————

None of the trustees (or any persons connected with them) received any remuneration or benefits from the charity

during the year.

Trustees indemnity insurance cover is included within the charity’s main insurance policy, however the premium paid

is not separately identifiable from the total cost incurred.

Trustees expenses
No trustees expenses were paid during the financial year.

-36-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

12 Employees

The average monthly number of employees during the year was:

2024 2023

Number Number

Charitable Activities 145 164
Administrative . 16 17
Governance 12 4
173 182

Employment costs . 2024 2023

£ £
Wages and salaries 2,975,735 2,873,465
Spcial secuirty costs 226,829 224,959

Other pension costs 77,482, 81,357

3,280,046 3,179,781

The remuneration of key management personnel was as follows:

2024 2023
£ £

Aggregate compensation 332,855 319,189

13 Taxation

The charity is exempt from taxation on its activities because all its income is applied for charitable purposes

Tax charges shown relate to deferred tax and corporation tax applied to the trading subsidiary HOT Enterprises Limited

-37-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

14

Tangible fixed assets
CHARITY

Cost or valuation

At 1 April 2023

Additions

At31 March 2024

Depreciation and impairment
At 1 April 2023

Depreciation charged in the year
At 31 March 2024

A131 March 2024

At1 Apnil 2023

Leasehold Fixtures Computers Motor Kitchen Office Total
land and and vehicles equipment equipment
buildings fittings
€ £ E € € € £
1,350,000 34,274 148,883 4,732 99,308 66,159 - 1,700,356
66,500 4,200 16,671 - - - 87,371
1,416,500 35,474 165,554 4,732 99,308 66,159 1,787,727
10,800 24,347 145,715 4,732 99,308 57,498 342,400
41,576 4,949 4,391 - - - 20,916
22,376 29,296 150,106 4,732 99,308 57,498, 363,316
1,394,124 6,178 15,448 - - 8,661 1,424,411
1,339,200 6,927 3,168 - - 8,661 1,357,956

Included within long leasehold assets are the following properties:

- Hanson Lane Enterprise Centre

- The Outback Centre

These assets have been subject'lo a formal valualion during the year. The valuations were undertaken by Bramleys LLP Chartered Surveyors on
8th November 2021 and represent the market value of the sites which are held under 125 year lease with Calderdale MBC.


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

14 Tangible fixed assets (Continued)

GROUP

Leasehold Fixtures Computers Motor Kitchen Office Total

tand and and fittings vehicles equipment equipment

buildings

£ £ £ £ £ & £

Cost or valuation
At 1 April 2023 1,492,314 © 362,512 164,531 4,732 99,308 120,113 2,243,511
Additions 66,500 11,404 20,988 - - - 98,892
Disposals - - - - - - -
At31 March 2024 1,558,814 373,917 185,519 4,732 99,308 120,113 2,342,403
Depreciation and impairment
At 1 April 2023 127,465 198,168 159,357 4,732 99,308 111,452 700,482
Depreciation charged in the year 28,338 33,013 6,181 - - - 67,532
Eliminate on disposals - - - - - - -
At31 March 2024 155,803 231,182 165,537 4,732 99,308 111,452 768,014
At 31 March 2024 1,403,012 142,735 19,981 - : 8,661 1,574,389

At 1 April 2023 1,364,849 164,344 $,174 - - 8,661 1,543,028

-39-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

15

16

Fixed asset investments

Market Value

At 1 April 2023 and 31 March 2024

Net Book Value

At 31 March 2023 and 31 March 2024

GROUP
2024 2023
£ £

CHARITY
2024 2023
£ £
101 101
101 101

There were no investment assets outside the UK. The company's investments at the balance sheet date include the

following

Class of Share
% Holding
Nature of business:

Summary of trading results:

Turnover
Total Expenditure
Taxation

Donation to parent charity (Paid in Year)

Summary of assets and liabilities:
Assets
Liabilities

Debtors

Trade debtors

Amounts owed by group undertakings

Other debtors

Prepayments and accrued income

Hanson Lane Enterprise
Centre Limited

Ordinary

100%
Dormant company

HOT Enterprises Limited

Ordinary

100%
Provision of high-quality
modern workspace.

31103124 31/03/23 31/03/24 31/03/23
£ £ £ £
- - 816,278 780,583
: - = 774,835 = 744,071
- - = 20,790 - = = 3,196
- - 20,653 33,316
: - - = 69,667
- - 20653 - 36,351
1 1 548,689 526,370
- + = 367,294 - «365,628
1 1 181,395 160,742
GROUP CHARITY
2024 2023 2024 2023
£ £ £ £
284,226 352,437 218,367 244,013
: - 165,238 219,700
44,744 132,293 37,055 124,575

328,970 484,730

420,660 588,288

=40-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

17

18

19

Creditors
GROUP CHARITY
2024 2023 2024 2023
£ £ £ £
Other taxation and social security 90,950 70,932 55,761 56,114
Trade creditors 80,685 95,195 51,175 60,578
Other creditors 9,827 18,518 9,827 18,518
Accruats and deferred income 652,012 767,580 551,741 657,871
833,474 952,225 668,504 793,081
Pension scheme liability
. GROUP CHARITY
2024 2023 2024 2023
£ £ £ £
Pension scheme 82,000 87,000 82,000 87,000
Movements on provisions:
. GROUP CHARITY
2024 2023 2024 2023
£ £ £ £
At 4 April 2023 87,000 1,585,000 87,000 1,585,000
Other movements - 5,000 - 1,498,000 - §,000 - 1,498,000
At 31 March 2023 . 82,000 87,000 82,000 87,000
Retirement benefit schemes
2024 2023
£ £
Defined contribution schemes
Charge to profit or loss in respect of defined contribution schemes 77,482 81,357

The charity operates a defined contribution pension scheme for ail qualifying employees. The assets of the scheme are held

separately from those of the charity in an independently administered fund

-44-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

19

Retirement benefit schemes (Continued)

The charity is a member of a defined benefit scheme with The West Yorkshire Pension Fund.

The West Yorkshire Pension Fund Scheme is funded and contracted out of the state scheme. The last tri-annual
valuation of the scheme took place at 31 March 2022 and was undertaken by professionally qualified actuaries,
AON Hewitt, using the projected unit method. The Charity has paid for a valuation of its scheme as at 31 March
2024 and the figures below are based on that valuation.

The charity became a participating employer in the scheme on 1 July 2014 and acquired net liabilities of
£528,000 on that date.

The notional vaiue of the liabilities of the charity's share of the scheme at 31 March 2024 was £4,170,000 the
present value of the assets was £4,252,000 leaving a net pension liability of £82,000 at 31 March 2024.

Contributions

The employer contributions made to the scheme during the year were ENil (2023: 5,000). ENil was unpaid at
the year end. The employers regular contributions to the Fund for the accounting period ending 31 March 2024
are estimated to be ENil.

Key assumptions
The latest actuarial valuation of the Charity's liabilities took place as at 31 March 2022. Liabilities have been

estimated by the independent qualified actuary on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method.

The principal assumptions used by the actuary in updating the latest valuation of the Fund for FRS 102 purposes
were:

31 March 2024 31 March 2023
(%) (%)
Discount rate 4.80 4.70
Inflation - CPI 2.60 2.70
Pension increases 2.60 2.70
Pension accounts revaluation rate 2.60 2.70
Salary increases 3.85 3.00

Expected return on assets
The approximate split of assets for the Fund as a whole (based on data supplied by the Fund Administering

Authority) is shown in the table below. Also shown are the assumed rates of return adopted by the Employer for
the purposes of FRS 102.

The charity employs a building block approach in determining the rate of return on Fund assets. Historical
markets are studied and assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate higher returns consistent with
widely accepted capital market principles. The assumed rate of return on each asset class is set out within this
note. The overall rate of return on assets is then derived by aggregating the expected return for each asset
class over the actual asset allocation for the Fund at 31 March 2022.

Asset split at Asset split at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
(%) (*)

Equities 79.4 80.8
Property 2.8 3.3
Government bonds 8.5 69
Corporate bonds : 42 46
Cash 1.8 2.3
Other 3.3 2.1
Average Return / Totaf 100.00 100.00

-42-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

19 Retirement benefit schemes (Continued)

Reconciliation of funded status to Balance Sheet

Fair value of assets

Present value of funded liabilities

Pension asset / (liability) before consideration of paragraph 41
Unrecognised asset due to limit in paragraph 41

Net pension asset/(liability}

Analysis of profit and loss charge

Operating cost:
Current service cost
Past service cost
Interest cost
Curtailment cost
Settlement cost

Financing cost: Interest on net defined benefit liability / (asset)

Pension expense recognised in SOFA

Changes to the present value of the defined benefit obligation

Opening defined benefit obligation

Current service cost

Interest expense on defined benefit obligation
Contributions by participants

Actuarial (gains) / losses due to changes in financial assumptions

Value as at

31 March 2024
£000's

4,252

(4,170)

(82)

(82)

Actuarial (gains) / losses due to changes in demographic assumptions

Actuarial (gains) / losses due to liability experience
Net benefits paid out

Past service cost

Net increase in liabilities from disposals / acquisitions
Curtailment cost

Settlements

Closing defined benefit obligation

Changes to the fair value of assets

Opening fair value of assets

Interest income on assets

Re-measurement gains / (losses) on assets
Contributions by the employer

Contributions by participants

Net benefits paid out

Net increase in assets from disposals and acquisitions
Settlements

Closing fair value of assets

Value as at
March 2023
£000's
4,010
(4,097)

(87)

(87)

Period ending
-31 March 2024

£000's
59

Period ending
31 March 2024

£000's

4,097

59

191

18

(83)
(63)

56

(105)

4,170

Period ending
31 March 2024

£000's

4,010
186
143

0

18
(105)

4,252

-43-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

20 Restricted funds

The restricted funds of the charity comprise the unexpended balances of donations and grants held on trust subject to specific conditions by donors as

to how they may be used

Active Calderdale

ARCHES (Employment)

Building Better Opportunities- Hopeful Families
The Buzz Project

CAL ESOL

Catfund

Celebrating Cultural Harmony, Qawali
Community Organisers

Connecting Opportunities

EEF Centres - Jubilee Nursery

EEF Centres - Siddal Nursery

EEF Centres - Sowerby New Road Nusery DEFRA
EEF Centres - Todmorden Nursery

Elsie Whiteley Innovation Centre

ESOL: Syrian Families

Food Parcel Delivery - Covid 19

From HOT to COLD : Reducing our Carbon Footprint
Greener Together

Groundwork - Steps to work

Inclusive Economy

individual Fund

Innovation Fund

Inspire

Kickstart

Little Gems Nursery

Macmillan

Micro Grants SWYPFT

Moving Forward Together

Multiply

Neighbourhood Leaming Deprived Communities
NHS Hospital Recruitment Event

Place Based Social Action

Prayer Mats ta Gym Mats

Projects AH

Social Action Hub

Tandrusti Project

The Space Rastrick

The Workshop Income

Thriving Communities Partnership Funding
Together Calderdale Project

UKSPF - Green Audit

UKSPF - Main Contract

UKSPF - UKSPF Plot to Plate

UKSPF - Financial Resilience

UKSPF - Walking Routre

VCS - ESOL

Split:
Charity
Group

At’ Aprit Incoming Resources Transfers = At31 March
2023 Resources expended 2024
£ £ € € £
12,041 2,750 2,766 12,057 1
- 920 - - 920
8,720 7,754 9327) - 83 7,084
- 261 261 - -
27 - - 27 -
1,339 35.715 35,715 - 27 1,312
- 2,073 1,073 - 1,000
- - 59 59 -
35,760 - 241 36,001 -
1,990 255,806 255,806 - 1,990 -
399 44,054 44,054 399 -
4,875 - 130 + 5,005 -
- 85,360 85,360 - -
412,943 - - - 412,943
ral 134,763 134,763 71 -
2,254 - - - 2.254
4.657 - - 4,657 -
14,956 8,081 8,081 - 14,956
3,148, - - - 3,148

586 61,699 61,699 - 586

- 250 250 - -

- 1,068 1,068 - -

8,862 - - : 8,862

713 - - - 713

938 56,917 62,914 6,935 -

- 427 427 - -

- 13,683 - - 13,683

- 43,107 42,828 - 279

- * 970 970 - -

- - 83 83 -

- 2,250 - - 2,250

- 60,675 60,675 - a

- 2,538 2,538 - -

- 5,089 5,089 - -

10,507 - - - 10,507

- 65,334 65,334 - -

3,584 - - - 3.584

- 207 207 - -

- 143 143, - -

: 1,441 1,146 - 295

$0 - 30 180 -

- 41,017 41,017 - -

- - 37 - - 7

- 670 670 - -

- 220 220 - -

- 17,845 17,845 - :
420,494 953,087 942,626 53,364 484,318
420,494 953,087 942,626 53,364 484,318

7,551 953,087 942,626 53,364 74,375


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

20 Restricted funds (Continued)
At1 April Incoming Resources Transfers =At31 March
2022 Resources expended 2023
£ € € € €
Active Calderdale - 6,090 27,008 39,049 6090 - 12,041
Architectural Heritage Fund - Hopwood Triangle - 1,350 - - 1,350 -
Arches - 280 280 - -
Building Better Opportunities- Hopeful Famities - 207,131 198,414 - 8,720
Buzz Project - 1,116 1,116 - -
CAL ESOL, - . 27 - - 27
Calderdale Food Network 789 - - : 789 -
Calfund - 24,229 22,890 - 1,339
Community Led Homes (Start Up Support) 275 - - - 275 -
Community Organisers - 512 : - 512 -
Connecting Opportunities - 40,174 139,694 175,454 10,174 - 35,760
DEFRA . - 32 - : 32 -
EEF Centres - Jubilee Nursery - 199,497 197,507 - 1,990
EEF Centres - Siddal Nursery - 79,450 79,849 - - 399
EEF Centres - Sowerby New Road Nusery DEFRA 4,875 - - - 4,875
EEF Centres - Todmorden Nursery - 87,316 87.316 - :
Elsie Whiteley Innovation Centre 346,758 69,666 3,481 - 412,943
Emptoyment Services- Holiday Kitchen - 3,462 - : 3,462 -
ESOL Project costs 4,294 a : - 4,294 -
ESOL: Syrian Families - 25,044 25,115 - - ral
Food Parcel Delivery - Covid 19 2,853 78 677 - 2.254
From HOT to COLD : Reducing our Carbon Footprint - 4,657 + - - 4,657
Greener Together - 27,248 12,292 - 14,956
Groundwork - Steps to work - 3,148 - - 3,148
Harnessing Power of Communities - 417 417 - -
Health Inequalities Fund - 180 - - 180 -
Inclusive Economy - 18,363 17,277 - 586
Individual Fund - 633 633, - -
Inspire - 36,863 28,001 - 8,862
Kickstart - 64,001 63,288 - 713,
Little Gems Nursery - 160,496 161,434 - - 938
Neighbourhood Leaming for Deprived Communities 13,655, - : - 13,655, -
Place Based Social Action - 1,994 50,593 50,593 1,984 :
Properous Calderdate - 1,427 - - 1,427 -
Sehat - P2C CCLORS - 3,406 - - 3,406 -
Sacial Action Hub - 10,507 . - 10,507
Staying Well Project - 27,736 : - 27,736 -
The Space Rastrick - 3,584 7 - 3,584
“Together Calderdale Project - 34,337 34,337 - -
UKSPF - Green Audit - 5,000 5,090 - - 30
317,136 4,271,042 4,205,034 37,350 420,494
—= —
317,136 1,271,042 1,205,034 37,350 420,494
Group - 29,622 1,201,375 1,201,853 37,350 7,550


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

21

Unrestricted funds

The unrestricted funds of the charity comprise the unexpended balances of donations and grants which are not subject to specific
conditions by donors and grantors as to how they may be used. These include designated funds which have been set aside out of
unrestricted funds by the trustees for specific purposes.

CHARITY:

General Funds

Designated - Housing Fund
Revaluation reserve
Pension reserve

GROUP:

General Funds

Designated - Housing Fund
Revaluation reserve
Pension reserve

Transfers between funds

At 1 April Incoming Resources Transfers Gainsand At 31 March
2023 Resources expended losses 2024
£ £ £ £ £ £
260,128 3,421,783 = - 3,394,645 13,136 - 300,402
150,000 - - 66,500 : 83,500
1,339,200 - : 10,800 - - 1,328,400
: 87,000 - : : 5,000 - 82,000
1,662,328 3,421,783 = - 3,405,445 §3,364 §,000 1,630,302
At 1 April Incoming Resources Transfers Gainsand At 31 March
2023 Resources expended losses 2024
£ £ £ £ £ £
833,719 3,760,680 = - 3,712,888 13,136 - 894,647
150,000 - - 66,500 * - 83,500
1,339,200 - - 10,800 . : 1,328,400
: 87,000 - - - 5,000 - 82,000
2,235,919 3,760,680 - 3,723,688 53,364 5,000 2,224,547

Transfers between funds represent the movement of year end balances relating to projects that have ended and the closing
balances have been agreed with the funder to be utilised by the charity on alternative projects.

- 46 -

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

21

Unrestricted funds (Continued)

CHARITY: At’ April Incoming Resources Transfers Gains and = At 31 March

2022 Resources expended losses 2023

£ € £ £ £ £
General Funds 559,626 3,032,542 - 3,144,691 - 187,351 - 260,126
Designated - Housing Fund - - : 150,000 - 150,000
Revaluation reserve 1,350,000 - - 10,800 - - 1,339,200
Pension reserve + 1,585,000 - - - 1,498,000 - 87,000
324,626 3,032,542 - 3,155,491 - 37,351 1,498,000 1,662,326

GROUP: At1 April Incoming Resources Transfers Transfers  At31 March

2022 Resources expended 2023

£ £ £ £ £ £
General Funds 1,103,382 3,359,874 - 3,442,186 - 187,351 - 833,719
Designated - Housing Fund . - - - 150,000 - 150,000
Revaluation reserve 1,350,000 - - 10,800 - - 1,339,200
Pension reserve - 1,585,000 - - - 1,498,000 - 87,000
868,382 3,359,874 - 3,452,986 - 37,351 1,498,000 2,235,919

-47-

HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

22

23

24

25

Analysis of net assets between funds

At 31 March 2024:
Tangible assets

Current assets / liabilities
Provisions

At 31 March 2023
Tangible assets

Current assets / (liabilities)
Provisions

Operating lease commitments

Within one year
Between two and five years
In over five years

Contingent liabitity

Unrestricted Restricted Total
funds funds .
2024 2024 2024

£ £ £
1,574,389 - 1,574,389
769,243 71,375 840,618

- 119,085 - - 119,085
2,224,547 71,375 2,295,922

Unrestricted Restricted Total
funds funds
2024 2024 2024

£ £ £
1,543,028 - 1,543,028
814,675 7,550 822,225
- 121,784 - - 121,784
2,235,919 7,550 2,243,469
2024 2023

£ £

6 6

17 21

235 237

258 264

As a member of a VAT group with its subsidiary company, the charity is jointly and severally liable for the VAT debts of the VAT

group members.

Ultimate controlling party

The charity is under the control of the board of trustees.

-48-


HALIFAX OPPORTUNITIES TRUST

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

26 Cash generated from operations

Surplus for the year

Adjustments for:

Investment income recognised in statement of financial activities
Depreciation and impairment of tangible fixed assets

Difference between pension charge and cash contributions
Movements in working capital:

Decrease/(increase) in debtors

Increase/(decrease) in creditars

Increase in provisions

Cash generated from operations

27 Analysis of changes in net funds

The charity had no material debt during the year.

-49-

2024

68,243

19,840
67,532
5,000

155,759
116,450
5,000

155,243

2023

90,095

8,676
71,413
1,498,000

327,232
179,383
1,498,000

175,207

Document Activity Report

Document Sent Tue, 19 Nov 2024 17:29:11 GMT
Document Activity History

Document history shows most recent activity first

Date Activity

Tue, 19 Nov 2024 17:32:54 GMT Document Sent

You can verify that this is a genuine Portal document by uploading it to the following secure web page:
https://bkplus.accountantspace.co.uk/messages/VerifyDocument

