SATURDAY

Companies House

Harris Federation

Consolidated report and
financial statements

Year to 31 August 2024

Company limited by guarantee
Registration number
06228587 (England and Wales)

gua

10/05/2025 #206
COMPANIES HOUSE

Contents

Reports

Reference and administrative information 1
Directors’ report 3
Governance statement 20

Statement on regularity, propriety and
compliance 25

Statement of directors’ responsibilities 26

Independent auditor's report on the
financial statements 27

Independent reporting accountant’s
report on regularity 32

Financial statements

Consolidated statement of
financial activities 34

Balance sheets 35
Consolidated statement of cash flows 36
Principal accounting policies 38

Notes to the financial statements 45

Harris Federation

Reference and administrative information

Members

Directors

Senior Management Team
CEO

Director of Finance

Interim COO

Assistant Director - Primary
Assistant Director - Secondary
Assistant Director - Secondary
Assistant Director - Primary
Assistant Director - Primary
Assistant Director - Primary
Director of Primary Education
Director of Secondary Education
Director of School Improvement
Assistant Director - Secondary
clo

clo

Director of People

Interim CFO

Assistant Director - Secondary

Commercial Director
Director of Risk and Compliance

Secretary

Lord Harris of Peckham
Lady Harris of Peckham
Mr P A Harris

Lord Harris of Peckham, Chair

Sir W Adderley

Mr P Carr (Resigned 20/03/2024)

Mr G R Davies (Appointed 01/09/2023)
Ms D Deakin-Elliott

Mr E Falzon (Appointed 05/06/2024)
Mr K J Hoods

Mrs A Kail

Ms C Lemer

Mr T D Moore (Resigned 03/07/2024)
Sir D Moynihan

Dr N Rata

Mr P J Saunders (Resigned 01/09/2023)
Mr R St Louis (Appointed 01/09/2023)
Lord C Terrington

Mrs D Wright

Sir D Moynihan

Mr M Antoniou (Resigned 31/05/2024)
Mrs C English

Mr M Britt (Resigned 09/06/2024)

Ms K Cumberbatch

Mr C Everitt

Ms V Forbes

Ms S French

Mrs M Corbitt

Ms S Hasan

Ms R Hickey

Ms Jacqui Lomas

Ms N Graham

Mr M Lyons (Resigned 29/09/2023)
Mr R Seaman (Appointed 01/09/2024)
Mrs Z Baxter (Resigned 30/09/2024)
Ms S Pandya (Appointed 17/06/2024, Resigned
14/11/2024)

Mr L Mallin

Mr T Webster

Mr H Gullett

Mr M Antoniou (Resigned 06/05/2024)
Mr T Webster (Appointed 06/05/2024)

Harris Federation 1

Reference and administrative information

Registered office 4 Floor
Norfolk House
Wellesley Road
Croydon
CRO 1LH

Company registration number 06228587 (England and Wales)

Auditor Buzzacott LLP
130 Wood Street
London
EC2V 6DL

Bankers National Westminster Bank plc
30 Tooting High Street
London
SW17 OXN

Barclays Bank Plc
1 Churchill Place
London

E14 5HP

Solicitors Veale Wasbrough Vizards LLP
Narrow Quay House
Bristol
BS1 4QA

Harris Federation 2

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

The directors of Harris Federation, who are also trustees for the purposes of the Charities Act
2011, present their report and the audited financial statements of the Harris Federation (the
Federation) and subsidiary Harris Academies Project Management Limited, for the year to 31
August 2024. The annual report serves the purposes of both a trustees’ report and a directors’
report under company law.

The report has been prepared in accordance with Part 8 of the Charities Act 2011 and it is
also the report of the directors for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set
out on pages 38 to 44 and comply with the charitable company’s memorandum and articles
of association, applicable laws and Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of
Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with
the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland
(FRS 102).

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT

Constitution and principal activities :

The Federation is a company limited by guarantee, incorporated under Company Number
06228587. The Federation's Memorandum and Articles of Association are the primary
governing documents of the Federation.

As at 31 August 2024 the Federation was comprised of 54 open academies.

The Federation was incorporated on 26 April 2007. These financial statements for the
Federation, which cover the year to 31 August 2024, aggregate the activities of the 54
member academies.

The principal activity of the Federation is to advance education in England for the public
benefit. It does this by establishing and maintaining schools, mainly serving disadvantaged
communities, that give children the ability, drive and determination to succeed and by training
current and future generations of teachers.

Members

The members of the company are the Principal Sponsor (Lord Harris of Peckham) and two
persons nominated by the Principal Sponsor. Every member of the company undertakes to
contribute such amount as.may be required (not exceeding £10) to the company's assets if it
should be wound up while he or she is a member or within one year after he or she ceases to
be a member, for payment of the company’s debts and liabilities arising before he or she
ceases to be a member, and of the costs, charges and expenses of winding up, and for the
adjustment of rights of the contributories among themselves.

Directors’ indemnities
In accordance with normal commercial practice the Federation has purchased insurance to
protect directors, governors and officers from claims arising from negligent acts, errors or
omissions occurring whilst on Federation business. The insurance provides cover up to £2
million on any one claim.

Harris Federation 3°

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT (continued)

Method of recruitment and appointment or election of directors

The articles of association require the appointment of at least three directors (unless
otherwise determined by ordinary resolution). The directors of the company are also trustees
for the purposes of charity law. The directors delegate a number of functions to the local
governing body (“LGB”) of each Academy.

The Principal Sponsor may, by notice in writing to the Federation delivered to the registered
office, appoint up to twelve directors.

The term of office for any director (other than the Principal Sponsor and the Chief Executive)
shall be three years. Any director may be re-appointed at the end of their term of office.

Policies and procedures adopted for the induction and training of directors

The training and induction provided for new directors depends on their existing experience.
The Federation has adopted a common policy for the induction and training of both the
directors and the governors who sit on the local governing bodies. New governors are briefed
in the structure and ethos of the Federation and their role within it by the CEO. In-house
training in financial matters is provided by the Director of Finance and Operational
Development and his team. Training in Safer Recruitment, for governors monitoring
safeguarding, and in Health & Safety is provided both in-house and by external courses
organised and paid for by the Federation. All directors are provided with copies of policies,
procedures, minutes, accounts, budgets, plans and other documents that they will need to
undertake their role as directors.

Organisational structure
The following directors were in office as at 31 August 2024 and served throughout the period
except where stated:

Director Appointed / resigned

Lord Harris of Peckham

Sir W Adderley

Mr P Carr Resigned 20/03/2024
Mr G Davies , Appointed 01/09/2023
Ms D Deakin-Elliott

Mr E Falzon Appointed 05/06/2024
Mrs A Kail

Ms C Lemer

Mr T D Moore Resigned 03/07/2024
Sir D Moynihan

Dr N Rata

Mr P J Saunders Resigned 01/09/2023
Mr R St Louis

Lord C Terrington

Mrs D Wright

Harris Federation 4

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT (continued)

Related parties and other connected charities and organisations
The Federation has one wholly owned subsidiary company:

@ Harris Academies Project Management Limited was incorporated in 2007 and was
dormant during the year.

Further information is included in the notes to the financial statements.

Management

The board of directors of the Federation is responsible for setting general policy, adopting an
annual plan and budget, and monitoring the Federation by use of budgets and reports and
making major decisions about the direction of the Federation, capital expenditure and senior
staff appointments.

Each Academy has its own local governing body with the Chair of that Academy being a
director of the Federation in several cases. Each local governing body has responsibility for
setting policy, within the constraints of Federation policies, and recommending annual plans
and budgets at the Academy to the Federation board of directors.

The directors delegate the day to day responsibility of running the Federation to Sir Dan
Moynihan (CEO). The day to day running of individual Academies is delegated by each local
governing body to the Principal.

Arrangements for setting pay and remuneration of key management personnel

The pay and remuneration of key management personnel is set by the Remuneration
Committee which includes the Chairman of the Board. The pay and remuneration of the Chief
Executive Officer is determined by the Remuneration Committee. Key management
personnel are considered to be the senior management team as listed on page 1.

Trade union facility time

The Trade Union (Facility Time Publication Requirements) Regulations 2017 require the
Federation to publish information on facility time arrangements for trade union officials at the
Federation. The Federation confirms that there were no employees acting as trade union
Officials within the meaning of these regulations during the year ended 31 August 2024.
Facility time is not provided by the Federation and therefore no employee spent time on facility
time and no percentage of the pay bill was spent on facility time.

Equal opportunities policy

The directors recognise that equal opportunities should be an integral part of good practice
within the workplace. The Federation has established equal opportunity in all areas of its
activities including creating a working environment in which the contribution and needs of all
people are fully valued.

Harris Federation 5

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT (continued)

Engagement with employees (including disabled persons)

Harris Federation encourages staff contributions at all levels and close collaboration between
the academies; principals / head teachers also meet regularly to share knowledge and best
practice. The Federation intranet provides information and access to internal and external
professional development and support. Academies hold regular meetings and briefings. New
staff are fully inducted and teachers take part in training before the start of and during the
school year.

Lifts, ramps and disabled toilets have been installed and door widths have been enlarged to
enable wheelchair access to all the main areas of the academies where possible. The policy
of the Federation is to support the employment of disabled persons both in recruitment and
by retention of employees who become disabled whilst in the employment of the academies,
as well as generally through training and career development.

Engagement with suppliers, customers and others in a business relationship with the
Federation

Harris Federation's Procurement Policy which is published on its website details the manner
in which the organisation engages with suppliers.

Our intent is to foster good supply arrangements which benefit both the organisation (and its
academies) and the suppliers we utilise. Our aim is to be supplied with the goods and services
we need at the best value and at the time required, through suppliers being offered fair, open
and transparent ways to bid and provide these goods and services.

OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES

Objects and aims

The aim of the Federation is to operate as a group of collaborating academies for the benefit
of young people. Our academies are deliberately located close within commuting distance of
each other, so that the Federation can build and maintain a joint purpose between its schools
and ensure they share the best ideas and resources.

The Sponsor's vision is that, rather than working in isolation, the Harris Academies will work
together as a federation. This will enable the schools to use their combined resources and
collective expertise in order to assist each other and so raise standards faster than would be
the case with schools working in isolation.

Harris Federation 6

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES (continued)

Public benefit

The directors confirm that they have referred to the guidance contained in the Charity
Commission’s general guidance on public benefit wnen reviewing the charitable company’s
objectives and aims and in planning future activities for the year. The directors consider that
the charitable company's aims are demonstrably to the public benefit.

STRATEGIC REPORT
In the 2023-24 academic year, the Harris Federation comprised 44,000 pupils in 54
academies across 15 boroughs in London and Essex, with 5,000 staff.

Achievements, performance and plans

From consistently excellent academic results and Ofsted outcomes, to a brand-new alumni
programme and a raft of initiatives to support the communities we serve, the year was defined
by the continued success of our pupils and staff.

This was achieved against the odds, in an extremely challenging context.

The economic challenges faced by the country as a whole are particularly acute in the
already-disadvantaged communities we serve. Harris academies now serve 14,000 children
in London in receipt of the Pupil Premium, and many more just above the low threshold for
this but still living in poverty.

Alongside the difficulties facing our families at home, rising costs combined with a declining
population of children has created a challenging economic context for all schools. As this
report will go on to outline, the Harris Federation and our academies have used our resources
to protect our pupils and staff from the impact of this, as best we can.

Academic accomplishments and achievements, from nursery to university

Ensuring that the most disadvantaged children have the opportunity to receive an outstanding
education is what motivates our staff and leaders. It is a large part of the reason parents select
Harris academies for their children’s schooling.

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Academic accomplishments and achievements, from nursery to university (continued)
14 Harris academies received graded Ofsted inspections last year and all 14 were judged as
Outstanding. The majority of our academies originally joined our Federation having been
placed in Special Measures, yet today 70% are Outstanding, compared to just 14% of schools
in England.

Our academic achievements are as follows:

(1) Early Years
At the end of Reception, there is a statutory assessment of whether children have
reached a ‘good level of development’, based on whether they have reached the

Harris Féderation 7

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

(2)

(3)

expected level for the early learning goals in their prime areas of learning. Nationally,
67% of Reception children reached a good level of development. At Harris, 83% did.

Of children from low-income families, just 52% nationally reached a good level of
development but at Harris 78% did so — surpassing the national average for all children’
including the economically better off.

Over the course of the year, we worked towards the opening of two new nurseries in
Croydon — both opening in September 2024 — to expand the number of preschoolers
locally who can access outstanding nursery provision. The nurseries will give the children
who attend the best possible start to their education, as well as a caring, safe, and happy
environment.

Primary

By the time children reach Year 6, statutory tests in reading, writing and mathematics
identify which have reached the academic standards required for their secondary
education.

61% of Year 6 pupils met the expected standard nationally, but 75% did at Harris, despite
the high level of disadvantage our pupils experience.

Of Harris pupils on free school meals, 63% met expected standards in Year 6,
outperforming not just the 45% of pupils on free school meals nationally who did so, but
also the overall national average.

Secondary

Over 5,000 Year 11 students in the Harris Federation collected their GCSE results in
summer 2024. Again, despite their disadvantage, they outperformed others better off
than them across England and achieved significant success.

Harris Federation 8

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Academic accomplishments and achievements, from nursery to university (continued)

(3)

(4)

Secondary (continued)
Headline results were as follows:

(1) Strong progress: At the time of writing, Progress 8 across our secondary
academies was estimated at +0.47, showing our students made significantly more
progress over the course of their Harris secondary education than they would have
at an average school.

(2) High attainment: our average Attainment 8 — calculated by totalling GCSE scores
of students in 8 key subjects — was 50.3 (compared to 46.3 nationally and 49.8 at
Harris in 2023);

(3) English and maths: 53% of our students got at least a Grade 5 in both English and
maths (compared to 45% nationally and 50% at Harris in 2023),

(4) Good marks in challenging subjects: Our students’ average point score for
subjects within the EBacc was 4.72 (compared to 4.05 nationally and 4.62 at Harris
in 2023);

(5) More likely to achieve the best passes: 75% of GCSEs attained by our students
were Grade 4 or better, 61% were Grade 5 or better and 26% were Grade 7 or better
(all surpassing national levels in 2023).

Sixth Form
It was a stunning year for sixth form outcomes with students progressing in vast numbers

to top universities and degree apprenticeships.

80% of our Year 13 progressed to university, including 61% of those from the most
economically disadvantaged backgrounds. This compares to 38% of all sixth formers
nationally going to university and fewer than a fifth of the most disadvantaged.

Our disadvantaged students progressed to Russell Group universities at almost triple the
national rate for their cohort (16% at Harris v 6% nationally).

Harris Westminster Sixth Form celebrated its tenth anniversary since opening, sending
42 students to Oxford and Cambridge this summer and 275 over the course of the past
decade — the majority from backgrounds previously unrepresented at these prestigious
universities.

Students from across the Harris Federation won places on competitive degree
apprenticeships, including at Deloitte, UBS and PwC.

Harris Federation 9

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Academic accomplishments and achievements, from nursery to university (continued)

(4) Sixth Form (continued) .
We also want to pay tribute to the many students who overcame significant personal
challenges to secure good results, often really excelling, and achieve the university
places they wanted. These include students grieving for parents who have died or who

were having to combine their studies with caring for unwell parents or siblings, as well
as recent refugees.

Early Years

@ Total % reaching a ‘Good Level of ; 67% (2023)
Development (GLD)’

% on Free School Meals (FSM)
reaching a GLD 52%(2023)

Secondary

@ Progress 8 +0.47 (SISRA estimate) -0.03 (2023)
|@ Maths and English 5+ 53% 45%(2023)

«@ EBacc (APS) 4.72 4.05(2023)

*sponsored academies.

Harris Federation 10

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Academic accomplishments and achievements, from nursery to university (continued)

Breaking down barriers to build a better future: five case studies from the past
academic year

(1)

(2)

Supporting our communities

More and more families at our academies are living in poverty. At its most extreme, 80%
of children at our primary academy in Peckham are classified as homeless, with a fifth
of pupils overall sofa-surfing and more than half living in temporary accommodation
including hostels, B&Bs and unsecured tenancies, often wholly unsuitable for children.

Initiatives to help our families include the establishment of a Community Hub in every
Harris primary academy — containing everything from a store of books, toys and pre-
loved school uniform to essential groceries, and providing a safe, discrete and dignified
place for families to go if they need support.

GenerosCity (including the City of London Hygiene Bank) has provided over a million
products to our schools, from toothpaste, bodywash and deodorant to washing detergent
and brand new bed linen. At Christmas, students in our secondary academies loved
receiving gift sets by Lynx, Dove and Radox, and throughout the year their products have
made a significant difference to families.

Our academies have likewise worked to provide food packages and supermarket
vouchers to families in need. We are grateful to Barings which has provided food support
to our academies since the pandemic including over 1,500 freshly prepared frozen meals
over the past year as well as freezers to store the food, as many of the families most in
need do not have their own freezers.

To cushion the impact of the cost of living crisis on teachers and support staff, we
invested an extra £2.5million in additional pay, over and above the pay awards agreed
between government and the unions. Every teacher received a pay rise of between 8
and 9%, or 2-3% more than the national pay award. Support staff received a £500 bonus
at Christmas. All this was funded by the Harris Federation, so that individual academies
would not need to do so from their individual budgets. Furthermore because pay
negotiations for support staff between government and the unions have been so
protracted, we gave staff at our schools an early pay increase equivalent to the national
offer under consideration even though it has not yet been agreed.

The launch of our alumni programme

This year we launched Harris Futures, a network that aims to enable alumni to connect
with each other and their former academies. From a standing start, we have been
delighted to see thousands of alumni being back in touch.

Harris Federation 11

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Academic accomplishments and achievements, from nursery to university (continued)

Breaking down barriers to build a better future: five case studies from the past
academic year

(2)

(3)

(4)

The launch of our alumni programme (continued)
They are mentoring current students and inspiring them in assemblies, offering to

connect our students to the support of their employers and giving back financially. These
include a former Head Boy of Harris City Academy Crystal Palace who has funded a
£180k bursary scheme to support students from the most disadvantaged backgrounds
through their university years.

Enhancing support for refugee students across the Harris Federation
With generous funding from donors, we have been able to significantly expand our

support for the growing number of refugee students across our academies. This funding
has allowed us to appoint an English as an Additional Language (EAL) expert consultant
to work with students from refugee backgrounds and with their academies, ensuring that
these students receive the targeted support they need.

It has also made it possible for us to address the complex and evolving needs of refugee
and resettled children within the Harris Federation, improving their educational outcomes
and wellbeing.

Already, several Harris academies have reported higher levels of student engagement
and improved academic outcomes among refugee students.

Thanks to this funding, our academies are better equipped to meet the diverse needs of
these vulnerable students, ensuring they have the best possible chance to thrive both
academically and socially.

Maximising the finances of our academies
As outlined earlier, rising costs combined with falling rolls have created financial

insecurity for schools across England. In London, our academies are at the sharp end of
a seismic demographic shift with the high cost of living combining with a housing
shortage to drive many families away, and a birthrate that is down by a fifth over the past
ten years.

Over the course of the year, we raised £3.7million in sponsorship. This was used across
our academies. Examples of sponsorship-funded activities include specialist provision
for our refugee students, funding for catch-up tutoring in our secondary academies and,
for all our academies, significant extra support for the mental health and wellbeing of
students. £750k of the funding went to Harris Westminster Sixth Form, as well as a
further £500k from the Harris Federation to enable it to continue to more than double the
contact time its students receive, compared to other sixth forms.

Harris Federation 12

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Academic accomplishments and achievements, from nursery to university (continued)

Breaking down barriers to build a better future: five case studies from the past
academic year

(4) Maximising the finances of our academies (continued)
We are increasingly deploying our central budget to support Harris academies that would
otherwise be in deficit and last year shared £7million across 16 schools to minimise the
impact of financial uncertainty on students and staff.

(5) Training great teachers in our schools and across England
The National Institute of Teaching, which we operate with partners Oasis Community
Learning, Outwood Grange Academies Trust and Star Academies, opened in September
2022. This trained its first 500 teachers and along with its NPQ programmes for aspiring
leaders was graded Outstanding by Ofsted.

In addition, Harris Academy Chobham was designated a Teaching School Hub by the
government's Department for Education. It joins our two existing hubs to provide a vast
range of professional development to many thousands of teachers as part of the Harris
Institute of Teaching and Leadership.

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting

UK Greenhouse gas emissions and energy 1 September 1 September
use data for the period 2023 to 31 2022 to 31

August 2024 August 2023
Energy consumption used to calculate emissions 50,597,033 55,027,019

(kWh)

Scope 1 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e
Gas consumption 6,533.83 6,389.09

Owned transport mini-buses 26.67 §5.30
Total 6560.50 6,444.39
Scope 2 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e

Purchased electricity 3,747.78

Scope 3 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e

Business travel in employee owned vehicles 62.3)

Total gross emissions in metric tonnes CO2e 10,213.2

Intensity ratio
Tonnes CO2e per pupil

Harris Federation 13

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting

Quantification and Reporting Methodology
We have followed the 2020 HM Government Environmental Protocol — Corporate Standard
and have used the 2021 UK Government's Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.

Intensity measurement
The chosen intensity measurement ratio is total gross emissions in metric tonnes CO2e per
pupil, the recommended ratio for the sector.

Measures taken to improve energy efficiency
We have installed smart meters across all sites, we have invested in LED lighting across the
Federation's estate and we have installed PV panels on the roofs of Federation academies.

Going concern

After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the
Federation has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason it continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements. Further details regarding the adoption of the going concern basis can be found
in the Principal Accounting Policies.

Promoting the success of the company

As directors of the charitable company, the directors have considered the interests of the
Federation and its stakeholders in their decision making. The Federation has a wide range of
key stakeholders, including students and their parents, its employees, local communities and
government. Directors are highly cognisant of their role and the role of the schools in their
communities as agents of transformation.

Directors receive feedback through many channels, including in particular:

@ From local governing bodies who act as a local link between schools, parents and
communities; . ,

¢@ From expert professional advisors; and

@ From the Federation Senior Management Team as those with delegated responsibility for
the day to day running of the Federation.

Where appropriate to do so, stakeholders including community groups and unions are
consulted on specific policy decisions prior to their approval. The Federation Board is robust
in its commitment to its own code of conduct and that of its staff. It is aware of the potential
for conflicts of interest and puts in place mechanisms to counter these where they apply. The
Directors place a high premium on ethical practice, and making decisions that are right for the
communities and children they serve.

Harris Federation 14

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Financial review

Financial report for the year

Most of the Federation’s income comes from the Education and Skills Funding Agency
(ESFA), in the form of recurrent grants for particular purposes. These grants and the
associated expenditure are shown as restricted funds in the consolidated statement of
. financial activities.

The Federation also receives grants for fixed assets from the Department for Education (DfE).
In accordance with the Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended
Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with the Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland (the Charities
SORP and FRS 102), these grants are shown in the statement of financial activities as
restricted income in the fixed asset fund. The restricted fixed asset fund balance is reduced
by annual depreciation charges over the expected useful life of the assets concerned.

During the year ended 31 August 2024, total income (excluding fixed asset fund income) was
£363.9m (2023 - £326.3m) and total expenditure (excluding depreciation) was £357.7m (2023
- £318.0m). The operational surplus for the year, excluding transfers to fixed assets,
movements on the pension reserve and restricted fixed assets funds, was a surplus of £2.0m
(2023 - surplus of £9.3m).

At 31 August 2024 the net book value of fixed assets was £640.8m (2023 - £613.0m). These
assets were used exclusively for providing education to the Federation’s pupils and related
support services.

Financial position and reserves policy

The Federation held fund balances at 31 August 2024 of £672.5m (2023 - £649.1m)
comprising £651.0m (2023 - £622.8m) of restricted funds including a pension reserve deficit
of £1.6m (2023 - £3.1m) and £21.5m (2023 - £26.2m) of unrestricted general funds.

Harris Federation 15

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Financial review (continued)

Financial position and reserves policy (continued)

The unrestricted general funds form part of the Federation’s revenue reserves. Total revenue
reserves, which exclude the fixed asset fund of £646.1m (2023 - £619.0m) and the pension
reserve deficit of £1.6m (2023 - £3.1m), were £28.0m as at 31 August 2024 (2023 — £33.2m).
This equates to an average of £0.5m per school (2023 — £0.6m per school). This is equal to
approximately 1.1 months’ revenue expenditure and the directors consider that this is
sufficient for the working capital and operational needs of the Federation based on historic
levels of activity.

The risk policy ensures that each Academy sets aside reserves so that in unforeseen
circumstances the Academy will still have the resources to deliver its essential aims.

Operating reserves are determined by the risks facing that Academy and therefore the level
of reserve both as an absolute amount and as a percentage of income will vary from Academy
to Academy. The minimum operating reserve for the federation should be 7%, all Primary
academies should be between 3% to 6% and Secondary academies between 3% to 6%. The
closing position of the operating reserve was £28.0m this represents 7% inline with the overall
federation target.

Investment policy
The Harris Federation policy is to hold any surplus funds in a mix of deposit and notice
accounts at the best possible rates.

Principal risks and uncertainties

Risk management

The directors are responsible for identifying risks faced by the Federation, assessing the
likelihood of the risk occurring and its potential impact, and taking steps to mitigate and control
these risks, and ensuring that employees are aware of any risk management procedures and
of the implications of failing to implement them.

They are satisfied that these procedures are consistent with guidelines issued by the Charity
Commission.

Harris Federation 16

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

Risk management (continued)

The directors acknowledge they have overall responsibility for ensuring that the Federation
has an effective and appropriate system of controls, financial and otherwise. The directors
are also responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Federation and enable them to ensure the
financial statements comply with the Companies Act. The directors also acknowledge
responsibility for safeguarding the assets of the Federation and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and to provide
reasonable assurance that:

¢ the Federation is operating efficiently and effectively;
¢ its assets are safeguarded against unauthorised use or disposal;

# proper records are maintained and financial information used within the Federation or for
its publication is reliable; and

@ the Federation complies with relevant laws and regulations.

The risks identified are recorded in the Federation Risk Register which is prepared annually
and reviewed at every meeting of the Audit and Risk Committee. Risks are classified as
Strategic, Reputational and Governance; Financial; Operational; and Compliance.

The directors have assessed the major risks and uncertainties to which the Harris Federation
is exposed, in particular:

@  Theincrease in teacher starting salaries and associated costs. The impact of this is being
addressed through several cost-saving initiatives including the pooling of resources and
a purchasing strategy designed to maximise the economies of scale we benefit from.

«@ Demographic trends mean that, some academies are at risk of being undersubscribed.
This is being addressed through individual academies working with their communities to
demonstrate their values and achievements and therefore to build demand for places.

@ The nationwide shortage of qualified teachers. This is being addressed by developing a
Recruitment and Retention resource within the Federation and the expansion of the Initial
Teacher Training programme to provide more newly qualified staff to our academies.

@ The nationwide risk of RAAC, the Federation has surveyed all school, and none were

found to be affected. Additionally, the Federation has a three year plan for use of SCA
fund to ensure the Federation’s estate is safe and well maintained.

Harris Federation 17

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

Financial and risk management objectives and policies
Harris Federation has cash balances and other working capital balances. The main risk
arising from the use of financial instruments is liquidity risk.

Liquidity risk

The Federation manages its cash resources, including sufficient working capital, so that all its
operating needs are met without the need for short-term borrowing. Surplus cash is invested
through appropriate use of financial instruments with our principal bankers so as to maximise
interest income without incurring undue risk.

Interest rate risk
In the absence of borrowings the Federation is not exposed to significant interest rate risk.

Other risks

The group is exposed to price risks, but is funded by government on the same basis as other
academies and budgets accordingly. Nearly all funding comes from government so credit risk
is considered to be negligible.

Fundraising :

The Federation employs a full time fundraiser, who works across schools and with principals
and Directors. She keeps current sponsors well informed and updated on use of their
donations as well as seeking new sponsors. 2023/24 has been a successful year, our
sponsorship income for the financial year totalled £3.7m (2023 - £3.5m) of income for the
financial year.

PLANS FOR FUTURE PERIODS

The Federation holds reserves of operating reserves of £28.0m, this allows for falling roles
expected in the London area. Additionally there has been planned building of reserves to
cover significant infrastructure works on IT systems across the estate and a rebuild due to
serious subsidence in a secondary academy.

Harris Federation 18

Directors’ report Year to 31 August 2024

AUDITORS
In so far as the directors are aware:

@ There is no relevant audit information of which the charitable company’s auditor is
unaware; and

@ The directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that
information.

Directors’ report, incorporating a strategic report, approved by order of the board of directors
and signed on its behalf by:

¢

Lord Harris of Peckham
Director

Approved by the directors on: 31/12/2024

Harris Federation 19

Governance statement 31 August 2024

Scope of responsibility

As directors, we acknowledge we have overall responsibility for ensuring that the Harris
Federation has an effective and appropriate system of control, financial and otherwise.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to
achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.

As directors, we have reviewed and taken accounts of the guidance in the DfE’s Governance
Handbook and competency framework for governance.

The board of directors has delegated the day-to-day responsibility to the Chief Executive
Officer, as Accounting Officer, for ensuring financial controls conform with the requirements
of both propriety and good financial management and in accordance with the requirements
and responsibilities assigned to it in the funding agreement between the Federation and the
Secretary of State for Education. The Chief Executive Officer is also responsible for reporting
to the Board of Directors any material weaknesses or breakdowns in internal control.

Governance
The information on governance included here supplements that described in the directors’
report and in the statement of directors’ responsibilities.

As described in the directors’ report, the directors delegate a number of functions to the Local
Governing Body (LGB) of each academy. These LGBs meet a minimum of three times a year,
in order to provide scrutiny and challenge of the overall education management and direction
of each academy. As described in the directors’ report, the chairs of several of the LGBs are
also directors of the Federation. There is a Federation Financial Committee which oversees
the financial performance of each academy. The directors are supported in this by the
Executive Leadership.

Once a year each LGB undertakes a review of its own effectiveness comprising an
assessment of its past activities, aims and objectives. The results of the review and in
particular measures decided on to improve performance are incorporated into the planning
cycle.

The board of directors has formally met 3 times during the year. Whilst the Federation's
directors have met fewer than six times during the course of the financial year, the directors
are of the opinion that that they have been able to maintain sufficient oversight of the
Federation’s finances through the establishment of the Audit and Risk Committee, Finance
Committee and Remuneration Committee. The purpose of these sub-committees is to assist
the decision-making of the full Board of Directors by enabling more detailed consideration of
the Federation’s finances and resources. The Committees draw any matters of significance
or concern to the attention of the full Board of Directors. Attendance during the year at
meetings of the board of directors was as follows:

Harris Federation 20

Governance statement 31 August 2024

Governance (continued)

Director Number of meetings attended Out of a possible
Lord Harris of Peckham 2 3
Sir W Adderley 2 3
Mr P Carr 2 2
Mr G R Davies 3 3
Ms D Deakin-Elliott 3 3
Mr E Falzon 2 2
Mr K J Hoods 3 3
Mrs A Kail 3 3
Ms C Lemer 3 3
Mr T D Moore 2 3
Sir D Moynihan 3 3
Dr N Rata 3 3
Mr R St Louis 3 3
Lord C Terrington 2 3
Mrs D Wright 1 3

Conflicts of interest

The Federation's compliance team ensures that a register of interests is maintained for ail
directors and school governors. This is shared with central finance staff. All directors and
governors are aware that they must declare any potential conflicts of interest as and when
they arise. Where this occurs, they are removed from all associated decision-making.

Governance reviews
The Federation Finance Handbook for 2023/24 in the Financial Planning section contains the
following:

Each year the Governors (local governing bodies) must agree a planning cycle and timetable
which allows for:

«  Areview of past activities, aims and objectives - “did we get it right?”
¢@ Definition or redefinition of aims and objectives — “are the aims still relevant?”

@ Development of the plan and associated budgets — “how do we go forward?”

@  {mplementation, monitoring and review of the plan — “who needs to do what by when to
make the plan work and keep it on course?”

@ Feedback into the next planning cycle — “what worked successfully and how can we
improve?”

In order to further strengthen the Federation’s governance structure, there are separate

Finance and Audit & Risk Committees in place. This allows more time for scrutiny and
feedback and also allows for the more specific skill set of committee members to be utilised.

Harris Federation 21

Governance statement 31 August 2024

Finance Board Sub-committee
The Finance Board sub-committee is a sub-committee of the main board of directors. Its
purpose is to assist the Board with financial oversight and risk management.

Member Meetings attended Out of a possible
Ms D Deakin-Elliott (Chair) 6 6
Mr A Patel 4 5
Mrs D Wright 5 6

Audit and Risk Committee .
The Audit and Risk Committee is also a sub-committee of the main board of directors. Its
purpose is to provide assurance to the directors that adequate controls are in place to
safeguard the Federation’s assets and to ensure regularity and propriety in ail its transactions.

Member Meetings attended Out of a possible
Mr P Burgess 3 4
Mr G Davies 1 1
Ms D Deakin-Elliott 1 1
Mr N Rata 1 1
Mr P Rosen (Chair) 4 4

Review of value for money

As Accounting Officer, the Chief Executive has responsibility for ensuring that the Federation
delivers good value in the use of public resources. The Accounting Officer understands that
value for money (VFM) refers to the educational and wider societal outcomes, as well as
estates safety and management, achieved in return for the taxpayer resources received.

The Accounting Officer considers how the Federation’s use of its resources has provided
good VFM during the academic year, and reports to the board of directors where VFM can be
improved, including the use on benchmarking data where available. The Accounting Officer
for the Federation has provided the framework for achieving VFM during the year by:

@ Tendering the trust-wide Multi Function Device contract to achieve savings in 2023/24
and beyond.

« Securing £9m in grants to complete energy-efficiency upgrades across our schools.

@ Contracting with approved IT partners Education for consolidated procurement of IT
devices and infrastructure, leading to significant savings due to greater purchasing power.

«@ Contracting with approved Estates partners to complete full surveys on all schools which
are used to schedule repairs and refurbishments across the year using the SCA grant as
well as school reserves where required. :

« Adedicated Estates team works closely with ail schools to ensure regular maintenance
is carried out and compliance with statutory requirements is met across the estate. This
to include regular training to ensure health and safety requirements are met.

Harris Federation 22

Governance statement 31 August 2024

The purpose of the system of internal control

The system of internal control is designed to manage risk to a reasonable level rather than to
eliminate all risk of failure to achieve policies, aims and objectives. It can therefore only
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance of effectiveness. The system of internal
control is based on an ongoing process designed to identify and prioritise the risks to the
achievement of the Federation's policies, aims and objectives, to evaluate the likelihood of
those risks being realised and the impact should they be realised, and to manage them
efficiently, effectively and economically. The system of internal control has been in place at
the Federation for the year ended 31 August 2024 and up to the date of approval of the annual
report and financial statements.

It is noted, that whilst the financial controls are deemed adequate due to the oversight of an
experienced finance team, as a result of the implementation of the new ERP system, the
Federation experienced delays in the production of management reporting whilst changing
business processes required for the implementation of the ERP. There are opportunities to
further develop and strengthen processes, this will ensure areas highlighted by the external
auditors are addressed appropriately.

Capacity to handle risk

The board of directors has reviewed the key risks to which the Federation is exposed together
with the operating, financial and compliance controls that have been implemented to mitigate
those risks. The board of directors is of the view that there is an ongoing process for
identifying, evaluating and managing the Federation's significant risks that has been in place
for the year ended 31 August 2024 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and
financial statements. This process is regularly reviewed by the board of directors.

The risk and control framework

The Federation's system of internal financial control is based on a framework of regular
management information and administrative procedures including the segregation of duties
and a system of delegation and accountability. In particular, it includes:

# comprehensive budgeting and monitoring systems with an annual budget and periodic
financial reports which are reviewed and agreed by the board of directors;

regular reviews by the Finance Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee of reports
which indicate financial performance against the forecasts and of major purchase plans,
capital works and expenditure programmes;

¢ setting targets to measure financial and other performance;

clearly defined purchasing (asset purchase or capital investment) guidelines;

delegation of authority and segregation of duties; and

¢ identification and management of risks.

Harris Federation 23

Governance statement 31 August 2024

The risk and control framework (continued)

The directors have considered the need for a specific internal audit function and have
appointed an in-house internal auditor, who reports to the Audit and Risk Committee on their
work. , .

The internal auditors role includes giving advice on financial and other matters and
performing a range of checks on the Federation’s financial and other systems. In particular,
the checks carried out in the current period included:

« Review and testing of contract management and lettings management;
@ Review of risk management process; and
@ Review and testing of payroll amendments.

On a quarterly basis, the internal auditor reports to the board of directors via the Audit and
Risk Committee, including preparation of an annual summary outlining the work performed
and key findings. The internal auditor has completed their work as planned with no material
findings noted.

Review of effectiveness

As Accounting Officer, the Chief Executive Officer has responsibility for reviewing the
effectiveness of the system of internal control. During the year in question, the review has
been informed by:

@ the work of the internal and external auditors;
@ — the financial management and governance self assessment process; and

@ the work of the Senior Management Team within the Federation who have responsibility
for the development and maintenance of the internal control framework.

The Accounting Officer has been advised of the implications of the result of his review of the
system of internal contro! by the Audit and Risk Committee and a plan to ensure continuous
improvement of the system is in place.

Conclusion

Based on the advice of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Accounting Officer, the board
of directors is of the opinion that the Federation has an adequate and effective framework for
governance, risk management and control.

Approved by order of the board of directors and signed on its behalf by:

Lord Harris of Peckham Sir Daniel Moynihan
Director Accounting Officer
Date: 31/12/2024

Harris Federation 24

Statement on regularity, propriety and compliance 31 August 2024

As Accounting Officer of Harris Federation, | have considered my responsibility to notify the
Federation board of directors and the ESFA of material irregularity, impropriety and non-
compliance with ESFA terms and conditions of funding, including for estates safety and
management, under the funding agreement in place between the Federation and the
Secretary of State. As part of my consideration | have had due regard to the requirements of
the Academy Trust Handbook 2023 including responsibilities for estates safety and
management.

| confirm that | and the Federation board of directors are able to identify any material irregular
or improper use of funds by the Federation, or material non-compliance with the terms and
conditions of funding under the Federation's funding agreement and the Academy Trust
Handbook 2023.

I confirm that no instances of material irregularity, impropriety or funding non-compliance have
been discovered to date. If any instances are identified after the date of this statement, these
will be notified to the board of directors and the ESFA.

However, in making the above statement, as referenced in the Governance statement
accompanying this report, | draw attention to a number of challenges encountered by the
Federation following the implementation of the new ERP system. These challenges have
included unavoidable delays to routine processes, payment of supplier invoices, and
publishing management information.

Whilst this created additional challenges in terms of the in-year management reporting and
financial monitoring and oversight, | am satisfied that the system of internal control remained
in place, and all significant financial transactions have been subject to scrutiny and
authorisation. :

Sir Daniel Moynihan
Accounting Officer
Date: 31/12/2024

Harris Federation 25

Statement of directors’ responsibilities 31 August 2024

The directors (who act as trustees for the charitable activities of the Federation) are
responsible for preparing the directors’ report and the financial statements in accordance with
the Annual Accounts Requirements issued by the Education and Skills Funding Agency,
United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice) and applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are
satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Federation and of its
income and expenditure for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the directors
are required to:

@ select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

# observe the methods and principles in the Charities SORP FRS102 and the Academies
Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024;

# make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

@ state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards (FRS 102) have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial
statements; and

~~ prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to
presume that the Federation will continue in operation.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to
show and explain the Federation’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any
time the financial position of the Federation and enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding
the assets of the Federation and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are responsible for ensuring that in its conduct and operation the Federation
applies financial and other controls, which conform with the requirements both of propriety
and of good financial! management. They are also responsible for ensuring grants received
from the ESFA have been applied for the purposes intended.

The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the charity and financial
information included on the Federation’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions.

Approved by order of the board of directors and signed on its behalf by:

fc Ue

Lord Harris of Peckham
Director
Date: 31/12/2024

Harris Federation 26

Independent auditor's report on the financial statements 31 August 2024

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Harris Federation

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Harris Federation (the ‘charitable parent
company’) for the year ended 31 August 2024 which the comprise the group statement of
financial activities, the group and charitable parent company balance sheets, the group
statement of cash flows and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of
significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in
their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including
Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and
Republic of Ireland’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), Accounting
and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to charities
preparing their accounts in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in
the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) (the Charities SORP FRS102) and the Academies
Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024.

In our opinion, the financial statements:

give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the charitable parent company’s
affairs as at 31 August 2024 and of the group's income and expenditure for the year then
ended;

@ have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
_ Accounting Practice;

¢ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006;
and

# have been prepared in accordance with the Charities SORP FRS102 and Academies
Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs
(UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in
the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We
are independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going
concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties
relating to events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on
the group’s or the charitable parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a
period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Harris Federation 27

Independent auditor's report on the financial statements 31 August 2024

Conclusions relating to going concern (continued)
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are
described in the relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report other than the financial statements and our auditor's
report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information
and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form
of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to
be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the
financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work
we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

«the information given in the directors’ report, which includes the strategic report, for the
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the
financial statements; and

@ the directors’ report, includes the strategic report, has been prepared in accordance with
applicable legal requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the charitable parent
company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified
material misstatements in the directors’ report including the strategic report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

@ adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have
not been received from branches not visited by us; or

@ the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
¢@ certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

# we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Harris Federation 28

Independent auditor's report on the financial statements 31 August 2024

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they
give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary
to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group’s
and the charitable parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting
unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the charitable parent company or to
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an
auditor's report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We
design procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material
misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures
are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below:

Our approach to identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in respect of
irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, was as follows:

# the engagement partner ensured that the engagement team collectively had the
appropriate competence, capabilities and skills to identify or recognise non-compliance
with applicable laws and regulations;

@ we identified the laws and regulations applicable to the charitable parent company
through discussions with management, and from our knowledge of the academy trust
sector;

¢ the identified laws and regulations were communicated within the audit team regularly
and the team remained alert to instances of non-compliance throughout the audit;

# we considered the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the charitable
company and determined that the most significant are the Companies Act 2006, the
Charities SORP FRS 102, the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024, the Academy
Trust Handbook 2023, and the Federation's funding agreement with the ESFA as well as
legislation pertaining to safeguarding in the UK;

Harris Federation 29

Independent auditor’s report on the financial statements 31 August 2024

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements (continued)

we understood how the charitable parent company is complying with those legal and
regulatory frameworks by making inquiries to management and those responsible for
legal, compliance and governance procedures. We corroborated our inquiries through our
review of the minutes of directors’ meetings and papers provided to the directors;

«# we planned and carried out a separate limited assurance engagement in respect of
regularity, propriety and compliance in accordance with the Framework and Guide for
External Auditors and Reporting Accountants of Academy Trusts issued by the ESFA, as
set out in our separate independent reporting accountant's assurance report on regularity.

We assessed the susceptibility of the charitable company’s financial statements to material
misstatement, including obtaining an understanding of how fraud might occur, by:

# making enquiries of management and those charged with governance as to where they
considered there was susceptibility to fraud, their knowledge of actual, suspected and
alleged fraud; and

¢ considering the internat controls in place to mitigate risks of fraud and non-compliance
with laws and regulations.

To address the risk of fraud through management bias and override of controls, we:

¢@ performed analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships;
@ tested journal entries to identify unusual transactions;

@ tested the authorisation of expenditure as part of our substantive testing thereon;

# assessed whether judgements and assumptions made in determining the accounting
estimates set out in the accounting policies were indicative of potential bias; and

# used data analytics to identify any significant or unusual transactions and identify the
rationale for them.

In response to the risk of irregularities and non-compliance with laws and regulations, we
designed procedures which included, but were not limited to:

* agreeing financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation;
¢ reviewing the minutes of directors’ meetings;

@ enquiring of management and those charged with governance as to actual and potential
litigation and claims;

@ reviewing any available correspondence with Ofsted, ESFA and HMRC; and

the work undertaken in relation to the limited assurance engagement in respect of
regularity, propriety and compliance in accordance with the Framework and Guide for
External Auditors and Reporting Accountants of Academy Trusts issued by the ESFA, as
set out in our separate independent reporting accountant's assurance report on regularity.

Harris Federation 30

Independent auditor’s report on the financial statements 31 August 2024

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements (continued)

There are inherent limitations in our audit procedures described above. The more removed
those laws and regulations are from financial transactions, the less likely it is that we would
become aware of non-compliance. International Standards on Auditing also limit the audit
procedures required to identify non-compliance with laws and regulations to enquiry of the
trustees and other management and the inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence,
if any. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is
located on the Financial Reporting Council's website at
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Material misstatements that arise due to fraud can be harder to detect than those that arise
from error as they may involve deliberate concealment or collusion.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located
on the Financial Reporting Council's website at www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This
description forms part of our auditor's report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the charitable company’s members, as a body, in accordance
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken
so that we might state to the charitable company's members those matters we are required
to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted
by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the charitable
company and the charitable company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report,
or for the opinions we have formed.

Katharine Patel, Senior Statutory Auditor
For and on behalf of Buzzacott LLP, Statutory Auditor
130 Wood Street

London
EC2V 6DL

31 December 2024

Harris Federation 31

Independent reporting accountant’s report on regularity 31 August 2024

Independent reporting accountant’s assurance report on regularity to Harris
Federation and the Education and Skills Funding Agency

In accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated 22 September 2022 and further
to the requirements of the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) as included in the
Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024, we have carried out an engagement to obtain
limited assurance about whether the expenditure disbursed and income received by Harris
Federation during the period from 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 have been applied
to the purposes identified by Parliament and the financial transactions conform to the
authorities which govern them.

This report is made solely to Harris Federation and the ESFA in accordance with the terms of
our engagement letter. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Harris
Federation and the ESFA those matters we are required to state in a report and for no other
purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to
anyone other than the Harris Federation and the ESFA, for our work, for this report, or for the
conclusion we have formed.

Respective responsibilities of Harris Federation’s Accounting Officer and the reporting
accountant

The Accounting Officer is responsible, under the requirements of Harris Federation’s master
funding agreement with the Secretary of State for Education dated 31 August 2007 and the
Academies Trust Handbook, extant from 1 September 2023, for ensuring that expenditure
disbursed and income received is applied for the purposes intended by Parliament and the
financial transactions conform to the authorities which govern them.

Our responsibilities for this engagement are established in the United Kingdom by our
profession's ethical guidance and are to obtain limited assurance and report in accordance
with our engagement letter and the requirements of the Academies Accounts Direction 2023
to 2024. We report to you whether anything has come to our attention in carrying out our work
which suggests that in all material respects, expenditure disbursed and income received
during the period from 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 have not been applied to
purposes intended by Parliament or that the financial transactions do not conform to the
authorities which govern them.

Approach

We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Framework and Guide for External
Auditors and Reporting Accountant of Academy Trusts issued by ESFA. We performed a
limited assurance engagement as defined in our engagement letter.

The objective of a limited assurance engagement is to perform such procedures as to obtain
information and explanations in order to provide us with sufficient appropriate evidence to
express a negative conclusion on regularity.

A limited assurance engagement is more limited in scope than a reasonable assurance
engagement and consequently does not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become
aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance
engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a positive opinion.

Harris Federation 32

Independent reporting accountant’s report on regularity 31 August 2024

Approach (continued)
Our engagement includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the regularity
and propriety of the Federation’s income and expenditure.

The work undertaken to draw to our conclusion includes:

@ An assessment of the risk of material irregularity and impropriety across all of the
Federation's activities;

«@ Further testing and review of the areas identified through the risk assessment including
enquiry, identification of control processes and examination of supporting evidence
across all areas identified as well as additional verification work where considered
necessary; and

# Consideration of evidence obtained through the work detailed above and the work
completed as part of our financial statements audit in order to support the regularity
conclusion.

Conclusion

In the course of our work, other than the matter noted below nothing has come to our attention
which suggests that in all material respects the expenditure disbursed and income received
during the period from 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 has not been applied to purposes
intended by Parliament and the financial transactions do not conform to the authorities which
govern them. We do, however, observe the following matter:

Matter 1:

We draw attention to the statement made by the Accounting Officer within the statement of
regularity, propriety and compliance, and within the Governance statement, which note the
significant in-year management reporting and financial monitoring and oversight challenges
encountered by the Federation following the implementation of the new ERP system. This
has resulted in the Federation not being able to fully comply with the Academy Trust
Handbook requirements in relation to the financial oversight.

Buzzacott LLP
Chartered Accountants
130 Wood Street
London

EC2V 6DL

Date: 31 December 2024

Harris Federation 33

Consolidated statement of financial activities Year to 31 August 2024

(including Consolidated Income and Expenditure Account)

Restricted funds
Un-
restricted 2024 2023
general Fixed Total Total
fund General assets Funds Funds
Notes £'000 £'000 £'000 £7000 £000
Income from:
Donations and capital grants 1 32 3,669 17,250 20,951 16,731
Transfer of existing academies 25 375 778 24,998 26,151 137
Charitable activities
. Funding for Harris Federation's educational
operations 3 — 341,726 — 341,726 308,550
. Teaching Schools - 1,815 - 1,815 2,214
Other trading activities 2 4,115 _- - 4,115 3,622
Interest receivable 3,662 — — 3,662 1,581
Other 4 7,733 _ = 7,733 6,561
Total income 15,917 347,988 42,248 406,153 339,396
Expenditure on:
Charitable activities
. Harris Federation's educational operations 6 8,896 347,026 23,470 379,392 336,877
. Teaching Schools _ 1,754 _ 1,754 2,603
Total expenditure 5 8,896 348,780 23,470 381,146 339,480
Net income (expenditure) before transfers 7,021 (792) 18,778 25,007 (84)
Gross transfers between funds 17 (11,770) 3,477 8,293 - -
Net income (expenditure) before other
recognised gains and losses (4,749) 2,685 27,071 25,007 (84)
Actuarial (loss) gain on defined benefit pension
scheme 20 _ (1,598) _ (1,598) 8,711
Net movement in funds (4,749) 1,087 27,071 23,409 8,627
Fund balances brought forward at 1 September 2023 26,231 3,826 619,014 649,071 640,444
Fund balance carried forward at 31 August 2024 21,482 4,913 646,085 672,480 649,071

All of the group's activities derived from continuing operations during the above financial periods.
There is no difference between the net movement in funds stated above, and its historical cost
equivalent.

Harris Federation 34

Balance sheets 31 August 2024

2024 2023
. Group Federation Group Federation
Notes £000 £000 £000 £'000

Fixed assets
Tangible assets 13 639,460 639,460 612,987 612,987
Intangible fixed assets 12 1,294 1,294 — —

640,754 640,754 612,987 612,987
Current assets
Debtors 16 21,666 21,666 9,107 9,107
Short term deposits 35,450 35,450 45,000 45,000
Cash at bank and in hand 10,942 10,942 25,506 25,506

68,058 68,058 79,613 79,613

Creditors: amounts falling due
within one year 16 (34,758) (34,758) (40,435) (40,435)
Net current assets 33,300 33,300 39,178 39,178
Net assets excluding pension
liability 674,054 674,054 652,165 652,165
Pension scheme liability 20 (1,574) (1,574) (3,094) (3,094)
Total net assets 672,480 672,480 649,071 649,071
The funds of the academy:
Funds and reserves
Restricted funds
. Fixed asset fund 17 646,085 646,085 619,014 619,014
. Restricted income fund 17 6,487 6,487 3,521 3,551
. Pension reserve 7 (1,574) (1,574) (3,094) (3,094)
. Other restricted funds 17 _— _ 3,399 3,399

650,998 650,998 622,840 622,840
Unrestricted funds 17 21,482 21,482 26,231 26,231

672,480 672,480 649,071 649,071

; Approved by the directors and signed on their behalf by:

fi He

Director - Lord Harris of Peckham
Approved on: 31/12/2024
Harris Federation

Company Registration Number: 06228587 (England and Wales)

Harris Federation 35

Consolidated statement of cash flows Year to 31 August 2024

2024 2023
£000 £'000
Net cash flows from operating activities
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities A (20,467) " 4,322
Cash flows from investing activities B 4,746 (16,278)
Cash flows from schools transferring into the Federation 25 1,157 35
Change in cash and cash equivalents in the year (14,564) (11,921)
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds:
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 September 2023 25,506 37,427
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 August 2024 Cc 10,942 25,506

A_ Reconciliation of net income to net cash flow from operating activities

2024 2023

£000 £'000
Net income (expenditure) for the year (as per the statement of 25,007 (84)
financial activities)
Adjusted for:
Inherited fixed assets (25,521) (88)
Cash transferred in (1,157) (35)
Amortisation (note 12) 201 _—
Depreciation (note 13) 23,269 21,470
Capital grants from DfE and other capital income (17,250) (13,210)
Interest receivable (3,662) (1,581)
Defined benefit pension scheme obligation inherited (note 20) _ 83
Defined benefit pension scheme cost less contributions payable (note
20) (3,455) 362
Defined benefit pension scheme finance cost (note 20) 338 723
(Increase) in debtors (12,559) (1,207)
(Decrease) in creditors (5,678) (2,111)
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (20,467) 4,322

B_ Cash flows from investing activities

2024 2023

£000 £'000
Dividends, interest and rents from investments 3,662 1,581
Purchase of intangible fixed assets (90) _
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (25,626) (20,069)
Capital grants from DfE/ESFA 17,250 13,210
Increase in treasury deposits 9,550 (11,000)
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 4,746 (16,278)

Harris Federation 36

Consolidated statement of cash flows Year to 31 August 2024

C_ Analysis of cash and cash equivalents

Cash at bank and in hand
Total cash and cash equivalents

D Analysis of changes in net debt

Cash at bank

Total

At 1
September
2023

£'000

25,506

25,506

2024
£°000

10,942
10,942

Cash
flows
£'000

(14,564)
(14,564)

2023
£000

25,506
25,506

At 31
August
2024

£°000

10,942

10,942

Harris Federation 37

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Statement of accounting policies

A summary of the principal accounting policies adopted (which have been applied
consistently, except where noted), judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty,
is set out below.

Basis of preparation

The financial statements of the Federation have been prepared under the historical cost
convention in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard Applicable in the UK and
Republic of !reland (FRS 102), the Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of
Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with
the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102)
(Charities SORP (FRS 102)), the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024 issued by
ESFA, the Charities Act 2011 and the Companies Act 2006.

Harris Federation meets the definition of a public benefit entity under FRS 102.

The financial statements are presented in sterling to the nearest thousand pounds.

Basis of consolidation

The consolidated statement of financial activities and group balance sheet consolidate the
financial statements of the company and those of its subsidiary, Harris Academies Project
Management Limited, made up at the balance sheet date.

No separate statement of financial activities has been presented for Harris Federation alone,
as permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and SORP FRS102.

For the year ended 31 August 2024 and 31 August 2023, the net income for the Federation
was the same as for the Group.

Going concern

The directors assess whether the use of going concern is appropriate i.e. whether there are
any material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on
the ability of the Federation to continue as a going concern.

The directors make this assessment in respect of a period of at least one year from the date
of authorisation for issue of the financial statements and have concluded that the Federation
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and
there are no material uncertainties about the Federation's ability to continue as a going
concern, thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the
financial statements.

Income
All income is recognised when the Federation has entitlement to the funds, the receipt is
probable and the amount can be measured reliably.

Harris Federation 38

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Income (continued)

Grants

Grants are included in the statement of financial activities on a receivable basis. The balance
of income received for specific purposes but not expended during the period is shown in the
relevant funds on the balance sheet. Where income is received in advance of meeting any
performance-related conditions there is not unconditional entitlement to the income and its
recognition is deferred and included in creditors as deferred income until the performance-
related conditions are met. Where entitlement occurs before income is received, the income
is accrued.

The General Annual Grant is recognised in full in the statement of financial activities in the
year for which it is receivable and any abatement in respect of the period is deducted from
income and recognised as a liability.

Capital grants are recognised when there is entitlement and are not deferred over the life of
the asset on which they are expended. Unspent amounts of capital grant are reflected in the
balance in the restricted fixed asset fund. Capital grants are recognised when there is
entitlement and are not deferred over the life of the asset on which they are expended.

Where an asset is being constructed under the ESFA Free School or Priority Schools
Building Programme, the Federation recognises the value of the work completed as an asset
under construction at the balance sheet date. On completion and handover of the asset, it
is transferred to the relevant asset class and depreciated.

Donations
Donations are recognised on a receivable basis (where there are no performance-related
conditions) where the receipt is probable and the amount can be reliably measured.

Other income

Other income, including the hire of facilities, is recognised in the period it is receivable and
to the extent the Federation has provided the goods or services. This is stated, where
applicable, after trade discounts, other sales taxes and net of VAT.

Expenditure

Expenditure is recognised once there is a legal or constructive obligation to transfer
economic benefit to a third party, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be
required in settlement and the amount of the obligation can be measured reliably.
Expenditure is classified by activity. The costs of each activity are made up of the total of
direct costs and shared costs, including support costs involved in undertaking each activity.
Direct costs attributable to a single activity are allocated directly to that activity. Shared costs
which contribute to more than one activity and support costs which are not attributable to a
single activity are apportioned between those activities on a basis consistent with the use of
resources. Central staff costs are allocated on the basis of time spent, and depreciation
charges allocated on the portion of the asset's use.

Harris Federation 39

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Expenditure (continued)

Charitable activities

These are costs incurred on the Federation's educational operations, including support
costs and costs relating to the governance of the Federation apportioned to charitable
activities.

All expenditure is stated net of recoverable VAT.
Tangible fixed assets

All IT equipment costing more than £500 and all other assets costing more than £1,000 and
with an expected useful life exceeding one year are capitalised.

Depreciation is charged on a straight line basis beginning in the year in which the asset is
brought into use at the following annual rates:

«@ Freehold and long leasehold buildings 2% p.a

¢@ Furniture and equipment 25% p.a.
@ Computer equipment 33% p.a.
¢@ Motor vehicles 25% p.a.

Freehold land is not depreciated.

Where fixed assets have been acquired with the aid of specific grants, they are included in
the balance sheet at cost and are depreciated over their expected useful economic life. The
related grants are credited to a restricted fixed asset fund (on the statement of financial
activities and carried forward in the balance sheet). The depreciation on such assets is
charged in the statement of financial activities over the expected useful economic life of the
related asset on a basis consistent with the depreciation policy.

Grants provided to acquire fixed assets may be paid either to the Federation or directly to
meet the cost of the fixed asset. Where costs have been paid directly and are part of the
capital project, they have been recognised as restricted fixed asset funding.

The cost of buildings constructed under the UK Government's programmes as funded by
Local Authorities, are recognised in the statement of financial activities as voluntary income
in the period in which the Federation takes ownership of these buildings.

The cost of buildings that were not previously capitalised as part of capital projects at the
Academies are introduced at an amount valued by the ESFA.

Harris Federation 40

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Intangible fixed assets

Intangible assets costing £500 or more are capitalised and recognised when future.
economic benefits are probable and the cost or value of the asset can be measured reliably.
Intangible assets are initially recognised at cost and are subsequently measured at cost net
of amortisation and any provision for impairment. Amortisation is provided on intangible fixed
assets at rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight-line basis over its
expected useful life, as follows:

Purchased computer software 14% p.a.

Investments

The Federation's shareholding in its wholly owned subsidiary, Harris Academies Project
Management Limited is included in the balance sheet at the cost of the share capital owned.
There is no readily available market value and the cost of valuation exceeds the benefit
derived.

Debtors

Debtors are recognised at their settlement amount less any provision for non-recoverability.
Prepayments are valued at the amounts prepaid. They have been discounted to the present
value of the future cash receipt where such discounting is material.

Cash at bank and in hand

Cash at bank and in hand represents such accounts and instruments that are avaitable on
demand. Short term deposits represent accounts and instruments with a maturity at
inception of between three and twelve months.

Liabilities

Liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation at the balance sheet date as a result
of a past event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be required in
settlement, and the amount of the settlement can be estimated reliably. Liabilities are
recognised at the amount that the Federation anticipates it will pay to settle the debt or the
amount it has received as advanced payments for the goods or services it must provide.

Leased assets
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight line basis over the lease term.

Financial instruments
The Federation only holds basic financial instruments as defined in FRS 102. The financial
assets and financial liabilities of the Federation and their measurement basis are as follows:

Financial assets — trade and other debtors are basic financial instruments and are debt
instruments measured at amortised cost as detailed in note 15. Prepayments are not
financial instruments. Amounts due to the Federation’s wholly owned subsidiary are held at
face value less any impairment.

Harris Federation 41

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Financial instruments (continued)
Cash at bank — is classified as a basic financial instrument and is measured at face value.

Financial liabilities — trade creditors, accruals and other creditors are financial instruments,
and are measured at amortised cost as detailed in note 16. Taxation and social security are
not included in the financial instruments disclosure definition. Deferred income is not
deemed to be a financial liability, as the cash settlement has already taken place and there
is an obligation to deliver services rather than cash or another financial instrument. Amounts
due to the Federation’s wholly owned subsidiaries are held at face value less any
impairment.

Private Finance Initiative .

Harris Academy Morden is subject to a contract under the Private Finance Initiative (PFI).
Under this contract, the school premises are maintained and managed for a period of 25
years by the PFI contractor subject to contractual annual fees paid by the Academy. Upon
expiry of the PFI contract the residual benefit of the premises passes to the Academy as a
result of a 125 year lease granted to them.

The transaction is accounted for as a leasing transaction. As the Academy only enjoys the
benefits of the premises subject to the restrictions under the PFI agreement, in the opinion
of the directors, the Academy does not hold substantially all of the risks and rewards of
ownership of the premises and the property is therefore accounted for as an operating lease.
The premises are therefore not recognised as asset in the financial statements of Harris
Federation. The annual charges under the PFI agreement are expensed to the Statement
of Financial Activities in the year they relate to as this treatment is considered to be more
appropriate than recognition on a strict straight line basis.

Taxation

The Federation is considered to pass the tests set out in Paragraph 1 Schedule 6 of the
Finance Act 2010 and therefore it meets the definition of a charitable company for UK
corporation tax purposes. Accordingly, the Federation is potentially exempt from taxation in
respect of income or capital gains received within categories covered by Chapter 3 Part 11
of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 or Section 256 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act
1992, to the extent that such income or gains are applied exclusively to charitable purposes.

Pensions benefits

Retirement benefits to employees of the Federation are provided by the Teachers’ Pension
Scheme (‘TPS’) and the Local Government Pension Scheme (‘LGPS'). These are defined
benefit schemes.

Harris Federation 42

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Pensions benefits (continued)

The TPS is an unfunded scheme and contributions are calculated so as to spread the cost
of pensions over employees’ working lives with the Federation in such a way that the
pension cost is a substantially level percentage of current and future pensionable payroll.
The contributions are determined by the Government Actuary on the basis of quadrennial
valuations using a prospective unit credit method. As stated in note 20, the TPS is a multi-
employer scheme and there is insufficient information available to use defined benefit
accounting. The TPS is therefore treated as a defined contribution scheme for accounting
purposes and the contributions recognised in the period to which they relate.

The LGPS is a funded scheme and the assets are held separately from those of the
Federation in separate trustee administered funds. Pension scheme assets are measured
at fair value and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit
method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality
corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities. The actuarial valuations are
obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date. The amounts
charged to operating surplus are the current service costs and the costs of scheme
introductions, benefit changes, settlements and curtailments. They are included as part of
staff costs as incurred. Net interest on the net defined benefit liability/asset is also
recognised in the statement of financial activities and comprises the interest cost on the
defined benefit obligation and interest income on the scheme assets, calculated by
multiplying the fair value of the scheme assets at the beginning of the period by the rate
used to discount the benefit obligations. The difference between the interest income on the
scheme assets and the actual return on the scheme assets is recognised in other
recognised gains and losses.

Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other recognised gains and losses.

Fund accounting
The unrestricted general fund represents monies which may be applied for any purpose
within the Federation’s objects at the discretion of the directors.

Restricted funds are grants from the DfE and other donors which are to be used for specific
purposes.

Restricted fixed asset funds are resources which are to be applied to specific capital
purposes imposed by funders where the asset acquired is held for specific purposes.

Schools joining the Federation

Schools joining the Federation transfer identifiable assets and liabilities and the operation
of the predecessor School for £nil consideration, which has been accounted for under the
acquisition accounting method.

Harris Federation 43

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Schools joining the Federation (continued)

The assets and liabilities transferred on conversion from the predecessor school to the
Federation have been valued at their fair value being a reasonable estimate of the current
market value that the directors would expect to pay in an open market for an equivalent
item. Their fair value is in accordance with the accounting policies set out for the Federation.
The amounts have been recognised under the appropriate balance sheet categories, witha
corresponding amount recognised in voluntary income as net income in the statement of
financial activities and analysed under unrestricted funds, restricted general funds and
restricted fixed asset funds.

Critical accounting estimates and areas of judgement

Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience
and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable
under the circumstances.

Critical accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements

The Federation makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting
accounting estimates and assumptions will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual
results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are
discussed below.

The present value of the Local Government Pension Scheme defined benefit Siability
depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a variety of
assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net cost (income) for pensions
include the discount rate. Any changes in these assumptions, which are disclosed in note
20, will impact the carrying amount of the pension liability. Furthermore, a roll forward
approach which projects results from the latest full actuarial valuation performed at 31 March
2022 has been used by the actuary in valuing the pensions liability at 31 August 2024. Any
differences between the figures derived from the roll forward approach and a full actuarial
valuation would impact on the carrying amount of the pension liability.

The net book value of tangible fixed assets is based on the original cost of the assets net of
provision for depreciation. The depreciation provision to date is based on the directors’
assessment of the estimated useful economic lives of such assets.

Building valuations

Where buildings are transferred to the Trust without a reliable valuation, their value is
estimated by reference to other, similar buildings held by the Federation. Other than the
estimates discussed above, the directors do not consider that there are any key judgements
made in the preparation of the financial statements.

~ Harris Federation 44

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

1 Donations and capital grants

Restricted 2024 2023
Unrestricted Restricted __ fixed assets Total Total
_ funds funds funds funds funds
£'000 £'000 £'000 £7000 £000
Donations 32 3,669 _ 3,701 3,521
Capital grants _ _ 17,250 17,250 13,210
32 3,669 17,250 20,951 16,731
. ; Restricted 2023
Unrestricted Restricted fixed assets Total
funds funds funds funds
£'000 £000 £'000 £000
Donations _ 3,527 _ 3,521
Capital grants _ = 13,210 13,210
_— 3,521 13,210 16,731

2 Other trading activities
. 2024 2023
Unrestricted Restricted Total Total
funds funds funds funds
£'000 £'000 £000 £000
Lettings and other income 3,959 _ 3,959 3,433
School uniform and book sales income 156 _ 156 189
4,115 _ 4,115 3,622
2023
Unrestricted _—_‘ Restricted Total
funds funds funds
£'000 £'000 £000
Lettings and other income 3,433 - 3,433
School uniform and book sales income _ 189 189
3,433 189 3,622

Harris Federation 45 ©

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

3 Funding for Harris Federation’s educational operations

2024 2023
Unrestricted Restricted Total Total
funds funds funds funds
£'000 £'000 £7000 £000
ESFA revenue grants
. General Annual Grant (GAG) _— 245,466 245,466 222,218
. 16-19 core funding _— 40,647 40,647 37,381
. Start Up _— 536 536 518
. Pupil Premium _ 14,641 14,641 14,046
. UIFSM _ 895 895 1,404
. Teachers Pay and Pension _ 4,487 4,487 _—
. Mainstream Additional Grant _ 8,722 8,722 3,579
. Other ESFA grants _ 7,498 7,498 13,752
_— 322,892 322,892 292,898
Other grants
. LEA and other grants = 15,335 15,335 11,878
_ 15,335 15,335 11,878
COVID-19 additional funding (DfE/ESFA)
Catch-up premium : _— 3,223 3,223 3,208
— 3,223 3,223 3,208
Other income from the Federation's
educational operations _ 276 276 566

— 341,726 341,726 308,550

2023

Unrestricted Restricted Total
funds funds funds
£°000 £000 £'000

ESFA revenue grants
. General Annual Grant (GAG) _ 222,218 222,218
. 16-19 core funding — 37,381 37,381
. Start Up _ 518 518
. Pupil Premium _— 14,046 14,046
. UIFSM _ 1,404 1,404
. Mainstream Additional Grant _ 3,579 3,579
. Other ESFA grants : _ 13,752 13,752
_ 292,898 292,898
Other grants

. LEA and other grants . = 11,878 11,878

COVID-19 additional funding (DfE/ESFA)

Catch-up premium _— 3,208 3,208
_ 3,208 3,208

Other income from the Federation's educational

operations —_ 566 566

_ 308,550 308,550

Harris Federation 46 ~

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

4 Other income

2024 2023
Unrestricted Restricted Total Total
funds funds funds funds
£°000 £'000 £000 £'000
Academy trips 2,044 _ 2,044 2,399
Primary clubs 1,563 _ 1,563 1,316
Sundry income 4,126 = 4,126 2,846
7,733, — 7,733 6,567
2023
Unrestricted _ Restricted Total
funds funds funds
£'000 £000 £'000
Academy trips 2,399 _- 2,399
Primary clubs 1,316 _ 1,316
Sundry income 2,846 _ 2,846
6,567 _ 6,567
5 Expenditure
Staff Other Total Total
costs Premises costs 2024 2023
£'000 £'000 £'000 £000 £000
Federation’s educational!
operations (note 6)
. Direct costs 237,873 23,470 27,643 288,986 249,492
. Allocated support costs 47,274 24,142 18,990 90,406 87,385
Teaching school ;
. Direct costs . 1,153 _ _ 1,153 2,066
. Allocated support costs 106 _— 495 601 537
286,406 47,612 47,128 381,146 339,480
Staff Other Total
costs Premises costs 2023
£’000 £'000 £'000 £’000
Federation’s educational operations (note 6)
. Direct costs 200, 105 21,470 27,917 249,492
. Allocated support costs 47,714 23,451 16,220 87,385
Teaching school
. Direct costs 1,793 - 273 2,066
. Allocated support costs _— _ 537 537
249,612 44,921 44,947 339,480
Net income for the year includes:
2024 2023
£°000 £000
Operating lease rentals 1,543 957
Amortisation 201 _
Depreciation 23,269 21,470
Fees payable to auditor for:
. Audit 122 99
. Other services . 15 26

Harris Federation 47

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

6 Harris Federation’s educational operations

2024 2023
Teaching Educational Total Total
School Operations funds funds
£'000 £'000 £'000 £000
Direct costs
. Teaching and educational support staff
costs 1,163 237,873 239,026 201,898
. Educational resources _ 27,643 27,643 28,190
. Depreciation and amortisation _ 23,470 23,470 21,470
1,153 288,986 290,139 251,558
Support costs
. Support staff costs 106 47,274 47,380 47,714
. Technology costs _— 1,745 1,745 1,197
. Premises costs _— 24,142 24,142 23,451
. Governance costs 4 345 349 905
. Other support costs 491 16,900 17,391 14,655
601 90,406 91,007 87,922

1,754 379,392 381,146 339,480

Harris Federation 48

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

7 Comparative information
Analysis of income and expenditure in the year ended 31 August 2023 between restricted
and unrestricted funds:

Restricted funds
Un-
restricted 2023
general Fixed Total
fund General assets Funds
£°000 £'000 £000 £'000
Income from:
Donations and capital grants - 3,521 13,210 16,731
Transfer of existing academies 12 37 88 137
Charitable activities
. Funding for Harris Federation's educational
operations _ 308,550 - 308,550
. Teaching Schools - 2,214 _ 2,214
Other trading activities 3,433 189 _ 3,622
Interest receivable 1,581 - - 1,587
Other 6,561 _ = 6,561
Total income 11,587 314,511 13,298 339,396
Expenditure on:
Chanitable activities
. Harris Federation's educational operations 2,239 313,168 21,470 336,877
. Teaching Schools _- 2,603 = 2,603
Total expenditure 2,239 315,771 21,470 339,480
Net income (expenditure) before transfers 9,348 (1,260) (8,172) (84)
Gross transfers between funds (2,386) (450) 2,836 -
Net income (expenditure) before other recognised
gains and losses 6,962 (1,710) (5,336) (84)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme - 8,717 - 8,711
Net movement in funds 6,962 7,001 (5,336) 8,627
Fund balances brought forward at 1 September 2022 19,269 (3,175) 624,350 640,444
Fund balance cared forward at 31 August 2023 26,231 3,826 619,014 649,071

Harris Federation 49

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

8 Staff

a) Staff costs and other employee benefits
Staff costs during the year were as follows:

Wages and salaries

2024 2023
Total Total
£'000 £'000

206,450 183,263

Social security costs 22,603 20,362
Pension contributions 40,944 35,032
Other employee benefits 392 377

270,389 239,034

Supply staff costs 11,139 9,398
Recruitment and other staff related costs 4,587 945
Restructuring costs 291 235

Total staff costs

286,406 249,612

2024 2023

Staff restructuring costs comprise £000 £°000
Statutory redundancy payments 42 157
Severance payments 249 78
291 235

b) Severance payments

The academy trust paid severance payments in the year disclosed in the following

bands:
2024
No.
£0 - £25,000 22
£25,001 - £50,000 2

c) Special staff severance payments

Included in staff restructuring costs are non-statutory/non-contractual severance
payments totalling £82,117 (2023 - £78,000). The non-statutory/non-contractual
payments individually were for £1,740, £3,000, £3,750, £3,750, £6,361, £7,136, £7,150,
£8,800, £10,000, £10,000, £10,000 and £10,430.

Harris Federation 50

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

8 = Staff (continued)

d) Staff numbers

The average number of persons (including the senior management team) employed by
the Federation during the year ended 31 August 2024 was as follows:

Activities

Teachers

Administration and support
Management

School sports partnership

e) Higher paid staff

2024 2023
Number Number
2,693 2,566
1,880 1,934
87 77
—_ 5 Se
4,665 4,582

The number of employees who earned more than £60,000 per annum (including taxable
benefits but excluding employer pension contributions) during the year was as follows:

£60,001 - £70,000
£70,001 - £80,000
£80,001 - £90,000
£90,001 - £100,000
£100,001 - £110,000
£110,001 - £120,000
£120,001 - £130,000
£130,001 - £140,000
£140,001 - £150,000
£150,001 - £160,000
£160,001 - £170,000
£170,001 - £180,000
£180,001 - £190,000
£190,001 - £200,000
£200,001 - £210,000
£210,001 - £220,000
£230,001 - £240,000
£240,001 - £250,000
£250,001 - £260,000
£480,001 - £490,000
£510,001 - £520,000

2024 2023
Number Number
421 310
212 147
92 40
33 28
15 §
7 13

9 2

4 5

4 4

4 4

3 2

1 1

2 —

1 5

1 —

3 —
- 1
_ 1
4 —_
~ 1
41 —
814 569

Ail of the above employees earning more than £60,000 per annum participated in either
the Teachers’ Pension Scheme or the Local Government Pension Scheme.

Harris Federation 51

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

Staff (continued)

f) Key management personnel
The key management personnel of the Federation comprise the directors and the senior
management team as listed on page 1. The total amount of employee benefits (including
employer pension contributions and employer national insurance contributions)
received by key management personnel for their services to the Federation was
£4,065,416 (2023 - £3,913,977).

The pay and remuneration of key management personnel is set by the Remuneration
Committee which includes the Chairman of the Board. The pay and remuneration of the
Chief Executive Officer is determined by the Remuneration Committee.

Directors’ emoluments and expenses
One director has been paid remuneration and employer's pension contributions from full
time employment with the Federation.

The employed director only receives remuneration in respect of services they provide
undertaking the roles under their contract of employment and not in respect of their services
as director. The value of director's remuneration and other benefits was as follows:

Chief Executive Officer:

10

@ Remuneration £515,000 - £520,000 (2023 - £485,000 - £490,000).
@ Employer's pension contributions £80,000 - £85,000 (2023 - £75,000 - £80,000).

No other directors of the company received any payment or other emoluments from the
Federation in the period. No directors received any payment for reimbursement of travel and
subsistence expenses incurred in the course of their duties as directors in the period (2023-
none). Other related party transactions involving the directors are set out in note 21.

Directors’, Governors’ and Officers’ Insurance

In accordance with normal commercial practice the Federation has purchased insurance to
protect directors and officers from claims arising from negligent acts, errors or omissions
occurring whilst on Federation business. The insurance provides cover up to £2 million on
any one claim and the cost for the year ended 31 August 2024 was £3,150 (2023 - £3,150).

Harris Federation 52

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

11 Central services
The Federation has provided the following central services to its academies during the year:

°

Careers advice and support from a central careers service for all secondary
Academies;

Compliance team assisting Academies with GDPR, admissions and Health and
Safety;

Data team providing analysis of data for academy and Federation use remotely
extracted from Academy ICT systems;

Educational Support from:

. ateam of 60 subject experts across primary and secondary who coach and mentor,
produce work schemes, model excellent teaching and take classes as needed for
extended periods; and

ii, a team of highly experienced Executive Principals.
Finance including Finance Business Partners providing finance support across groups
of schools leading to significant savings. This includes preparing monthly accounts,

budgets and meeting all external reporting requirements;

IT services including a low cost cloud network and common Management Information
System, central software and hardware procurement driving economies of scale;

Legal support and advice;

Post 16 central team managing admissions across ten Academies and advice and training
across all secondary academies;

Procurement service for contracts and group purchasing generating significant
savings and provision of advice and contract management;

Projects team management of all build projects, maintenance and estates;
Public Relations and marketing from media handling to web sites and prospectuses;

Recruitment and retention using a range of media including extensive use of social
media and highly effective cost reducing methods;

Talent Management including suites of National Professional Qualifications for middle
leaders, senior leaders, aspiring Head teachers and Executive Leaders; and

Human resources of providing advice and guidance and case work. Business partner
model for groups for schools providing high quality advice at low cost.

Harris Federation 53

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

11 Central services (continued)
The Federation charges for these services on the following basis: between 3.7% and 5.5%
(2023 — between 3.7% and 5.5%) of Schoo! Budget Share. The actual amounts charged
during the year were as follows:

2024 2023

£000 £°000

Harris Aspire Academy 14 15
Harris Academy Battersea 443 450
Harris Academy Beckenham 361 343
Harris Primary Academy Beckenham Green 50 48
Harris Primary Academy Beckenham 85 82
Harris Primary Academy Benson . 47 50
Harris Academy Bermondsey 483 493
Harris Academy Bromley 347 319
Harris Academy Chafford Hundred 403 378
Harris Primary Academy Chafford Hundred 130 126
Harris Academy Clapham 329 244
Harris Clapham Sixth Form 84 65
Harris Primary Academy Coleraine Park 133 129
Harris Academy Chobham 865 749
Harris Primary Academy Croydon 103 96
Harris City Academy Crystal Palace 395 379
Harris Primary Academy Crystal Palace 90 88
Harris Boys’ Academy East Duiwich 436 417
Harris Girls' Academy East Dulwich 428 420
Harris Primary Academy East Dulwich 121 112
Harris Science Academy East London 220 252
Harris Academy Falconwood 387 352
Harris Garrard Academy 540 457
Harris Academy Greenwich 541 $22
Harris Primary Academy Haling Park 90 87
Harris Invictus Academy Croydon 342 290
Harris Junior Academy Carshalton 74 75
Harris Primary Academy Kenley 92 88
Harris Primary Academy Kent House 95 97
Harris Primary Academy Mayflower 205 186
Harris Academy Merton 469 443
Harris Primary Academy Merton 119 110
Harris Academy Morden 320 300
Harris Academy Ockendon 426 345
Harris Academy Orpington 217 213
Harris Primary Academy Orpington 84 85
Harris Academy Peckham 329 309
Harris Primary Free School Peckham - 87
Harris Primary Academy Peckham Park 229 80
Harris Primary Academy Philip Lane 124 117
Harris Professional Skills 78 50
Harris Academy Purley 359 373
Harris Primary Academy Purley Way , 107 104
Harris Academy Rainham 324 279
Harris Academy Rainham Sixth form’ = _
Harris Academy Riverside 311 276
Harris Primary Academy Shortlands 77 75
Harris Academy South Norwood 355 638
Harris Academy St John’s Wood 657 619
Harris Academy Sutton 347 305
Harris Academy Tottenham 525 435
Harris Westminster Sixth Form 183 183
Harris Academy Wimbledon 353 283
Harris Academy Beulah Hill . 355 _-
Harris Lowe Academy Willesden 133 _
14,414 13,106

Harris Federation 54

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

12 Intangible fixed assets

Group and Trust

Cost

At 1 September 2023
Reclassification
Additions

Disposals

At 31 August 2024

Amortisation

At 1 September 2023
Charge for year
Disposals

At 31 August 2024

Carrying amount
At 31 August 2024
At 31 August 2023

13 Tangible fixed assets (Group and Federation)

Computer

software -

Oracle

£'000

1,405

90

1,495

201

201

1,294

Assets Fumiture
under and Computer Motor

construction equipment equipment vehicles Total
£000 £'000 £000 £'000 £7000
4,027 13,902 14,204 18 759,119
_ 435 115 1 25,521
2,192 910 6,094 36 25,626
(1,405) (1,793) 1,759 = (1,405)
4,814 13,454 22,172 55 808,861
- 8,267 10,433 13 146,132
_ 2,319 4,848 6 23,269
_ 10,586 15,281 19 169,401
4,814 2,868 6,891 36 639,460
4,027 5,635 3,771 5 612,987

Long
Freehold leasehold
land and land and
buildings buildings
£7000 £'000
Cost/ valuation
At 1 September 2023 167,264 559,704
Transfers in _- 24,970
Additions 1,084 15,310
Reclassification _- 34
At 31 August 2024 168,348 600,018
Depreciation
At 1 September 2023 18,542 108,877
Charge for period 3,379 12,717
At 31 August 2024 21,921 121,594
Net book values
At 31 August 2024 146,427 478,424
At 31 August 2023 148,722 450,827

The leasehold land on which the individual academies are sited are leased from the Local
Authorities at a peppercorn rent over various lease terms. No value has been placed on this

land in the financial statements due to the restrictive covenants on the asset.

Harris Westminster Sixth Form resides in a building that was purchased by the ESFA. The
Federation owns the freehold to the building and this is included within freehold land and
buildings in the balance sheet at the value of the purchase by the ESFA. There is a legal
charge over the freehold building that entitles the Secretary of State for Education to give

notice to Harris Federation and for the building to revert to the government.

Harris Federation 55 °

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

13

14

15

16

Tangible fixed assets (Group and Federation) (continued)
Assets under construction were academy buildings that have been funded from DfE capital
grants.

Investments

Harris Academies Project Management Limited

The issued share capital of Harris Academies Project Management Limited, a company
registered in England and Wales (Company number 588735) was transferred to the
company on 21 May 2007 and Harris Academies Project Management Limited began
trading on that date. In the past, the company has been used for construction work on a
number of Harris Federation academy buildings, however for the year ended 31 August
2024 and 2023, the company remained dormant.

The issued share capital of the company at 31 August 2024 was £1 (2023: £1).

Debtors
Group Federation Group __ Federation
2024 2024 2023 2023
£’000 £7000 £7000 £'000
Trade debtors 4,918 4,918 2,087 2,087
Prepayments and accrued income 6,619 6,619 §,247 5,247
Sundry debtors 325 325 661 661
VAT recoverable 9,804 9,804 1,112 1,112
21,666 21,666 9,107 9,107
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

Group Federation Group Federation

2024 2024 2023 2023

£’000 £000 £000 £'000

Trade creditors 12,416 12,416 2,209 2,209
Taxation and social security 4,269 4,269 5,347 5,347
Sundry creditors 5,171 5,171 10,010 10,010
Accruals and deferred income 11,053 11,053 21,380 21,380
ESFA creditor: Abatement of GAG 1,849 1,849 1,489 1,489
34,758 34,758 40,435 40,435

Harris Federation 56 -

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

16 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (continued)

Deferred income (included in creditors above)

2024 2023
£000 £’000
Deferred income at 1 September 2023 6,627 3,747
Amounts released from previous years (6,627) (3,747)
Resources deferred in the year 1,555 6,627
Deferred income at 31 August 2024 1,555 6,627

At the balance sheet date, the Federation was holding government grants received for
2024/25.

17 Funds
The income funds of the group include restricted funds comprising the following unexpended
balances of grants for specific purposes:

At1 : Gains, At 31
September losses and August
2023 Income Expenditure transfers 2024
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £’000

General restricted fund
General Annual Grant (GAG) 3,521 245,466 (251,876) 3,477 588
16-19 core funding _ 40,647 (40,647) _ -
Pupil Premium _ 14,641 (14,641) - _
UIFSM -_ 895 (895) _ -_
Start Up grants _ 536 (536) _ -
Local authority grants _ 16,335 (15,335) - -
Teachers Pay and Pension _- 4,487 (4,487) _ _
Mainstream Additional Grant a 8,722 (8,722) — —
Other DfE/ESFA funding - 7,498 (7,498) - _-
Other restricted funds 3,399 6,262 (3,762) _ 5,899
Catch-up premium - 3,499 (3,499) _ -
Pension reserve (3,094) _— 3,118 (1,598) (1,574)
3,826 347,988 (348,780) 1,879 4,913

Fixed asset fund

Fixed asset fund 616,146 42,248 (18,622) 3,000 642,772
IT investment fund 2,868 _ (4,848) 5,293 3,313
Total fixed asset funds 619,014 42,248 (23,470) 8,293 646,085
Total restricted funds 622,840 390,236 (372,250) 10,172 650,998
Unrestricted funds 26,231 15,917 (8,896) (11,770) 21,482
Total funds 649,071 406,153 (381,146) (1,598) 672,480

Harris Federation 57

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

17 Funds (continued)

The purposes for which the funds are to be applied are as follows:

General Annual Grant (GAG)

Under the funding agreement with the Secretary of State, academies within the Federation
were not subject to a limit on the amount of GAG that it could carry forward at 31 August
2024.

Other funds
Other grants include funding received from the DfE and Local Education Authorities for
specific purposes.

Fixed asset fund

The fixed asset fund includes grants received from the DfE and other sources to finance the
development and building of the new academy, assets transferred on conversion and other
tangible fixed assets. :

Transfers between funds
Transfers from the ESFA General Annual Grant Fund and from general funds to the fixed
asset fund relate to fixed assets purchases from these funds.

Comparative information
Comparative information in respect of the preceding period is as follows:

At? Gains, At 31
September losses and August
2022 Income Expenditure transfers 2023
£000 £'000 £000 £'000 £'000

General restricted fund
General Annual! Grant (GAG) 4,203 259,599 (259, 831) (450) 3,521
Pupil Premium _ 14,046 (14,046) _ a
UIFSM — 1,404 (1,404) -_ -_
Start Up grants 280 518 (798) _ _
Local authority grants _- 13,104 (13,104) _ _-
Other DfE/ESFA funding 532 22,319 (22,851) - =
Other restricted funds 2,446 3,527 (2,568) _ 3,399
Pension reserve (10,636) = (1,169) 8,711 (3,094)
(3,175) 314,511 (315,771) 8,261 3,826

Fixed asset fund

Fixed asset fund 620,174 13,298 (20, 162) 2,836 616,146
IT investment fund 4,176 _ (1,308) =_ 2,868
Total fixed asset funds 624,350 13,298 (21,470) 2,836 619,014
Total restricted funds 621,175 327,809 (337,241) 11,097 622,840
Unrestricted funds 19,269 11,587 {2,239) (2,386) 26,231
Total funds 640,444 339,396 (339,480) 8,711 649,071

Harris Federation 58

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

17 Funds (continued)

Analysis of fund balance by academy
Fund balances at 31 August 2024 were allocated as follows:

2024 2023
£7000 £'000
Harris Aspire Academy 31 68
Harris Academy Battersea 568 300
Harris Academy Beckenham 269 155
Harris Primary Academy Beckenham 140 26
Harris Primary Academy Beckenham Green 88 87
Harris Primary Academy Benson 89 74
Harris Academy Bermondsey $75 388
Harris Academy Beulah Hill 36 -
Harris Academy Bromley 63 57
Harris Academy Chafford Hundred (52) 7
Harris Primary Academy Chafford Hundred . 181 39
Harris Academy Chobham 629 456
Harris Academy Clapham 414 1
Harris Clapham Sixth Form (195) 1
Harris Primary Academy Coleraine Park 172 177
Harris Primary Academy Croydon 142 144
Harris City Academy Crystal Palace 263 257
Harris Boys’ Academy East Dutwich 390 390
Harris Girls' Academy East Dulwich 489 313
Harris Primary Academy East Dulwich 2 2
Harris Science Academy East London 632 197
Harris Academy Falconwood (427) 18
Harris Primary Free School Peckham - 242
Harris Garrard Academy 44 41
Harris Academy Greenwich (260) 234
Harris Primary Academy Haling Park 42 42
Harris Invictus Academy Croydon 210 40
Harris Junior Academy Carshalton 156 62
Harris Primary Academy Kenley 17 7
Harris Primary Academy Kent House 33 35
Harris Primary Academy Mayflower 4176 140
Harris Academy Merton aa 518
Harris Primary Academy Merton 238 157
Harris Academy Morden 413 351
Harris Academy Ockendon 244 237
Harris Academy Orpington (399) 25
Harris Primary Academy Orpington (183) 49
Harris Academy Peckham 180 98
Harris Primary Academy Peckham Park 469 230
Harris Primary Academy Philip Lane 127 128
Harris Primary Academy Crystal Palace 50 50
Harris Professional Skills Sixth Form (42) -
Harris Primary Academy Purley Way 138 120
Harris Academy Purley 345 156
Harris Academy Rainham Sixth Form (114) =-
Harris Academy Rainham - 38
Harris Academy Riverside (281) 86
Harris Primary Academy Shortlands 16 15
Harris Academy South Norwood 515 248
Harris Academy St John's Wood 748 517
Harris Academy Sutton (366) 43
Harris Academy Tottenham 6 6
Harris Westminster Sixth Form 147 50
Harris Lowe Academy Willesden 935 -
Harris Academy Wimbledon 784 616
Merton Sports Partnership 791 568
Collective benefit and other Federation funds* 17,392 24,834
Total before fixed assets and pension reserve 27,969 33,154
Restricted fixed assets fund 646,085 619,014
Pension liabitity (1,574) (3,094)

Total 672,480 649,077

* includes Harris Academies Project Management Limited and Harris Teaching School Alliance (HIT)

Harris Federation 59

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

17 Funds (continued)

Harris Academy Chafford Hundred had a net funds deficit of £52k as at 31 August 2024
(2023: surplus of £17k). Chafford Hundred has historically generated surpluses and has a
business plan in place to support the school in returning to an in-year surplus position.

Harris Clapham Sixth Form had a net funds deficit of £195k as at 31 August 2024 (2023:
surplus of £1k). Clapham Sixth Form is a standalone sixth form which is challenging to
operate with a balanced budget. The school is expected to move to financial sustainability
in the medium term as pupil numbers continue to grow.

Harris Academy Falconwood had a net funds deficit of £427k as at 31 August 2024 (2023:
surplus of £18k). The school has experienced falling roles in-year and has a business plan
in place to ensure financial sustainability going forward.

Harris Greenwich had a net funds deficit of £260k as at 31 August 2024 (2023: surplus of
£234k). Greenwich had high levels of one-off staff costs in the year; however, it is forecast
to generate future in-year surpluses and is expected to return to financial equilibrium in the
medium term.

Harris Professional Skills Sixth Form had a net funds deficit of £42k as at 31 August 2024
(2023: surplus of £nil). Professional Skills has historically generated surpluses and has a
business plan in place to support the school in returning to an in-year surplus position.

Harris Primary Orpington had a net funds deficit as at 31 August 2024 of £183k (2023:
surplus of £49k). The deficit arose from falling roles. Harris Primary Orpington is planned to
return to financial equilibrium by reducing its intake from two to one form entry in the coming
year. :

Harris Secondary Orpington had a net funds deficit of £399k as at 31 August 2024 (2023:
surplus of £25k). Harris Secondary Orpington joined the Federation in 2017 and received
significant investment to transform a school rated Inadequate by Ofsted to Good and with
improved exam results. The school has a business plan in place to manage future deficits.

Harris Rainham Sixth Form had a deficit of £111k as at 31 August 2024. The sixth form was
new in the year to August 2024 and, once the school is full, it is anticipated to achieve a
positive funds position by sharing resources with Harris Rainham Secondary which occupies
the same site.

Harris Academy Riverside had a net funds deficit of £281k as at 31 August 2024 (2023:
surplus of £86k) as a result of increased staffing costs. A business plan has been created
to address this issue and ensure long term financial sustainability.

Harris Academy Sutton had a net funds deficit of £366k as at 31 August 2024 (2023: surplus
of £43k). The deficit arose from the investment needed to open a sixth form. The school is
anticipated to return to a surplus position in the short term.

Harris Federation 60

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

17 Funds (continued)

Analysis of cost by academy

Teaching and Other
educational costs

support Other support Educational (excluding Total

costs Staff costs supplies depreciation) 2024

£000 £'000 £7000 £'000 £000

Harris Aspire Academy 274 431 253 336 1,294
Harris Academy Battersea 5,505 1,336 913 676 8,430
Harris Academy Beckenham 5,999 795 582 914 8,290
Harris Primary Academy Beckenham 1,660 195 205 191 2,251
Harris Primary Academy Beckenham Green 846 195 126 152 1,319
Harris Primary Academy Benson 691 277 150 188 1,306
Harris Academy Bermondsey 6,132 1,027 663 779 8,601
Harris Academy Bromley : 5,349 1,194 457 581 7,581
Harris Academy Chafford Hundred 7,012 892 479 751 9,134
Harris Primary Academy Chafford Hundred 2,198 549 258 195 3,200
Harris Academy Chobham 10,404 2,763 1,180 1,856 16,213
Harris Academy Clapham 4,548 956 606 722 6,832
Harris Clapham Sixth Form 1,905 653 279 254 3,091
Harris Primary Academy Coleraine Park 2,280 320 316 257 3,173
Harris Primary Academy Croydon 1,575 265 287 264 2,391
Harris Primary Academy Crystal Palace 1,478 409 255 302 2,444
Harris Boys' Academy East Dulwich 5,320 1,018 512 788 7,638
Harris Girls' Academy East Dulwich 5,118 932 397 829 7,276
Harris Primary Academy East Dulwich 1,468 - 534 330 258 2,590
Harris Science Academy East London 2,689 884 478 1,468 5,519
Harris Academy Falconwood 6,712 4,131 504 636 8,983
Harris Primary Free School Peckham 1,959 454 356 527 3,296
Harris Garrard Academy 7,368 1,291 1,136 1,051 10,846
Harris Academy Greenwich 7,524 1,318 700 502 10,044
Harris Primary Academy Haling Park 1,556 363 361 164 2,444
Harris Invictus Academy Croydon 5,051 1,451 729 $19 7,750
Haris Junior Academy Carshalton 1,383 304 174 212 2,073
Harris Primary Academy Kenley 1,528 460 305 229 2,522
Harris Primary Academy Kent House 1,599 395 268 355 2,617
Harris Primary Academy Mayflower 3,828 486 503 439 5,256
Harris Academy Merton 7,048 1,427 790 1,263 10,528
Harris Primary Academy Merton 2,477 392 322 367 3,558
Harris Academy Morden 5,212 727 765 524 7,228
Harris Academy Ockendon 6,732 1,457 533 626 9,348
Harris Academy Orpington 3,625 1,254 508 599 5,986
Harris Primary Academy Orpington 1,515 383 232 327 2,457
Harris Academy Peckham 3,638 1,012 545 568 5,763
Harris Lowe Academy Willesden 6,931 602 890 1,206 9,629
Harris Primary Academy Philip Lane 2,116 463 342 276 3,197
Harris City Academy Crystal Palace 5,492 1,211 1,236 850 8,789
Harris Professional Skills Sixth Form 1,641 348 19 6 2,014
Harris Academy Purley 5,158 1,233 662 723 7,776
Harris Primary Academy Purley Way 2,128 538 331 356 3,353
Harris Academy Rainham 5,142 890 574 816 7,422
Harris Academy Riverside 5,552 1,097 488 509 7,646
Harris Primary Academy Shortlands . 1,283 180 309 257 2,029
Harris Academy South Norwood 5,273 1,198 745 773 7,989
Harris Academy St Jahn’s Wood 8,021 1,996 935 704 11,656
Harris Academy Sutton 5,836 1,035 462 1,076 8,409
Harris Academy Tottenham 7,406 1,397 758 876 10,437
Harris Westminster Sixth Form 3,411 825 295 464 4,995
Harris Academy Wimbledon 5,708 1,107 539 747 8,101
Harris Academy Beulah Hill 4,835 1,159 440 805 7,239
Harris Academy Rainham Sixth form 391 27 6 37 461
Merton Sports Partnership _ 329 214 17 560
Central services 21,496 4,934 4,692 8.699 39,821
Total ~__239,026_ 50,498 31,404 39,866 360,794

——

Harris Federation 61

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

18

19

20

Analysis of net assets between funds
Restricted funds

General Fixed asset Total
fund General fund 2024
Group and Federation £'000 £'000 £'000 £000
Fund balances at 31 August 2024 are represented
by:
Tangible fixed assets — - 639,460 639,460
Intangible fixed assets _ _— 1,294 1,294
Current assets 21,482 41,245 5,331 68,058
Current liabilities — (34,758) _ (34,758)
Pension scheme liability — (1,574) _ (1,574)
Total net assets 21,482 4,913 646,085 672,480
Restricted funds
General Fixed asset Total
. fund —_ General fund 2023
Group and Federation £’000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Fund balances at 31 August 2023 are represented by:
Tangible fixed assets _— — 612,987 612,987
Current assets 26,231 47,355 6,027 79,613
Current liabilities — (40,435) _ (40,435)
Pension scheme liability _- (3,094) _ (3,094)
Total net assets 26,231 3,826 619,014 649,071

Members’ liability

Each member of the charitable company undertakes to contribute to the assets of the
company in the event of it being wound up while he/she is a member, or within one year
after he/she ceases to be a member, such amount as may be required, not exceeding £10
for the debts and liabilities contracted before he/she ceases to be a member.

Pension and similar obligations

The Federation’s employees belong to two principal pension schemes: the Teachers’
Pension Scheme England and Wales (TPS) for academic and related staff; and the Local
Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) for non-teaching staff, which is managed by a
number of Local Authorities in the London borough’s and counties in which the Federation
operates. Both are multi-employer defined benefit schemes.

The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS related to the period ended 31 March 2020 and of
the LGPS 31 March 2022.

Contributions amounting to £nil were payable to the schemes at 31 August 2024 (2023 -
£2,990,000) and are included within creditors.

Harris Federation 62

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

20 Pension and similar obligations (continued)

Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Teachers' Pension Scheme (TPS) is a statutory, contributory, defined benefit scheme,
governed by the Teachers’ Pension Scheme Regulations 2014. Membership is automatic
for teachers in academies. All teachers have the option to opt-out of the TPS following
enrolment.

Teachers' Pension Scheme (continued)

The TPS is an unfunded scheme to which both the member and employer makes
contributions, as a percentage of salary - these contributions are credited to the Exchequer.
Retirement and other pension benefits are paid by public funds provided by Parliament.

Valuation of the Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Government Actuary, using normal actuarial principles, conducts a formal actuarial
review of the TPS in accordance with the Public Service Pensions (Valuations and Employer
Cost Cap) Directions 2014 published by HM Treasury every 4 years. The aim of the review
is to ensure Scheme costs are recognised and managed appropriately and the review
specifies the level of future contributions. Actuarial scheme valuations are dependent on
assumptions about the value of future costs, design of benefits and many other factors. The
latest actuarial valuation of the TPS was carried out as at 31 March 2020. The valuation
report was published by the Department for Education on 27 October 2023, with the SCAPE
rate, set by HMT, applying a national investment return based on 1.7% above the rate of
CPI. The key elements of the valuation outcome are:

¢ employer contribution rates set at 28.68% of pensionable pay (including a 0.08%
administration levy). This is an increase of 5% in employer contributions and the cost
control result is such that no change in member benefits is needed; and

¢ — total scheme liabilities (pensions currently in payment and the estimated cost of future
benefits) for service to the effective date of £262,000 million and notional assets
(estimated future contributions together with the notional investments held at the
valuation date) of £222,200 million, giving a notional past service deficit of £39,800
million.

The result of this valuation will be implemented from 1 April 2024. The next valuation result
is due to be implemented from 1 April 2028.

The employer's pension costs paid to TPS in the period amounted to £33,556,000 (2023 -
£27,913,000). A copy of the valuation report and supporting documentation is on the
Teachers' Pension Scheme website.

Under the definitions set out in FRS 102, the TPS is an unfunded multi-employer pension
scheme. The Federation Is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities
of the plan. Accordingly, the Federation has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 102
and has accounted for its contributions to the scheme as if it were a defined contribution
scheme. The Federation has set out above the information available on the scheme.

Harris Federation 63

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS)

The LGPS is a funded defined-benefit scheme, with the assets held in separate trustee-
administered funds. The total contribution made for the year ended 31 August 2024
£13,797,000 (2023 - £11,346,000), of which employer's contributions totalled £10,506,000
(2023- £8,514,000) and employees’ contributions totalled £3,291,000 (2023 - £2,832,000).
The agreed contribution rates for future years are between 7.2% and 25.5% for employers
and between 5.5% and 12.5% for employees.

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) (continued)

Parliament has agreed, at the request of the Secretary of State for Education, to a guarantee
that, in the event of academy closure, outstanding Local Government Pension Scheme
liabilities would be met by the Department for Education. The guarantee came into force on
18 July 2013 and on 21 July 2022, the Department for Education reaffirmed its commitment
to the guarantee, with a parliamentary minute published on the GOV.UK website.

At 31 At 317

August August

Principal Actuarial Assumptions 2024 2023
Rate of increase in salaries . 3.65% 3.85%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment / inflation 2.65% 2.85%
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.00% 5.25%
Inflation assumption (CPI) 2.65% 2.85%

The current mortality assumptions include sufficient allowance for future improvements in
mortality rates. The assumed life expectations on retirement age 65 are:

At 31 At 314
August August
2024 2023
Retiring today
Males 20.7 21.3
Females 23.4 23.8
Retiring in 20 years
Males 21.4 22.1
Females 24.6 25.1

The sensitivity of the present value of defined benefit obligations is as follows:

At 31 At 31

August August

2024 2023

£°000 ; £'000
Discount rate +0.1% (3,320) (6,221)
Discount rate -0.1% 3,411 5,975
Mortality assumption — 1 year increase 3,467 6,403
Mortality assumption — 1 year decrease (3,147) (6,056)
CPI rate +0.1% : 3,395 6,474
CPI rate -0.1% (3,310) 6,968

Harris Federation 64

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

20 Pension and similar obligations (continued)

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) (continued)
The Federation's share of the assets and liabilities in the scheme were:

Fair value
at 31
August
2024
£000
Equities 92,495
Gilts 32,334
Property 13,930
Cash and other liquid assets 3,836
Other 11,972
Total market value of assets 154,567
2024
Amounts recognised in statement of financial activities £°000
Service cost (3,456)
Net interest cost 338
Total amount recognised in the SOFA (3,118)
2024
Movement in deficitduringthe year 00
Deficit at 1 September 2023 3,094
Upon conversion (1,504)
Current service cost 7,050
Employer contributions (10,506)
Net return on assets 338
Actuarial (gain) loss 3,101
Past service gain 1
Liabilities at 31 August 2024 1,574
Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as 2024
follows: £000
At 1 September 2023 134,991
Upon conversion 7,267
Current service cost 7,050
Interest cost 7,509
Employee contributions 3,291
Actuarial (gain)/loss (2,322)
Past service gain 41
Benefits paid . (1,646)
At 31 August 2024 156,141

Fair value
at 317
August
2023

£°000

78,837
20,507
13,055

3,733
15,765

131,897

2023

£000

362
723

1,085

2023

£000

10,636
83
8,877
(8,514)
723
(8,711)

3,094

2023

£000

147,263
908
8,877
6,006
2,832
(29,421)

(1,474)

134,991

Harris Federation 65

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

20 Pension and similar obligations (continued)

21

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) (continued)

Changes in the fair value of the Federation’s share of scheme 2024 2023
assets: £7000 £000
At 1 September 2023 131,897 136,627
Upon conversion 8,771 825
Interest income 7,690 5,283
Actuarial gain (5,423) (20,710)
Employer contributions 10,506 8,514
Employee contributions ’ 3,291 2,832
Benefits paid (1,646) (1,474)
Administration expense (519) _
At 31 August 2024 154,567 131,897

Related party transactions

Owing to the nature of the Federation and the composition of the board of directors being
drawn from local public and private sector organisations, transactions may take place with
organisations in which the directors have an interest. All transactions involving such
organisations are conducted in accordance with the requirements of the ATH and with the
Federation’s financial regulations and normal procurement procedures relating to connected
and related party transactions. The following related party transactions took place in the
financial period.

Transactions with subsidiary company
Harris Academies Project Management Limited was dormant during the year and the prior
year.

Transactions with connected companies

During the prior year a £500,000 loan facility was setup between the Federation and the
newly formed National Institute of Teaching, of which Sir Dan Moynihan is a member. This
loan facility was approved in advance by the ESFA. At 31 August 2024 no amounts had
been drawn down. The Federation charged £127,790 (2023: £464,920) to the National
Institute of Teaching during the year end 31 August 2024.

Transactions with other related parties
During the year, donations from Lord Harris (Trustee, Member, and Sponsor) totalling £nil
were recognised in income (2023: £14,200).

During the year, payments to LA schools or Academies included £53,885 (2023: £nil) to

Southwark Inclusive Learning, £61,538 (2023: £nil) to Arco Academy and £40,394 (2023:
Enil) to King’s College London.

Harris Federation 66

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

22

23

Capital commitments
At 31 August 2024 the group had the following capital commitments:

Commitments under operating leases and PFI arrangements

Operating leases

2024 2023
£000 £°000
Contracted for, but not provided in the financial statements 1,626 3,030

At 31 August 2024, the total of the Federation’s future minimum lease payments under non-

cancellable operating leases was as follows:

: 2024
Land and buildings £000
Amounts due within one year 677
Amounts due between two and five years inclusive 1,009
Amounts due after five years _

1,686

2024
Other assets £'000
Amounts due within one year 433
Amounts due between two and five years inclusive 1,368
Amounts due after five years 319

2,120

Academies with Private Finance Initiative (PFI)

2023

£000

677
1,227

1,904

2023

£000

280
281
356
917

Harris Academy Morden joined the Federation on 1 March 2013. Its main school building
was financed under a PFI arrangement which also provides services to the school including
cleaning and catering. The school pays an annual amount based on pupil numbers which
will run until 2030. In the year ended 31 August 2024, £446,312 (2023 - £427,417) of costs
relating to this has been recognised in expenditure, being included in the total operating

lease rentals figure in note 5.

At 31 August 2024, the total of the Federation's future minimum payments under PFI

arrangements was as follows:

Land and buildings 2024

£'000
Amounts due within one year 455
Amounts due between two and five years inclusive 1,327

Amounts due after five years _

1,782

2023

£000

455
1,741
41

2,237

Harris Federation 67

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

24

25

Agency arrangements

The Federation distributes 16-19 bursary funds to students as an agent for the ESFA. In the
accounting period ending 31 August 2024 the trust received £691,245 (2023 - £608,960)
and disbursed £476,168 (2023 - £508,261) from the fund. An amount of £ 721,056 (2023 -
£575,524) is included in other creditors relating to undistributed funds that will be distributed
in 2024/25.

Transfer of academies to the Federation

On 1 September 2023 the assets, liabilities and activities of Harris Lowe Academy Willesden
transferred into the Federation. Previously this academy was called Capital City Academy.
The operations, buildings, pensions obligations and fund balances were transferred to the
Federation for £nil consideration.

The transfer has been accounted for using the acquisition method. The assets and liabilities
transferred were valued at their fair value and recognised in the balance sheet under the
appropriate headings with a corresponding net amount recognised as net incoming
resources in the Statement of Financial Activities as voluntary income.

The following table sets out the fair values of the total identifiable assets and liabilities
transferred from both schools and an analysis of their recognition in the statement of
financial activities. :

A fair value adjustment of £3.2m was made to the value of leasehold land and buildings
reported by the transferring trust.

Restricted Restricted

Unrestricted general _fixed asset 2024
funds funds funds Total
£'000 £'000 £000 £'000

Tangible fixed assets

. Leasehold land and buildings _ _ 24,970 24,970
. Other tangible fixed assets _ _ 551 551
. Deficit on fixed assets fund _— _ (623) (523)
Budget surplus on ESFA and LA funds 375 778 _ 1,153
LGPS pension deficit _ _ _ _-
Net assets 375 778 24,998 26,151

In the prior year, on 1 September 2022, Harris East London Science Academy transferred
into the Federation. The operations, buildings, pensions obligations and fund balances were
transferred to the Federation for £nil consideration.

The transfer was accounted for using the acquisition method. The assets and liabilities
transferred were valued at their fair value and recognised in the balance sheet under the
appropriate headings with a corresponding net amount recognised as net incoming
resources in the Statement of Financial Activities as voluntary income.

The following table sets out the fair values of the total identifiable assets and liabilities
transferred from both schools and an analysis of their recognition in the statement of
financial activities. :

Harris Federation 68

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

25 Transfer of academies to the Federation (continued)

Restricted Restricted

Unrestricted general _fixed asset 2023
funds funds funds Total
£'000 £'000 £'000 £000

Tangible fixed assets

. Leasehold land and buildings — — — _—
. Other tangible fixed assets - _ 88 88
Budget surplus on ESFA and LA funds 12 120 _ 132
LGPS pension deficit _— (83) _— (83)
Net assets 12 37 88 137

26 Post balance sheet events
On 1 September 2024, the assets, liabilities and activities of Harris Primary Academy South
Kenton transferred to the Federation. Previously this academy was called Byron Court.

Harris Federation 69

