Docusign Envelope ID: DASDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Registration number: 02758955

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Annual Report and Financial Statements

for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

UL nN

waros/2025 #160
COMPANIES HOUSE


Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Annual Report and Financial Statements
Year ended 30 September 2024

Contents

Strategic Report.........ccccccecc ce cccccecnsesceneceeesecesesessessasessassesiesseseesscesseseecssessssenecsscsssesecsssssssteeseeseseesiees 2
Directors’ Report .......cccccccsccsesssseessssesscssssesessescseesseisesseesssssseeenecenenssseiesseaessecsessseseuscsenseesseeesesnesesteceeegee 10
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Holland & Barrett Retail Limited ................:ceeeeeeeeees 13
Statement of Comprehensive Income for the Year Ended 30 September 2024 ...........cccccccccscessesseeeseteeeeeeesens 16
Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2024 .............ccccceccsccceecseescnecseesesecsceseeseseeseesesasseceasensessessseteeseseeesness 17
Statement of Changes in Equity for the Year Ended 30 September 2024 ..........cccccceseseceeseescestecsneeseseeseeees 18

Notes to the Financial Statements...

Docusign Envelope ID: DASDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AEO6BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Strategic Report
Year ended 30 September 2024

The Directors present their strategic report for the year ended 30 September 2024.

Principal activities

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited (“the Company”) packages, markets, retails, and wholesales a broad line of
health and wellness products, including vitamins, minerals and herbal remedies, sports powders and drinks, as
well as health food products and other items, including beauty. In addition to this, the Company also earns
income from overseas franchise operations.

At 30 September 2024, the Company operated 728 (2023: 720) health stores in the UK, engaged in 68 (2023:
62) worldwide franchise outlets and 746 (2023: 470) worldwide franchise shop-in-shops through partnerships.
The Company also operates websites to provide an online presence.

Business review and results

The results of the Company show sales of £645.7m (2023: £589.9m) and a loss before taxation of £72.1m
(2023: £57.3m) for the year. This includes exceptional items of £0.8m (2023: £6.9m) driven by costs of store
and warehouse closures (2023: exceptional stock write-off, store and warehouse closures and costs relating to
restructuring); excluding this, the loss before taxation would have been £71.3m (2023: £50.4m).

There has been an increase in sales of 9.5% in the year (2023: increase of 10.0%) for the Company. Sales
performance reflects an increase in retail footfall and the results of our transformation plan driven by new
product offering particularly in food and increased awareness through marketing campaigns.

The Statement of Comprehensive Income and Balance Sheet are set out on Pages 16 and 17. Whilst income
improved in the financial year, the costs associated with foundational and growth investments has resulted in an
increased loss. However, the financial position remains strong, and the Directors expect both sales and profit to
improve in the future.

Business environment

The health store market is highly fragmented. There are estimated to be more than 1,000 independent health
stores operating in the UK with increasing competition from the national supermarket chains and other retailers,
such as chemists, drugstores and internet traders. The Company has differentiated itself from its mass market
competitors by developing a specialist reputation, whilst at the same time offering high quality products at good
value.

Strategy
The Company’s vision is to be the trusted partner for 100 million people globally through organic and
sustainable growth. Our strategy to achieve that is focused around three pillars:

e  Omnichannel growth (e-commerce and in store sales of products and services)

e Wellness futures (the provision of innovative and science-backed wellness related services and
products, including in-store testing and advisory services help people’s short, medium, and long-term
health and wellness needs)

e International expansion

These pillars are supported by investment in our technology, colleagues and stores, to build more connected
relationships with customers, and to elevate brand perception among new and existing customers.

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Strategic Report (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

Our colleagues: The calibre and training of our colleagues is paramount to the success of the Holland & Barrett
model. The Company invests heavily in its comprehensive and well developed product training programs. This
ensures that customers are able to receive informative and knowledge-based customer service.

Technology: The Company is continuing to invest in new technologies to support omni-channel development
with an international reach, whilst responding to the demands of the online trading environment as well as tech
enablement of the wider Wellness related services and personalised customer journeys. As part of our ongoing
investment in technology, we have launched Cerebro, an in-house built colleague-facing application which
transforms how our retail colleagues engage with customers across our extensive store network. This tool is
designed to empower our colleagues, arming them with the knowledge and resources to effectively interact with
customers, offer comprehensive product information, and assist in aligning choices with their wellness goals.

New products and services: The Company has consistently been among the first in the industry to introduce
innovative products in response to new studies, research and consumer preferences. Given the changing nature
of consumer demand for new products and the continued publicity about the importance of healthy living and
nutritional supplements, the Directors believe that the Company will continue to maintain its core customer base
and attract new customers through its ability to respond rapidly to consumer demand. The wide range of
products ensures that we continue to address the broad church of customers that are seeking a healthy lifestyle.
The Company are also trialling a wellness journey-based offer centred around 'Wellness Hubs' in a number of
larger stores around the UK.

Promotions and marketing: The Company runs regular promotional activity to give greater value to our
customers. In conjunction with this, marketing continues to be focused on the core product offering whilst
showcasing new product development and brand awareness. A significant share of the customer base are

enrolled in the Company's "Rewards for Life" loyalty program enabling personalised understanding of customer -
requirements along with additional value offered through a coupon programme.

As a result, the Directors are confident that the performance of the Company will improve in the future.

Principal risks and uncertainties

The management of the business and the execution of the Company's strategy are subject to a number of risks.
Risks are formally reviewed by the Board and appropriate processes put in place to monitor and mitigate them.
Key business risks affecting the Company are set out below:

Colleagues

The Company's performance is highly dependent upon retaining and recruiting high calibre colleagues. The
resignation of key individuals and the inability to recruit retail staff with the necessary experience and skills
could adversely impact upon the Company's results. To mitigate these issues, the Company has implemented
incentive schemes designed to retain key individuals and created a training academy for the development of
retail staff. The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of health and safety for both colleagues
and customers.

Legislation

The industry and the products sold by the Company are increasingly subject to regulation, much of which
applies throughout the UK and European Union. The Company devotes considerable resources to campaigning
in respect of proposed legislative changes, ensuring that products are safe and consumer choices are preserved.
The Company also ensures that it is at the forefront of the industry when new legislation is introduced.

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited
Strategic Report (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

Competition

The Company operates in a highly competitive market, particularly in respect of price. In order to mitigate this,
market prices are monitored on an on-going basis and regular promotional activity is undertaken. There is also a
continual evaluation of product range and space management.

Environment, Social and Governance / Macroeconomic

The Group continues to evaluate progress on our key priorities surrounding Environmental, Social and
Governance (ESG) risks. Our approach towards the wellness of the planet and our products are detailed in the
Corporate Governance section of the Directors’ report. The Board receives updates about our performance and
sustainability risks and continue to evaluate any emerging physical or transition risks to the business
surrounding Climate Change. These include changes to the tax environment and amendments to rules governing
packaging and distribution risks to the business surrounding Climate Change.

The wider economic environment, with inflationary and supply chain pressures is regularly monitored and short
and medium terms action planning implemented as required.

Key performance indicators ("KPIs")
The Company's key financial and other performance indicators during the year were as follows:

2024 2023
Turnover (£'000) 645,665 589,875
Gross profit (£'000) 373,360 343,167
Gross profit percentage (%) 38 58
Operating loss (£'000) (73,852) (58,784)
New stores (numbers) 29 15
Closed stores (numbers) 21 20
EBITDA before exceptional items * (£'000) (1,893) 12,910
EBITDA (£'000) (1,049) 6,054

* Adjusted for exceptional items of £0.8m (2023: £6.9m) (see note 9)

Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA) is defined as profit before interest, tax,
depreciation, amortisation, impairment and profit or loss on disposal of fixed assets and subsidiaries. EBITDA
is anon-GAAP measure but is the measure monitored most closely by the Directors and is the key indicator of
the performance of the business.

The Company also monitors the average footfall per store, average items per basket and the average transaction
value on a regular basis.

Corporate governance

The Directors comply with the requirements of Section 172 Companies Act 2006 and the Wates Principles of
Corporate Governance. The Directors believe they have acted in a way that promote the success of the Company
for the benefit of its shareholders, how each requirement of Section 172 has been complied with are detailed
below,

Section 172(1) statement :

Engaging with stakeholders to deliver long term success is a key area of focus for the Board and all decisions
take in to account the impact on stakeholders. It is the Board’s priority to ensure that the Directors have acted,
both individually and collectively, in a way that they consider would be most likely to promote the success of

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AEQ6BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Strategic Report (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

the Group. This would benefit members as a whole and with regard to all its stakeholders and to the matters set
out in paragraphs a-f of Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006. These details are set out below:

a. The likely consequences of any decision in the long term
The L1R HB Holdings Limited Board, which is the Ultimate parent of the Company, reviews and approves the
three-year plan (2024-2026) and monitors its implementation throughout the year using detailed reports on
operating and financial performance. This includes monitoring progress against key strategic programmes (both
short-term and long-term) as well as considering the allocation of capital to support the rolling three-year
business plan. This will ensure the Group has a place in multiple markets for future generations (Wates principle

1).

In approving the strategy, the Directors considered external factors such as competitor behaviour, as well as the
evolving economic, political and market conditions.

b. The interests of the company’s employees
The Directors understand the importance of the Group’s employees to the long-term success of the business.

The Group led by its Directors communicates to its employees through presentations, internal group-wide
emails, newsletters, social media channels and posts on the intranet (known as the Buzz) (Wates Principle 6).

Additional investment has been made into the Group’s internal e-learning platform (known as the Hive), to
ensure training delivered to all employees is up to date and informative. Also, within the year the results of the
employee engagement survey known as the “Voice” have again been shared with employees. This survey allows
the Group to actively gauge the impact of its principal decisions such as store investment and training
programmes on employee engagement. Small working groups have been put in place to work on the outcomes
and actively engage with each department on follow ups.

Additional analysis on the results of the “Voice” survey are disclosed within the strategic report of Holland &
Barrett International limited, the ultimate UK parent of the Company.

c. The need to foster the company's business relationships with suppliers, customers and others
The Board regularly reviews how the Group maintains positive relationships with all of its stakeholders,
including suppliers, customers and others. This has been a key focus of the Group. The Directors understand
the importance of the Group’s supply chain in delivering the long-term plans of the Group. We are continuing to
invest in improving our supplier experience, including by working with them to agree long-term agreements, as
we look to foster more collaborative relationships in key areas such as Responsible Sourcing and ESG.

When it comes to their health and wellness, we want our customers to see Holland & Barrett as their most
trusted partner. Our aim is to be recognised as an authority in providing health and wellness advice and
information. We are using new partnerships, new formats, and new channels to spread the benefits of ethical
well-being to our customers and provide them with personalised information for their individual health and
well-being journeys. We want every engagement that our customers have with Holland & Barrett to feel as
natural and as enjoyable as possible, whatever channel they use to interact with us. To that end, we are working
on making our digital and physical stores places of discovery and inspiration. Our flagship store in Marble Arch
continues to be used to showcase new offerings for customers such as the “H&B&Me” tests and trials for new
products.

Docusign Envetope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited
Strategic Report (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

a. The impact of the company's operations on the community and the environment
Our purpose is to make health and wellness a way of life for everyone, and as a leading retailer of wellness
products, we recognise our responsibility to do that in a way that supports our people, the planet and the
communities in which we operate. The wider Group’s impact is seen as a more relevant assessment, therefore
additional disclosure has been made in the strategic report of Holland & Barrett International Limited, these
accounts can be obtained from the address disclosed in note 27.

e. The desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct
The Directors take the reputation of the Group seriously which is not limited to only operational and financial
performance. For example, diversity and inclusion is a key part of Holland & Barrett’s culture. The Board is
committed to developing a more diverse workforce, including at the most senior levels.

As a business we are committed to upholding human rights and support in full the conventions such as the
United Nations (UN) Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Bill of Human Rights, International
Labour Organization (ILO) Core Conventions, the United Nation Guiding Principles of Protect, Respect and
Remedy (UNGP) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Guidelines for
Multinational Enterprises.

Holland & Barrett respects international principles of Human Rights and our policies are aligned with the above
international conventions. We have several policies, with ownership at Company board level, that aim to protect
employee welfare and basic human rights within our business and our supply chains.

The Group has a zero-tolerance approach to Modern Slavery, and we are committed to the prevention,
deterrence and detection of Modern slavery within our business and within our supply chain. It is our policy to
conduct all business activities with honesty, integrity and at the highest possible ethical standards. We are fully
committed to implementing and enforcing effective systems and controls within our business and within our
supply chain to continually challenge our ability to combat Modern Slavery.

Holland & Barrett has built a framework of measures to assess and monitor our supplier’s conduct in respect to
Modern Slavery. The Group has taken steps to include specific prohibitions against the use of Modern Slavery in
our contracting process and assesses Social due diligence on existing and new suppliers.

f The need to act fairly between members of the company
The Board is clear that good governance and effective communication are essential on a day-to-day basis to
deliver our purpose and to protect the company’s brand, reputation and relationships with all our stakeholder
community including shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers and the local communities in which we
work. This is prevalent in day-to-day activities alongside our vision and purpose.

Wates Principles

Principle 1- Purpose and leadership

The focus of the board is to build on the performance of financial year ended 30 September 2024. Ahead of
FY25, which promises to be the biggest year of change in our business’ history, the emphasis is on further
tightening processes to ensure effective execution and maximize impact across all three divisions in the wider
H&B Group. A new change and delivery office and framework (the H&B Way) have been established, focusing
on driving efficient business practices through strong governance and consistency.

Docusign Envelope ID: DAGDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Strategic Report (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

The Group is well advanced in developing action plans and engaging with our workforce. The necessary
training is being delivered in the furtherance of achieving these targets, as well as engaging with our wider
stakeholders. In all internal communications all aspects of the business, globally are considered, whether this be
distribution, warehouse or retail, a combination of all parts is given thought to establish end goals.

Principle 2- Board composition

The Senior Executive of the Company comprises a team of seven, with varied skillset, experience and
knowledge. The Executive Chair ensures that the balance of responsibilities, accountabilities and decision
making across the Group are effectively maintained. The Board of the Company’s ultimate parent company
L1R HB Holdings Limited is comprised of a number of Non-Executive Directors. This size and composition are
appropriate to our business. Independent advisors and the Non-Executive Directors bring experience in strategic
development and professional services in addition to perspectives and knowledge of challenges from sectors that
the Group does not operate in.

In addition to the non-executive members, other board members have experience in numerous retai! businesses
across many territories, manufacturing, marketing, technology and a wealth of other industries. The board is also
made up of a split between both H&B directors (management) and LIR directors (owners), alongside six
independent directors which ensures a fair approach on decision making.

Diversity and inclusion are a key part of H&B’s culture. The Board is committed to developing a more diverse
workforce, including at the most senior levels. As part of the terms of reference agreed to by all board members,
there is an agreement to ensure the board is assessed for appropriateness. This is mainly managed by Letter One
Retail and currently comprises 6 males and 2 females.

Principle 3- Director responsibilities

There are a number of regular meetings held throughout the year which involve different board members. These
include bi-monthly meetings for the Executive Board, Audit and Review Committee, monthly Investment
Committee, and quarterly nomination and remuneration committee.

The Board receives regular and timely information (at least monthly) on all key aspects of the business
including health and safety, risks and opportunities, the financial performance of the business, strategy,
operational matters, market conditions and sustainability, all supported by Key Performance Indicators (KPIs).

Principle 4- Opportunity and risk

The Board seeks out opportunity whilst mitigating risk. The company’s key operational risks are set out above.
The Board also considers all major projects (as defined by their value and risk profile) and approves them before
any bids are finalised. The Group takes a management-led risk assessment approach which reports into the Audit
and Review committee. The Internal Audit function partners with independent third parties to provide the board
with full accountability, aiding the identification, remediation and mitigation of risk. An internal audit plan for
the next financial year has been presented to the Board. :

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AEQ6BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited .

Strategic Report (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

Principle 5- Remuneration

The Group has a Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) appointed by the Board with the majority
of members being non-executive directors, one of whom is also the Chair. One of the main objectives of the
Committee is to set remuneration at a level that secures, retains and motivates quality Executive management
who can deliver the Group’s strategic ambitions in a manner consistent with both its purpose and the interests of
its shareholders. The NRC meets at least twice a year and has a defined terms of reference as its framework,
including matters relating to remuneration strategy across the business. This includes Executive pay, bonuses,
long-term incentive plan and other pay elements. It supports a pay position that a significant proportion of
remuneration should be structured so as to link rewards to corporate and individual performance and be
designed to promote the long-term success of the Group.

It also has the responsibility for approving the design of, and determining targets for, any performance-related
pay schemes and approving the total payments made under such schemes. The Committee also reviews the
design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders. For any such plans, the
Committee make recommendations to the Board on whether awards will be made, and if so, the overall amount
of such awards, the individual awards to executive management and other senior management and the
performance targets to be used.

Additionally, the NRC review and have regard to the pay and employment conditions across the Group,
especially when determining salary increases for the Executive. For all employees below the Executive, the
budget for pay review is agreed as part of the budgeting process and communicated to the NRC.

Principle 6- Stakeholder relationships and engagement

The Board is clear that good governance and effective communication are essential on a day-to-day basis to

deliver our purpose and to protect the company’s brand, reputation and relationships with all our stakeholder
community including shareholders, customers, employees, suppliers and the local communities in which we
work.

The Group communicates to its employees through presentations, internal group-wide emails, newsletters, social
media channels and posts on the intranet. As referenced above, local road-shows are held throughout the year
which provide a briefing on the Group’s performance, gives an update on any initiatives that are being
introduced and allows individuals to raise questions and concerns.

Quarterly briefings are given to the store support centre staff from the senior management and executive teams.
This provides employees with an update on financial information, new product lines, business strategy updates
and any other new projects. In the financial year 2024, there has been a focus on understanding the vision and
the strategy.

In addition to formal communication processes as above, there are employee helplines and whistle-blowing lines
independently managed to support honest and open conversations between employee and employer. The Group
has a share-point network which enables communications to colleagues containing both policy and other useful
updates.

Also, within the year the results of the annual employee engagement survey known as the “Voice” has been fed
back to employees. The process is run by an external company to maintain independence and anonymity. Small
working groups have been put in place to work on the outcomes and actively engage with each department on
follow ups.

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AEO6BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Strategic Report (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

In regard to supplier relationships, the Group has a supplier portal along with a supplier manual and code of
conduct. The board decided, that although not mandatory, the Grocer’s code of conduct would be followed to
allow for best practices to exist. Suppliers go through the onboarding process with positive feedback. The
supplier portal also monitors supplier compliance.

The Group actively participates and prioritises relationships with trade associations such as the British Retail
Consortium and the Health Food Manufacturing Association to allow for best practices across the industry to

influence the Group.

Approved by the Board on 29" April 2025 and signed on its behalf by:

‘Signed by:
we (Nag sence eee

NDV Allen
Director

Docusign Envelope ID: DAGDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AEO6BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Directors’ Report
Year ended 30 September 2024

The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024.

Future developments

The objective of the Group and Company's management team is to continue to produce market leading
performance within the brand, through optimisation of the UK store estate, development of the Holland &
Barrett brand online and the further development of international markets supported by franchising.

Dividends
The directors do not propose a payment of a dividend in the year (2023: £Nil).

Price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk

The Company’s overall risk management program focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks
to minimise potential adverse effects on the Company’s financial performance. The main financial risk arises
from currency and interest-bearing loans.

The company is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from trading activities with Euro-based counterparties.
As the company’s functional currency is Pounds Sterling (GBP), transactions and balances denominated in
Euros are subject to exchange rate fluctuations. This risk primarily relates to the settlement of Euro receivables
and payables, which may lead to gains or losses upon conversion to GBP. The company monitors its exposure
and may consider appropriate risk management measures where necessary.

The Company's interest rate risk is low as borrowings are short term and incur a fixed rate of interest per annum.
The Company's management team and Directors continually monitor the position of the Company.

Directors of the Company
The directors who held office during the year up to the date of signing the financial statements were as follows:

AW Gourlay
JA Houghiton
MGT Smith
NDV Allen

Corporate governance and Wates Principles

The corporate governance statement which includes s172, application of the Wates principles and employee and
other stakeholder governance agreements has been included within the Strategic Report (page 2 onwards) due to
its strategic importance.

Employee involvement

The Company has developed and maintained arrangements whereby employees are regularly consulted and
provided with information about current activities and progress within the Group and with training to improve
the operational efficiency of the Group.

It is Company policy to provide equal opportunities without regard to race or national origin, sex or sexual
orientation, religion or religious beliefs or disability status.

Consultation with employees or their representatives has continued at all levels, with the aim of ensuring that
their views are taken into account when decisions are made that are likely to affect their interests and that all
employees are aware of and encouraged to participate in the financial and economic performance of their
business units and of the Group as a whole. Communication with all employees continues through the in-house

10

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AEQ6BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited
Directors’ Report (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

newspaper and newsletters, briefing groups and the distribution of the Annual report and consolidated financial
statements.

Employment of disabled persons

The Company supports the employment of disabled people wherever possible, through recruitment, by retention
of those who become disabled during their employment and generally through training, career development and
promotion, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.

Going concern

The Directors have assessed going concern over a 12-month period from the date of signing these financial
statements. Treasury management is completed at a Holland & Barrett International Group level (“the Group”)
on behalf of the Company. The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its operational
performance. However, throughout the period to 30 September 2025, the Group is continuing to undertake
significant investment to transform the business to achieve the strategy. Forecasts and projections, taking
account of reasonable possible changes in trading performance, as well as modelling severe but plausible
downside scenarios, which amounted to a 10%-15% reduction in EBITDA, show that the Group can continue as
a going concern without further unplanned support from LetterOne Investment Holdings SA. If further
downside was experienced, the Group have other levers to activate which provide further comfort over the going
concern status.

At 30 September 2024, The LIR HB Holdings Group has £300m of debt which is owed to L1 Retail Portfolio
S.C.SP, a member of the LetterOne group.

Having assessed the principal risks and considering the Group's cash balance at the year end, forecasts produced
by management which demonstrate that the Group is forecast to generate profits and free cashflow, the directors
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing its financial statements.
This assessment also supports the Company.

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (SECR) disclosure

The Company has taken the option to not present energy usage and carbon emissions information on the basis
that this information forms part of the consolidated figures included in the Strategic Report of Holland & Barrett
International Limited.

Directors’ responsibilities statement .
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulation.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland”, and applicable law). Under company law the directors
must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state
of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing the financial
statements, the directors are required to:

e — select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

e — state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102, have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

¢ make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and

11

Docusign Envelope ID: DASDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Directors’ Report (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

© prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that
the Company will continue in business.
The directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.

Directors' confirmations
In the case of each director in office at the date the Directors’ Report is approved:

© so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors
are unaware; and

e they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that
information. —

Disclosure of information to the auditors

Each director has taken steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that information. The
Directors confirm that there is no relevant information that they know of and of which they know the auditors
are unaware.

Reappointment of independent auditors
The independent auditors, PKF Littlejohn LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a
resolution concerning their re-appointment has been proposed and approved by the Audit Committee.

The financial statements on pages 16 to 39 were approved by the Board on 29" April 2025 and signed on its
behalf
by:

G Signed by:
aterm FR 1IAB86AC00425,

ND V Allen
Director


Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HOLLAND &
BARRETT RETAIL LIMITED

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Holland & Barrett Retail Limited (the ‘company’) for the year ended
30 September 2024 which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Balance Sheet, and Statement
of Changes in Equity and notes to the financial statements, including significant accounting policies. The financial
reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting
Standards, including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:

© give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 30 September 2024 and of its loss for
the year then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and

« have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit
of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical
Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the director's use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate. Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment
of the company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting included:

e Discussions with management to obtain an understanding of the going concern models and its future plan
for the business;
Understanding of the key assumptions applied to management going concern model;
Review and challenge to the key assumptions of the management going concern model; and
Review of the appropriateness of the disclosure of going concern in the financial statements.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company's ability to continue as a
going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements
and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the
annual report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the
extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. Our
responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements,
we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements

13

Docusign Envelope ID: DAS6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HOLLAND &
BARRETT RETAIL LIMITED (CONTINUED)

themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this
other information, we are required to report that fact.
We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
e the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
e the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the
audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.
We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires
us to report to you if, in our opinion:

¢ adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received

from branches not visited by us; or

« the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

e certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

© we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control
as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis
of accounting unless the directors either intcnd to liquidate thc company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance
with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures
in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities,
including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is
detailed below:

e We obtained an understanding of the company and the sector in which it operates to identify laws and
regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a direct effect on the financial statements. We
obtained our understanding in this regard through discussions with management, industry research,
application of cumulative audit knowledge and experience of the sector etc.

© We determined the principal laws and regulations relevant to the company in this regard to be those
arising from UK GAAP including FRS 102, Companies Act 2006 and UK tax legislation etc.

14

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF HOLLAND &
BARRETT RETAIL LIMITED (CONTINUED)

© We designed our audit procedures to ensure the audit team considered whether there were any indications
of non-compliance by the company with those laws and regulations. These procedures included, but were
not limited to:
o enquiries of management
© review of minutes
o review of legal / regulatory correspondence etc)
© We also identified the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud. We
considered, in addition to the non-rebuttable presumption of a risk of fraud arising from management
override of controls, that there was potential for management bias in relation to the carrying value of
investments, goodwill and other intangible assets, legal provision, onerous lease provision and inventory
provision. We addressed this by challenging the assumptions and judgements made by management when
auditing these significant accounting estimates.
e As in all of our audits, we addressed the risk of fraud arising from management override of controls by
. performing audit procedures which included, but were not limited to: the testing of journals; reviewing
accounting estimates for evidence of bias; and evaluating the business rationale of any significant
transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.

Because of the inherent limitations of an audit, there is a risk that we will not detect all irregularities, including
those leading to a material misstatement in the financial statements or non-compliance with regulation. This risk
increases the more that compliance with a law or regulation is removed from the events and transactions reflected
in the financial statements, as we will be less likely to become aware of instances of non-compliance. The risk is
also greater regarding irregularities occurring due to fraud rather than error, as fraud involves intentional
concealment, forgery, collusion, omission or misrepresentation.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial
Reporting Council’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our
auditor’s report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone, other than the company and the company's
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

DocuSigned by:
[ se Ardler

Joseph Archer (Senior Statutory Auditor) 15 Westferry Circus
For and on behalf of PKF Littlejohn LLP Canary Wharf
Statutory Auditor London E14 4HD

Date: 29" April 2025

15

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0
Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Statement of Comprehensive Income for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

2024 2023

Note £000 £000

Turnover 3 645,665 589,875
Cost of sales (272,305) (246,708)
Gross profit 373,360 343,167
Distribution costs (206,171) (190,398)
Administrative expenses (249,474) (212,328)
Other operating income 4 8,433 775
Operating loss 5 (73,852) (58,784)
Interest receivable and similar income 10 5,805 5,701
Interest payable and similar expenses 11 (4,072) (4,209)
Net interest income 1,733 1,492
Loss before tax (72,119) (57,292)
Tax on loss 12 (48) (6,456)
Loss for the financial year (72,167) (63,748)

The above results were derived from continuing operations.

The Company has no other recognised gains or losses for the year other than those included in the Statement of
Comprehensive Income above.

The notes on pages 19 to 39 form an integral part of these financial statements.

16

Docusign Envelope 1D: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AEQ6BE20C4B0
Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2024

2024 2023
Note £000 £000
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 13 53,881 62,645
Tangible assets 14 164,658 139,745
Investments 15 : 600
218,539 202,990
Current assets
Stocks 16 109,979 113,712
Trade and other receivables 17 343,200 326,157
Cash at bank and in hand 18 62,977 23,010
516,156 462,879
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one
year 19 (274,246) (353,603)
. Net current assets 241,910 109,276
Total assets less current liabilities 460,449 312,266
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more
than one year 19 (91,319) (57,185)
Provision for liabilities
Other provisions 20 520 (1,159)
_(520)_ (1,159)
Net assets 368,610 253,922
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital : 24 1,050 1,050
Share premium 25 186,855 -
Retained earnings 25 180,705 252,872
Total equity 368,610 253,922

The financial statements on pages 16 to 39 were approved and authorised by the Board on 29th April 2025 and
signed on its behalf by:

(We by:
veeeeNenee 7E1143B6AC00N25.0

ND VAllen
Director
Company registration No. 02758955

The notes on pages 19 to 39 form an integral part of these financial statements.

17

Docusign Envelope ID: DAGDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AEQ6BE20C4B0
Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Statement of Changes in Equity for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Share Share Retained

Capital Premium earnings Total

£000 £000 £000 £000

At | October 2022 1,050 - 316,620 317,670
Loss for the year - - (63,748) (63,748)
Total comprehensive loss : : (63,748) (63,748)
At 30 September 2023 1,050 : 252,872 253,922
Share issue - 186,855 - 186,855
Loss for the year ‘ : - (72,167) (72,167)
Total comprehensive loss - - (72,167) (72,167)
At 30 September 2024 1,050 186,855 180,705 368,610

The notes on pages 19 to 39 form an integral part of these financial statements.

18

Docusign Envetope ID: DAGDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AEQ6BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
Year ended 30 September 2024

1. General information
The Company is a private company limited by share capital, incorporated in United Kingdom and registered in
England and Wales.

The address of its registered office is:
Samuel Ryder House

Barling Way

Eliot Park

Nuneaton

Warwickshire

CV10 7RH

2. Accounting policies

Summary of significant accounting policies and key accounting estimates
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

Statement of compliance
These financial statements have been prepared in compliance with the Financial Reporting Standard applicable
in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland’ (*FRS 102’) and the Companies Act 2006.

Basis of preparation

The financial statements have been prepared on going concern basis, under the historical cost convention and
are presented in sterling, which is the functional currency of the entity. Monetary amounts in these financial
statements are rounded to the nearest £1,000, except where otherwise indicated.

Summary of disclosure exemptions
The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions in preparing these financial
statements, as permitted by the FRS 102 "The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic
of Ireland":
— the requirements of Section 7 Statement of Cash Flows;
— the requirement of Section3 Financial Statement Presentation paragraph 3.17 (d);
— the requirements of Section 11 Financial Instruments paragraphs 11.44 to 11.45, 11.47, 11.48(a)(iii),
11.48(a) (iv), 11.48(b) and 11.48(c);
- the requirements of Section 12 Other Financial Instruments paragraphs 12.26 to 12.27, 12.29(a),
12.29(b) and 12.29A;
- the requirements of Section 26 Share-based Payment paragraphs 26.18(b), 26.19 to 26.21 and 26.23;
— the requirements of Section 33 Related Party Disclosures paragraph 33.7

Consolidated financial statements

The Company is a parent company that is also a subsidiary included in the consolidated financial statements of
its parent undertaking, Holland & Barrett International Limited, established under the law of the UK and is
therefore exempt from the requirement to prepare consolidated financial statements under section 400 of the
Companies Act 2006.

19

Docusign Envelope 1D: DASDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)
Going concern
The Directors have assessed going concern over a 12-month period from the date of signing these financial
statements. Treasury management is completed at a Holland & Barrett International Group level (“the Group”)
on behalf of the Company. The Group meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its operational
performance. However, throughout the period to 30 September 2025, the Group is continuing to undertake
significant investment to transform the business to achieve the strategy. Forecasts and projections, taking
account of reasonable possible changes in trading performance, as well as modelling severe but plausible
downside scenarios, which amounted to a 10%-15% reduction in EBITDA, show that the Group can continue as
a going concern without further unplanned support from LetterOne Investment Holdings SA. If further
downside was experienced, the Group have other levers to activate which provide further comfort over the going
concern status.

At 30 September 2024, The LIR HB Holdings Group has £300m of debt which is owed to L1 Retail Portfolio
S.C.SP, a member of the LetterOne group.

Having assessed the principal risks and considering the Group's cash balance at the year end, forecasts produced
by management which demonstrate that the Group is forecast to generate profits and free cashflow, the directors
considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing its financial statements.
This assessment also supports the Company.

Classification of financial instruments issued by the Company
Ordinary share capital issued by the Company is classified as equity.

Basic financial instruments
The Company has chosen to adopt Sections 11 and 12 of FRS 102 in respect of financial instruments.

Financial assets

Basic financial assets include trade and other debtors, cash and bank balances and amounts owed by group
undertakings recognised initially at transaction price. Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at
amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses. .

Financial liabilities

Basic financial liabilities include trade and other payables and amounts owed to group undertakings recognised
initially at the transaction price. Subsequent to initial recognition they are measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest method. Financial liabilities are derecognised when the liability is extinguished, that is when
the contractual obligation is discharged, cancelled or expires.

Interest bearing borrowings classified as basic financial instruments are recognised initially at the present value
of future payments discounted at a market rate of interest. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing
borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

Investments in subsidiaries

These are separate financial statements of the Company. Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less
impairment.

Revenue recognition ‘

Turnover comprises the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for the sale of goods and provision
of services in the ordinary course of the Company’s activities. Turnover is shown net of sales/value added tax,
returns, rebates and discounts.

20

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

The Company recognises revenue when the amount of revenue can be reliably measured; it is probable that
future economic benefits will flow to the entity; and specific criteria have been met for each of the Company's
activities.

Retail and online sales

The Company operates retail stores and online for the sale of health food and health products. Turnover
represents sales to external customers at invoiced amounts less value added tax or local taxes and discounts.
Turnover is recognised as the point of sale for retail store sales or delivery of the goods for online sales.

Other operating income- franchise income

In certain locations the Company has franchised its brand to third parties. Royalties and fees charged for use of
the rights granted by the agreement and related services are recognised as revenue as the rights are used and the
services are provided.

Deferred income

The Group operates a loyalty programme where customers accumulate points for purchases made which entitle
them to discounts on future purchases. The reward points are recognised as a separately identifiable component
of the initial sale transaction, by allocating the fair value of the consideration received between the award points
and the other components of the sale such that the reward points are initially recognised as deferred income at
their fair value. Revenue from reward points is recognised when the points are redeemed or expired.

Commercial income
There are two types of commercial income recognised by the Company, both of which are recorded within cost
of sales:

Volume based rebates:

Income is earned by achieving volume or spend targets set by the supplier over a specific period of time.
Income is recognised through the year based on actual sale performance and the terms of the supplier
agreements. Income is invoiced throughout the year in accordance with the specific supplier terms. Income is
recognised as a reduction to the cost of goods sold.

Marketing and advertising funding:

Income is earned in respect of in-store point of sale marketing and promotions. Income is invoiced throughout
the year in accordance with the specific supplier terms. Income is recognised as a reduction to the cost of goods
sold during the promotional period.

Exceptional items

Income and expenditure which is significant by virtue of its size or nature and which is considered non-
recurring is classified as an exceptional item. Such items are included within the appropriate income statement
category but are highlighted separately in the financial statements. Exceptional items are excluded from the
underlying profit measures used by the Directors to monitor the underlying performance of the Company.

Finance income and costs policy
Interest payable and similar charges include interest payable and finance charges on finance leases, recognised

in profit or loss as they accrue using the effective interest method.

Other interest receivable and similar income include interest receivable on funds invested, recognised in profit
or loss as they accrue using the effective interest method.

21

Docusign Envelope ID: DAGDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

Foreign currency transactions and balances

Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rate prevailing at the date of
the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated into the
respective functional currency of the entity at the rates prevailing on the reporting period date. Non-monetary
items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate on the date when
the fair value is re-measured. Non-monetary items measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are
not retranslated.

Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of transactions and from the translation at
period-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognised in
the profit and loss.

Tax

The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in profit or loss, except
that a change attributable to an item of income or expense recognised as other comprehensive income is
recognised directly in other comprehensive income.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax rates and laws that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the reporting date in the countries where the Company operates and generates taxable
income.

Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences between taxable profits and profits reported in the
financial statements.

Unrelieved tax losses and other deferred tax assets are recognised when it is probable that they will be
recovered against the reversal of deferred tax liabilities or other future taxable profits.

Deferred tax is measured using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
reporting date and that are expected to apply to the reversal of the timing difference.

Tangible assets
Tangible assets are stated in the statement of financial position at cost, less any subsequent accumulated
depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.

Leases in which the Company assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset
are classified as finance leases. All other leases are classified as operating leases. Leased assets acquired by the
way of finance lease are stated on initial recognition at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the
present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease, including any incremental costs directly
attributable to negotiating and arranging the lease. At initial recognition a finance lease liability is recognised
equal to the fair value of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments. The
present value of the minimum lease payments is calculated using the interest rate implicit in the lease.

The cost of tangible assets includes directly attributable incremental costs incurred in their acquisition and
installation.

Depreciation

Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land and properties under construction
over their estimated useful lives on a straight line basis, as follows. Leased assets are depreciated over the
shorter of the lease term and their useful lives.

22

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1 114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)

Asset Class Depreciation method and rate
Freehold buildings 30 years straight line
Fixtures and fittings . 3-10 years straight line

Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed if there is an indication of a significant
change since the last annual reporting date in the pattern by which the Company expects to consume an asset's
future economic benefit.

Assets in the course of construction are stated at cost and are not depreciated until they are ready for use.

Tangible assets are derecognised on disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected. On disposal, the
difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss and
included in administrative expenses.

Goodwill

Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the
Company’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the
entity recognised at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is
subsequently measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is
held in the currency of the acquired entity and revalued to the closing rate at each reporting period date.
Goodwill is amortised over its useful life, which shall not exceed ten years if a reliable estimate of the useful
life cannot be made.

Intangible assets
Costs that are directly related to the development of internally generated software for the use by the Company
are recognised as an intangible asset. Direct costs include the software development and employee costs.

Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Company are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and
less accumulated impairment losses. ,

Goodwill and other intangible assets are tested for impairment in accordance with Section 27 Impairment of
assets when there is an indication that goodwill or an intangible asset may be impaired.

Amortisation
Amortisation is provided on intangible assets so as to write off the cost, less any estimated residual value, over
their useful life as follows:

Asset Class Depreciation method and rate
Software costs 3— 10 years straight line
Goodwill 10 - 20 years straight line

The Company reviews the amortisation period and method when events and circumstances indicate that
the useful life may have changed since the last reporting date.

Investments

Investments in equity shares which are publicly traded or where the fair value can be measured reliably are
initially measured at fair value, with changes in fair value recognised in profit or loss. Investments in equity
shares which are not publicly traded and where fair value cannot be measured reliably are measured at cost less
impairment.

23

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

Interest income on debt securities, where applicable, is recognised in income using the effective interest method.
Dividends on equity securities are recognised in income when receivable.

Stocks
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and estimated selling price less costs to complete and sell. Cost is
determined using the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method.

The cost of finished goods and work in progress comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour
costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and
condition. At each reporting date, stocks are assessed for impairment. If stocks are impaired, the carrying
amount is reduced to its selling price less costs to complete and sell; the impairment loss is recognised
immediately in profit or loss.

Trade debtors
Trade debtors are amounts due from customers for merchandise sold or services performed in the ordinary
course of business.

Trade debtors are recognised initially at the transaction price. They are subsequently measured at amortised cost
using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. A provision for the impairment of trade
debtors is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts
due according to the original terms of the receivables.

Loans receivable are measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are measured subsequently at
amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and call deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments
that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of change in
value.

Trade creditors :

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of
business from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if the Company does not have an
unconditional right, at the end of the reporting period, to defer settlement of the creditor for at least twelve
months after the reporting date. If there is an unconditional right to defer settlement for at least twelve months
after the reporting date, they are presented as non-current liabilities.

Trade creditors are recognised initially at the transaction price and subsequently measured at amortised cost
using the effective interest method.

Borrowings

Interest-bearing borrowings are initially recorded at fair value, net of transaction costs. Interest-bearing
borrowings are subsequently carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the proceeds, net of
transaction costs, and the amount due on redemption being recognised as a charge to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income over the period of the relevant borrowing.

Interest expense is recognised on the basis of the effective interest method and is included in interest payable
and similar charges. ©

24

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer
settlement of the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting date.

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Company has an obligation at the reporting date as a result ofa past event
and it is probable that the Company will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made
of the amount of the obligation.

Leases

Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as
operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over
the period of the lease.

Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and
rewards of ownership to the lessee.

Assets held under finance leases are recognised at the lower of their fair value at inception of the lease and the
present value of the minimum lease payments. These assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the
shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in
the Balance Sheet as a finance lease obligation.

Lease payments are apportioned between finance costs in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and a
reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of
the liability.

Share capital

Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Equity instruments are measured at the fair value of the cash or other
resources received or receivable, net of the direct costs of issuing the equity instruments. If payment is deferred
and the time value of money is material, the initial measurement is on a present value basis.

Defined contribution pension obligation

A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which fixed contributions are paid into a pension fund and
the Company has no legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions even if the fund does not hold
sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.

Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised as employee benefit expense when they are due. If
contribution payments exceed the contribution due for service, the excess is recognised as a prepayment.

Impairment

Financial assets:

Financial assets are assessed at each reporting date to determine whether there is objective evidence that it is
impaired. A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the
initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of
that asset that can be estimated reliably.

An impairment loss is calculated as the difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the
estimated future cash flows discounted at the asset’s original effective interest rate. Impairment losses are
recognised in profit or loss. When a subsequent event causes the amount of impairment loss to decrease, the
decrease in impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.

25

Docusign Envelope ID: DASDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

Non-financial assets:

The carrying amounts of the Company’s non-financial assets, other than stocks and deferred tax assets, are
reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such
indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-
generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.

For the purpose of impairment testing, assets that cannot be tested individually are grouped together into the
smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash
inflows of other assets or groups of assets (the “cash-generating unit”). An impairment loss is recognised if the
carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses are
recognised in profit or loss. An impairment loss is reversed if and only if the reasons for the impairment have
ceased to apply.

Sales and leaseback

Where a sale and leaseback transaction results in an operating lease, and it is clear that the transaction is
established at fair value, the seller-lessee recognises any profit or loss immediately. Where the sale price is
below fair value, the seller-lessee shall recognise any profit or loss immediately unless the loss is compensated
for by future lease payments at below market price. In that case the seller-lessee shall defer and amortise such
loss in proportion to the lease payments over the period for which the asset is expected to be used. Where the
sale price is above fair value, the seller-lessee shall defer the excess over fair value and amortise it over the
period for which the asset is expected to be used.

Accounting estimates and judgements

The preparation of financial statements requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires
management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the group and company accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are
significant to the financial statements, are disclosed below.

The key assumptions concerning the areas of uncertainty at the Balance Sheet date which have a significant risk
of causing a material adjustment to carrying amounts are:

Valuation of stock

The Company has a formal policy for making provisions for stock to ensure they are stated at the lower of cost
and net realisable value. This estimate is based on the current stock accounting policy. If the stock valuation was
to decrease by 1% this would lead to an adjustment of £1.2m. Management believe that the current stock
valuation is accurate, and no further provisions are required.

Capitalised internally generated assets

In the absence of timesheet data, internally generated assets are capitalised based on colleagues allocated to a
squad which is assigned to a capital project. Payroll costs associated with the squad are capitalised at 100% as
the percentage of time spent on other tasks is minimal and not measured due to their trivial value. Management
monitor prioritisation of work to ensure internally generated assets align to the strategy, deliver on time and
return benefit.

26

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AEO6BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

3. Turnover

2024 2023

£000 £000

Franchise and wholesale income 32,975 24,960
Retail sales 485,631 445,821 -

Online sales 127,059 119,094

: 645,665 589,875

All revenue is generated in the United Kingdom, with the exception of franchise and wholesale amounts which
is generated from franchise partners operating in various overseas countries.

4. Other operating income

2024 2023

£000 £000

Transfer pricing adjustments 7,993 775
VAT Recovery 440 -
8,433 7715

5. Operating loss
Arrived at after charging/(crediting)

; 2024 2023

£000 £000

Depreciation expense 30,482 . 24,732
Amortisation expense 38,202 39,812
Impairment of intangible assets 1,441 -
Impairment of tangible assets 2,107 -
Write-down of stocks to net realisable value - 1,659
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses (1,599) 60
Operating lease expense - property 48,644 49,302
Operating lease expense - plant and machinery 2,293 2,738
Exceptional administrative expenses 844 6,856
(Gain)/Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (273) 294
Impairment of investments 600 -
impairment of intercompany receivable 1,769 -

27

Docusign Envelope ID: DASDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

6. Auditors’ remuneration

2024 2023
£000 £000
Fees for the audit of the current year financial statements 140 136

Amounts receivable by the Company's auditors in respect of services to the Company, other than the audit of the
Company's financial statements, have not been disclosed as the information is disclosed on a consolidation basis
in the consolidated financial statements of Holland & Barrett International Limited.

7. Staff costs

The aggregate payroll costs (including directors’ remuneration) were as follows:

2024 2023

£000 £000

Wages and salaries 165,131 125,493
Social security costs 12,610 10,784
Other pension costs 3,384 2,641
181,125 138,918

Included in staff costs above is £6.0m relating to temporary labour (2023: £5.0m). £23.6m of staff costs are
capitalised due to staff working on capitalised projects, these costs are not included in this note (2023: £26.5m).

The monthly average number of persons employed by the Company (including directors) during the year,
analysed by category was as follows:

2024 2023

No. No.

Administration and support 1,260 1,156
Sales 4,548 4,328
Distribution 635 682

6,443 6,166
8. Directors’ remuneration

The directors’ remuneration for the year was as follows:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Remuneration 1,781 1,737
Pension contributions 135 -
Compensation for loss of office : 148
1,916 1,885

28

Docusign Envetope ID: DAGDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

8. Directors’ remuneration (continued)
During the year retirement benefits were accruing to 1 director (2023: nil) in respect of defined contribution

pension schemes.

In respect of the highest paid director:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Remuneration 778 637

In 2023, in respect of the highest paid director, £148k was paid as compensation for loss of office.

9. Other administrative exceptional items

2024 2023

£000 £000

Exceptional executive recruitment and personnel costs : 1,915
Exceptional legal and professional fees - (384)
Exceptional stock write off - 1,659
Entity closure costs - 1,570
VAT adjustment - (1,500)
Store and warehouse closure costs 844 2,896
One off charitable donations : 700
844 6,856

Exceptional costs of £Nil (2023: £1.9m) relate to recruitment and settlement costs due to significant
management changes within the year.

Exceptional legal and professional income of £Nil (2023: income £0.4m) relate to legal fees for discontinued
operations around the group, strategy costs and other consultancy fees.

Exceptional costs of £Nil (2023: £1.7m) relate to accelerated write off of stock close to expiry due to Covid-19
and product line discontinuations.

Exceptional costs of £Nil (2023: £1.6m) relate to the closure of Blow Limited, Tullytown SL and the Chinese
operations as part of the reassessment of the group strategy.

Exceptional VAT adjustment of £Nil (2023: Income £1.5m) relates to the correction of VAT balance sheet items.

Exceptional costs of £0.8m (2023: £2.9m) relate to store and warehouse closure costs as part of the reassessment
of the store portfolio.

Exceptional costs of £Nil (2023: £0.7m) relate to donations to support charities supporting the Ukraine crisis.

29

Docusign Envelope ID: DASDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

10. Interest receivable and similar income

2024 2023
£000 £000
Interest income on bank deposits 37 62
Interest receivable on loans to group undertakings 5,768 5,639
§,805 5,701
11. Interest payable and similar expenses
2024 2023
£000 £000
Interest on obligations under finance leases and hire purchase
contracts 1,625 1,886
Interest payable on loans from group undertakings 2,423 2,271
Other interest payable 24 §2
4,072 4,209 _
12. Taxation on loss
Tax charged in the Statement of Comprehensive Income
2024 2023
£000 £000
Current taxation
UK corporation tax adjustment to prior periods - (706)
Overseas taxes 48 :
Total current taxation 48 706
Deferred taxation
Arising from origination and reversal of timing differences - 4,259
Arising from changes in tax rates and laws : -
Adjustment to prior periods = 2,903
Total deferred taxation - 7,162
Tax expense in the Statement of Comprehensive Income 48 6,456

The tax on profit before tax for the year is higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK (2023:
higher than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK) of 25% (2023: 22%).

30

Docusign Envelope ID: DAGDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

12. Taxation on loss (continued)

The differences are reconciled below:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Loss before tax (72,119) (57,292)
Profit multiplied by the standard rate of tax in the UK of 25% (2023:
22%) (18,030) (12,604)
Decrease from effect of different UK tax rates on some earnings - (1,633)
Effect of expenses not deductible in determining taxable loss 1,260 632
Impact of losses not recognised 16,770 17,864
Adjustments to prior periods - 2,197
Impact of overseas tax rate 48 -
48 6,456
Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities

Asset Liability
£000 £000

2024
Accelerated capital allowances - (11,105)
Short term timing differences 492 -
Losses 10,613 -
11,105 (11,105)
Asset Liability
£000 £000

2023
Accelerated capital allowances - (5,702)
Short term timing differences 955 -
Losses 4,747 -

5,702 (5,702)

The net deferred tax asset / (liability) is £Nil (2023: £Nil).

The entity did not recognise deferred income tax assets of £37.5m (2023: £18.1m) in respect of losses
amounting to £149.9m (2023: £72.4m) that can be carried forward against further taxable income.

31

Docusign Envelope ID: DASDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

13. Intangible assets

Goodwill Software costs Total
£000 £000 £000
Cost or valuation
At 1 October 2023 668 197,326 197,994
Additions - 30,879 30,879
Disposals : (39,572) (39,572)
At 30 September 2024 668 188,633 189,301
Accumulated Amortisation and Impairment
At 1 October 2023 587 134,762 135,349
Amortisation charge 30 38,172 38,202
Impairment expense - 1,441 1,441
Amortisation eliminated on disposals - (39,572) (39,572)
At 30 September 2024 617 134,803 135,420
Carrying amount
At 30 September 2024 51 53,830 53,881
At 30 September 2023 81 62,564 62,645

The amortisation charge was recognised in the following line items in the Statement of Comprehensive income:

Administrative expenses
Distribution costs

2024
£000

35,674
2,528
38,202

2023
£000

37,312
2,500
39,812

There are capital commitments of £4.8m (2023: £Nil) for the Company at the reporting date. The capital
commitments related to committed capital expenditure on the development of internal software, which reflect

critical IT infrastructure of the Company.

32

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

14. Tangible assets

Freehold Fixtures and
buildings fittings Total
£000 £000 £000

Cost or valuation
At | October 2023 53,068 208,604 261,672
Additions 2,954 54,856 57,810
Disposals : (10,703) (10,703)
At 30 September 2024 56,022 252,757 308,779
Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment
At 1 October 2023 12,831 109,096 121,927
Depreciation expense 2,774 27,708 30,482
Impairment expense - 2,107 2,107
Eliminated on disposal - (10,395) (10,395)
At 30 September 2024 15,605 128,516 144,121
Carrying amount
At 30 September 2024 40,417 124,241 164,658
At 30 September 2023 40,237 99,508 139,745

The net carrying amount of assets under a finance lease was £40.1m (2023: £39.9m). The leased asset secures

property lease obligations (see note 2/).

There are capital commitments of £53.8m (2023: £Nil) for the Company at the reporting date. The capital

commitments related to committed capital expenditure on the refurbishment and improvement of the Company’s

store portfolio across the UK.

Impairment
Furniture, fittings and equipment

The impairment charge relates to fixed assets on loss making stores included in the onerous lease provision. The
amount of impairment loss included in profit or loss is £2.1m (2023: £Nil). The impairment loss is included in

Administrative Expenses.

33

Docusign Envelope 1D: DASDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

15, Investments

Cost or valuation
At 1 October 2023
Impairment

At 30 September 2024
Carrying amount

At 30 September 2024

At 30 September 2023

During the year the Company impaired its investment in Beyond 100 Limited.

Details of undertakings

Total
£000

600
600

600

Details of the investments in which the Company holds 20% or more of the nominal value of any class of share

capital are as follows:

Undertaking Registered Office

Subsidiary

undertakings

Holland & Barrett Samuel Ryder House, Barling

Limited Way, Eliot Park, Nuneaton,
Warwickshire, CV107RH

Holland & Barrett 1 Waterhouse Place, Cape town

(South Africa) Pty 8001, South Africa

Limited

Lifecycle 2018 Samuel Ryder House, Barling

Limited Way, Eliot Park, Nuneaton,
Warwickshire, CV107RH

Beyond 100 Samuel Ryder House, Barling

Limited Way, Eliot Park, Nuneaton,
Warwickshire, CV107RH

Holding

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Ordinary

Proportion of voting rights
and shares held

2024 2023

100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%

All subsidiary undertakings are dormant except for Beyond 100 Limited which has a principal activity of IT App

Development.

34

Docusign Envelope ID: DASDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

16.

7.

18.

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

Stocks
2024 2023
£000 £000
Raw materials and consumables 16,160 12,941
Finished goods and goods for resale 93,819 100,771
109,979 113,712

The cost of stocks recognised as an expense in the year amounted to £273.1m (2023: £247.6m). As at 30
September 2024, there was a stock provision of £1.2m (2023: £3.2m).

Impairment of stocks
The amount of impairment loss included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income was £5.5m (2023: £5.0m).
The impairment loss is included in Cost of Sales.

Trade and other receivables

2024 - 2023
£000 £000

Due within one year
Trade Debtors 10,932 11,664
Amounts owed by group undertakings 298,578 291,904
Prepayments 26,194 17,000
Accrued income 7,266 4,405
Other Debtors 23 -
Corporation tax receivable 207 1,184
343,200 326,157

Included in amounts owed by group undertakings is a loan receivable of £0.5m due from Holland & Barrett Asia
Limited (2023: £Nil) and £96.0m from Holland & Barrett Group limited (2023: £96.0m), both balances are
unsecured. The former incurs interest of BOE base rate plus a margin of 5.0%, the latter incurs interest of a
fixed rate of 5.0% per annum. The remaining balance is unsecured and interest free.

Cash at bank and in hand
2024 2023
£000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand , 62,977 23,010

Credit Quality of Financial Institutions
The Company’s cash is held with banks and financial institutions that are rated by external credit rating
agencies. The following table provides details of the credit rating of this institution.

Credit
Financial Institution Credit Rating Agency Rating Amount (£m)
Barclays Bank UK Standard & Poor's At 61.0

35

Docusign Envelope ID: DAGDFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

19.

20.

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

Creditors

Due within one year

Finance lease liabilities

Loans and borrowings

Trade creditors

Amounts owed to group undertakings
Taxation and social security

Other creditors

Accrued loan interest

Accruals and deferred income

Due after more than one year
Accruals and deferred income
Finance lease liabilities

Loans and borrowings

2024
£000

3,213
$1,933
153,769
10,100
101

7
55,123

274,246

2024
£000

13,476
42,843
35,000

91,319

2023
£000

1,469
66,000
73,730

146,309

9,224

289

1,894

54,688

353,603

2023
£000

14,137
43,048

57,185

The amount owed to group undertakings (Precision Engineered Limited) of £6.5m (2023: £6.5m) is unsecured
and repayable on demand. Interest is charged at a fixed margin of 2.0% plus SONIA. The remaining balance is

unsecured and interest free.

Provisions
Onerous leases
£000
At 1 October 2023 1,159
Increase/(decrease) in existing provisions (639)
At 30 September 2024 520

The provision for onerous leases relates to loss making stores.

Deferred tax
£000

Total
£000

1,159
639

520

Provisions for onerous leases of £0.5m (2023: £1.2m) are expected to be utilised within one year of the balance
sheet date. Management have used their best judgement in determining the level of provision required for

matters that are uncertain as at balance sheet date.

36

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AEO6BE20C4B0

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

21. Loans and borrowings

2024 2023
£000 £000
Current loans and borrowings
Finance lease liabilities 3,213 1,469
Intercompany loan - 66,000
3,213 67,469
2024 2023
£000 £000
Non-current loans and borrowings
Finance lease liabilities 42,843 43,048
Intercompany loan 35,000 : -
77,843 43,048
Terms and repayment schedule
Nominal
interest Year of Repayment 2024 2023
Currency rate maturity schedule £000 £000
Finance lease °
liabilities GBP 3-5.6% 2042-2045 Monthly 46,056 44,517
Intercompany 0, Upon
loan (RCF) GBP ™% 2027 maturity 35,000 66,000
81,056 110,517
Minimum lease payments under finance lease liabilities are as follows:
2024 2023
£000 £000
Within one year 3,213 3,040
Between 1-5 years 12,853 12,161
Over 5 years 47,082 47,822
Less: finance charges (17,092) (18,506)
46,056 44,517

Finance leases are secured on the assets to which they relate.

22. Pension and other schemes

37

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AEQ6BE20C4B0

23.

24.

25.

26.

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The pension cost charge for the year represents
contributions payable by the Company to the scheme and amounted to £3.4m (2023: £2.6m).

Contributions totalling £0.8m (2023: £0.6m) were payable to the scheme at the end of the year and are included
in creditors.

Obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts
2024 2023
£000 £000
Not later than one year 37,863 40,709
Later than one year and not later than five years 66,396 80,633
Later than five years 10,109 8,793
114,368 130,135

The amount of non-cancellable operating lease payments recognised as an expense during the year was £50.9m
(2023: £52.0m).

Within the total balance, £113.1m (2023: £128.8m) relates to land and buildings and £1.3m (2023: £1.3m)
relates to other items. :

Share capital

Allotted, called up and fully paid shares

2024 2023
No. 000 £000 No. 000 £000

Ordinary shares of £1 each 1,050 1,050 1,050 1,050

Rights, preferences and restrictions

Ordinary Shares have the following rights, preferences and restrictions:

The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to
one vote per share at meetings of the Company.

Reserves

Profit and loss account
The profit and loss account represents the accumulated profits, losses and distributions of the Company.

Share premium reserve

The share premium reserve represents the excess monies paid over the nominal value of the shares in issue.
During the year the Company issued 2 ordinary shares, one in November 2023 and one in September 2024. The
share premium recognised on these transactions were £147.0m and £39.9m respectively. The shares were issued
as part of a group debt restructuring that occurred in the year.

Related party transactions

38

Docusign Envelope ID: DA6DFOFB-1114-4732-8696-AE06BE20C4B0

27.

Holland & Barrett Retail Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
Year ended 30 September 2024

The Company has transacted in the year with related parties, being subsidiaries and other members of the wider
group of LetterOne Investment Holdings S.A. As all such related parties transacted with are wholly owned
members of the wider group, the Company has taken advantage of FRS 102 33.11 from disclosing transactions
with such fellow Group members.

Parent and ultimate parent undertaking

The Company's immediate parent is Holland & Barrett Holdings Limited, incorporated in United Kingdom.
The ultimate controlling party is LetterOne Investment Holdings S.A., incorporated in Luxembourg.

The parent of the largest group in which these financial statements are consolidated is LIR HB Holdings
Limited, incorporated in Jersey.

The address of LIR HB Holdings Limited is:
22 Grenville Street, St Hellier, Jersey, Channel Islands, JE4¢ 8PX

The parent of the smallest group in which these financial statements are consolidated is Holland & Barrett

International Limited, incorporated in United Kingdom. Financial statements can be obtained upon request from
Samuel Ryder House Barling Way, Eliot Park, Nuneaton, Warwickshire, CV10 7RH.

39°

