HomeServe Membership Limited

Annual report and financial statements for the nine
month period ended

31 December 2023

Company Registration No: 02770612

QU

‘ADOMTMAI

>
<
pc
x
ire

il

A18 16/08/2024 #205

COMPANIES HOUSE

HomeServe Membership Limited

Registered Number

Registered Office

Auditors

02770612

Cable Drive
Walsall
WS2 7BN

Deloitte LLP

Four Brindleyplace
Birmingham
United Kingdom
B1 2HZ

Contents

Strategic report

Strategic report

Environment, energy, and carbon reporting
Corporate governance

Risk management

Section 172 statement

Directors’ report

Directors’ report

Directors’ responsibilities statement

Financial statements

Independent Auditor's report

Company Financial Statements

=

on & Ww

12
15

Strategic report

The Directors present their strategic report for the nine month period ended 31 December 2023. The Company
elected to change the reporting period from 31 March to 31 December to align the financial year with the ultimate
parent Company.

Principal Activity

The Company's principal activity is that of retailing, through direct mail, contact centres and online, affinity branded
domestic assistance insurance policies which are underwritten by a third party. The Company provides plumbing,
drainage, gas and electrics cover together with a range of other emergency policies to customers of water and
energy companies and other affinity partners. There have not been any significant changes in the Company's
principal trading activity in the period under review.

The Directors are not aware, at the date of this report, of any likely major changes in the Company's activities in
the next year.

Financial Review

Revenue for the nine months ended 31 December 2023 was £191,310,000 compared to £291,684,000 for the
year ended 31 March 2023. The period of January through to March is typically when revenue is highest due to
the high volume policy renewal months hence the reduction in revenue is not proportionate to the shorter
accounting period. The average revenue per policyholder increased in the period from £146 to £148 due to applied
price increases required to mitigate inflationary cost pressures. Operating costs are more proportionate and were
£165,928,000 in the period compared to £228,748,000 for the year ended 31 March 2023. As a result of the
seasonality described above, the operating profit was £25,382,000 which compares to £62,936,000 for the year
ended 31 March 2023, giving an operating profit margin of 13% (31 March 2023: 21%).

Interest payable decreased from £1,364,000 to £1,336,000 and income from shares in Group undertakings was
£6,841,000 (31 March 2023: nil). There were adjusting items in the period of £40,203,000 (31 March 2023:
£1,730,000), which related to the closure of a subsidiary, the impairment of other subsidiary investments and the
write-off of an intercompany receivable. Further details are disclosed in note 10 of the financial statements. This
resulted in statutory loss before tax of £8,223,000 (31 March 2023: profit of £60,817,000).

Statutory loss after tax was £13,917,000 (31 March 2023: profit of £48,785,000).

The balance sheet in the financial statements shows the Company's financial position at the period end. During
the period, net assets decreased from £164,838,000 to £125,921,000. Cash and cash equivalents net of overdrafts
have decreased from £8,801 ,000 to a net debt of £1,379,000 during the period. Total dividends, in line with policy,
were paid to the parent company for £25,000,000 (31 March 2023: £45,578,000).

Principal Risks and Uncertainties

Risks and uncertainties that could have a material impact on the Company's future performance are:

Market Disruption and policyholder retention;

Commercial Partnerships;

M8A strategy;

{T & Cyber Security;

Underwriting Capacity and Concentration;

Regulation & Customer Focus;

Recruitment & Talent;

Constraints on Investments on IT systems hindering growth and efficiency;
Digital & Innovation;

Financial strategy and treasury risk.

These risks are discussed in detail in the UK Group's, HomeServe Limited's, consolidated Annual Report which
does not form part of this Report.

Strategic report

Employment Policies

It is the Company’s policy that all persons should be considered for employment, training, career development
and promotion on the basis of their abilities and attitudes, regardless of physical ability, age, gender, sexual
orientation, religion or ethnic origin.

The Company applies employment policies that are fair and equitable for all employees and which ensure entry
into and progression within the Company are determined solely by application of job criteria and personal ability
and competency.

Full and fair consideration (having regard to the person's particular attitudes and abilities) is given to applications
for employment and the career development of disabled persons. The Company’s training and development
policies make it clear that it will take all steps practicable to ensure that employees who become disabled during
the time they are employed by the Company are able to continue to perform their duties.

We have recently appointed a full-time Head of Diversity, Equity and Inclusion and are rolling out a comprehensive
DE&I strategy that addresses the protected characteristics of the Equality Act as well as other cultural areas that
impact our people. The strategy includes the creation of an Inclusion Network of employees and an enhanced
focus on leadership training, recruitment and talent pathways.

We use a range of regular communication channels to keep employees briefed on the Company’s strategic and
financial progress and any ongoing initiatives that may affect them. This is a two-way process and employees are
actively encouraged to share ideas and opinions with senior management.

Financial Results

The Company's results are shown in the Statement of Comprehensive income. The comprehensive loss for the
period of £13,917,000 (year ended March 2023: comprehensive income of £49,363,000) has been transferred to
retained earnings.

Key performance indicators

Our KPls are the measures we use to track progress against our strategic priorities and in building our sources of
value. They help us analyse past performance and give us insight into future prospects.

9 months Year

ended ended

December March

2023 2023

Policyholders 1.3m 1.4m
Policies 3.6m 3.8m
Retention rate 76% 78%
Income per policyholder £148 £146
Customer dissatisfaction 4% 5%

e  Policyholders — typically tracks our success in converting our addressable market into revenue-generating
policyholders, by delivering great products and services.
Policies - illustrates our ability to grow our product line through customer focus and innovation.
e Retention rate - reflects our ability to deliver fit-for-purpose products and great service to our policyholders.
@ Income per policyholder - measures our ability to design and market increasingly valuable products, and sell
them efficiently
Customer dissatisfaction — reflects the quality of our service delivery to our policyholders
UK policyholders were 1.3m (31 March 2023: 1.4m) with retention rate of 76% (31 March 2023: 78%). The UK
business remains focused on serving its core policyholder base, for whom the HomeServe proposition of a reliable
and easy way to deal with home repairs and emergencies remains as valued as ever. There continues to be less
emphasis on attracting and retaining marginal policyholders through deep discounts. The Company has applied
price increases due to inflationary cost pressures during the financial year, which resulted in increased income per
policyholder.

Strategic report

Corporate Responsibility Programmes

The Company has a community programme which includes a Charity and Community Strategy enabling employees
to make a difference. The business chooses one national charity partner and the regional offices choose a local
partner.

Environment, Energy and Carbon Reporting

The Company and the wide HomeServe Group are committed to environmental sustainability. We recognise that
the Company has a responsibility to act in a way that respects the environment and as such, all our employees
are encouraged to incorporate an awareness of environmental issues into decision-making processes. The
climate-related financial disclosures made below comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 as
amended by the Companies Strategic Report Climate-related Financial Disclosure Regulations 2022.

Management and governance

At a Group level, the Board of HomeServe Limited has ultimate responsibility for the oversight of climate-related
risks and opportunities. They receive an annual update on climate related risks and an overview of the key climate
related initiatives for the year. The Group Chief Financial Officer of HomeServe Limited is the nominated Director
for activity on an operational basis. Group climate related risks and opportunities are identified through the Group
risk function with support from our environmental advisors, and members of the Group team. Risks and
opportunities are reviewed following material changes to the business or every three years. A review was last
performed in 2023.

Risks and opportunities attributable to climate

Severe weather could lead to operational challenges. We could see claims numbers increasing, supply chain
disruption and difficulties in scheduling repairs. Potential business model impacts include decreased profit due to
increases in claims; and lower customer retention due to dissatisfied customers if there are challenges to our
operational capabilities. This is somewhat mitigated by the value customers derive from our evolving and
insurance minded products for home comfort, as recognised in our opportunities listed above. We will work to
understand the local impacts of extreme weather events and increase the flexibility and capacity of our networks.

There is a need to train our engineers in low carbon technologies. Regulatory uncertainty may impact market
conditions as well as the timeframe and severity of this risk. To enable this transition, the business has to prioritise
green activities in its strategy and increase financial and time resources into engaging with and understanding the
supply chain and market environments.

Emerging regulation could impact us in several ways, including increased operating costs caused by higher
energy, fuel, and parts costs. These increased costs will impact the business’ financials by reducing our profit
margin. To mitigate this, HomeServe Limited has set emissions targets for the Group and is working on a
decarbonisation strategy including engagement with value chain partners.

The commercialisation, deployment and financing of low carbon heating solutions presents major opportunities for
installation, maintenance, and cover. HomeServe can significantly drive revenues from its heating products and
services by being the leader in this transition.

The low-carbon transition will create more low-carbon market opportunities for the Company. The Company will
be flexible in adapting its product and technology strategy to local conditions based on market demand, and this
will be determined by evolving government regulation and incentivisation.

Metrics and Targets

HomeServe Limited set and had verified science-based targets for the Group’s operations (Scope 1&2), aligned to
limiting global warming to 1.5-degrees, meaning a 38% absolute reduction in GHG emissions by 2031 from a 2022
base year, and the Group’s value chain (Scope 3), in line with a 2-degrees temperature pathway, meaning an
11.1% absolute reduction in GHG emissions by 2031 from a 2022 base year. HomeServe Limited is re-evaluating
these targets following material changes to the Group's operations.

In order to achieve these targets, the Group is focused on supporting our customers’ transition to green-heating
technologies, transitioning our fleet to electric and switching to green energies across our sites.

Strategic report

The Group tracks and reports on our carbon emissions on an annual basis. For Scope 1&2 emissions we track our
gas, electric, and vehicles’ fuel and for category 3.6 we track all spend on business travel including hotels, and all
modes of public and private travel. The data used includes activity-based data (utility bills and readings, and fuel
reports and cards) and financial-based data to ensure complete data for fuel and business travel. Our carbon
emissions modelling is developed in line with the GHG protocol.

The data below is in respect of the Company:

Scopes 1, 2 and 3.6

Global tonnes of CO2e 31. December 202331 March 2023
Scope 1

Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 4,037 5,664
Scope 3.6

Emissions from business travel 1,012 353

Scope 2 (location-based)

Electricity, heat, steam, and cooling purchased for own use 385 1,089
Total Scope 1 & 2 (location-based) & business travel emissions 5,434 7,106

Scope 2 (market-based)

Electricity, heat, steam, and cooling purchased for own use 713 2,124
Tonnes of CO2e per employee 2.86 3.51
KwH 2023 2022
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 18,110,570 25,701,027
Electricity, heat, steam, and cooling purchased for own use 1,859,688 5,632,427
Total 19,970,258 31,333,454

We have reported on all of the emissions sources required under The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and
Directors’ Report) Regulations 2013 and the Companies (Directors’ Report) and Limited Liability Partnerships
(Energy and Carbon Report) Regulations 2018 — commonly referred to as Streamlined Energy and Carbon
Reporting (SECR).

Corporate Governance Report

As a Board, we believe that good corporate governance underpins good business performance. We are
accountable to our shareholders for ensuring that governance processes are in place and are effective and we are
fully committed to meeting the required standards.

The Board has adopted the Wates Corporate Governance Principles for Large Private Companies and the purpose
of this report is to explain how the Principles have been applied in the financial year.

Purpose and leadership

We have a clearly defined strategy to become a leader in home efficiency. This strategy has been communicated
throughout the organisation.

The Board monitors performance against the strategic objectives and plan and reviews the implementation of the
strategy.

Strategic report

Our values and culture are articulated through our People and Customer Promises and the Board receives regular
updates in respect of employee engagement and customer insight. The Board gains valuable insight and feedback
from the Executive Directors in respect of the culture and behaviour across the business and the internal audit
function also considers culture as part of their reviews.

Board composition

As at 31 December 2023, the Board comprised three independent Non-Executive Directors (including the
Chairman) and three Executive Directors. The Non-Executive Directors have a diverse range of skills and
experience which enables them to oversee business performance and provide constructive challenges. The
Executive Directors have extensive commercial, financial and operational experience both within HomeServe and
beyond.

The Chairman, David Hynam, is responsible for the effective operation of the Board. Six meetings are held each
year and the agenda is balanced between strategic discussions, business performance and control matters.

The Board has implemented a process for reviewing its effectiveness and that of its Committees. The last formal
review was completed in 2021.

Director responsibilities

The Board is responsible for the effective leadership and long-term success of the Company. Terms of reference
are in place and the Board has also approved written terms of reference of the Committees to which it has delegated
its authority in certain matters.

As the Company is regulated by the FCA, the accountabilities and responsibilities of each Director are set out in
their Senior Management Statements of Responsibilities. In addition, the governance framework is set out in a
Management Responsibilities Map.

The day to day running of the business is the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer. An Executive Committee
supports him in his duties.

Opportunity and risk

The Board's primary responsibility is to promote the long-term success of the Company by creating and delivering
sustainable shareholder value. The execution of the strategy is assessed regularly and aspects of the strategy are
discussed at each Board meeting as required.

The Board has delegated oversight of risk to a Risk, Assurance & Compliance Committee which is chaired by an
Independent Non-Executive Director, Anne Torry. Terms of reference have been agreed for the Committee and
where appropriate, the Committee refers matters to the Board for discussion. Minutes of the Committee meetings
are circulated to the Board as a whole and the Chairman of the Committee provides an update on discussions to
the Board.

The Compliance & Risk Director reports to the Board at each meeting and attends all meetings of the Board and
the Risk, Assurance & Compliance Committee.

There is an established process for managing risk in the business. Oversight of the process is provided by an
Executive Risk Management Group which meets six times a year and is chaired by the Chief Risk Officer, reporting
through to the Executive Management Committee. The risk governance model is based on the ‘three lines of
defence’ as follows:

1% line of defence

A risk management framework is in place which includes the agreed risk appetite, policies and procedures. There
is a formal process for identifying, managing and reporting on the operational and financial risks faced by the
business. Risks are reviewed in detail at the Executive Risk Management Group and, on an overall basis, by the
Risk, Assurance & Compliance Committee. Support is provided by the 2nd line of defence oversight functions.

Strategic report

2°¢ line of defence

Independent oversight is provided by the various control functions including risk, compliance and specialist
functions such as health & safety and information security. The 2nd line provides advice to the Board and the Risk,
Assurance & Compliance Committee on risk appetites, independent review of risk ratings and action plans and
reports on risk management.

3" line of defence

HomeServe Limited (the UK parent company) has a dedicated internal audit function which covers all UK Group
companies including HomeServe Membership Limited (the Company) and a formal audit plan is in place to address
the key risks and the operation and effectiveness of internal controls. The function reports to the Board through the
Risk, Assurance & Compliance Committee.

Remuneration

As a wholly owned subsidiary, the Company's remuneration structures for Executives are guided by the
remuneration policy set by HomeServe Limited. That policy is based on the following principles:

e to align rewards with the Group’s financial and operational performance

e to ensure that remuneration, in particular, variable pay, supports the Group's strategy as a customer
focused operation

« to attract, retain and motivate high calibre executives

A Remuneration & People Committee has been established, which is chaired by an Independent Non-Executive
Director, Amanda Rendle, and has an agreed terms of reference. The Committee approves the remuneration of
Executives, taking into account information on pay and conditions elsewhere in the Company.

Stakeholder relationships and engagement

The Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of HomeServe Limited. Two of HomeServe Limited’s Executive
Directors regularly attend Board meetings and this allows the view of shareholders to be shared and considered.
HomeServe Limited is owned by Hestia Bidco Limited, an indirect subsidiary of Brookfield Corporation.

Executives have responsibility for managing key stakeholders including the workforce, customers, contractors,
underwriters and suppliers. They ensure that insight from these groups is presented to the Board and considered
as part of the decision-making process.

Our people are one of our most important stakeholders and the Chief People Officer attends Board and Committee
meetings on a regular basis to ensure that there is appropriate focus on this group. An employee engagement
survey is completed biannually and the results, along with action plans to address any issues are discussed at the
Remuneration & People Committee and the Board.

As a customer facing business, our policyholders are another key stakeholder group. Customer insight is regularly
presented to the Board and customer outcomes are at the centre of discussions at the Risk, Assurance &
Compliance Committee.

Section 172(1) statement

Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 requires a director of a company to act in the way they consider, in good
faith, would most likely promote the success of the company for the benefit of its members as a whole and in doing
so, have regard to particular matters. The Directors understand that how they behave matters to the stakeholders
that have an interest in our business and that having productive relationships with our stakeholders is key to our
ongoing success.

It is acknowledged that it is not possible for all of the Board’s decisions to result in a positive outcome for every
stakeholder group. When making decisions, the Board considers the Company's purpose, vision and values,
together with its strategic priorities and takes account of its role as a responsible corporate citizen. By doing this,
the aim is to ensure that decisions are robust and sustainable.

Strategic report

The Directors have had regard for the matters set out in section 172(1) (a) — (f) of the Companies Act 2006 (s172(1))
when performing their duty under section 172. The Directors consider that they have acted in good faith in the way
that would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole, while
also having regard to the s172(1) matters referred to below.

The table below sets out our approach to stakeholder engagement:

Long-term results — the likely
consequences of any decision in
the long-term

Decisions taken during the period are made in the context of the long-
term strategy and with regard to the Group's capital allocation model.
Shorter-term expectations in respect of the strategy are approved as part
of the budget process, against which performance is then monitored.

Our workforce -— the interests of
our employees

Our business relationships — the
importance of developing the
Company’s business relationships
with suppliers, customers and
others

The community and our
environment — the impact of the
Company’s operations on the
community and the environment

Our reputation —- our desire to
maintain our reputation for high
standards of business conduct

Our people are critical to the success of our business, and we want them
to be successful individually, and as a team. We aim to support an
inclusive environment where everyone is treated with respect. We work
hard to engage with and listen to our colleagues in a variety of ways.
Our engagement survey provides detailed insight into the views of our
people and is used to develop local engagement plans.

Managing these relationships is critical to ensuring the Company delivers
on its strategy. In respect of customers, we need to understand and meet
their needs and it is recognised that we need to develop and deploy a
range of services beyond our traditional membership model, particularly
in helping our customers seek greener alternatives for their homes.

We actively seek the views of our customers through reviews and
research with customer satisfaction being a key metric in the annual
bonus scheme.

We aim to build strong supplier relationships and develop mutually
beneficial partnerships. Engagement with suppliers is primarily through
a series of interactions and formal reviews.

The Company seeks to have a positive impact on the communities in
which it operates and reduce its impact on the environment. Key areas
of focus include how we can support local causes and issues and create
opportunities to recruit and develop local people. We continue to offer
apprenticeships to invest in the workforce of the future.

In terms of the environment, we have set targets at a UK Group level in
respect of our Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions and are working on
improving our data collection and monitoring to accurately track our
progress against these targets.

We expect all of our people to demonstrate the highest standards of
integrity. Regardless of role, seniority, or location, they are required to
comply with our Code of Business Conduct, our policies, and standards,
and with all applicable laws and regulations that relate to their work.
Training is provided on the Code, and we have an external whistle
blowing hotline through which concerns can be raised on an anonymous
basis.

Our shareholders, investors in the
funds held by the ultimate parent
and debtholders

lt is important that our shareholders and their representatives have a
good understanding of our strategy, business model and culture.
Representatives of HomeServe Limited attend all Board meetings and a
number of Brookfield representatives sit on the HomeServe Limited
Board. Brookfield's approval is required for significant capital
expenditure and strategic investments.


Strategic report

Going Concern and Future Outlook

The Directors have reviewed the Company's budget, forecast and cash flows for 2024 and beyond, and concluded
that they are in line with their expectations with regards to the Company's strategy and future growth plans. in
addition, the Directors have reviewed the Company's position in respect of material uncertainties and have
concluded that there are no items that would affect going concern or that should be separately disclosed.

The Directors have concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and at least twelve months from the approval of the

accounts. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.

The Directors are not aware, at the date of this report, of any likely major changes in the Company’s activities in
the next year.

Approved for issue by the Board

Nie

Nicholas Kasmir Steven Rollings
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
14 August 2024 14 August 2024

Directors’ Report

The Directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report and audited financial statements for the nine month
period ended 31 December 2023.

Principal risks and uncertainties and employment policies alongside a statement of going concern, are included in
the Strategic Report.

Information about the Directors’ regard to the need to foster the company’s business relationships with stakeholders
is presented in the s172 statement in the Strategic Report.

Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company is given in note 31 to the financial statements.
Directors
The Directors who held office up to the date of signing, unless as stated, were as follows:

Executive Directors:

John Kitzie (resigned 31 December 2023)
John Hunter (resigned 31 March 2024)
Nicholas Kasmir

Amy Beibeck (appointed 23 January 2024)
Steven Rollings (appointed 31 March 2024)

Non-Executive Directors:
Anne Torry

Amanda Rendle

David Hynam

None of the Directors had a material interest in any trading contract to which the Company was a party during the
financial year.

Dividends

During the period the Company paid dividends of £25,000,000 (year ended March 2023: £45,578,000). At the date
of issue, no further dividend was proposed or declared by the Directors.

Political Contributions

No political contributions were made in the current period or prior year.

Directors’ indemnities and insurance

The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were in
place during the year and remain in force at the date of this report. The Company maintains directors’ and officers’
liability insurance for its Directors and officers, and for the officers of the parent Company and any subsidiaries.

Auditor

Pursuant to Section 487 of the Companies Act 2006, Deloitte LLP as existing auditor will be deemed to be
reappointed and will continue in office.

Disclosure of Information to Auditor

Each of the Directors confirms that:

« so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditor is
unaware; and

« the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make
himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditor is
aware of that information.

Directors’ Report

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies
Act 2006.

Approved for issue by the Board

Nie

Nicholas Kasmir

Steven Rollings
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
14 August 2024 14 August 2024

10

Directors’ Responsibilities Statement

The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRS) as issued by the IASB. Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and
of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.

{n preparing these financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors:

¢ properly select and apply accounting policies;

e present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable
and understandable information;

¢ provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of the financial reporting
framework are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events
and conditions on the entity's financial position and financial performance; and

¢ make an assessment of the company's ability to continue as a going concern.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information

included on the company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

11

Independent Auditor’s Report

Independent auditor’s report to the members of HomeServe Membership Limited

Report on the audit of the financial statements

Opinion
(n our opinion the financial statements of HomeServe Membership Limited (the ‘company’):

* give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of its loss for the
period then ended;

* have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom adopted international accounting
standards and International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as issued by the International Accounting
Standards Board (IASB); and

+ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements which comprise:
the statement of comprehensive income;

the balance sheet;

the statement of changes in equity;

the cash flow statement;

the material accounting policy information; and

the related notes 1 to 31.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law, and United Kingdom
adopted international accounting standards and IFRSs as issued by the |ASB.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor's responsibilities for the audit
of the financial statements section of our report.

We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of
the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council's (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard, and
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individuatly or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a
going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements
and our auditor's report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the annual
report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent
otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial
statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control
as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

12

Independent Auditor’s Report

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis
of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance
with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website
at: www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud irregularities, including
fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our
responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The
extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.

We considered the nature of the company’s industry and its control environment, and reviewed the company’s
documentation of their policies and procedures relating to fraud and compliance with laws and regulations. We also
enquired of management and the directors about their own identification and assessment of the risks of
irregularities, including those that are specific to the company’s business sector.

We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the company operates in, and identified
the key laws and regulations that:

* had a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The
key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, pensions legislation
and local tax legislation; and

+ donot have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental to the
company’s ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty. These included compliance with Financial
Conduct Authority regulation for the UK operating segments.

We discussed among the audit engagement team including significant component audit teams and relevant internal
specialists such as tax, IT and regulatory specialists regarding the opportunities and incentives that may exist within
the organisation for fraud and how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements.

As a result of performing the above, we identified the greatest potential for fraud in the following areas, and our
procedures performed to address them are described below:

The company defers a portion of the revenue received for a policy sale that is deemed to relate to future claims
handling responsibilities, as well as deferring a portion of revenue for future non-recoverable costs incurred by
HomeServe's directly employed operations when performing repairs in the UK. Our significant risk focuses on the
key assumptions used within the company 's claims handling and directly employed operations revenue deferrals,
as these represent the most significant areas of judgement or estimation i.e. cost per claim, directly employed
engineer ("DEE") rate and claims profiles.

We performed the following audit procedures to respond to our presumed risk of fraud in revenue recognition:

+ Understood and evaluated the design and implementation of key controls within the revenue deferral
process;

* Challenged the key inputs and assumptions used in the revenue deferral calculations, and specifically for
cost per claim, compared budgeted costs to previous actual behaviour and investigated any unexpected
differences, inspected management's DEE rate calculations based on previous claims data, and
substantively tested all the underlying inputs;

+ Tested the data integrity of source reports used to ensure they are complete and accurate;

+ Challenged the appropriateness of key judgements considering the inflationary macro-economic
environment.

* As part of our stand back assessment, assessed the appropriateness of the movements during the period
given our understanding of the business as well as the consistency across all components; and

+ Understood and performed test of details over the remaining revenue streams within the company.

in common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also required to perform specific procedures to respond to the

risk of management override. In addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, we tested
the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments; assessed whether the judgements made in making

13

Independent Auditor’s Report

accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and evaluated the business rationale of any significant
transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.
\n addition to the above, our procedures to respond to the risks identified included the following:
* reviewing financial statement disclosures by testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with
provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct effect on the financial statements;
* performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks
of material misstatement due to fraud;
* enquiring of management, internal audit and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation
and claims, and instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations; and
* reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance and reviewing internal audit reports and
reviewing correspondence with HMRC and Financial Conduct Authority.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
+ the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial period for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
* the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the
audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report in respect of the following matters if, in our opinion:
* adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or
* the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
* certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
* we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members those
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company's
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

2 bull

Ryan Duffy (Senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Statutory Auditor

Birmingham, UK

1G Anqust 2024

14

Statement of Comprehensive Income

For the period ended 31 December 2023

31 December 2023 31 March 2023

9 months 12 months

Notes £000 £'000
PROFIT AND LOSS
Continuing operations
Revenue 4 191,310 291,684
Operating costs (165,928) (228,748)
Operating profit 6 25,382 62,936
Income from shares in Group undertakings 8 6,841 -
Interest payable on bank and intercompany loans 9 (1,099) (975)
Interest on lease liabilities 9 (237) (389)
Interest receivable on bank and intercompany loans 9 1,093 975
Operating profit before adjusting items 31,980 62,547
Adjusting items
Restructuring costs 10 (27,941) -
Impairment of investments 10 (12,005) -
Other 10 (257) (1,730)
(Loss)/profit before tax (8,223) 60,817
Tax 41 (5,694) (12,032)
(Loss)/profit for the period attributable to the equity
holders of the company (13,917) 48,785
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Unrealised gain on the sale of intellectual property 12 - 578
Other comprehensive income : 578
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS)/INCOME 13,917) 49,363

The notes on pages 19 to 53 are an integral part of these financial statements.

15

Balance Sheet

For the period ended 31 December 2023

31 December 2023 = 31 March 2023

3 months 12 months
Notes £'000 £000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 14 37,486 37,486
Other intangible assets and prepaid software 15 36,432 37,609
Right of use assets 27 6,980 6,934
Property, plant and equipment 16 18,527 19,352
Investments 17 20,732 27,959
Deferred tax asset 20 4,640 5,395
Amounts receivable from other group undertakings 30 o 19,000
124,797 153,735
Current Assets
Inventories 18 1,490 1,170
Trade and other receivables 19 109,984 133,953
Cash and cash equivalents 417 8,801
111,891 143,924
Total assets 236,688 297,659
Current Liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (87,679) (104,290)
Current tax liabilities (483) (5)
Lease liabilities 31 (2,943) (3,009)
Bank loans and overdrafts (1,796) :
(92,901) (107,304)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 21 (1,269) (1,180)
Deferred and contingent liabilities (387) (871)
Intercompany loans 30 (12,000) (19,000)
Lease liabilities 31 (4,210) (4,466)
(17,866) (25,517)
Total liabilities (110,767) (132,821)
Net assets 125,921 164,838
Equity
Share capital 23 109 109
Share premium account 24 6,355 6,355
Capital redemption reserve 25 12 12
Retained earnings 119,445 158,362
Total equity 125,921 164,838

The financial statements of HomeServe Membership Limited, registered number 02770612, were approved by the
board a and authorised for issue on 14 August 2024. They were signed on its behalf by:

Nig
Nicholas Kasmir

Chief Executive Officer
14 August 2024

16

Statement of Changes in Equity

For the period ended 31 December 2023

Nine month period ended 31 December 2023

Share Capital
Share premium redemption Retained

capital account reserve earnings Total

Notes £000 £000 £000 £000 £000

Balance at 1 April 2023 109 6,355 12 158,362 164,838

Loss for the period - - - (13,917) (13,917)

Dividends paid in the period 13 - - - (25,000) (25,000)

Balance at 31 December 2023 109 6,355 12 119,445 125,921
Year ended 31 March 2023

Share Capital
Share premium redemption Retained

capital account reserve earnings Total

Notes £000 £000 £000 £000 £000

Balance at 1 April 2022 109 6,355 12 154,440 160,916

Profit for the year - - - 48,785 48,785

gain from the sale of intelectual property. 2 ; a

Tax on exercised share options - - - 209 209

Deferred tax on share options 20 - - - (72) (72)

Dividends paid in the year 13 - - - (45,000) (45,000)

Dividend paid in specie 12 - - - (578) (578)

Balance at 31 March 2023 109 6,355 12 158,362 164,838

17

Cash Flow Statement

For the period ended 31 December 2023

31 December 2023 31 March 2023

9 months 12 months

Notes £000 £000
Net cash from operating activities 26 36,709 71,146
Investing activities
Purchases of intangible assets and prepaid software 15 (5,543) (11,781)
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 16 (958) (1,362)
Cash paid on acquisitions 7 (5,354) (6,344)
Interest received 1,093 975
Dividends received 6,841 -
Net cash used in investing activities (3,921) (18,512)
Financing activities
Repayment of lease principal (2,862) (4,003)
Repayment of long term borrowings (7,000) -
Long term lending to subsidiaries (6,770) -
Interest paid (1,336) (1,364)
Dividends paid 13 (25,000) (45,000)
Net cash used in financing activities (42,968) (50,367)
Net (decrease)/incr in cash an sh ,
eateatenta ; ease aca (10,180) 2,267
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 8,801 6,534
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period (1,379) 8,801

The cash and cash equivalents net of bank overdrafts at the end of the period of (£1,379,000) (31 March 2023:
£8,801,000) are part of the UK Group revolving credit arrangement where any overdraft is secured on the cash
balance of the other UK Group companies each month.

18

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

1. General information

HomeServe Membership Limited is a private company, limited by shares, incorporated in England and Wales
under the Companies Act. The address of the registered office is given in note 30.

These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that is the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the Company operates.

In January 2023, the previous holding company, HomeServe Limited, was acquired by Hestia Bidco Limited, an
indirect subsidiary of the new ultimate holding company, Brookfield Corporation.

The company elected to change the reporting period from 31 March to 31 December. This election was done to
align the financial year with the ultimate parent Company. These financial statements are for the 9 month period
ended 31 December 2023 and the comparatives are for the 12 month period ended 31 March 2023.

2. Material accounting policies

Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with UK-adopted International Accounting Standards.
The financial statements also comply with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB.

The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments
that are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period as explained in note 31.

Adoption of new or revised standards and accounting policies
The following accounting standards, interpretations and amendments have been adopted in the year:

IFRS 17 insurance Contracts

Amendments to JAS 1 and IFRS Practice Disclosure of Accounting Policies

Statement 2

Amendments to IAS 8 Definition of Accounting Estimates

Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single
Transaction

Amendments to IAS 12 International Tax Reform - Pillar 2 model rules

None of the items listed above have had any material impact on the amounts reported in this set of financial
statements.

Standards in issue but not yet effective
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements the following Standards and Interpretations, which have
not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective:

Amendments to IAS 1 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current

The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the other Standards and Interpretations listed above will have a
material impact on the financial statements of the Company when they become effective in 2024.

Going concern

The Directors have reviewed the Company's budget, forecast and cash flows for 2024 and the following four years,
and concluded that they are in line with their expectations with regards to the Company's strategy and future
growth plans. In addition, the Directors have reviewed the Company's position in respect of material uncertainties
and have concluded that there are no items that would affect going concern or that should be separately disclosed.

The Directors have concluded that they have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources

to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, they continue to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.

19

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

2. Significant accounting policies (continued)

Going concern (continued)
The Directors are not aware, at the date of this report, of any likely major changes in the Company's activities in
the next year. :

The principal accounting policies adopted are set out below:

Business combinations

Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for
each acquisition is measured at the aggregate of the fair values (at the date of exchange) of assets given, liabilities
incurred or assumed in exchange for control of the acquired.

Where applicable, the consideration for the acquisition includes any asset or liability resulting from a contingent or
deferred consideration arrangement, measured at its acquisition-date fair value. Subsequent changes in such fair
values are adjusted against the cost of acquisition. All other subsequent changes in the fair value of contingent
consideration classified as an asset or liability are accounted for in accordance with relevant IFRSs and recognised
immediately in the income statement. Changes in the fair value of contingent consideration classified as equity are
not recognised. Deferred consideration is subsequently measured at amortised cost.

If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the
combination occurs, the Company reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete.
Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the measurement period (see below), or additional assets or
liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the
acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.

The measurement period is the period from the date of acquisition to the date the Company obtains complete
information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date and is subject to a maximum of
one year.

Goodwill

Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised at cost as an asset at the date control is acquired (the
acquisition date). Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred less the net of
the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed at the acquisition date.

Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if there is an indication that
it may be impaired. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.

On disposal of a subsidiary the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss
on disposal.

Goodwill arising on acquisitions before the date of transition to IFRS has been retained at the previous UK GAAP
amounts subject to being tested for impairment at that date. Goodwill written off to reserves under UK GAAP prior
to 1998 has not been reinstated and is not included in determining any subsequent profit or loss on disposal.

Marketing expenses

Costs incurred in respect of marketing activity, including for example, direct mail and inbound telephone costs,
which are undertaken to acquire or renew a policy, are charged to the income statement in the period in which the
related marketing campaign is performed.

Marketing expenses also include payments made to Affinity Partners in recognition of their support for the
Company's selling and policy renewal activities. The terms of their support and related payments are included in
contractual agreements with each Affinity Partner. Amounts incurred upon the sale and renewal of an individual
policy by the Company referred to as Affinity Partner Commissions, are recognised as an operating expense when
individual policies incept or renew. Commissions are payable to Affinity Partners only when the Company has
collected the premium due on behalf of the third-party underwriter from the policy holder.

20

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

2. Significant accounting policies (continued)

Revenue Recognition
The Company records revenue in accordance with the five-step recognition model outlined in IFRS 15:

1) Identify the contract with the customer

2) Identify the performance obligations in the contract

3) Determine the transaction price

4) Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations

5) Recognise revenue when (or as) each performance obligation is satisfied

Revenue is recognised, net of discounts, VAT, insurance Premium Tax and other sales related taxes, either at the
point in time a performance obligation has been satisfied or over time as control of the asset associated with the
performance obligation is transferred to the customer.

For all contracts identified, the Company determines if the arrangement with the customer creates enforceable
rights and obligations. For contracts with multiple components to be delivered, such as those with underwriters to
sell policies on behalf of the underwriter as well as deliver handling and administration services, management
applies judgement to consider whether those promised goods and services are:

i) distinct — to be accounted for as separate performance obligations;

ii) not distinct — to be combined with other promised goods or services until a bundle is
identified that is distinct; or

iii) part of a series of distinct goods and services that are substantially the same and have the

same pattern of transfer to the customer.

At contract inception the total transaction price is estimated, being the amount to which the Company expects to
be entitled and has present enforceable rights under the contract. Where applicable, this includes management's
best estimate of any variable consideration to be included in the transaction price based on the expected value or
most likely amount approach, and only to the extent that it is highly probable that no significant revenue reversal

will occur.

Once the total transaction price is determined, the Company allocates this to the identified performance obligations
in proportion to their relative standalone selling prices and recognises revenue when (or as) those performance
obligations are satisfied.

Where available, observable prices of goods or services are utilised, when those goods or services are sold
separately, to similar customers in similar circumstances. Where stand-alone selling price is not directly observable
the Company applies judgement to determine an appropriate estimated standalone selling price, typically using an
expected cost plus margin, adjusted market assessment or residual approach.

Variable consideration is allocated to an entire contract or a specific part of a contract depending on:

i) whether allocating the variable amount entirely to part of the contract depicts the amount
of consideration the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring the
promised goods or services to the customer; or

ii) the terms of the variable payment relate specifically to satisfaction of an individual
performance obligation.

The Company’s variable consideration primarily relates to intermediary commissions received on contracts with
underwriters to sell policies and provide handling and administration services. Amounts are typically allocated to
the entire contract.

Discounts are allocated proportionally across all performance obligations in the contract unless directly observable
evidence exists that the discount relates to one or more, but not ail, performance obligations.

21

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

2. Significant accounting policies (continued)

Revenue Recognition (continued)

For each performance obligation, the Company determines if revenue will be recognised over time or at a point in
time. For each performance obligation to be recognised over time, the Company applies a revenue recognition
method that faithfully depicts the Company's performance in transferring control of the goods or services to the
customer. This decision requires assessment of the nature of the goods or services that the Company has promised
to transfer to the customer. The Company applies the relevant output or input method, typically based on the
expected profile of the deferral event (for example claims cost through the policy term or time elapsed).

Revenue by category

The Company disaggregates revenue from contracts with policyholders between Net Policy Income and Repair
Income as management believes this best depicts how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of the
Company's revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors. The following table outlines the principal

activities from which the Company derives revenue and how it is recognised:

Revenue Nature and timing of satisfaction of performance obligations Significant payment terms
stream
Net Policy Includes commissions received for the obligation to sell policies, handle claims HomeServe receives its
Income — and provide administration services for underwriters. The Company satisfies its commission from its
Intermediary obligation to sell policies over time, recognising revenue as each policyholder is customer, the underwriter,
commissions contracted on behalf of the underwriter. in line with the payment
terms of the underlying

The transaction prices of the Company's arrangements with underwriters are individual policyholder

entirely variable and measured based on the commission due to the Company which are typically either

for the number of policies sold, net of a refund liability. This refund liability billed and paid upfront or

reflects management's best estimate of mid-term policy cancellations ensuring over the term of the

that a significant reversal of revenue will not arise in the future (see Note 3). contract.

Handling and administration of service obligations are satisfied over the term of a

policy, which is typically 12 months. The portion of the total transaction price

allocated to these performance obligations is deferred, as a deferred income

contract liability, and recognised as revenue over the expected profile of

anticipated claims throughout the policy term.

The determination of the amount of transaction price to allocate to claims

handling and administration services takes account of the expected numbers of

claims and the estimated cost of handling those claims, which are validated

through historic experience of actual costs, as well as incorporating an

appropriate profit margin for the service provided to the underwriter (see Note 3).

Revenue associated with the commissions received for the obligation to sell

policies is allocated using the residual method at the point of policy inception or

renewal.

Where the Company's role on behalf of the underwriter is only as an

intermediary in the cash collection process, such amounts are not included in

revenue. Consequently, net policy income consists of only a component of the

overall policy price, representing the commission receivable for the services the

Company provides to the underwriter, stated net of sales related taxes.
Repair Includes repair services provided to third parties, including underwriters and Billed and paid upon
income insurance companies, subject to separate contractual arrangements. Revenue is — completion of the job

recognised over time as each repair job is completed.
Royalty “Includes royalty fees received from HomeServe France SAS, HomeServe Spain Billed and paid one month in _
income SLU and HomeServe USA. arrears

22

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

2. Significant accounting policies (continued)

Contract related assets and liabilities
As a result of the contracts which the Company enters into with its customers, the following assets and liabilities
are recognised on the Company’s balance sheet:

— Trade receivables (see financial instruments accounting policies below)
- Accrued and deferred income

Accrued and deferred income

Where payments made are greater than the revenue recognised at the period end date, the Company recognises
a deferred income contract liability for this difference. Where payments made are less than the revenue recognised
at the period end date, the Company recognises an accrued income contract asset for this difference.

Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging all operating costs, but before investment income, and taxation.

Adjusting items

Adjusting items are those items that, in the judgement of the Directors, need to be disclosed separately by virtue
of their nature, size or incidence. Items which may be considered adjusting include, but are not limited to, disposals
of businesses or significant assets, significant business restructurings, significant onerous contracts, asset write-
downs/impairments and liability write-backs.

Retirement benefit costs

The defined benefit pension scheme, to which certain employees of the Company are members, is accounted for
in HomeServe Limited, a UK parent company. The UK Group accounting policy and associated UK Group note on
pensions is only disclosed in the financial statements of the Company in accordance with accounting standards.

Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.

For defined benefit retirement schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit
method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses and the
return on scheme assets (excluding interest) are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. They are
recognised outside the income statement and presented in the statement of comprehensive income.
Remeasurement recorded in the statement of comprehensive income is not recycled.

Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and is otherwise
amortised on a straight-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested. Net interest is
calculated by applying a discount rate to the net defined benefit liability or asset.

Any retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined
benefit obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and as reduced by the fair value of scheme
assets. Any asset resulting from the calculation is limited to past service cost, plus the present value of available
refunds and reductions in future contributions to the plan.

Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.

Any tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. The Company's liability for current tax is calculated
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.

Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of

assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of
taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally

23

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

2. Significant accounting policies (continued)

Taxation (continued)
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that
itis no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.

Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or
the asset is realised.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets
against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the
UK Group intends to settie its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.

Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in
other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.

Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.

Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land, over their estimated useful lives,
using the straight-line method, on the following bases:

Buildings 5 — 50 years

Furniture, fixtures and equipment 3-7 years

Computer equipment 3-5 years

Motor vehicles 3 years (with 25% residual value)
Leasing

The Company assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease, at inception of the contract. The Company
recognises a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability with respect to all lease arrangements in which
it is the lessee, except for short-term leases (defined as leases with a lease term of 12 months or less) and leases
of low value assets (where the value of the asset is below £5k). For these leases, the Company recognises the
lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.

Lease liabilities

Lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the
commencement date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot be readily determined,
the Company uses a lease specific incremental borrowing rate.

Right-of-use assets

Right of use assets comprise the initial measurement of the corresponding lease liability, lease payments made
at or before the commencement day and any initial direct costs. They are subsequently measured at cost less
accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Right-of-use assets are depreciated over the shorter period of
lease term and the useful life of the underlying asset. Depreciation begins at the commencement date of the lease.

Variable rents

Variable rents that do not depend on an index or rate are not included in the measurement of the lease liability
and the right-of-use asset. The related payments are recognised as an expense in the period in which the event
or condition that triggers those payments occurs and are included in the line “Other operating expenses’ in the
income statement.

24

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

2. Significant accounting policies (continued)

Intangible assets

Acquisition intangible assets

Acquired access rights relate to the contractual agreements entered into with the former owners of businesses:
acquired as part of a business combination; or where the former owners previously operated a business and the
Company has purchased specific access rights from the former owners. These agreements set out the contractual
terms of the Affinity Partnership and provide the contractual framework within which the Company markets, sells
and renews policies with the individual customers of the Affinity Partner. Acquired access rights are recorded at
fair value by using the estimated and discounted incremental future cash flows resulting from the relationship.
Acquired access rights are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives, which are in the
range of 3 - 20 years.

Acquired customer databases represent the value attributable to the portfolios of renewable customer policies that
exist at the date of acquisition and are acquired by the Company: as part of a business combination; or where the
former owners previously operated a business and the Company has purchased specific customer databases
from the former owners. Acquired customer databases are recorded at fair value using the estimated and
discounted incremental future cash flows resulting from the future renewal of the portfolio of acquired policies over
their estimated residual life. Acquired customer databases are amortised on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful lives, which are in the range of 3 - 15 years.

Other intangible assets

Access rights arise from the contractual agreements with Affinity Partners which provide the contractual framework
within which the Company markets, sells and renews policies with the individual customers of the Affinity Partner.
Access rights are valued at the discounted present value of the contractually committed payments, where such
payments are not related to the success or otherwise of activity under the contractual agreements and are
amortised on a straight-line basis over the length of the contractual agreement, up to a maximum of 20 years.

Trademarks represent costs incurred to legally protect the established brand names of the Company. Trademarks
are stated at cost and amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful economic lives, up to a maximum of 20
years.

Customer databases represent the value attributable to the portfolios of renewable customer policies that have
been created by our Affinity Partners through their own sales and marketing activity and subsequently purchased
by the Company. Such customer databases are recorded at their fair value based on the amount paid to the Affinity
Partner. These customer databases are amortised on a straight-line basis over the expected duration of the
customer relationship, which are in the range of 3 - 10 years.

Software costs are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation. Capitalised costs comprise third party and
internal payroll costs where the employee time is directly attributable to the development of the software. In
accordance with the criteria of IAS 38, software costs are capitalised if the Company has control over the asset
generated or a separately identifiable asset has been created. External costs incurred as part of a service
agreement, which do not meet the criteria of IAS 38 are prepaid and amortised over the period of expected use of
the service. Other costs which do not meet the criteria for capitalisation are expensed to the income statement as
incurred.

When the software is available for its intended use, these costs are amortised on a straight-line basis over the
expected useful economic life.

Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill

At each balance sheet date, the Company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to
determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication
exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss, if
any. Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Company
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit to which the asset belongs.

25

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

2. Significant accounting policies (continued)

Impairment of tangible and intangible assets excluding goodwill (continued)

Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the assets for which the estimates of
future cash flows have not been adjusted.

If the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the
carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is
recognised as an expense immediately.

Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is
increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not
exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the
asset or cash-generating unit in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised as income immediately.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs comprise direct materials and, where
applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their
present location and condition. Cost is measured on a weighted average basis. Net realisable value represents
the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and
distribution. Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.

Investments in subsidiaries
investments in subsidiary undertakings are shown at cost less provision for impairment.

Bank cash/overdraft and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents are held at amortised cost and comprise cash in hand, demand deposits and other
short-term highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an
insignificant risk of changes in value. Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet are presented net of
outstanding bank overdrafts where the Company has a legally enforceable right of set off and is able to
demonstrate the intention to settle on a net basis. All other overdrafts are presented as liabilities within bank and
other loans. Cash and cash equivalents may include amounts which are subject to contractual restrictions and not
available for general use by the Company.

For the purpose of the Cash Flow Statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash equivalents as
defined above, net of all outstanding bank overdrafts.

Trade payables
Trade payables are not interest-bearing and are stated at amortised cost.

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past
event, it is probable that the Company will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made
of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are discounted to present value, using a pre-tax discount rate that
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability. The
amortisation of the discount is recognised as a finance cost. When some or all of the economic benefits required
to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if itis
virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.

Financial instruments

Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Company’s balance sheet when the Company
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. The classification depends on the nature and
purpose of the financial assets or liabilities and is determined at the time of initial recognition.

26

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

2. Significant accounting policies (continued)

Financial instruments (continued)

Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, and subsequently measured at amortised cost, Fair Value
through Other Comprehensive Income (FVTOCI) or Fair Value through Profit or Loss (FVTPL). The classification
is based on two criteria:

i) the Company’s business model for managing the assets; and
ii) whether the instruments’ contractual cash flows represent “Solely Payments of Principal and
Interest” on the principal amount outstanding (the “SPPI criterion”).

Trade receivables

Trade receivables do not carry any interest and are stated at amortised cost, reduced by appropriate allowances
for estimated irrecoverable amounts, as the business model of the Company is to collect contractual cash flows
and the debt meets the SPPI criterion. They are recognised when the Company’s right to consideration is only
conditional on the passage of time. Allowances incorporate an expectation of life-time credit losses from initial
recognition and are determined using an expected credit loss approach.

Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.

Share-based payments

Prior to the acquisition by Brookfield Corporation, the HomeServe Group of Companies issued equity-settled share-
based payments to certain employees. Equity-settled share-based payments were measured at fair value at the
date of grant. The fair value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments was
previously expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, although this was accelerated in the year as
a result of the Brookfield acquisition. The HomeServe Group of Companies also provided employees with the ability
to purchase shares through its One Plan scheme. Both of these schemes have now been closed.

3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the Company's accounting policies, which are described in note 2, the Directors are required
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not
readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience
and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

Where sensitivity analyses have been prepared below, management have determined that 15%
increases/decreases to primary inputs are appropriate thresholds to illustrate the potential impact on profit in the
year.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates

are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised. The principal assumptions underlying sources of
estimation uncertainty and other areas of focus remain consistent with the prior period.

Critical accounting judgements
There are no critical accounting judgements to disclose.

Key sources of estimation uncertainty
There are no key sources of estimation uncertainty to disclose.
Other sources of estimation uncertainty

Whilst not considered to be critical accounting judgements or key sources of estimation uncertainty, the following
are areas of focus for management.

27

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)

Claims fulfilment obligations
Regarding revenue recognition, a proportion of revenue is deferred to cover the Company's future obligations in
respect of fulfilling future claims arising on those policies that are on risk at the period end.

The other sources of estimation uncertainty in determining an appropriate proportion of revenue to defer are the
assumptions made with regards to claims frequency and the estimated cost of fulfilling a claim. The Company uses
historical experience of claim volumes and forecast activity levels to estimate these assumptions. The total amount
of revenue deferred at 31 December 2023 in respect of the Company's future claim fulfilment obligations is £21.6m
(31 March 2023: £24.4m). The seasonal impact of changing the financial year end from March to December has
reduced the provision required by £3.6m (a large proportion of policies renew between January and March and so
the amount of income requiring deferral at December is seasonally lower).

if either of these assumptions were individually higher or lower than the Company's historical experience by 15%
the impact to the profit in the period would be £3.2m (31 March 2023: £3.7m).

Policy Cancellations

Policies may be cancelled by the policyholder part way through the contractual term, which will affect the economic
benefits that flow to the Company. Consequently, in accordance with IFRS 15, a refund liability is recognised to
ensure that the related revenue is appropriately constrained at the point that the policy incepts in order to ensure
that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur
once the uncertainty associated with the possibility of cancellation is resolved. The total amount of revenue deferred
at 31 December 2023 in respect of potential future cancellations is £4.1m (31 March 2023: £6.1m). As with claims
fulfilment obligations, the seasonal impact of changing the financial year end from March to December has reduced
the policy cancellation provision required by £1.5m.

The Company uses historical experience to ensure revenue is appropriately constrained analysing expected mid-
term cancellation percentages and the period of cover remaining on the policy at the point of cancellation. The
most significant estimation uncertainty within this judgement is the mid-term cancellation percentage (or, inversely,
the rate at which policyholders are retained).

In the last nine months the Company retention rate has decreased to 76% (31 March 2023: 78%), which whilst
marginally lower than the prior period, is consistent with the previous five years making it highly probable that a
significant reversal of cumulative revenue will not occur. Consequently the ‘reasonably probable’ sensitivity analysis
has focused on the ‘upside’ scenario only. Were cancellation rates to be 15% lower than the Company's historical
experience the impacts to profit in the period would be £0.6m (31 March 2023: £0.9 months).

Retirement benefit obligations

The Company participates in a defined benefit scheme, the Water Companies Pension Scheme, which is closed
to new members. This is a sectionalised scheme and the Company participates in the HomeServe Limited Section
of the Scheme. Although the HomeServe Limited Section is in a net £6.8m (31 March 2023: £6.9 months) surplus
position, the position is subject to actuarial risks including, but not limited to: longevity risk, interest risk and
inflationary risk. Sensitivities covering life expectancy, discount rates and inflation are included in note 29.

28

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

4. Revenue

An analysis of the Company's revenue is as follows:
31 December 2023 31 March 2023

9 months 12 months

£000 £000

Net Policy Income 128,647 , 204,807
Repair income 60,362 80,067
Other income 1,126 1,267
190,135 286,141

Royalty income 1,175 5,543,
191,310 291,684

Information about major customers

During the periods presented an underwriter was the main customer of the Company which accounted for over
90% of the Company’s revenues:

31 December 2023 31 March 2023

9 months 12 months

% %

Customer 1 95.8 94.6
Other customers individually representing below 10% 42 54

of the Company's revenue
100 100

Transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations

The total transaction price allocated to the remaining performance obligations (unsatisfied or partially unsatisfied)
on the Company's multi-year arrangements with underwriters to sell policies, is £23.2m (31 March 2023: 26.0m),
related to all ancillary obligations delivered after any given policy is sold. The obligations associated with the
outstanding transaction price are expected to be fulfilled, and revenue fully recognised, within the next 12 months.

All other contracts with customers have an original expected duration of one year or less. No consideration from
these contracts has been excluded from the transaction price. Applying the practical expedient of paragraph 121
of IFRS 15, information about remaining performance obligations on these contracts has not been disclosed.

Contract balances

An analysis of the Company's contract balances is as follows:

31 December 2023 31 March 2023

£000 £000
Accrued income 1,780 2,039
Deferred income 23,169 25,972

All contract balances are classified as current. Accrued income contract assets primarily relate to services
performed for customers in advance of payment being received, or falling due. Accrued income contract assets
are transferred to trade receivables when the right to consideration becomes unconditional. Deferred income
contract liabilities principally relate to advance consideration received from customers, for which revenue is
recognised as the associated performance obligation is satisfied.

29

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

4. Revenue (continued)

Significant changes in accrued and deferred income balances during the period were as follows:

Accrued Income Deferred Income
£000 £000

At 31 March 2022 1,851 23,170
Transfers to receivables (1,851) -
Revenue recognised from the opening balance - (23,170)
Revenue deferred not yet earned - 25,972
Revenue earned not yet due 2,039 -
At 31 March 2023 2,039 25,972
Transfers to receivables (2,039) -
Revenue recognised from the opening balance - (23,894)
Revenue deferred not yet earned - 21,094
Revenue earned not yet due 1,780 -
At 31 December 2023 1,780 23,169

Revenue recognised in the periods ended 31 December 2023 and 31 March 2023 in relation to performance
obligations satisfied (or partially satisfied) in previous periods was immaterial.

5. Business and geographical segments
The Company operates in one business segment and operates solely within the United Kingdom. However,

revenue of £1.4m (31 March 2023: £1.6m) is earned from an underwriter who is domiciled in Malta.
6. Profit for the period

Profit for the period has been arrived at after charging:
31 December 2023 31 March 2023

Notes 9 months 12 months
£000 £000
Included in operating costs:
Inventories recognised as expenses 5,003 6,061
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16 1,783 2,760
Depreciation of right of use assets 27 2,468 3,957
Amortisation of software licences 15 4,524 6,017
Amortisation of acquired intangibles 15 2,041 2,930
Expenses relating to leases of low value assets 277 486
excluding short term leases of low value assets
Expenses relating to variable lease payments not 234 335
included in the measurement of lease liabilities
Expenses relating to short term lease payments not 1.546 620
included in the measurement of lease liabilities ,
Staff costs 7 70,147 91,529
Loss on disposal of intangible assets - 114
Loss on disposal of tangible assets : 596
31 December 2023 31 March 2023
9 months 12 months
An analysis of auditor's remuneration is provided below: £000 £000
Fees payable to the Company's auditor for the audit of 337 193
the Company's annual financial statements
Total audit fees 337 193

There were no fees payable to the Company's auditor for non-audit services in the period (31 March 2023: Eni).

30

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

7. Staff costs

The average monthly number of employees (including Directors) was:

31 December 2023

31 March 2023

Number Number
Average number of employees 1,950 2,026
Split:

Sales and Marketing 382 370
Administration 283 339
Direct operations 1,285 1,317
£000 £000
9 months 12 months

Their aggregate remuneration comprised:
Wages and salaries 60,845 79,112
Social security costs 6,626 9,033
Other pension costs 2,676 3,384
70,147 91,529

8. Income from shares in Group undertakings

Dividend income — note 30

9. Finance income and cost

Interest payable on bank and intercompany loans
Interest on lease liabilities
Finance costs

Interest receivable on bank and intercompany loans
Finance income

10. Adjusting items

Restructuring
Impairment of investment
Other

31 December 2023
9 months

£000

6,841

31 December 2023
9 months

£000

1,099

237

1,336

1,093
1,093

31 December 2023
9 months

£000

27,941

12,005

257

40,203

31 March 2023
12 months
£000

31 March 2023
12 months
£000

975

389

1,364

975
975

31 March 2023
12 months
£000

1,730
1,730

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

10. Adjusting items (continued)

During the period Homeserve Limited, a parent of the Company, acquired BOXT Limited. Following this
acquisition, the Directors of the Company made the decision to cease all trading activities of its subsidiary Help-
Link UK Limited and transfer its trading activities to BOXT Limited. A combined charge of £27,941,000 has been
recognised for the write off of a subsidiary loan with Help-Link UK Limited, redundancy costs and other wind down
costs. Of this, only £2,241,000 resulted in a cash outflow.

During the period the company performed an impairment review of its investments and a charge of £12,005,000
was recognised to write down the carrying value of its subsidiaries. Further details are disclosed in note 17.

An intercompany receivable of £258,000 due from Homeserve USA has been written off as the debt has been
settled with the Company's ultimate parent, Homeserve Limited. This related to the separation of the Homeserve
group between USA and Canada and Europe, Middle East and Asia.

In the prior year, following the acquisition of the Company's ultimate parent, HomeServe Limited, by Brookfield
Corporation in January 2023 there was an acceleration of the Group’s share option plans which resulted in an
increase in the share-based payment charge. This accelerated charge amounted to £1,730,000 and given its one-
off nature was recognised as an adjusting item.

11. Tax

31 December 2023 31 March 2023
9 months 12 months
£000 £000
Current tax 4,939 9,141
Adjustments in respect of prior periods — current 304

tax .
Deferred tax 755 2,497
5,694 12,032

The UK corporation tax rate increased to 25% from 19% effective from 1 April 2023 and is calculated at 25% (31
March 2023: 19%) of the estimated assessable profit for the period.

The charge for the period can be reconciled to the profit per the income statement as follows:
31 December 2023 31 March 2023

9 months 12 months
£000 £000

(Loss)/Profit before tax (8,223) 60,817
Tax at the UK corporation rate of 25% (31 March 2023: 19%) (2,056) 11,555
Tax effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable profit 9,460 155
Non-taxable dividend income (1,710) -
Deferred tax rate change — Note 20 - 74
Adjustments in respect of prior periods — current tax - 394
Adjustments in respect of prior periods — deferred tax : (146)
Tax expense for the period 5,694 12,032

32

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

12. Unrealised gain on the sale of intellectual property

On 28 February 2023 the Company entered into an agreement to licence certain intellectual property to
HomeServe USA Corporation in return for £578,000. Consideration was in the form of a loan note, which was
subsequently transferred to HomeServe Assistance Limited as a dividend in specie. No cash was transferred and
so the consideration was recognised as an unrealised gain in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

13. Dividends

31 December 2023 31 March 2023

9 months 12 months
£000 £000
Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the period:
Dividend for the period ended 31 December 2023 of
£228.73 (31 March 2023: £411.71) per share 25,000 45,000
Dividend paid in specie - 578
Total dividends paid 25,000 45,578
14. Goodwill
£000
Cost
At 1 April 2023 and 31 December 2023 37,486

Accumulated impairment losses

At1 April 2023 and 31 December 2023 :

Carrying amount
At1 April 2023 and 31 December 2023 37,486

Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated, at acquisition, to the cash generating unit (CGU) that is
expected to benefit from that business combination. CGUs are defined as geographical territories as they
represent the smallest identifiable group of assets that generate largely independent cash inflows. The Company,
which is considered a single CGU, tests goodwill annually for impairment or more frequently if there are indications
that goodwill might be impaired. The recoverable amount of the CGU is determined from a value in use calculation.
None of the Goodwill is expected to be deducted for tax purposes.

The key assumptions for the value in use calculation are those regarding the discount rate, growth rates and
expected changes to selling prices and direct costs during the period. Management estimates the discount rates
using pre-tax rates that reflect current market assessments of the time value of money. The growth rates are
based on detailed business plans. Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on expectations of future
changes in the market.

The Company prepares cash flow forecasts derived from the most recent financial budgets and plans for the next
three years approved by the Directors and extrapolates the annual cash flow using estimated, long-term growth
rates. The pre-tax rates used to discount the forecast pre-tax cash flows are 11.0% (31 March 2023: 11.5%). The
long-term growth rate is 2% (31 March 2023: 2%).

33

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

14. Goodwill (continued)

The Company has conducted a sensitivity analysis on the impairment test of the CGU's carrying value, which also
reflects the different risk profile of the CGU. The Company believes that there are no reasonably possible changes
to the key assumptions in the next year which would result in the carrying amount of goodwill exceeding the
recoverable amount.

The UK CGU does not contain any intangible assets, with the exception of goodwill, with indefinite useful economic
lives.

15. Other intangible assets
Acquisition intangibles represent non-monetary assets arising on business combinations, and also include acquired

access rights and acquired customer databases.

Other intangible assets and prepaid software on the balance sheet of £36,432,000 include £35,776,000 (31 March
2023: £36,798,000) of intangible assets and £656,000 (31 March 2023: £811,000) of prepaid software assets
related to ‘Software as a Service’ arrangements.

Acquired Acquired Total
customer access acquired Software Total
databases rights intangibles
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000

Cost
At 31 March 2022 23,708 22,812 46,520 183,095 229,615
Additions 900 1,500 2,400 9,381 11,781
Disposals - - - (89,775) (89,775)
Write-down - - - (78) (78)
Transfers : : : (438) (438)
At 31 March 2023 24,608 24,312 48,920 102,185 151,105
Additions - - - 5,543, 5,543
Disposals (3,971) (21,034) (25,005) (43,307) (68,312)
At 31 December 2023 20,637 3,278 23,915 64,421 88,336
Accumulated amortisation
At 31 March 2022 15,440 22,612 38,052 157,047 195,099
Charge for the year 2,630 300 2,930 6,017 8,947
Disposals - - - (89,728) (89,728)
Write-down - : : (11) (11)
At 31 March 2023 18,070 22,912 40,982 173,325 114,307
Charge for the period 1,816 225 2,041 4,524 6,565
Disposals (3,971) (21,034) (25,005) (43,307) (68,312)
At 31 December 2023 15,915 2,103 18,018 34,542 52,560
Carrying amount
At 31 March 2023 6,538 1,400 7,938 28,860 36,798

At 31 December 2023 4,722 1,175 5,897 29,879 35,776

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

15. Other intangible assets (continued)

During 2023, an impairment review was completed which identified a number of aged assets with a cost of
£68,312,000 and accumulated amortisation of the same value which were no longer in use. These assets were
fully written down as a result of the exercise.

At the balance sheet date, there are no contractual commitments for the purchase of intangible assets (2023: £nil).

16. Property, plant and equipment

Furniture,
fixtures
Land and and Computer Motor
buildings equipment equipment vehicles Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000

Cost
At 31 March 2022 30,588 9,253 21,380 981 62,202
Additions 198 807 357 - 1,362
Disposal (1,219) (22) (257) - (1,498)
Transfers - 6 436 (4) 438
At 34 March 2023 29,567 10,044 21,916 977 62,504
Additions 99 807 52 - 958
Disposal (279) (5,478) (8,820) (736) (15,313)
Transfers (1) 25 (24) - -
At 31 December 2023 29,386 §,398 13,124 241 48,149
Accumulated depreciation
At 31 March 2022 13,847 8,474 18,040 933 41,294
Charge for the year 954 493 1,303 13 2,760
Disposal (637) (19) (246) - (902)
At 31 March 2023 14,161 8,948 19,097 946 43,152
Charge for the period 641 369 763 10 1,783
Disposal (279) (5,478) (8,820) (736) (15,313)
Transfers (1) 25 (24) - -
At 31 December 2023 14,522 3,864 11,016 220 29,622
Carrying amount
At 34 March 2023 15,406 1,096 2,819 31 19,352
At 31 December 2023 14,864 1,534 2,108 21 18,527

At the balance sheet date, there are no contractual commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment
(31 March 2023: £nil).

Following a review of the asset register, assets with a net book value of £nil were disposed of with nil proceeds
resulting in no loss on disposal.

35

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

17. Investments

The Company is exempt from preparing group Financial Statements by virtue of Section 400 of the Companies
Act 2006, as it is a subsidiary of a UK parent (note 29). The Financial Statements present information about the
Company as an individual company and not about its group.

All interests in subsidiaries are in ordinary share capital, with their registered address at Cable Drive, Walsall, WS2
7BN. Details of the Company's subsidiaries at 31 December 2023 are as follows:

Place of
incorporation
ownership (or Proportion Proportion
registration) of voting of control
Activity and operation interest held
Name of direct subsidiary % %
HomeServe at Home Limited (No. 4186398) Dormant England 100 100
Home Energy Services Limited Non-Trading England 100 100
HomeServe Heating Services Limited Dormant England 100 100
247999 Limited (No. 7183505) Dormant England 100 100
Energy Insurance Services Limited Trading England 100 100
Help-Link UK Limited Non-Trading England 100 100
Aqua Plumbing & Heating Services Ltd Trading England 100 100
APG Domestic Services Ltd Trading England 100 100
John Wilkinson Heating Services Limited Trading England 100 100
Logic Plumbing Heating and Electrical
(Maintenance) Limited Trading England 100 100
Hereford Heating Limited Trading England 100 100
Koziwarm Plumbing & Heating Limited Trading England 100 100
H2 Property Services (London) Limited Trading England 100 100
SGS Group Holdings Limited Holding England 100 100
The movement in Investments is as follows:
Cost £000
At 1 April 2022 19,518
Additions 8,441
At 1 April 2023 27,959
Additions 4,875

At 31 December 2023 32,834

Provisions for impairment

At 1 April 2022 and 2023 -
Impairment in the period 42,102
At 31 December 2023 12,102

Net Book Value
At 31 December 2023 20,732
At 31 March 2023 27,959

36

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

17. Investments (continued)

In the period the Company acquired control of SGS Group Holdings Limited, along with its 100% owned trading
subsidiary SGS Heating and Electrical Limited, by obtaining 100% of the issued share capital. The business is UK
based and performs heating, plumbing and electrical repairs and installations. The total investment comprised cash
consideration of £3,902,000, other consideration of £173,000 and contingent consideration of £800,000.

During the period, the Company also paid contingent consideration of £1,450,000 relating to acquisitions from
previous years.

Prior year acquisitions

In the prior year, the Company acquired control of four businesses by obtaining 100% of the issued share capital.
The businesses are UK based and perform heating, plumbing and electrical repairs and installations. The total
investment comprised cash consideration of £6,038,000, other consideration of £745,000 and contingent
consideration of £1,752,000. The businesses were Logic Plumbing Heating and Electrical (Maintenance) Limited,
Hereford Heating Limited, Koziwarm Plumbing & Heating Limited, and H2 Property Services (London) Limited. The
Company also paid contingent consideration of £400,000 in the prior year relating to acquisitions from previous
years.

Impairment

During the period the company performed an impairment review of its investments and a charge of £12,102,000
has been recognised to write down the carrying value of three subsidiaries within the UK group. Dividends were
received in the year from Energy Insurance Services Limited and Home Energy Services Limited and the carrying
values of the investments were impaired by £900,000 and £4,614,000 respectively. Following the cessation of
Help-link UK Limited, the investment was impaired by £6,588,000.

A fair value gain was also recognised following H2 Property Services (London) Limited not meeting the contingent
consideration targets for the Year 2 pay-out.

18. Inventories

31 December 2023 341 March 2023
£000 £000
Consumables 1,490 1,170

19. Financial assets

Trade and other receivables
31 December 2023 = 31 March 2023

Notes
£000 £000
Amounts receivable for the provision of services 99,853 123,025
Amounts owed by other Group undertakings 30 1,489 3,170
Other debtors 67 7
Prepayments and accrued income 8,575 7,751
109,984 133,953

The balance of the financial items classified as amortised cost at 31 December 2023 is £110,000,000 (31 March
2023: £134,000,000) and is measured at amortised cost.

No interest is charged on the receivables.

37

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

19. Financial assets (continued)

The Company has provided fully for those receivable balances that it does not expect to recover. This assessment
has been undertaken by reviewing the status of all significant balances that are past due and involves assessing
both the reason for non-payment and the credit worthiness of the counterparty.

Ageing of past due net of expected credit losses:
31 December 2023 31 March 2023

£000 £000
1-30 days “4 25
31 — 60 days 1 6
61 — 90 days 113 96
Balance past due 165 127
Current 99,688 122,898
Movement in expected credit losses:
£000
At 1 April 2022 63
Amounts recovered during the year {11)
Impairment provision recognised 142
At 31 March 2023 194
Amounts recovered during the period (25)
Impairment provision recognised 198
Impairment provision utilised (35)
At 31 December 2023 332

Where the Company contracts directly with the consumer of its services, the counterparty to the financial asset in
question is the primary driver of the Company's credit exposure. Where the Company acts as an insurance
intermediary, the counterparty to the financial asset in question (the underwriter) is not the primary driver of the
Company's credit exposure, rather the risk derives from the creditworthiness of the underlying policyholder. In
both instances the relevant credit risk pools are numerous and diverse, thereby mitigating the significance of the
Company's exposure to any single pool of risk. Of the at risk balance at the end of the year there is no significant
concentration of credit risk within an individual pool, with risk exposure spread across a large number of
policyholders. There are no risk exposures that represent more than 5% of the total balance at risk. Note 3
contains further detail regarding the potential risk if policy cancellations were to be 15% higher than expected.

Trade receivables and accrued income are subject to impairment using the expected credit loss model. The
Company applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime
expected credit loss allowance for all trade receivables and contract assets. Consequently, the IFRS 9 concept of
a significant increase in credit risk is not applicable to the Company's expected credit loss calculations. To assess
expected credit losses, balances are either assessed individually or grouped based on similar credit risk
characteristics (e.g. type of customer or days past due). Expected losses are then measured using a provisioning
matrix approach adjusted, where applicable, to take into account current macro-economic factors or counterparty
specific considerations.

38

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

19. Financial assets (continued)

Ageing of impaired trade receivables:
31 December 2023 31 March 2023

£000 £000
1-30 days - -

31-60 days - -
61 - 90 days - -
91 days + 332 194

332 194

In the current period there is a £96,000 balance with Group companies presented as overdue. In the prior year
there was a £840,000 credit balance with Group companies presented as overdue. As disclosed in note 30, no
provisions are necessary in respect of amounts owed by related parties, as none of these balances are considered
doubtful.

The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates to their fair value.
Other debtors

Other debtors principally comprise other non-trading items. No expected credit loss allowance was recognised at
31 December 2023 or 31 March 2023 and no charge was reported in the income statement. No other receivable
balances were considered past due but not impaired.

20. Deferred tax

The fotiowing are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Company and movements thereon
during the current and prior year. No deferred tax is recognised on asset acquisitions.

Accelerated tax Share

depreciation schemes Total
Asset/(liability) £000 £000 £000
At 1 April 2022 7,749 215 7,964
Charge to income (2,352) (145) (2,497)
Charge to equity : (72) (72)
At 31 March 2023 5,397 (2) 5,395
Charge to income (755) - (755)
At 31 December 2023 4,642 (2) 4,640

39

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

21. Liabilities - Trade and other payables

Current liabilities - Trade and other payables

Notes

Trade creditors and accruals

Amounts owed to other Group undertakings 30
Deferred income

Refund liabitity

Taxes and social security, excluding current tax

Deferred and contingent consideration

Provisions 22
Other creditors

31 December 2023
£000
25,825
4,981
23,169
4,103
2,372
1,567
931
24,731
87,679

31 March 2023

£000

32,570
7,769
25,972
6,055
2,867

1,791

516
26,750
104,290

Trade creditors and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs.
The average credit period taken for trade purchases is 65 days (31 March 2023: 69 days).

Amounts owed to Group undertakings are all current balances, are not interest bearing, and are all settled timely

or payable upon demand.

Deferred income represents turnover where an obligation exists to provide future services. An appropriate
proportion of monies received in advance are treated as deferred and recognised over the relevant period.

Refund liabilities represent provisions made in respect of those policies that may be cancelled by the policyholder
part way through the contractual term, which will affect the economic benefits that flow to the Company. A provision

is made to ensure that the related revenue is not recognised at the point that the policy incepts.

Non-current liabilities - Trade and other payables

Deferred income
Provisions
Other creditors

31 December 2023

£000
741
528

1,269

31 March 2023

£000
764

416
1,180

The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade creditors, accruals, deferred consideration and other
creditors meeting the definition of financial instruments approximates to their fair values.

40

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

22. Provisions

Provisions

£'000

At 1 April 2022 999
Created 105
Released (588)
At 31 March 2023 516
Created 2,762
Utilised (1,788)
Released (31)
At 31 December 2023 1,459
Current 931
Non-current 528

Where material, provisions are discounted based on an approximation for the time value of money. The amount
and timing of the cash outflows are subject to variation.

A provision of £2,241,000 was created for restructuring following the decision taken to cease all trading activities
of a subsidiary (note 10) and £1,788,000 was subsequently utilised, reducing the provision required at the end of
December 2023 to £1,459,000.

23. Share capital
31 December 2023 = 31 March 2023
£000 £000
Authorised, Issued and fully paid:
109,300 ordinary shares of £1 each 109 109

The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carries no right to fixed income.

Share capital represents consideration received for the nominal value of £1 per share on all issued and fully paid
shares.

24. Share premium account

; £000
At 31 March 2022, 31 March 2023 and 31 December 2023 6,355

The share premium account represents consideration received for authorised and issued shares in excess of the
nominal value of £1 per share.

41

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

25. Capital redemption reserve

£000

At 31 March 2022, 31 March 2023
and 31 December 2023

12

The capital redemption reserve arose on the redemption of 12,000 £1 redeemable preference shares on 1 July

2002.

26. Notes to the cash flow statement

Notes
Operating profit (including adjusting items)
Adjustments for:
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment
Profit on disposal of right of use assets 15
Loss on disposal of intangible assets
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 16
Amortisation of intangible assets 15
Depreciation of right of use assets 27
Impact of adjusting items 10

Operating cash flows before movements in working capital
Decrease/(increase) in receivables

(Increase)/decrease in inventories

(Decrease)/increase in payables

Cash generated by operations

Income taxes paid
Net cash from continuing operating activities

31 December 2023 31 March 2023

9 months
£000
(14,821)

(2)
1,783
6,565
2,468

37,962
33,955,
23,936
(320)
(16,401)
41,170

(4,461)
36,709

12 months
£000
61,206

596
18

114
2,760
8,947
3,957
77,598
(958)
209
1,520
78,369

(7,223)
71,146

Cash and cash equivalents (which are presented as a single class of assets on the face of the balance sheet)
comprise cash at bank and other short-term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less.

31 December 2023

£000
Cash and cash equivalents as per the balance sheet 417
Bank loans and overdraft as per the balance sheet (1,796)
Cash and cash equivalents as at the end of the year (1,379)

31 Mar 2023
£000

8,801

8,801

Of the total cash and cash equivalents balance held £127,000 (31 March 2023: £138,000) is not available for use
by the Company due to the restrictions stipulated within the Company's contractual relationships with underwriters.

42

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

26. Notes to the cash flow statement (continued)

Reconciliation of movements in liabilities arising from financing Bank and other loans
At 1 April 2022 19,000
Interest paid 975
Interest received (975)
“At3IMarch2023-  . 49,000
Interest paid 1,099
Interest received (1,099)
Repayment of loan (7,000)
Bank overdraft 1,796
As 31 December 2023 13,796
27. Leasing

The following disclosures for the period ended 31 December 2023 are presented in accordance with IFRS 16.

Information about leases for which the Company is a lessee is presented below.

Right of use assets

Motor
Properties vehicles IT & other Total
£000 £000 £000 £000

Cost
At 31 March 2022 6,300 15,253 56 21,609
Additions - 2,329 - 2,329
Disposals - (1,179) - (1,179)
At 31 March 2023 6,300 16,403 56 22,759
Additions 4,005 1,508 - 2,513
Disposals (3,891) (1,595) (56) (5,542)
At 31 December 2023 3,414 16,316 : 19,730
Accumulated depreciation
At 31 March 2022 2,081 8,574 56 10,711
Charge for the year 676 3,281 - 3,957
Disposals (10) (1,097) - (1,107)
Adjustment relating to lease modification 2,264 - - 2,264
At 31 March 2023 5,011 10,758 56 15,825
Charge for the period 414 2,054 - 2,468
Disposals (3,946) (1,541) (56) (5,543)
At 31 December 2023 1,479 11,271 - 12,750
Carrying amount
At 31 March 2023 1,289 5,645 - 6,934
At 31 December 2023 1,935 5,045 : 6,980

Amounts recognised in the income statement are disclosed in notes 6 and 9 respectively. A maturity analysis of
the contractual undiscounted cash flows associated with lease liabilities is provided in note 31. The total cash
outflow for leases for the nine months ended 31 December 2023 was £2.9m (31 March 2023: £4.4m), representing
£2.6m of principal repayments (31 March 2023: £4.0m) and £0.3m of interest charges on outstanding lease
liabilities (31 March 2023: £0.4m).

43

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

27. Leasing (continued)

Additionally, as at the balance sheet date, leases with a contractual commitment of £4.8m (31 March 2023: £4.4m)
have been ordered but not yet delivered.

In addition to the amount expended in respect of ‘right of use’ assets, there were further expenses for other leases
not held on the balance sheet.

Operating lease payments principally represent rentals payable by the Company for certain buildings, motor
vehicles and office equipment. The leases have varying terms and some have renewal options.

28, Share based payments
Following the acquisition of the HomeServe Group by Brookfield Corporation, all share schemes were closed.

During the year ended 31 March 2023, the Company participated in two share-based payment arrangements
through its ultimate parent company, HomeServe Limited, which are described below.

1) LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN (‘LTIP’)

The LTIP provided for the grant of performance matching and restricted awards. The vesting period was normally
three years. Restricted awards were not subject to performance conditions. Until July 2020, 75% of each
performance and matching award was subject to an Earnings Per Share performance condition and the remaining
25% was subject to comparative Total Shareholder Return performance.

From July 2020, 50% of each performance award was subject to a Cumulative Profits Measure performance
condition and the remaining 50% was subject to comparative Total Shareholder Return performance.

ll) ONE PLAN

One Plan was a share incentive scheme which was available to all employees. Since February 2021, for every
partnership share purchased, participants received (or had the right to receive) one free matching share. Prior to
this for every two partnership shares purchased, participants received (or had the right to receive) one free
matching share. Matching shares were held in trust for a period of up to three years.

LTIP ONE PLAN
2023
Number
Outstanding at 1 April 2022 325,404 126,767
Granted - 56,364
Lapsed (86,355) -
Transferred - (570)
Forfeited (28,060) (11,275)
Exercised (210,989) (171,286)
Outstanding at 31 March 2023 - -
Exercisable at 31 March 2023 - -
Exercise price of options outstanding at 31 March 2023 Enil Enil
Weighted average remaining contractual life - :
Weighted average fair value of options awarded in 2023 : £11.35
Weighted average share price at exercise date £11.97

44

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

28. Share based payments (continued)

The estimated fair values were calculated by applying a Black-Scholes option pricing model for SAYE and One
Plan and in addition Monte Carlo and Stochastic simulations for the LTIP. The assumptions used in the models
for the prior year were as follows:

Input Assumption

Share price Price at date of grant

Exercise price Per scheme rules

Expected volatility 22% — 35%

Option life Per scheme rules

Expected dividends Based on historic dividend yield
Risk free interest rate 0.0% — 0.6%

Levels of early exercises and lapses were estimated using historical averages. Volatility was calculated by looking
at the historical share price movements prior to the date of grant over a period of time commensurate with the
remaining term for each award.

The Company recognised total expenses of £nil (31 March 2023: £2,766,000) related to equity-settled share-
based payment transactions.

29. Retirement benefit schemes

Defined contribution schemes

The Company operates defined contribution retirement benefit schemes for all UK employees. The assets of the
scheme are held separately from those of the Company in funds under the control of trustees. Where there are
employees who leave the scheme within two years of joining and they choose to take a refund, the contributions
paid by the Company are forfeited by the employee.

The total cost charged to the income statement of £2,676,000 (31 March 2023: £3,384,000) represents
contributions payable to the schemes by the Company at rates specified in the rules of the schemes. At 31
December 2023, contributions of £644,000 (31 March 2023: £563,000) due in respect of the current reporting
period had not been paid over to the schemes.

Defined benefit schemes

Water Companies Pension Scheme (WCPS)

In the UK, the Group participates in a defined benefit scheme, the Water Companies Pension Scheme (the
‘Scheme’), which is closed to new members. This is a sectionalised scheme and the Group participates in the
HomeServe ple Section of the Scheme. The Section is administered by a Trustee and is independent of the Group's
finances. Contributions are paid to the Section in accordance with the recommendations of an independent actuary
and must not fall below a minimum limit specified by the Trustee on actuarial advice as being required to provide
the benefits which if the Scheme was terminated would be required to be paid to and in respect of the Section
members. Each member's pension at retirement is related to their pensionable service and pensionable salary,
and the weighted average duration of the expected benefit payments from the Section is around 15 years (31
March 2023: 15 years).

The estimated costs for the GMP equalisation were fully reflected in the scheme in FY20. The results of the

actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2020 were updated to the accounting date by a qualified independent actuary
in accordance with IAS19. Re-measurements are recognised immediately through other comprehensive income.

45

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

29. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)

Valuation at
31 December 2023 31 March 202:

Key assumptions used:

Discount rate at 31 December 45% 4.7%
Consumer price inflation 2.8% 3.1%
Retail price inflation 3.3% 3.6%
Expected rate of salary increases 3.1% 3.1%
Future pension increases 2.8% 3.1%
Life expectancy of female aged 60 at balance sheet date 28.7yrs 29.2yrs
Life expectancy of male aged 60 at balance sheet date 26.7yrs 27.2yrs

3

With effect from 31 March 2023 the Trustees of the Scheme, invested in an insurance policy (buy-in annuity policy)
which was intended to largely match the Section's liabilities. The impact of the transaction in 31 March 2023 was
a loss of £3.4m recognised outside of the income statement due to the difference between the premium paid and
the value of the liabilities under IAS 19.

Prior to the buy-in policy, the majority of the assets were held within instruments with quoted market prices in an
active market and the present value of the obligations were linked to yields on AA-rated corporate bonds.

The scheme exposes the Group to actuarial risks including interest rate risk, longevity risk and inflationary risk.
The following table illustrates the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to some of the significant assumptions
as at 31 December 2023, all other things being equal:

£000
Price inflation -1% (2,800)
Price inflation +1% 3,600
Discount rate -1% 3,900
Discount rate +1% (3,100)
Life expectancy -1 year (700)
Life expectancy +1 year 700

Amounts recognised in the income statement in respect of the Scheme are as follows:

31 December 2023 31 March 2023

£000 £000

Current service cost and section expenses 122 155
Interest income (246) (424)
(124) (269)

Defined benefit transactions are held in HomeServe Limited. As stated in Note 2, no balance sheet items are held
in the Company.

The actual return on scheme assets was a loss of £0.7m (31 March 2023: loss of £17.9m). The amount included
in the balance sheet arising from the Group’s obligations in respect of its Scheme is as follows:

31 December 2023 31 March 2023

£000 £000

Present value of defined benefit obligations (24,666) (25,165)
Fair value of scheme assets 31,507 32,100
Surplus in scheme recognised in the balance sheet in non-current assets 6,841 6,935

46

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

29. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)

The net asset recognised in the balance sheet has not been limited as the Group believes that a refund of the
surplus assets would be available to it following the final payment to the last beneficiary of the Scheme.

Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows:
31 December 2023

31 March 2023

£000 £000
At 1 April 25,165 34,801
Employer's part of the current service cost 9 62
Contributions by section participants 3 13
Interest cost 877 962
Actuarial (gains)/losses due to:
Changes in financial assumptions (304) (11,213)
Changes in demographic assumptions (332) (112)
Experience adjustments on benefit obligations 178 2,025
Benefits paid (930) (1,373)
At the end of the period 24,666 25,165

Movements in the present value of the defined benefit assets were as follows:
31 December 2023

£000
At 1 April 32,100
Interest on Section assets 1,123
Section expenses (113)
Contributions by section participants 3
Actual return less interest on Section assets (696)
Contribution from the employer 20
Benefits paid (930)
At the end of the period 31,507

31 March 2023
£000

49,104

1,386

(93)

13

(17,971)

1,034

(1,373)

32,100

The amount recognised outside the income statement in the statement of comprehensive income for 2023 is a loss
of £268,000 (31 March 2023: loss of £8,662,000). The cumulative amount recognised outside the income statement

at 31 March 2023 is a loss of £13.8m (31 March 2023: loss of £13.5m).

The analysis of the fair value of Scheme assets at the balance sheet date was as follows:
31 December 2023

31 March 2023

£000 £000

Buy-in policy 24,554 24,945
Liquidity funds 6,549 6,766
Amounts due from insurers 376 362
Cash 28 27
31,507 32,100

The Trustees purchased an insurance policy which covers the vast majority of the Section’s obligations. The value

of the insurance policy has been set equal to the value of the obligations that it covers.

The estimated amounts of contributions expected to be paid to the scheme during the forthcoming financial year is

£25,000 (31 December 2023: actual £20,000) plus any Pension Protection Fund levy payable.
30. Related party transactions

Ultimate Parent Company

The immediate parent company is HomeServe Assistance Limited, a company registered in England and Wales.

47

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

30. Related party transactions (continued)

The ultimate parent and controlling party is Brookfield Corporation, a company incorporated in Canada.

The largest group in which the results of the Company are consolidated is that headed by Brookfield Corporation.
The consolidated financial statements of Brookfield Corporation are available to the public and may be obtained
from Brookfield Place, Suite 300, 181 bay Street Toronto, ON M5J 2T3 (registered office).

The smallest group in which the results of the Company are consolidated is that headed by HomeServe Limited.
A copy of the financial statements of the Company and of HomeServe Limited can be obtained on application to
The Company Secretary, Cable Drive, Walsall, WS2 7BN (registered office).

Related Party Balances
Amounts owed by related Amounts owed to related
parties parties
31 December 31 March 31 December 31 March
2023 2023 2023 2023
9 months 12 months 9 months 12 months
Company £000 £000 £000 £000
Home Energy Services Limited - 1,140 : 5,754
HomeServe Limited 20 33 3,963 244
HomeServe USA Corp - 991 - 36
HomeServe France 170 171 - -
HomeServe Spain 25 20 - -
Help-Link UK Limited 824 519 44 396
Energy Insurance Services Limited 238 296 - -
CET Structures Limited 139 - : -
APG Domestic Service Limited : - 320 320
John Wilkinson Heating Services 70 . 268 268
Limited
HomeServe Assistance Limited : - : -
Logic Plumbing Heating and Electrical . . 47 38
(Maintenance) Limited
Hereford Heating Limited - - - 627
Koziwarm Plumbing & Heating 3 . 86 86
Limited
SGS Heating and Electrical Limited - - 253 :
Current liabilities / assets 1,489 3,170 4,981 7,769
HomeServe Assistance Limited : - 12,000 19,000
Help-Link UK Limited - 19,000 : -
Non-current liabilities / assets - 19,000 12,000 19,000

Trading transactions
During the period, the Company entered into the following transactions with other Group Companies:
The Company paid dividends of £25,000,000 (31 March 2023: £45,578,000) to HomeServe Assistance Limited.

The Company received dividends from Home Energy Services Limited, Energy insurance Services Limited, and
Hereford Heating Limited of £4,614,000, £1,327,000, and £900,000 respectively.

48

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

30. Related party transactions (continued)

The Company incurred management recharges of £1,749,000 from HomeServe Limited (31 March 2023:
£2,840,000).

The Company incurred gas materials and servicing recharges of £1,513,000 from Help-Link UK Limited (31 March
2023: £1,748,000).

The Company received royalty fee and other income of £1,175,000 (31 March 2023: £5,543,000) from HomeServe
France SAS and HomeServe Spain SLU. The prior year included royalties from Homeserve USA which the
Company no longer receives.

Provision of services to and the purchase of services from related parties were made at arm’s length prices. The
amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. No
provisions have been made for expected credit osses in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.

No interest is charged on amounts owed to or owed by related parties with the exception of monthly interest
applied on the intercompany loan payable to Homeserve Assistance Limited and the intercompany loan receivable
from Help-link UK Limited. The loan bearing a 3-month LIBOR+3% interest rate was signed on 18 March 2021
and is repayable in 5 years from the date of signature. On 31 December 2022, following the cessation of GBP
LIBOR, the agreements were amended to an applicable interest rate of SONIA+3% plus the application of a Credit
Adjustment Spread (CAS).

During the period the Company repaid £7,000,000 of the intercompany loan payable with Homeserve Assistance
Limited. The intercompany loan payable to Homeserve Assistance Limited at the end of the financial year was
£12,000,000. :

During the period the Company made an additional £6,700,000 loan to Help-link UK Limited, taking the total loan
receivable to £25,700,000. This total receivable due from Help-Link UK Limited was waived in December 2023.

During the period the Company made a £70,000 loan to John Wilkinson Heating Services Limited.

Remuneration of key management personnel

The remuneration of the Directors, who are the key management personnel of the Company, is set out below in
aggregate for each of the categories specified in |AS 24 Related Party Disclosures:

31 December 2023 31 March 2023

9 months 12 months

£000 £000

Employee benefits 2,429 3,897
Post-employment benefits 26 32
Share-based payment - 581
2,455 4,510

During the period three Directors received post-employment benefits related to the defined contribution pension-
scheme (31 March 2023: two).

The highest paid Director received emoluments of £1,216,936 (31 March 2023: £1,803,224). Pension allowance
to individual money purchase schemes on behalf of this Director amounted to nil (31 March 2023: Pension
contributions of nil and Pension allowance of nil).

During the period no Directors exercised share options (31 March 2023: three). The highest paid Director exercised

share options relating to the ordinary shares of HomeServe Limited (formerly HomeServe plc), the ultimate parent
Company, of Enil (31 March 2023: £868,000).

49

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

30. Related party transactions (continued)

Directors’ transactions

There were no transactions with Directors requiring disclosure in either the current or prior periods.

31. Financial instruments

Principal financial instruments

The financial instruments used by the Company from which financial instrument risk arises are as follows:

IFRS 9

Carrying amount at Carrying amount at

Type of financial instrument ; . 31 December 2023 31 March 2023
classification (£000) (£000)

Current financial assets

Cash and cash equivalents Amortised cost 417 8,801

Trade and other receivables Amortised cost 109,984 133,953

Non-current financial assets

Amounts receivable from other group undertakings Amortised cost - 19,000

Current financial liabilities

Trade and other payables Amortised cost 88,948 105,470

Non-current financial liabilities

Intercompany loan Amortised cost 12,000 19,000

Financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value are grouped into Levels 1 to
3 based on the degree to which the fair value is observable:

+ Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices in active markets for identical

assets or liabilities;

+ Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within
Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability either directly or indirectly; and

+ Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the
asset or liability that are not based on observable market data.

The Company has no financial instruments with fair values that are determined by reference to Level 1 or Level 2
and there were no transfers of assets or liabilities between levels during the period. There are no non-recurring

fair value measurements.

The Company holds seven Level 3 financial instruments at fair value. These represent contingent consideration
and interest for recent business acquisitions and are detailed below:

50

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

31. Financial instruments (continued)

£000
At 1 April 2022 1,275
Additions 1,752
Payments (400)
Interest 35
At 31 March 2023 2,662
Additions 800
Payments (1,450)
Interest 39
Fair value gain (97)
At 31 December 2023 1,954

For all financial instruments held at amortised cost, the carrying value is considered to be equivalent to the fair
value.

Capital risk management

The Company manages its capital to ensure that it is able to continue as a going concern while maximising the
return to stakeholders through the appropriate balance of debt and equity. The capital structure of the Company
consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in note 2, cash and cash equivalents in the Cash Flow
Statement and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained
earnings as disclosed in notes 23, 24, 25 and the Company Statement of Changes in Equity.

The table below presents quantitative data for the components the Company manages as capital:

31 December 2023 31 March 2023

£000 £000
Shareholders’ funds 125,921 164,838
Cash and cash equivalents 417 8,801
Intercompany loans 12,000 19,000

The company is subject to externally imposed capital requirements from the Financial Conduct Authority. The
company manages the risk through the close monitoring of performance and distributable capital within the
company impacted by the regulations. The company has complied with all such arrangements throughout the
current and preceding year.

Financial risk management objectives

The Company's principal financial instruments comprise cash and cash equivalents. The Company also has
various other financial instruments such as trade receivables and trade payables which arise directly from its
operations. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to raise finance for the Company's operations.

The main risks arising from the Company’s financial instruments are credit risk and liquidity risk.

The maturity profile of the Company's financial liabilities is provided in the following table:

51

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

31. Financial instruments (continued)

Loans Trade Deferred and Other Lease
and contingent p bigs Total
overdrafts payables consideration creditors __ liabilities
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
31 December 2023
Under 2 months 1,796 26,765 - 13,992 457 43,010
Between 2 to 6 months - 2,335 250 9,952 1,194 = 13,731
Between 6 and 12 months - 1,707 1,125 - 1,483 4,315
Between 1 and 2 years - 23 §25 786 2,807 4,141
Between 2 and 5 years 12,000 92 - - 2,440 14,532
Greater than 5 years - 626 - - 66 692
Total 13,796 31,548 1,900 24,730 8,447 = 80,421
Loans Trade Deferred and Other Lease
and contingent . Sy arege Total
overdrafts payables consideration creditors __ liabilities
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
31 March 2023
Under 2 months - 34,813 150 14,260 623. 49,846
Between 2 to 6 months - 3,250 900 12,480 1,318 18,058
Between 6 and 12 months - 2,276 500 - 1,505 4,431
Between 1 and 2 years - 189 1,150 - 2,607 3,696
Between 2 and 5 years 19,000 324 - - 3,991 23,315
Greater than 5 years - 667 - - 504 1,171
Toa ”~*~<S~sts~s~sOOSC“‘i SI «2,700 26,750 10,548 100,517

In the current and prior period, the age of amounts payable to Group companies is under 2 months with the
exception of the intercompany loan which is payable between 1 and 5 years.

Itis, and has been throughout the period under review, the Company's policy that no trading in financial instruments

shall be undertaken.

Credit risk
The Company trades only with creditworthy third parties and fellow subsidiary undertakings. It is the Company's
policy that customers who wish to trade on credit terms are reviewed for financial stability.

With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets of the Company, which comprise cash and cash
equivalents the Company's exposure to credit risk arises from default of the Counterparty.

The Company manages the risk associated with cash and cash equivalents through depositing funds only with
reputable and credit worthy banking institutions.

The Company has a maximum exposure equal to the carrying amount of the Trade Receivables discussed in note
19.

52

Notes to the financial statements

Period ended 31 December 2023

31. Financial instruments (continued)

Liquidity risk

Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management rests with the Company’s Board which sets the framework for
the management of the Company’s short, medium, and long-term funding and liquidity management requirements.
The Company, which is a member of the HomeServe Limited banking arrangement, manages liquidity risk by
HomeServe Limited maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities and the Company continuously
monitoring forecasts and actual cash flows.

Interest rate risk
There is no material interest rate risk.

53

