Registered number: 03542918

idverde Limited

Unaudited
Financial statements

For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

MONDAY

|

A2

aM

*ADCOLXS3*

30/09/2024

COMPANIES HOUSE

r

qj

idverde Limited

Company Information

Directors S Huxley
K B Lennard
AM Pollins {appointed 1 April 2023)

Company secretary T J James

Registered number 03542918

Registered office Octavia House
Westwood Way
Westwood Business Park
Coventry

CcV4 8JP

idverde Limited

Company Information

Strategic Report

Directors’ Report

Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
Statement of Financial Position

Statement of Changes in Equity

Statement of Cash Flows

Notes to the Financial Statements

Page
1-5

11

12-13

14

15

16-41

idverde Limited

Strategic Report
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Introduction

The directors present their strategic report together with the financial statements for the year ended 31
December 2023.

Idverde Limited is the main trading entity in the Idverde UK Limited group. Idverde is a leading provider of
specialist green services, grounds maintenance, parks management, arboriculture, cleansing, facilities
management, consultancy, playground and sports & landscape creation services.

The Group had a positive year for business development. Across the business, £30M new sales were awarded
and the year ended with a very healthy pipeline of live opportunities valued at £160M.

Term maintenance contracts remain key to the company’s growth ambitions and more than £9M in annual sales
were secured, adding £52M to the company’s forward order book.

\dverde’s Soft landscaping division achieved £18M of new business sales in the year. Significant new contracts |
awarded included Manchester City’s Etihad Campus, Brill Place — Purchase Street and Bellway Homes —
Desborough.

Idverde wins the majority of its income by tendering for, and the delivery of, long-term maintenance contracts. It
has an enviable record for the quality of its service delivery and consequently for retaining contracts when they
come up for extension and renewal. The strategy to expand Idverde’s presence and offer a truly national service
delivered via directly employed colleagues is now a demonstrable quality USP in the market.

Idverde continues to follow its four point strategy for growth, namely:

1. Retaining and renewing existing contracts through the continued delivery of a quality service using a
directly employed service provision;

2. Organic growth via new contracts;

3. Acquisitive growth from selective strategic acquisitions; and

4. Continued development of its people, processes and systems.

Key performance indicators ("KPIs")

Turnover

Turnover for the year was £170,702,000 (2022: £167,564 ,000).

Gross Profit

The gross profit margin for the period was 9.5% (2022: 7.9%).

The 23% increase in Gross Profit to £16,241,000 (2022: £13,233,000) reflects the continued focus on
operational improvements, selective bidding and scaling back or exiting of underperforming areas of the

Operating Profit

The operating profit for the period was £287,000 (2022: loss £10,717,000). This included non-underlying costs of
£2,159,000 (2022: £4,442,000).

Loss after tax for the period was £4,500,000 (2022: loss £7,560,000). This improvement is as a result of

increased gross profit and a significant reduction in administrative expenses, which has been delivered by a
continued focus on cost control and the delivery of process improvement.

Page 1

idverde Limited

Strategic Report (continued)
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Future Developments

The primary focus is continuing to improve Gross Profit and returning the group to an overall profitable position.
The Company and Group strategy is successfully growing the business organically through new contract wins
and additionally there is a focus on improving systems and processes to further improve efficiency and control.
The Company will consider acquiring businesses in the future that fit with the strategy and add value to the
Company and Group.

Financial risk management

Idverde's operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in market prices,
credit risk and liquidity risk. Idverde has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse
effects on its financial performance, by monitoring levels of debt finance and the related finance costs. Given the
size of Idverde, the directors have not delegated the responsibility of monitoring financial risk management to a
sub-committee of the Board. The policies set out by the board of directors are implemented by Idverde's central
finance department.

Price Risk

Idverde is exposed to commodity price risk as a result of its operations. Idverde sources products from its supply
chain on a best price basis, leveraging off the UK (and on occasion) the European Group's size and bandwidth to
achieve the best commercial terms, monitoring key market commodity prices. Idverde continues to work with its
customer base in order to mitigate the impact of unavoidable material price increases.

Credit Risk

The group has policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before sales are made.
During 2023 the group utilised credit insurance for certain private sector transactions.

Liquidity Risk

Idverde Group, with the support of the Group's principal shareholder, actively maintains a mixture of long term
and short term debt finance that is designed to ensure the Group has sufficient available funds for operations
and planned expansions.

Business risk

Idverde regularly assesses risks that impact on the business. This includes our processes and procedures in
relation to quality and health and safety. Idverde has maintained its full accreditation for IS09001, 1S014001 and
18045001. As part of our Integrated Management System, Idverde conducts regular risk assessments and
audits with management committed to improving controls and processes. ldverde's Leadership team regularly
reviews the outcomes of such risk assessments together with related health and safety matters, including
incident investigation and audit findings. During the year, idverde continued its training programme for managers
and relevant Directors to undertake NEBOSH and JOSH training courses. All senior operational directors and
managers are encouraged to obtain qualification to NEBOSH certificate level. Idverde also has a policy of
ensuring that every operational or contract manager is qualified to IOSH level and has a continuous training
programme to maintain this with new employees and as new managers join on new contracts.

Streamlined energy and carbon reporting (SECR)

Energy usage and greenhouse gas emissions reported here are for the year ended 31st December 2023.
idverde have partnered with One Carbon World Ltd for another year to verify our carbon footprint for 2023.
idverde is proud to announce a third consecutive year with a reduced carbon intensity for its direct emissions.
Climate change and carbon management remain a top business priority, alongside the development of nature
based solutions and addressing global biodiversity loss.

Page 2

idverde Limited

Strategic Report (continued)
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Energy Usage

Source kWh
Electricity 1,342,851
Gas 1,530,769
Burning oil 69,183

Transport (Liquid Fuels) 69,714,592
Total energy usage 72,657,395

Carbon Emissions

The above energy and fuel use equates to 15,742.28 tCO2e (direct emissions only emissions). A breakdown of
these emission by scope is shown below alongside indirect emissions figures.

GHG Protocol Scope Tons CO2e
Scope 1 15,464.21
Scope 2 278.07

For the purposes of illustrating a ‘carbon intensity’, this equates to 73.67 tCO2e per £1m turnover. This is a 9.1%
decrease on the 2022 baseline carbon intensity, and a 20.7% decrease on the 2020 baseline carbon intensity.

Footprint Period: 2023 Like-for-Like Assessment (Scopes 1+2 only)

On an absolute basis, the total aggregated scope 1+2 emissions in 2023 were stated as 15,742.28 tCO2e
compared to 17,420.65 tCO2e in 2022. A 2.5% decrease in turnover occurred over the same period, so ona
relative basis, the total scope 1+2 emissions in 2023 were stated as 73.66 tCO2e per £1m turnover compared to
79.52 (-9.1%) in 2022.

Methodology

idverde is continuing to use the same methodology as previous years. The company defines the emission
boundary for this report as all source emissions arising from company activities that are within the company’s
operational control including the activities taking place at occupied properties and that of the entire working
vehicle fleet used by the company (the vast majority of idverde’s services are delivered by its own direct
resources).

Emissions factors and guidance from the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) have
been used to calculate all material carbon emissions covering scopes 1 + 2 for which the company considers
itself to be responsible for.

The methodology used meets the reporting requirements of the Green House Gas (GHG) Protocol Corporate
Standard.

Energy efficiency action and mitigation (Jan to Dec 2023)

. Continued replacement of internal combustion engine (ICE) machinery with electric powered alternatives
on a number of large grounds maintenance contracts

. Continued deployment of light commercial electric vans into our fleet

‘ Successful business development in Solihull, The Royal Parks and other services resulted in further

investment in
- Further electric battery powered machinery and equipment
- Further orders placed for electric light commercial vehicles and EV cars
- Alternative fuel introduced, reducing or replacing the use of diesel on those contracts

: Further investment in all these areas within existing fleet and equipment operations
: Driver awareness training
: Vehicle idling monitoring and training

Page 3

idverde Limited

Strategic Report (continued)
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023
Ongoing Action

Amongst our activities this reporting year Idverde have:

. Continued our campaign to reduce fuel consumption as a result of driving techniques and speeds

: Expanding the use of vehicle tracking and telematics to greater support energy efficiency targets

. Continued the development of an updated sustainability strategy and a credible Net Zero strategy

. Continued the delivery of Climate Fresk sessions, educating and training colleagues on the topic of
climate change

. Initiated Sustainability Workshops at a contract level to engage colleagues and get them involved in

sustainability initiatives and improvements from the ground up
Carbon Neutrality and Tree planting initiatives

Our main focus continues to be the development of a credible Net Zero strategy alongside the revision of our
Sustainability Strategy, however idverde recognises that we should continue to offset our direct emissions in
order to help mitigate our impacts of the work we do today.

idverde believes that offsetting our emissions is not the long-term solution, however for 2023 we have continued
to retire carbon credits through a UN backed offsetting scheme and have maintained our position of carbon
neutrality with respect to our direct (Scopes 1 & 2) emissions. We recognise that most carbon offsetting
schemes are situated abroad and in developing countries, so alongside this we are also keen to support UK
based environmental initiatives. To this end, we have continued our support of the RFS’s National Forest tree
planting scheme, with further investment in 5000 trees. We see schemes such as this as key to ensuring that
tree planting initiatives that we support are sustainable and supported with the correct stewardship and
management programmes. All of the tree planting we support is in addition to the offsetting through the formal
UN backed programme.

Directors’ statement of compliance with duty to promote the success of the group

The directors have acted in the way they consider, in good faith, promotes the success of the group for the
benefit of its members as a whole, and in doing so have given regard to (amongst other matters):

Business relationships

The need to build strong long-standing relationships with both our customers and suppliers is paramount to the
success of the group and its longevity. We continually develop strategies to maintain and grow our client base
and further improve relationship with our suppliers. With respect to suppliers the group's policy for the payment
of suppliers is to agree to terms of payment in advance in line with normal trade practices and, provided a
supplier performs in accordance with the agreement, to abide by such terms.

Our people

The group is committed to being a responsible business. Our behaviour is aligned with the expectations of our
people, customers, shareholders, communities, and society as a whole. People are at the heart of delivering
quality specialist services both internally and externally. For our business to continue to succeed we continually
manage our peoples’ performance and develop and bring through talent while ensuring we operate as efficiently
as possible.

Disabled employees

The company gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the
requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person. Where existing
employees became disabled, it is the company’s policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment
under normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and promotion to disabled
employees wherever appropriate.

Page 4

idverde Limited

Strategic Report (continued)
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Employee involvement

During the period, the policy of providing employees with information about the group has been continued
through internal media methods in which employees have also been encouraged to present their suggestions
and views on the group's performance. Regular meetings are held between local management and employees to
allow a free flow of information and ideas.

Community, charity and environment

The group's approach is to use our long-standing position to create positive change for the people and
communities we interact with through a number of initiatives.

Culture and values

The group recognises the importance of having the right corporate culture. Our long-term success depends on
achieving our strategic goals the right and fair way, so we look after the best interests of our shareholders,
customers, people, suppliers, and other stakeholders.

Shareholders

The management is committed and openly engaged with our shareholders through regular Board Meetings and
effective dialogue. The shareholders and their representatives are actively engaged in understanding our
strategy, culture, people, and the performance of our shared objectives for the short, mid and longer terms.

Political donations

The group does not make any donations to any political party or organisation.

This report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf.

Att

AM Pollins
Director
Date: 27/09/2024

Page 5

idverde Limited

Directors‘ Report
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

The directors present their report and the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023.
Principal activity

idverde Limited is a holding company for Banyards Limited, English Woodlands Limited, Western Landscapes
Limited, English Landscapes Limited, English Landscapes Maintenance Limited and idverde Scotland Limited.
idverde is a wholly owned subsidiary of idverde Holdings Limited which is in turn owned by idverde UK Limited
(the UK “Group”)}. The company is a leading provider of specialist clean and green services, delivering grounds
management, arboriculture, cleansing, park management & consultancy, facilities management and landscape
creation services.

The company derives the majority of its income from the tendering for and delivery of long-term maintenance
contracts. The company has an enviable record for the quality of its service delivery and consequently for
retaining contracts when they come up for extension and renewal.

The company has a four point strategy for growth namely:

. Retaining and renewing existing contracts through the continued quality of service provision;
, Organic growth via new contracts;

. Acquisitive growth from selective strategic acquisitions; and

. Continued development of its people, processes and systems.

Results and dividends

The loss for the year, after taxation, amounted to £4,500,000 (2022 - loss £7,560,000).
The directors do not recommend a dividend on the ordinary shares (2022: £Nil).
Going concern

Idverde Limited and its UK subsidiaries are directly and indirectly funded by a Luxembourg parent company
Armorica Lux Sarl through inter-company arrangements which are repayable in the future periods. No significant
cash or external borrowings are held in the UK. Due to this, the company is reliant on support and has received a
letter of support from Armorica Lux Sarl, indicating that it will continue to make funds available to the company
and will not seek repayment of any amounts owed, where such repayment could impair the liquidity of the
company. This will enable the company to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The letter
covers a period of at least 18 months from the date of signing the financial statements. The directors have
assured the ability of Armorica Lux Sarl to provide support and in doing so reviewed the going concern
assessment of Armorica Lux Sarl. The Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite
the current uncertain economic outlook.

Future developments

The Group is expected to continue its reorganisation to improve performance. It is also expected that it will
continue to grow through acquisitions of complementary businesses.

Employment of disabled persons

Applications for employment by disabled persons are always considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the
applicant concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that
their employment with the company continues and that appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of the
company that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be
identical to that of other employees.

Page 6

idverde Limited

Directors’ Report (continued)
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023
Employee involvement

During the year, the Group continued to develop its ‘grow our own' strategy of attracting and developing talent at
all levels within the business. This positive investment by the group has helped to address the industry wide skills
shortage.

The Accelerated Leadership Programme (ALP) and Management Development Programme (MDP) enable the
group to continually develop the management of people within the business. These programmes educate and
guide managers in leadership styles, their own work preferences, the impact of their management on others and
the link between good quality leadership, employee engagement and performance. This has resulted in
progression te senior management roles for a number of developing managers during the year.

Training and up-skilling amongst Operatives continues to be delivered through the continuation of offering
various apprenticeships / qualifications / e-learning / internal & external training. Idverde’s commitment to
ensuring that its attraction strategy to offer training and development under apprenticeship schemes continues to
develop, and Idverde has notably established an industry leading development centre for its colleagues,
Performance Campus.

Matters covered in the strategic report

The directors have prepared a separate Strategic Report incorporating consideration of the Group's suppliers,
customers, employees and others.

Directors
The directors who served during the year were:

J-N Groleau (resigned 4 January 2023)
S Huxley

K B Lennard

AK Gomm (resigned 27 June 2023)

AM Pollins (appointed 7 April 2023)

Corporate Governance Statement

The Board of Directors (the “Board”) of Idverde UK Limited (the “Group”) and its subsidiaries (including main
trading subsidiaries Idverde Limited, T.C Landscapes Ltd) has adopted the Wates Corporate Governance
Principles for Large Private Companies and has applied ail the principles of the code. The Wates Corporate
Governance Principles for Large Private Companies serves as the framework to demonstrate how Directors
have regard for the matters set out in section 172(1)(a) to (f) of the Companies Act when performing their duties.
Each of the Six Wates Principles has been considered individually within the context of the Company's specific
circumstances and a short explanation below as to how each principle has been applied.

The members of the Board (the “Directors”) have set out below an explanation of how the Wates Corporate
Governance Principles are applied.

Page 7

idverde Limited

Directors’ Report (continued)
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

An effective board develops and promotes the purpose of a company, and ensures that its values,
strategy and culture align with that purpose.

Idverde UK Limited (“Idverde” or “Group”) is a holding company for the UK trading group. Idverde is the leading
provider of specialist green services, grounds maintenance, parks management, arboriculture, cleansing,
facilities management, consultancy, playground and sports & landscape creation services.

Idverde wins the majority of its income by tendering for, and the delivery of, long-term maintenance contracts. It
has an enviable record for the quality of its service delivery and consequently for retaining contracts when they
come up for extension and renewal. The strategy to expand Idverde’s presence and offer a truly national service
delivered via directly employed colleagues is now a demonstrable quality USP in the market.

Idverde continues to follow its four point strategy for growth, namely:

. Retaining and renewing existing contracts through the continued delivery of a quality service using a
directly employed service provision;

. Organic growth via new contracts;

. Acquisitive growth from selective strategic acquisitions; and

. Continued development of its people, processes and systems.

The Group recognises the importance of having the right corporate culture. Our long-term success depends on
achieving our strategic goals the right and fair way, so we look after the best interests of our shareholders,
customers, people, suppliers, and other stakeholders.

The directars have acted in the way they consider, in good faith, promotes the success of the Group for the
benefit of its members as a whole.

The Group has a clearly communicated Mission, Vision and Values.
Our Mission:

Creating and maintaining landscapes for our clients, employing colleagues who are motivated to do their best, in
an environment where they feel valued and proud to work for Idverde.

Our Vision:

To be the provider of choice for creating and maintaining landscapes for businesses and communities.

Our Values:

Collaboration, Integrity, Innovation, Respect, Responsibility and Focus, are at the heart of everything we do.
Effective board composition requires an effective chair and a balance of skills, backgrounds, experience
and knowledge, with individual directors having sufficient capacity to make a valuable contribution. The
size of a beard should be guided by the scale and complexity of the company.

The chair of the Board, who is nominated in each meeting, leads the Board and is responsible for its overall
effectiveness, promoting open debate and facilitating constructive and meaningful conversation. Other members
of the management team and other internal subject matter experts are invited to Board meetings to update and
advise the Directors as and when needed. The Board meetings are joined by in-house legal counsel and the
Company Secretary.

The board consists of members with a diverse range of skills, expertise and experience including finance and
accounting, human resources, and business development. The size and structure of the board is adequate to the

scale and complexity of the Company and Group.

The Group assists the Board’s professional development and growth, providing regular training and supporting
development opportunities.

Page 8

idverde Limited

Directors’ Report (continued)
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

The board and individual directors should have a clear understanding of their accountability and
responsibilities. The board's policies and procedures should support effective decision-making and
independent challenge.

The Board meets throughout the reporting year to review current business performance, discuss strategic
projects, people, quality and health and safety, and analyse key risks and opportunities. Key information is
collated by the Group’s finance function. Financial information is audited on an annual basis by the Group's
external auditors. Internal controls and processes are routinely reviewed. Other key information is prepared by
the relevant business functions and internal specialists within the Company and presented to the board as
necessary.

Directors are required to act in the best interest of the Group and comply with company policies around Code of
Conduct including promoting ethical behaviours, leading by example and acting in compliance with laws and
regulations, including their statutory duties under the Companies Act 2006 (CA 2006).

A board should promote the long-term sustainable success of the company by identifying opportunities
to create and preserve value, and establishing oversight for the identification and mitigation of risks.

The Group established and maintains corporate governance and compliance practices, providing clear tines of
accountability and responsibility to support effective decision making, including third party engagements, contract
signing policies, authority and approval processes, and communication channels.

Members of the board participate in monthly business reviews with key functional leaders to review business
performance in tight of long-term strategic plans, opportunities and decision making.

idverde's opérations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of changes in market prices,
credit risk and liquidity risk. Idverde has in place a risk management programme that seeks to limit the adverse
effects on its financial performance, by monitoring levels of debt finance and the related finance costs. Given the
size of Idverde, the directors have not delegated the responsibility of monitoring financial risk management to a
sub-committee of the Board. The policies set out by the board of directors are implemented by Idverde's central
finance department.

Idverde regularly assesses risks that impact on the business. This includes our processes and procedures in
relation to quality and health and safety. Idverde has maintained its full accreditation for 1509001, 1S014001 and
1$045001. As part of our Integrated Management System, Idverde conducts regular risk assessments and
audits with management committed to improving controls and processes. Idverde's Leadership team regularly
reviews the outcomes of such risk assessments together with related health and safety matters. All senior
operational directors and managers are encouraged to obtain qualification to NEBOSH certificate level.

A board should promote executive remuneration structures aligned to the long-term sustainable
success of a company, taking into account pay and conditions elsewhere in the company.

The Group is committed to being a responsible business. Our behaviour and remuneration is aligned with the
expectations of our people, customers, shareholders, communities, and society as a whole. People are at the
heart of delivering quality specialist services both internally and externally. For our business to continue to
succeed we continually manage our peoples’ performance and develop and bring through talent while ensuring
we operate as efficiently as possible.

Appropriate and fair levels of remuneration of executive and senior management is essential to delivering on this
commitment. Remuneration structures are aligned with performance, behaviours, purpose, values and culture,
and the delivery and achievement of strategy to support long term and sustainable success. The Group
considers compensation paid by similar companies as a reference point.

Page 9

idverde Limited

Directors‘ Report (continued)
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Directors should foster effective stakeholder relationships aligned to the company’s purpose. The board
is responsible for overseeing meaningful engagement with stakeholders, including the workforce, and
having regard to their views when taking decisions.

The need to build strong long-standing relationships with both our customers and suppliers is paramount to the
success of the Group and its longevity. We continually develop strategies to maintain and grow our client base
and further improve relationship with our suppliers.

The Board and the leadership team regularly present to the senior leaders within the Idverde UK group and
discuss business performance, strategy and decisions in the regular management meetings. The international
leadership team of the ultimate parent company also receive similar updates.

The policy of providing employees with information about the Group has been continued through internal media
methods in which employees have also been encouraged to present their suggestions and views on the Group’s
performance. Regular meetings are held between local management and employees to allow a free flow of
information and ideas.

The Group’s approach is to use our long-standing position to create positive change for the people and
communities we interact with through a number of initiatives. The ldverde Community Investment Fund aims to
empower local people to deliver sought-after projects that improve their local green space or the public realm,
enhance the local environment and boost the wellbeing of local people. The Idverde Community Investment
Fund, which grants up to £40,000 per year to support community-led projects in the areas where we work.
Funding can be granted for a variety of projects and activities, including promotion, marketing, and education, as
well as practical equipment and running costs.

We remain committed to keeping carbon management at the top of our business priorities alongside providing
nature based solutions for our clients to fight climate change and address global biodiversity loss.

The management is committed and openly engaged with our shareholders through regular Board Meetings and
effective dialogue. The shareholders and their representatives are actively engaged in understanding our
strategy, culture, people, and the performance of our shared objectives for the short, mid and longer terms.

The Group website provides extensive and up to date news on recent developments for internal and external
stakeholders.

Audit exemption

The company is exempted from audit under sections 479A and 479C of the Companies Act 2006, since its
ultimate parent company, idverde UK Limited (Registered number 06539986) has provided a guarantee under

section 479C.

This report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf.

CAE

AM Poliins
Director
Date: 27/09/2024

Page 10

idverde Limited

Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Note
Revenue , 2
Cost of sales
Gross profit
Administrative expenses
Non-underlying expenses 6
Profit/(loss) from operations
Finance expense 7
Loss before tax
Tax (expense)/credit 8
Loss for the year
Other comprehensive income:
Remeasurements of defined benefit pension schemes 18

Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax

Total comprehensive income

The notes on pages 16 to 41 form part of these financial statements.

Page 11

2023 2022
£000 £000
170,702 167,564
(154,461) (154,331)
16,241 13,233
(13,794) (19,508)
(2,159) (4,442)
288 (10,717)
(3,540) (1,676)
(3,252} (12,393)
(1,248) 4,833
(4,500) (7,560)

8 1,814

8 1,814
(4,492) (8,746)


idverde Limited
Registered number: 03542918

Statement of Financial Position
As at 31 December 2023

Assets
Non-current assets

Property, plant and equipment
Intangible assets

Other non-current investments
Employee benefit assets
Deferred tax assets

Current assets

Inventories
Trade and other receivables
Cash and cash equivalents

Total assets
Liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Loans and borrowings
Current liabilities

Trade and other liabilities
Loans and borrowings

Total liabilities

Net assets/(liabilities)

Page 12

Note

410
12
18

13
14
23

16

15
16

2023
£000

33,641
171
6,662
1,888
7,832

50,194

192
42,972
2,093

45,257

95,451

14,422
14,422

59,827
10,918

70,745

85,167

10,284

2022
£000

34,786
171
6,662
1,727
6,331

49,677

238
52,307
693

53,238

102,915

16,657
16,657

82,523
8,958

91,481

108,138

(6,223)

idverde Limited
Registered number: 03542918

Statement of Financial Position (continued)
As at 31 December 2023

2023 2022
Note £000 £000

Issued capital and reserves
Share capital 7 20,574 574
Share premium reserve 6,098 6,098
Retained earnings (16,388) (11,895}
Total equity 10,284 (5,223)

The Company was entitled to exemption from the requirement to have an audit under section 479A of the
Companies Act 2006.

The members have not required the Company to obtain an audit for the year in question in accordance with
section 476 of the Companies Act 2006.

The directors acknowledge their responsibilities for complying with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006
with respect to accounting records and the preparation of financial statements.

The financial statements on pages 11 to 41 were approved and authorised for issue by the board of directors
and were signed on its behalf by:

(AA

AM Pollins
Director
Date: 27/09/2024

The notes on pages 16 to 41 form part of these financial statements.

Page 13

idverde Limited

Statement of Changes in Equity
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Share Share Retained
capital premium earnings Total equity
£000 £000 £000 £000
At1 January 2022 574 6,098 (6,149) 523
Comprehensive income for the year
Loss for the year - - (7,560) (7,560)
Other comprehensive income - - 1,814 1,814
~ - (8,746) —«*5,746
Total comprehensive income for the year ( ) ( 6)
At 31 December 2022 574 6,098 (11,895) (5,223)
At 1 January 2023 574 6,098 (11,895) (5,223)
Comprehensive income for the year
Loss for the year - - (4,500) (4,500)
Other comprehensive income - - 8 8
- - 4,492 4,492
Total comprehensive income for the year ( ) ( )
Issue of share capital 20,000 - - 20,000
Total contributions by and distributions to
owners 20,000 - - 20,000
At31 December 2023 20,574 6,098 (16,388) 10,284

The notes on pages 16 to 41 form part of these financial statements.

Page 14


idverde Limited

Statement of Cash Flows
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Cash flows from operating activities

Loss for the year
Adjustments for

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
Finance expense
Income tax expense

Movements in working capital:

Decrease in trade and other receivables
Decrease in inventories

(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables
Decrease in provisions and employee benefits

Cash generated from operations

Income taxes paid

Net cash (used in)/from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities

Purchases of property, plant and equipment

Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment

Net cash used in investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities

Issue of ordinary shares
Repayment of bank borrowings
Movements in lease liabilities
Interest paid

Net cash from financing activities

Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year

The notes on pages 16 to 41 form part of these financial statements.

Page 15

Note

23

2023
£000

(4,500)

12,922
3,540
(1,248)

10,714

9,335
46

(23,945)

(153)

(4,003)

995
(3,008)

(12,049)
272

(11,777)

20,000

(275)
(3,540)

16,185
1,400

693
2,093

2022
£000

(7,560)

10,335
1,676

(4,833)

(382)

14,343

46

3,447
(1,071)

16,383

(3,962)

12,421

(15,390)
134

(15,256)

13,226
(10,770)
(1,676)

780
(2,055)

2,748
693

idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

1. Accounting policies

idverde Limited (the “Company’) is a private company incorporated, domiciled and registered in England
in the UK The registered number is 03542918 and the registered address is Octavia House, Westwood
Way, Westwood Business Park, Coventry, CV4 8JP.

The financial statements have been prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with
International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU (“Adopted IFRSs”).

The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all
periods presented in these financial statements.

The presentation currency of these financial statements is sterling. All amounts in the financial statements
have been rounded to the nearest £1,000.

Judgements made by the directors, in the application of these accounting policies that have significant
effect on the financial statements and estimates with a significant risk of material adjustment in the next
year are discussed in note 1.16.

1.1. Measurement convention
The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis.
1.2 Exemption from preparing consolidated financial statements

The Company is a parent company that is also a subsidiary included in the consolidated financial
statements of a larger group by a parent undertaking established under the law of any part of the United”
Kingdom and is therefore exempt from the requirement to prepare consolidated financiat statements
under section 400 of the Companies Act 2006.

1.3. Going concern

The company’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development,
performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 5. The financial position of the
company is set out in the Balance Sheet and its cash flows in the Cash Flow Statement. Details of the
company's borrowings and financial instruments are set out in note 16.

The company has ongoing support from the wider group and is directly and indirectly funded by a
Luxembourg parent company Armorica Lux Sarl through inter-company arrangements which are
repayable in the future periods. No significant cash or external borrowings are held in the UK. Due to this,
the company is reliant on support and has received a letter of support from Armorica Lux Sarl, indicating
that it will continue to make funds available to the company and will not seek. repayment of any amounts
owed, where such repayment could impair the liquidity of the company. This will enable to the company to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The letter covers a period of at least 18
months from the date of signing the financial statements. The directors have assured the ability of
Armorica Lux Sarl to provide support and in doing so reviewed the going concern assessment of parent
company Armorica Lux Sarl.

1.4 Foreign currency

Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies at the foreign
exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies at the balance sheet date are retranslated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange
rate ruling at that date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the income
statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign
currency are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary assets and
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are retranslated to the functional
currency at foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates the fair value was determined.

Page 16

idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

1.

Accounting policies (continued)
1.5 Revenue

Revenue from service contracts represents the fair value of work performed in connection with the
grounds maintenance services, excluding value added tax. Revenue from long term landscape creation
projects is accounted for under the principles of long term contract accounting and is recognised on the
basis of an assessment of fair value of works performed, exclusive of value added tax. Differences
between this and amounts invoiced are held as amounts recoverable on contracts or payments on
account. Full provision for loss-making contracts is made for any foreseeable losses.

The Company does not expect to have any contracts where the period between the transfer of the
promised goods or services to the customer and payment by the customer exceeds one year. As a
consequence, the Company does not adjust any of the transaction prices for the time value of money.

1.6 Classification of financial instruments issued by the company

Following the adoption of IAS 32, financial instruments issued by the company are treated as equity only
to the extent that they meet the following two conditions:

(a) they include no contractual obligations upon the company to deliver cash or other financial assets or

to exchange financial assets or financial liabilities with another party under conditions that are
potentially unfavourable to the company; and

(b) — where the instrument will or may be settled in the Company's own equity instruments, it is either a
non- derivative that includes no obligation to deliver a variable number of the Company's own equity
instruments or is a derivative that will be settled by the Company’s exchanging a fixed amount of
cash or other financial assets for a fixed number of its own equity instruments.

To the extent that this definition is not met, the proceeds of issue are classified as a financial liability.
Where the instrument so classified takes the legal form of the Company's own shares, the amounts
presented in these financial statements for called up share capital and share premium account exclude
amounts in relation to those shares.

1.7 Non-derivative financial instruments

Non-derivative financial instruments comprise investments in equity and debt securities, trade and other
receivables, cash and cash equivalents, loans and borrowings, and trade and other payables.

Trade and other receivables

Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment losses.

Trade and other payables

Trade and other payables are recognised initially at fair value. Subsequent to initial recognition they are
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable
on demand and form an integral part of the company's cash management are included as a component of
cash and cash equivalents for the purpose only of the cash flow statement.

interest-bearing borrowings

interest-bearing borrowings are recognised initially at fair value less attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the
effective interest method, less any impairment losses.

Page 17


idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

1. Accounting policies (continued)

1.8 Taxation

Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the income
statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is
recognised in equity.

{i} Current tax

The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from ‘profit before
tax’ as reported in the Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income because of items of
income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and items that are never taxable or
deductible. The Company's current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.

(ii) Deferred tax

Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and Jiabilities
in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets
are generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that
taxable profits will be available against which those deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such
deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initial
recognition (other than in a business combination) of assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects
neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. In addition, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if
the temporary difference arises from the initia! recognition of goodwill.

Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in
subsidiaries and associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Company is able to control
the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in
the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with
such investments and interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that there will be
sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they are
expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to
the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of
the asset to be recovered.

Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in
which the liability is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted
or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.

The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow

from the manner in which the Company expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the
carrying amount of its assets and liabilities.

Page 18

idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

1. Accounting policies (continued)
1.9 Property, plant and equipment

Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses.

If significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, then they are
accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment. Any gain or loss
on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in profit or loss. Subsequent
expenditure is capitalised only if it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the
expenditure will flow to the Company.

Depreciation is provided on all other items of property, plant and equipment so as to write off their carrying
value over their expected useful economic lives. It is provided at the following rates:

Freehold property 2% - 10% straight line
Long-term leasehold property evenly over term of the lease
Plant and machinery 10% - 15% straight line
Motor vehicles 12.5% - 25% straight line
Office equipment 10% - 33% straight line

Leased assets

The company leases buildings, vehicles and various other equipment. Rental contracts are typically made
for fixed periods but may have extension options.

Contracts may contain both lease and non-lease components. The company allocates the consideration in
the contract to the lease and non-lease components based on their relative standalone prices. However,
for leases of property for which the company is a lessee and for which it has major leases, it has elected
not to separate lease and non-lease components and instead accounts for these as a single lease
component.

Until the 2018 financial year, leases of property, plant and equipment were classified as either finance
leases or operating leases. From 1 January 2019, leases are recognised as a right-of-use asset and a
corresponding liability at the cate at which the leased asset is available for use by the company.

Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured on a present value basis. Lease liabilities
include the net present value of the following lease payments:

. Fixed payments {including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives receivable;

: Variable lease payments that are based on an index or a rate, initially measured using the index or
rate as at the commencement date;

. Amounts expected to be payable by the company under residual value guarantees;

. The exercise price of a purchase option if the company is reasonably certain to exercise that option;
and

. Payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the company exercising
that option.

Lease payments to be made under reasonably certain extension options are also included in the
measurement of the liability.

The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be
readily determined, which is generally the case for leases in the company, the lessee’s incremental
borrowing rate is used, being the rate that the individual lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds
necessary to obtain an asset of similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment
with similar terms, security and conditions.

Page 19


idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

1. Accounting policies (continued)
1.9 Property, plant and equipment (continued)
Lease payments are allocated between principal and finance cost. The finance cost is charged to profit or
loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance
of the liability for each period.

Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the following:

. The amount of the initial measurement of lease liability;

: Any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received;
and

. Any initial direct costs.

Right-of-use assets are generally depreciated over the shorter of the asset's useful life and the lease
term on a straight-line basis. If the company is reasonably certain to exercise a purchase option, the
right-of-use asset is depreciated over the underlying asset's useful life.

1.10 Intangible assets and goodwill
Goodwill

Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash-
generating units and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment. In respect of equity accounted
investees, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment in the
investee.

1.11 Creation contract debtors

Creation contract debtors represent the gross unbilled amount for contract work performed to date. It is
measured at cost plus profit recognised to date (see the revenue accounting policy) less a provision for
foreseeable losses and less progress billings. Variations are included in contract revenue when they are
reliably measurable and it is probable that the customer will approve the variation itself and the revenue
arising from the variation. Claims are included in contract revenue only when they are reliably measurable
and negotiations have reached an advanced stage such that it is probable that the customer will accept
the claim. Cost includes all expenditure related directly to specific projects and an allocation of fixed and
variable overheads incurred in the company’s contract activities based on normal operating capacity.

Creation contract debtors are presented as part of trade and other receivables in the balance sheet. If
payments received from customers exceed the income recognised, then the difference is presented as
deferred income in the balance sheet.

1.12 Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs of inventories are determined on
a first in, first out basis. Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price for inventories less all
estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale.

1.13 Impairment excluding inventories, and deferred tax assets
Financial assets (including receivables)

A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to
determine whether there is objective evidence that it is impaired. A financial asset is impaired if objective
evidence indicates that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss
event had a negative effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably.
An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset measured at amortised cost is calculated as the
difference between its carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows

Page 20

idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

4. Accounting policies (continued)
1.13 Impairment excluding inventories, and deferred tax assets (continued)

discounted at the asset's original effective interest rate. Interest on the impaired asset continues to be
recognised through the unwinding of the discount. When a subsequent event causes the amount of
impairment loss to decrease, the decrease in impairment loss is reversed through profit or loss.

Non-financial assets

The carrying amounts of the company’s non-financial assets, other than inventories and deferred tax
assets, are reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If
any such indication exists, then the asset's recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill, and intangible
assets that have indefinite useful lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is
estimated each year at the same time.

The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair
value less costs to sell. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and the risks specific to the asset. For the purpose of impairment testing, assets that cannot be
tested individually are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash inflows from
continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or groups of assets (the
“cash-generating unit”). The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment
testing, is allocated to cash-generating units, or (“CGU”). Subject to an operating segment ceiling test, for
the purposes of goodwill impairment testing, CGUs to which goodwill has been allocated are aggregated
so that the level at which impairment is tested reflects the lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for
internal reporting purposes. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is allocated to groups of CGUs
that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.

Page 21

idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

1. Accounting policies (continued)
1.13 Impairment exciuding inventories, and deferred tax assets (continued)

An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its CGU exceeds its estimated
recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in
respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the units,
and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the unit (group of units) on a pro rata basis.
An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses
tecognised in prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has
decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates
used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the
asset's carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of
depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been recognised.

1.14 Employee benefits
Defined contribution plans

A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Company pays fixed
contributions into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts.
Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the
income statement in the periods during which services are rendered by employees.

Defined benefit plans

A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan. The
company's net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated by estimating the
amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior
periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets (at
bid price) are deducted. The company determines the net interest on the net defined benefit liability/asset
for the period by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning
of the annual period to the net defined benefit liability/(asset).

The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on bonds that have a credit rating of at least AA that
have maturity dates approximating the terms of the company’s obligations and that are denominated in the
currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid.

Remeasurements arising from defined benefit plans comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on
plan assets (excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest). The company
recognises them immediately in other comprehensive income and all other expenses related to defined
benefit plans in employee benefit expenses in profit or loss.

The calculation of the defined benefit obligations is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected
unit credit method. When the calculation results in a benefit to the company, the recognised asset is
limited to the present value of benefits available’ in the form of any future refunds from the plan or
reductions in future contributions and takes into account the adverse effect of any minimum funding
requirements.

Page 22

idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

1. Accounting policies (continued)
1.15 Expenses
Lease payments

Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the
outstanding liability. The finance charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce
a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.

Financing income and expenses

Financing expenses comprise interest payable, finance charges on shares classified as liabilities and
finance leases recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method, unwinding of the discount
on provisions, and net foreign exchange losses that are recognised in the income statement.

Interest income and interest payable is recognised in profit or loss as it accrues, using the effective
interest method. Dividend income is recognised in the income statement on the date the entity's right to
receive payments is established. Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.

1.16 Significant accounting estimates and judgements

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the management to make
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires management to make
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and reported
amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The nature of the company’s business is such
that there can be unpredictable variation and uncertainty regarding its business. The estimates and
associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed to
be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements
about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual
results may differ from these estimates.

Significant management judgements

The judgements that have a significant impact on the carrying value of assets and liabilities are discussed
below:

Significant estimates

Information about estimates and assumptions that have the most significant effect on recognition and
measurement of assets, liabilities, income and expenses is provided below. Actual results may be
substantially different.

Receivables

Due to the nature of some services provided by certain businesses within the company the recoverability
of receivables can be subject to management estimates. Management estimation is required in measuring
and recognising provisions and otherwise determining the exposure to unrecoverable debts. Sensitivity is
limited through the company's credit control procedures and the overall high quality of the company's
customer base, although it is acknowledged that some customer concentration can mean that
adjustments could be material.

Useful lives of depreciable assets

The depreciation charge for an asset is derived using estimates of its expected useful life and expected
residual value, Which are reviewed annually. Increasing an asset's expected life or residual value would

Page 23


idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

1. Accounting policies (continued)
result in a reduced depreciation charge in the income statement.

Management determines the useful lives and residual values for assets when they are acquired, based on
experience with similar assets and taking into account other relevant factors such as any expected
changes in technology or regulations.

inventories

In determining the cost of inventories management have to make estimates to arrive at cost and net
realisable value. Furthermore, determining the net realisable value of the wider range of products field
requires judgement to be applied to determine the saleability of the product and estimations of the
potential price that can be achieved. In arriving at any provisions for net realisable value management take
into account the age, condition and quality of the product stocked and the recent sales trend. The future
realisation of these inventories may be affected by market-driven changes that may reduce future selling
prices.

Fair value measurement

Management uses valuation techniques to determine the fair value of financial instruments (where active
market quotes are not available) and non-financial assets. This involves developing estimates and
assumptions consistent with how market participants would price the instrument. Management bases its
assumptions on observable data as far as possible but this is not always available. In that case
management uses the best information available. Estimated fair values may vary from the actual prices
that would be achieved in an arm's length transaction at the reporting date.

Deferred tax asset

The company recognises a deferred tax asset in respect of temporary differences relating to capital
allowances, revenue losses and other short term temporary differences when it considers there is
sufficient evidence that the asset will be recovered against future taxable profits.

This requires management to make decisions on such deferred tax assets based on future forecasts of
taxable profits. If these forecast profits do not materialise, or there is a change in the tax rates or to the
period over which temporary timing differences might be recognised, the value of the deferred tax asset
will need to be revised in a future period.

The most sensitive area of estimation risk is with respect to losses. The company has losses for which no
value has been recognised for deferred tax purposes in these financial statements, as future economic
benefit of these temporary differences is not probable. If appropriate profits are earned in the future,
recognition of the benefit of these losses may result in a reduced tax charge in a future period.

2. Revenue

The following is an analysis of the Company's revenue for the year from continuing operations:

2023 2022

£000 £000

Ground maintenance 165,434 152,313
Landscape construction 5,268 15,251
170,702 167,564

Turnover arises solely within the United Kingdom.

Page 24

idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

3.

Expenses by nature

2023

£000
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 12,922
Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 166
Employee benefit expenses

2023

£000
Employee benefit expenses (including directors) comprise:
Wages and salaries 74,018
Defined contribution pension cost 2,666
Defined benefit scheme cost -
Social security contributions and similar taxes 6,994

83,678

2022
£000

10,335
133

2022
£000

72,674
2,513
188
6,920

82,295

The monthly average number of persons, including the directors, employed by the Company during the

year was as follows:

2023

No.

Administrative staff 129
Field operational including managers 3,024
Executive and non-executive directors 9
3,162

2022
No.

141
3,372
10

3,523

Page 25


idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

5.

Directors' remuneration

2023 2022

£000 £000

Directors’ remuneration 920 1,398
Company contribution to pension plan 27 33
947 1,431

2023 2022

Defined contribution schemes 4 3

During the year ended 31 December 2022 the company made loans to directors amounting to £74,663
for the purpose of acquisition of shares in Armorica Lux Holdings S.C.A. Balance outstanding at of year
£22,792 (2022 £74,663). No interest is payable and the loan is repayable in full at a liquidity event.

The highest paid director's emoluments were as follows:

2023 2022
£000 £000
Tota] emoluments and amounts receivable under long-term incentive
schemes (excluding shares) 294 549
Company contributions to pension schemes 12 -

306 549

Non underlying costs

In the year ended 31 December 2023 the company incurred £2,159,000 (2022: £4,442,000) of costs
predominantly related to company restructure and one-off project work.

Finance income and expense

Recognised in profit or loss

2023 2022
£000 £000
Finance income
Finance expense
Laans and other financial expenses 3,540 1,676
Total finance expense 3,540 1,676
Net finance expense recognised in profit or loss (3,540) (1,676)

Page 26

idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the Year Ended 31 December 2023
8. Tax expense

8.1 Income tax recognised in profit or loss

2023 2022
£000 £000
Current tax
Adjustments in respect of prior years 1,008 (823)
Total current tax 1,008 (823)
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of timing differences (184) (4,261)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 424 251
Total deferred tax 240 (4,010)
1,248 (4,833)
—==—
Total tax expense
Tax expense excluding tax on sale of discontinued operation and share of
tax of equity accounted associates and joint ventures 1,248 (4,833)

1,248 (4,833)

The reasons for the difference between the actual tax charge for the year and the standard rate of
corporation tax in the United Kingdom applied to losses for the year are as follows:

2023 2022
£000 £000
Loss for the year (4,500) (7,561)
Income tax credit/expense {including incame tax on associate, joint venture
and discontinued operations) 1,248 (4,833)
Loss before income taxes (3,252) (12,394)
Tax using the Company's domestic tax rate of 23.5% (2022:18%) (764) (2,355)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes, other than goodwill, amortisation
and impairment 239 118
Capital allowances for the year in excess of depreciation 42 39
Rollover relief on profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment - (624)
Higher rate taxes on overseas earnings - (875)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior periods 1,432 (573)
Other differences leading to an increase/(decrease) in the tax charge (11) (613)
Group relief 310 50
Total tax expense 1,248 (4,833)

Page 27

idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the Year Ended 31 December 2023
8. Tax expense (continued)

8.2 Current tax assets and liabilities

2023 2022
£000 £000
Current tax assets
Corporation tax repayable - 1,133

: 1,133

8.3 Deferred tax balances

The following is the analysis of deferred tax assets/(liabilities) presented in the statement of financial

position:
2023 2022
£000 £000

Deferred tax assets 7,832 6,331
7,832 6,331

Page 28

6re'06

(LVE'2)
670'Ct
LL9'08

(120°)
o6e'S}
867'99

0003
(eyo

260'9¢

$66'6
ZOL‘9E

pols
g6e'0E

o0oF
sjasse

asn jo 3yBIy

2yz'e zgz's¢
(6€) (668)

+6 -

261 LoL'9
(ge) (zz)
ZeL 29v'L
e60'e 90'S
0003 0007
sBunwy Sa[D1Yan

pue sainjx1y 20}0W

980're

(eze'L)
Z02'L
e9L'€e

(999)
ov0'8
6le'92

0003
Auauryoew

pue yuelg

6z e6eq

0003
Apedoid

pjoyasea|
w49}-Buoe7

0003
Ayadoid

ploysary

pay] apsenpt

€z0ze 4aquissaq LE WW

sjesodsiq
SUOHIPPY
7207 JOQqUIaDEq LE IV

sjesodsiq
suowppy

7z0z Auenuer | Ww
uonenyjea 40 yso5

yuowdinbe pue juejd ‘Ayedosg

6

£Z0Z Jaquiazeg (¢ papuy sea, ayy 404
S]UdUiaze}g [eIOUeLII 94} 0} S9JON

0¢ eed

“syeujuoS aseyound aly pue sesea) soueuy JapuN play sjesse jo yoadsau ul (698'09Z‘0L3

Lp9’ee 062'6L 6re Z0S'p LLL'S
9eL're Z9r'OL Gly vee’s ZS8'LL
698'6z 2E6'9L z62 6rL'Z £99'8
802'9S 209‘9Z 969'% os SLe'sz
(spo'2) - (6€) (g62) (LL2'h)
226'Z1 Z9b'L 0zz BZ SZ9'r
Lee'Sr Ov9'6L LbL% 218 LLG'LZ
(2€6) - (2) (ore) (oz9)
see'oL 6LL'9 Ag (sai‘L) SLe'y
eev'oc Lov'eL Loe'z ZLe'z OLA LL
0003 0003 0003 0003
1ejoL sjasse SO]NIYOA Asvouryoeus
asn jo yyBry pue sainjxig J0JOW pue jue,

0s9
els
bas

SoZ

L2b
bro

06
vgs

0003
Apado.d

ployasea|
w9}-6u07

61
Osi
e9b

68

0003
Apadoud

ployer

'2Z0Z) LbL'B9E'63 JO JUNOWe Ue sapnjoUl sjesse paxy aiq|6ue} Jo anjeA yooq you Auedwoo ay

£202 Jaquisoeq Le IV
7202 Jequisaaq LE IW

2zoz Atenuer |, yw
@njeaA yoo, JaN

£202 4oquia5aq Le IV
sjesodsiq

4eak auj JO} aBseyD
2207 Jaquiaseq LE Iw
sjesodsiq

weak ayy Joy abseyg
2zoz Avenue |, yy

yuewiedu pue uoneiseidep payejnuinsoy

{panunuos) yuawdinba pue yuejd ‘Apadoig 6

pay] apseap!

€20Z Jequiacag Le pepuy yee, ey) 104
s]USWUA}e}g [eIDUeLIY 94} 0} SE}ON

idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

10. Intangible assets

Cost
At 1 January 2022

At 31 December 2022

At 31 December 2023

Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2022

At 31 December 2022
At 31 December 2023

Net book value

At 1 January 2022

At 31 December 2022
At 31 December 2023

11. Subsidiaries

Details of the Company's material subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period are as follows:

Name of subsidiary Principal activity

1) Banyard Limited*

2) Western Landscapes Limited*

3) English Landscapes Maintenance Limited*
4) English Landscapes Limited*

5) English Woodlands Limited*

6) idverde Scotland Limited

Dormant
Dormant
Dormant
Dormant
Dormant
Dormant

100
100
100
100
100
100

Goodwill
£000

171

471

171

Goodwill
£000

171
171
171

Proportion of ownership interest and
voting power held by the Company (%)
2023

2022

100
100
100
100
100
100

* The registered office for all these companies is Octavia House, Westwood Way, Westwood Business

Park, Coventry, CV4 8JP.

The registered office for idverde Scotland Limited is 3 Cambuslang Court, Glasgow, Scotland, G32 8FH.

Page 31

idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

12. Other non-current investments

Investments in subsidiary companies

13. Inventories

Raw materials

Note
11

2023
£000

6,662
6,662

2023
£000

192
192

2022
£000

6,662
6,662

2022
£000

238
238

In the directors' opinion the replacement cost of the stock is not materially different to its carrying value.

Page 32

idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

14.

15.

Trade and other receivables

Trade receivables
Trade receivables - net

Receivables from related parties

Total financial assets other than cash and cash equivalents classified
as loans and receivables

Prepayments and accrued income

Other receivables

Total trade and other receivables

Less: current portion - trade receivables

Less: current portion - prepayments and accrued income
Less: current portion - other receivables

Less: current portion - receivables from related parties

Total current portion

Total non-current portion

Trade and other payables

Trade payabies

Payables to related parties

Other payables

Accruals

Total financial liabilities, excluding loans and borrowings, classified
as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost

Other payables - tax and social security payments

Deferred income

Total trade and other payables

Less: current portion - trade payables

Less: current portion - payables to related parties
Less: current portion - other payables

Less: current portion - accruals

Less: current portion - deferred income

Total current portion

Total non-current position

Page 33

2023 2022
£000 £000
15,662 18,402
15,662 18,402
12,707 20,820
28,369 39,222
13,974 11,544
629 1,541
42,972 52,307
(15,662) (18,402)
(13,974) (11,544)
(629) (1,541)
(12,707) (20,820)
(42,972) (52,307)
2023 2022
£000 £000
9,280 13,293
26,751 24,076
2,260 20,608
10,386 16,948
48,677 74,925
8,253 6,828
2,897 770
59,827 82,523
(9,280) (13,293)
(26,751) (24,076)
(10,513) (27,436)
(10,386) (16,948)
(2,897) (770)
(59,827) (82,523)

idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

16.

Loans and borrowings

This note provides information about the contractual terms of the company’s interest-bearing loans and
borrowings, which are measured at amortised cost. For more information about the company’s exposure
to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see note 19.

Non-current

Lease liabilities

Current

Lease liabilities

Total loans and borrowings

Employee benefit liabilities

Defined benefit schemes

Page 34

2023
£000

14,422
14,422

10,918
10,918

25,340

2023
Note £000

18 1,888

1,888

2022
£000

16,657
16,657

8,958
8,958
25,615

2022
£000

1,727
1,727

idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

17.

Share capital

Authorised
2023 2023 2022 2022
Number £000 Number £000
Shares treated as equity
Ordinary shares of £0.01 each 2,057 ,357,102 20,574 57,357,102 574
2,057,357,102 20,574 57,357,102 574

The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are
entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the company.

Issued and fully paid

2023 2023 2022 2022
Number £000 Number £000
Ordinary shares of £0.01 each
At 1 January 57,357,102 574 57,357,102 574
Shares issued 2,000,000,000 20,000 - -
At 31 December 2,057 ,357,102 20,574 57,357,102 574

On 13 December 2023 the company issued 2,000,000,000 Ordinary shares at par.

Page 35


idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

18.

Defined benefit schemes
(i) Defined benefit scheme characteristics and funding
idverde Limited

The company sponsors the Federated Pension Plan (FPP) which is a funded defined benefit
arrangement. This is a separate trustee administered fund holding the pension plan assets to meet long
term pension liabilities for 11 active members, 18 deferred members and 24 pensioner members as at 5
April 2022. The level of retirement benefit is principally based on salary earned in the last three years of
employment prior to leaving active service and is linked to changes in inflation up to retirement.

The plan is subject to the funding legislation, which came into force on 30 December 2005, outlined in the
Pensions Act 2004. This, together with documents issued by the Pensions Regulator, and guidance notes
adopted by the Financial Reporting Council, set out the framework for funding defined benefit occupational
pension plans in the UK.

The trustees of the plan are required to act in the best interest of the plan’s beneficiaries. The appointment
of the trustees is determined by the plan’s trust documentation. It is policy that at least one third of all
trustees should be nominated by the members.

A full actuarial valuation was carried out as at 5 April 2022. The actuarial valuation showed a 98% funding
level, Although there was a deficit at the valuation date, the funding level has improved significantly since
the valuation date and as at 31 December 2023 the Section was expected to be over 170% funded on the
scheme funding valuation. As a consequence, and allowing for the expected de-risking of the investments,
the employer and Trustees have agreed that no deficit contributions are payable.

The calculated overall future service rate, based on market conditions at 31 January 2023 and allowing for
the expected de-risking of the investment strategy, is 35.5% of pensionable pay, inclusive of member
contributions. The employer and Trustees have agreed that total future service contributions should be
paid at this rate. In addition the company has agreed to pay scheme administrative costs of £3300 per
month, death in service life insurance premiums and the PPF levy.

For the purposes of IAS19, the actuarial valuation as at 5 April 2022, which was carried out by a qualified
independent actuary, has been updated on an approximate basis to 31 December 2023. There have been
no changes in the valuation methodology adopted for this period's disclosures compared to the previous
periad’s disclosures.

Page 36

Le eBeg

LULL gee'L
SSL poz
SSL y0z
vLs'L 8
Lze LOL
(g¢z) 88
822'b (22)

€ (Sib)
(361) (Ls)
(1) 88
(9¢) (6p)
(191) (06)
(vr) 2eL'b
0003 0003
zz0z etoz
(Ainaena~asse

@W2Y9S PAUYSP JON

980'r bes‘
SLL OLL
(19) (ps)
SSL ¥0z
lz 0z
Lze 204
Lze ZOL
€% est
6S 20Z
(9¢€) (er)
L29'€ 980'r
0003 0003
2Z0e £202
sjosse

aWaYyos Jo anyea ey

(ese‘Z) (e¢9°Z)
Ov ve
19 +s
(12) (oz)
e6r'b (66)
(g€2) 88
8e2Z'b (22)
€ (SLL)
(422) (602)
(09) (611)
(191) (06)
(L29'€) (e¢¢'2)
0003 0003
2202 £702

uore61|qQ0 }youeq peuyeg

Joquieseg |¢ ye eouRjeg

S}U@WAAOW 130
pred sjyaueg

suonquyucs sehojdwy

SUONNQUIUOS yUedOYeY

SWOdU! aAISUBYaIdWOd JeY}O U! Papnjou]
Qsezaqu! Buipnjoxa) sjasse uejd uo Wimay
(aouayiedxe) sjuawysnipy -

suonduwinsse jeueuty -

suonduinsse aiydeiBowag -

two ureb jeuenjoy
ule juawainsesuiay

SSO] JO }youd Ul papnjouy
}809/(@WOdUl) JSesayU|
sesuedxy

WIND - }S09 SdIAIag
Asenuer | 3 esuejeg

Payul] Spssapl

(panunuos) sawayos yyaueq pauyog

“SL

20% Jequiedaq (¢ papug see, ay) 404
S}USUIE}e}S jeINUeLI 94} 0} SA}ON

paul] Spssapl


idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

18. Defined benefit schemes (continued)

Composition of plan assets:

2023 2022

£000 £000
Equity 948 2,071
Debt instruments 1,967 -
Assets held by insurance company 1,237 1,173
Cash 35 25
Derivatives 334 817
Total plan assets 4,521 4,086
Defined benefit costs

2023 2022

£000 £000
Service cost - current 90 161
Expenses . 49 36
Interest (income)/cost (88) 1
included in profit or loss 51 198
Remeasurement loss/(gain)
Actuarial loss/(gain) from:
- Demographic assumptions 115 (3)
- Financial assumptions 72 (1,728)
- Adjustments (experience) (88) 238
Return on plan assets (excluding interest) (107) {321}
Included in other comprehensive income (8) (1,814)
Other movements - -
Balance at 31 December 43 (1,616)

Page 38

idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

18.

Defined benefit schemes (continued)
Actuarial assumption

The principal actuarial assumptions used in the determining calculating the present value of the defined
benefit obligation (weighted average) include:

2023 2022
Discount rate 4.80 % 5.00 %
Inflation (RPI) 3.10 % 3.20 %
Inflation (CPI) 2.75 % 2.75 %
115% the standard 130% of the standard tables
tables S3PxA, Year of S3PxA, Year of Birth, no
Birth, age rating age rating projected using
projected using CMI_2022 CMI_2021 converging to
converging to
Post-retirement mortality assumption 1.50 % p.a. 1.25 % p.a.
Salary growth 2% 2.00 %
Longevity at retirement age (current
pensioners)
- Males 20.5 years 20.2 years
- Females 22.5 years 22.6 years
Longevity at retirement age (future
pensioners)
- Males 22.1 years 21.5 years
- Females 24.3 years 24.1 years

The mortality assumptions adopted 31 December 2023 imply the following life expectancies:

Life expectancy at age 65 years

Maile retiring in 2023 20.5
Female retiring in 2023 22.5
Male retiring in 2043 22.1
Female retiring in 2043 24.3

The weighted-average duration of the defined benefit obligation at37 December was 14.0 years

(2022: 13.5 years).

Sensitivity analysis

The impact to the value of the defined benefit obligation of a reasonably possible change to one actuarial
assumption, holding all other assumptions consistent, is presented in the table below:

Defined benefit obligation

Reasonably
possible
Actual assumption change Increase Decrease
Discount rate (-/+ 0.25%) 2,728 (2,728)
Price inflation (+/- 0.25%) 2,726 (2,726)
Salary increase rate (+/- 0.25%) 2,644 (2,644)
({+/- 1 year age
Future mortality rates rating} 2,705 (2,705)

Page 39


idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

19.

20.

21.

Financial instruments - fair values and risk management

19.1 Financial risk management objectives

Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the company if a customer or counterparty to a financial
instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the company’s trade
receivables.

19.2 Liquidity risk management

Liquidity risk is the risk that the company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
idverde Limited, with the support of its parent and the company's principal shareholder, actively maintains
a mixture of long term and short term debt finance that is designed to ensure the company has sufficient

available funds for operations and planned expansions.

The following are the contractual maturities of financial liabilities, including estimated interest payments
and excluding the effect of netting agreements:

2023
Carrying Contractual 1 yearor 1to2 2to5 Syears
amount — cash flows less years years and over
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Finance lease liabilities 5,879 6,233 3,009 2,262 962 -
Trade and other payables 59,827 59,827 59,827 - - .
65,706 66,060 62,836 2,262 962 -
2022
Carrying Contractual 1 yearor 1to2 2to5 Syears
amount cash flows less years years and over
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Finance lease liabilities 9,123 9,850 3,832 2,886 3,131 -
Trade and other payables 82,523 82,523 82,523 -

91,646 92,373 86,355 2,886 3,131 -

Capital commitments

At 31 December 2023, the Company has entered into contract for the purchase of property, plant and
equipment of £391,000 (2022: £164,000).

Related party transactions

The company has taken advangtage of the exemption under IFRS not to disclose transactions or
balances with wholly owned entities of idverde UK Limited, the ultimate controlling parent company.

Page 40

idverde Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

22.

23.

24.

Controlling party

At the balance sheet date, the company was a wholly owned subsidiary of idverde Holdings Limited, a
company incorporated in England and Wales.

The smallest group of undertakings for which group accounts are drawn up is idverde UK Limited, a
company registered in England and Wales.

At the year end, the largest group of undertakings for which group accounts are drawn up is Armorica
Topco SCA, the ultimate parent company, registered in Luxembourg and controlled by Core Equity
Holdings LP.

No single individual or company owns 25% or more of the economic rights of Core Equity
Holdings LP directly or indirectly. However, Mr Serge Walid Sarkis, as Senior Manager, exercises
the management control of Core Equity Holdings LP through its general partner, Core Equity Holdings GP
Limited.

Notes supporting statement of cash flows

2023 2022
£000 £000
Cash at bank available on demand 2,093 693
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of financial position 2,093 693
Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows 2,093 693

Contingent liabilities

The Group and various of its subsidiaries are, from time to time, party to contractual disputes, tax
enquiries and employee claims that arise in the ordinary course of business.

The directors do not anticipate that the outcome of any of these disputes will have a material adverse
effect on the Group’s financial position, other than as already provided for in the accounts.

In appropriate cases, a provision is recognised based on best estimates and management judgement but
there can be no guarantee that these provisions {which may be subject to potentially material revision
from time to time) will result in an accurate prediction, due to the uncertainty of the actual costs and
liabilities that may be incurred.

Taxation

During September 2023, idverde UK Limited and Idverde Holdings Limited, were informed of an informal
HMRC inquiry covering the period from 1 April 2017 to 31 December 2019. In this context, on 28 March
2024, the group received a Notice of Assessment concerming the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 focussed on
withholding tax and late interest and penalties. The Company has produced detailed responses contesting
those points during 2024 and no material adjustments have been recorded in the financial statements.
The HMRC inquiry is ongoing, covering April 2017 to August 2024 for Idverde UK Limited, Idverde
Holdings Limited and Idverde Limited. At the date of signing of these financial statements, no further
assessments have been received.

Page 41


