Registered number: 05190234

InHealth Limited

Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

|

Al

|

vig

*AE1 Q*

gL

COMPANIES HOUSE

WEDNESDAY

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Contents

Company Information

Strategic Report

Directors’ Report

Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements
Independent Auditors’ Report to the members of InHealth Limited

Profit and Loss Account and Other Comprehensive Income

Balance Sheet

Statement of Changes in Equity

Notes to the Financial Statements

inHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Company Information

Directors: R J Bradford

A G Searle

S J Scott
Registered Office: Beechwood Hall

Kingsmead Road
High Wycombe
Buckinghamshire
HP11 1JL

Registered Number: 05190234 (England and Wales)

Independent Auditors: PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
40 Clarendon Road
Watford
Hertfordshire
WD17 1JJ

Bankers: Bank of Scotland
4th Floor
25 Gresham Street
London
EC2V 7HN

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Strategic Report
Principal activities

The principal activities of InHealth Limited (‘InHealth” or "the Company”) are the provision of a
broad range. of diagnostic services and healthcare solutions in hospital based, community and
general practice environments throughout the UK. The business provides diagnostic tests, scans,
assessments, and procedures to patients working in close partnership with the NHS as well as
private healthcare providers.

Review of the business

Constantly increasing demand for healthcare is an ongoing challenge for the UK as well as the
test of the world, with a clear need for providers to increase efficiencies and introduce new
models of care, whilst maintaining quality and increasing focus towards prevention and early
detection. This requires changes in operating systems and technologies, delivery location,
leadership, culture, capability and considerable capital investment. InHealth supports these
requirements, working with patients, providers, commissioners, and referrers. Our flexible and
dynamic approach is helping to meet some of healthcare's most pressing challenges; by
reducing waiting times, moving non-emergency care out of the hospital setting, speeding up
diagnoses, saving money and improving the overall patient experience. Whilst investing in capital
assets, InHealth's key contribution lies in how we design and adapt our solutions to meet changing
demands from region to region ensuring our services are highly efficient, offering excellent value
to our customers and high-quality care to our patients. The Company has been successful in the
year in winning new contracts for Community Diagnostic Centres (“CDCs") together with
expansion of our lung cancer screening programmes, which has seen further significant
investment to these projects to support NHS partners, regions and patients. We work
collaboratively with the NHS seeking to enhance and improve performance continuously.

The pace of change in healthcare also means that tailor-made, flexible solutions often need to
be delivered quickly and InHealth can offer shorter term mobile services delivering operational
and financial benefits. InHealth demonstrates efficiencies by investing in state of the art, modern
equipment, thus minimising downtime and maximising utilisation of assets and strives to improve
speed, quality and value through productivity and innovation. In an increasingly workforce-
constrained environment, our ongoing investment in recruiting, training, and developing staff is
another key contributor to our success.

There remains large NHS waiting lists of patients seeking clinical assessments and procedures. This
is apparent notably in elective care, cancer pathways as well as a number of other disease areas.
it is clear that diagnostic scans and fests are the key components for the necessary interventions
and the targeted reduction of waiting lists, whilst prevention and assessments will be increasingly
prevalent in the future. It Is also apparent that there is an increasing ability to deliver these tests,
scans and assessments in out-of-hospital settings, with technology enabling some services to
become accessible for patients closer to home, or even at their home.

The Company provides tests, scans and health screening in the UK for more than 1.7 million
patients per annum (2023: more than 1.3 million). We have a clear purpose across all our services;
to make healthcare better; by providing a quick, easily accessible and accurate assessment of
every patient's condition enabling the right treatment to be delivered swiftly and effectively.

InHealth continues to look fo strengthen its service offering to its customers.

Within the financial year a significant amount of investment has been made into CDC projects,
technology improvements and radiology investment at NHS Trust sites. We have continued to
invest in modernising and adding to our mobile fleet capacity with additional MRI, CT and PET-CT
scanners. Capital expenditure during the year was £42.1 million (2023: £63.5 million) whilst ongoing
direct and indirect costs of mobilisation have been expensed throughout the year. The number
of lung cancer screening programmes has increased to 20 (2023: 18).

InHealth Limited has not paid any dividends (2023: £nil) and has instead continued to reinvest cash
generated back into the Company, and wider group, to support future growth.

InHealth Limited .
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Strategic Report (continued)
Progress through the year (continued)

The Company anticipates that it will continue to have opportunities to grow where healthcare
challenges meet with our skills and capabilities to offer clinical excellence, efficiency and
productivity benefits to our patients and customers.

Key performance indicators

Management monitors progress by reference to Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), which include
clinical indicators, patient satisfaction, staff engagement, revenue, gross profit margin return on
revenue and profit after tax. Patient satisfaction and employee engagement is monitored at a
Group level.

Clinical performance is closely monitored with a range of measures including incident reporting,
incident closure rates, complaints, complaint response rates, serious incidents and patient
satisfaction. Incident reporting is paramount to this and has weekly formal review. We receive
periodic inspections from the Care Quality Commission (“CQC”} in relation to our CQC registered
clinics and services. The outcomes of such inspections are available via the CQC website
(www.cqc.org.uk).

The Company's revenue in the year for continuing operations was £185.0 million (2023: £169.8
million), generating a gross profit margin of 30.2% (2023: 31.6%) and a profit after tax for the year
of £1.3 million (2023: £10.5 million). The annual growth in revenue arose primarily from expansion
of existing, and new, lung cancer screening programmes and growth in imaging centre volumes.
There was also growth in private revenue, comprising self-pay and medically insured patients. This
growth has been achieved against the backdrop of a high-cost inflationary environment,
impacting margins. Significant costs related to the mobilisation of new CDCs have also been
incurred, leading to higher depreciation expense recognised and mobilisation costs expensed in
the financial year, which is the reason for the reduction in operating profit. There have been
increased finance expense costs incurred in 2024 financial year due to the RCF borrowings.
Included in the profit after tax for 2023 financial year was £3.5 million of dividend income from
subsidiaries.

Net assets have increased to £123.4 million (2023: £122.2 million) largely driven by the positive
trading performance.

Development and future outlook

The Company has achieved success in bidding for CDC contracts and has been the most
successful independent sector provider in this area, being awarded 8 contracts, of which 3 went
live in 2024 financial year. Having successfully secured these contracts, the Company has
budgeted future capital of c.£47 million to mobilise these projects, of which the Company has
already committed capital spend of ¢.£22 million as detailed in note 20. Costs associated with
planning and mobilising these projects have also been incurred and are absorbed in the financial
performance.

On 15 November 2024, InHealth Limited obtained a 38% interest in the Indian company Apollo
Radiology International Limited (‘ARI"). As consideration for the transaction, InHealth Limited
disposed of its wholly owned subsidiary InHealth Reporting Limited to become a wholly owned
subsidiary of ARI.

InHealth will continue to support NHS partners with services and solutions. The Company continues
to be ready and willing to make investment, including the provision of capital, in long term projects
to support the NHS with its short, medium, and long-term objectives. Whilst the Company has been
highly successful in bidding for new contracts, it has the willingness and resources to support a
greater number of projects for NHS partners should commissioners wish to engage and partner
with the Company and wider Group on further projects.

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Strategic Report (continued)
Principal risks and uncertainties

All risks are monitored on an on-going basis by the Directors and strategies are developed as
appropriate to mitigate against such risks and minimise their impact. The principal risks and
uncertainties of the Company are set out below.

Pricing risk

The Company faces exposure to potential pricing risk, particularly that driven by NHS National
Tariff Payment System. It is essential for sustainability of services and long-term planning that
commensurate payment is given to providers relative to actual costs (increased in 2025 as a result
of National Insurance and employment law changes) of service delivery. We communicate with
the NHS both individually and collectively with other independent providers to mitigate this risk.

This risk is further mitigated by the Company having a broad range of customers across numerous
service lines reducing any single customer dependency.

Activity/volume risk

There is a risk that committed capital will not see sufficient patient throughput to support the
investment made. This risk is largely mitigated by the general increasing demand for diagnostic
tests, scans and assessments, negotiations regarding minimum activity levels and furthermore
mitigated in the short-term with consideration of the growing size of waiting lists nationally. It is
considered that this risk is principally subject to local variation rather than a national risk.

Regulatory risk

External regulatory compliance is captured across a range of interactions, notably accreditation
with relevant ISO standards and inspections from CQC. Risk of non-adherence could ultimately
result in not being able to provide services.

Regulatory compliance is very closely monitored with rigorous internal governance. Our Chief
Medical Officer reports directly to the Board, and overseas a Board to Floor Clinical Governance
structure to manage regulatory and reputational risk (below).

Internal compliance is enhanced with clinical quality audits performed across the Group.

Reputational risk

Damage to our reputation could have serious ramifications on current and future income. The
Company holds itself to extremely high standards in everything it does. In the clinical domain this
is extremely pertinent with stringent clinical governance policies and procedures implemented,
reviewed, and monitored across the Company and robust controls in place for managing patient
information.

Political and economic risk

The global political and economic landscape, war in parts of the word, and the pressures in
healthcare create considerable uncertainty for economies and markets. This has created
inflationary pressures on a number of key supply chains. This risk increases when NHS pricing tariffs
are not adequately increased to compensate for the level of market inflation which impacts our
cost base. This risk is mitigated by a proportion of contracts not linked to NHS tariff or contracts
having market inflationary adjustments within them. Furthermore, we are not reliant on any one
contract and have a large number of separate NHS contracts. With an increasing level of revenue
generated from private customers, this provides further risk mitigation against inflationary risk.

The Company hopes that opportunities in the sector are not curtailed nor delayed by the recent
announcement regarding the abolition of NHS England. The impact to date of these changes has
seen a reduction in demand for short-term imaging diagnostic services.

Following recent announcements from the US Government with respect to trading tariffs the
Directors will continue to monitor the potential impact for the Company.

InHeatth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Strategic Report (continued)
Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

Supply chain risk for materials and people

Disruptions to supply chain could create a risk to service delivery. Contingency plans in relation to
supply chain have been implemented across all Group service lines. Effective communication
with suppliers and key stakeholders is essential to mitigating this risk. Where feasible and practical
the Company will use a range of suppliers to mitigate a potential single point of failure. In a similar
way, the Company has sought to broaden the sourcing of front-line staff through a range of
overseas partners, apprenticeships and graduate recruitment programmes. The Company
devotes considerable time and resource to the support and development of staff who are
recognised as scarce and valuable individuals.

$172(1) Statement: Directors’ statement of compliance with duty to promote the success of the
Company

Engaging with stakeholders

The Directors have a duty to promote the success of the Company which is a key consideration
when determining the Company’s strategy. Building positive relationships with stakeholders that
share our values is important to us and working together towards shared goals assists us in
delivering long-term sustainable success.

The leadership teams of each service make decisions with a long-term view in mind and with the
highest standards of conduct in line with Company policies. To fulfil their duties, the Directors of
each service and the Company take care to have regard to the likely consequences on alll
stakeholders of the decisions and actions which they take. Where possible, decisions are carefully
discussed with affected groups and are therefore fully understood and supported when taken.

Reports are regularly made to the Board by the operating units about the strategy, performance
and key decisions taken which provides the Board with assurance that proper consideration is
given to stakeholder interests in decision-making. At Group level, the Board is well informed about
the views of stakeholders through regular reporting, and it uses this information to assess the
impact of decisions on each stakeholder group as part of its own decision-making process. Details
of the Company's key stakeholders and how we engage with them are set out below. For key
decisions made by the Group Board refer to the Strategic Report of InHealth Group Limited.

Shareholders

As owners of our Company we rely on the support of shareholders and their opinions are important
to us. Discussions with shareholders cover a wide range of topics including macro political and
healthcare environments and developmenis, financial performance, strategy, outlook,
governance and ethical practices. Shareholder feedback is regularly reported and discussed by
the Board and their views are considered as part of decision-making. The Board consulted with
shareholders regarding significant capital expenditure projects during the year, specifically, the
new Community Diagnostic Centre (CDC) sites in the group.

Colleagues

Our people are key to our success, and we want them to be successful individually and as a team.
The Directors aim to attract and retain talented employees from diverse backgrounds and
industries by building a culture based on integrity, respect and inclusion in which people have
opportunities to do purpose-driven work that impacts patients and our communities. There are
many ways we engage with and listen to our people including colleague surveys, staff forums,
listening groups, face-to-face briefings, internal communities, and newsletters. In 2024, key areas
of focus included health and well-being, equality, diversity and inclusion, development
opportunities, pay and benefits and long service recognition.

Regular reports about what is important to our colleagues are made to the Directors, ensuring
consideration is given to colleague needs and members of the Executive Team attend staff
partnership forums to hear feedback directly.

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Strategic Report (continued)

$172(1) Statement: Directors’ statement of compliance with duty to promote the success of the
Company (continued)

Colleagues (continued)

InHealth Limited employed 1,842 dedicated and committed people, as at 30 September 2024
(2023: 1,860), the majority working with patients every day in both hospital and community settings
across the UK. We believe that investing in training is a key reason that staff are attracted to
InHealth as an employer, subsequently enabling them to reach their full potential enabling the
delivery of excellent care to all of our patients. The InHealth Group achieved a 78% (2023: 79%)
staff engagement score in the year, which benchmarks positively against third parties in the
sector.

Customers

The Company has 181 (2023: 186) separate NHS payor customer contracts, and an understanding
of the requirements of working nationally, regionally and locally to serve and enhance patient
needs. During the year, the Company served over 1.7 million patients (2023: over 1.3 million). Our
ambition is to ensure every patient receives their medical test, scan or examination quickly to the
highest standard of care. We seek to understand their needs and views and listen to how we can
improve our service for them through our patient feedback process. We use this knowledge to
inform our decision-making, to tailor our offering to suit patient demands. The Board considered
the needs of customers in the financial year when investing in new community diagnostic centres
and targeted lung health check programmes to improve accessibility and provide choice for
customers. We continue to invest capital to keep pace with technological developments to
enable us to provide the highest standard of care.

Suppliers

We build strong relationships with our suppliers to develop mutually beneficial and lasting
partnerships, continuously assessing the priorities of those with whom we work. Key areas of focus
include innovation, particularly around digital technologies and Al, product development, health
and safety and sustainability. The Directors recognise that relationships with suppliers are important
to the Company's long-term success and are briefed on supplier feedback and issues on aregular
basis. .

Communities

Delivering InHealth's purpose to make healthcare better requires strong mutually beneficial
relationships with hospitals and commissioners across the NHS and independent sector. We
engage with the communities in which we operate to build trust and understand the local issues
that are important to them. Employees are provided with volunteering days in which they can use
their time to support projects, with emphasis on the local communities in which they work. We
partner with local charities to raise awareness and funds. The key issues and themes across local
communities are reported back to the Directors. The impact of decisions on the environment both
locally and nationally is considered with initial focus on fleet transport and generator emissions
reduction.

Government and regulators

We engage with the Government and regulators through a range of industry consultations,
forums, meetings and conferences to communicate our views to policy makers relevant to
healthcare organisations. Key areas of focus are compliance with laws and regulations, health
and safety, product developments and patient access and quality. The Directors are updated on
legal and regulatory developments and take these into account when considering future actions.

InHeatth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Strategic Report (continued)

$172(1) Statement: Directors’ statement of compliance with duty to promote the success of the
Company {continued}

Corporate and social responsibility

The Company is committed to transparency and ethical behaviour in all of its activities, as well as
making a positive social, economic and environmental contribution to the community in which it
operaies. The Company strives to be open and honest in communicating its policies, strategies,
targets, performance and governance to its stakeholders. The Company is proud of the way in
which its employees demonstrate their commitment and integrity, both in their day-to-day work,
but also through their work with charities, communities and environmental projects every year.

InHealth actively pursues a stance of zero tolerance for discrimination of any kind. All employees
attend a course designed to highlight equality and diversity issues they may face in the workplace
and to reinforce company strategy. This is refreshed on a regular basis as we continue to seek to
develop and improve our approach. The Company has a specific, executive chaired, Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion forum. We have a number of further mechanisms to allow employees to
speak up including a team of Freedom to Speak up Guardians, and our staff partnership forum
acts as a further mechanism to escalate issues and shape policy and practice.

The Company is committed to acting with integrity and transparency in all tax matters as part of
its corporate responsibility.

Climate change and sustainability

The Company endeavours to continually improve its environmental performance and manage
the impact of its operations through sustainable business practices and providing sustainable
services. The approach to Corporate and Social Responsibility is reviewed on an annual basis in a
continual commitment to sustainable and responsible development.

InHealth Group Limited, the smallest group in which the Company is consolidated, is preparing a
Group Directors' Report which includes the required energy and carbon disclosures for the Group
and its subsidiaries. The Company is eligible for exemption from reporting energy and carbon
information.

Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:

A

R J Bradford
Director
28 April 2025

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Directors’ Report

The Directors present their report and audited financial statements for the Company for the year
ended 30 September 2024.

Principal activities

The principal activities of the Company are the provision of a broad range of diagnostic services
and healthcare solutions in hospital based, community or general practice environments
throughout the UK. The business provides diagnostic tests, scans, assessments and procedures to
patients working in close partnership with the NHS as well as private healthcare providers.

The Company has a reputation for delivering high quality services over the course of long-term
relationships and for providing excellent clinical quality, best value and solutions to its customers.

Proposed dividend

The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend (2023: £nil). No dividend income was
received from subsidiary entities during the year (2023: £3.5 million).

Directors

The Directors who held office during the year and up to the date of signing the financial
statements were as follows:

R J Bradford
A G Searle
S J Scott

Political donations
The Company made no political donations (2023: Enil).
Employees

Our people are key to our success in both delivering existing business and winning new contracts.
Investment in our people and in building the right working environment will continue to be a
priority. As outlined in the ‘Colleagues’ section of the $172 Statement in the Strategic Report, the
Board has provided employees with information on matters of concern to them, consulted
employees on a regular basis so views are considered when making decisions, and encouraged
employee feedback and engagement. The Company employed 1,842 highly skilled and trained
professionals, as at 30 September 2024 (2023: 1,860), with many years of experience working within
the health sector.

The Board remains grateful for the contributions made by alll individuals.
Employee Involvement

The Company’s policy is to consult with employees on matters likely to affect the employees’
interests. Information on matters of concern to employees is given through information bulletins
and reports, which seek to achieve a common awareness on the part of all employees of the
financial and economic factors affecting the Company’s performance.

Employment of disabled people

It is the Company's policy that disabled people are given the same consideration as other
applicants for all job vacancies for which they offer themselves as suitable candidates. Similarly,
the Group's policy is to continue to employ and train employees who have become disabled
wherever possible.

Every effort has been made to ensure that line managers fully understand that disabled people
must have the same prospects and promotional opportunities that are available to other
employees. The Company makes appropriate modification to procedures and equipment where
it is practical and safe to do so.

inHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Directors’ Report (continued)
Going concern

The Directors have assessed forecasts for the next 12-month period from the date of the approval
of the financial statements and consider that sufficient funds are available to meet liabilities as
they fall due and therefore have prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis (see
note 1.4 for further information on the going concern basis of preparation). To support the
continued growth of the business, particularly given the new contracts won during the year, the
Company utilises a Revolving Credit Facility ("RCF") arranged through the InHealth Group. On 2
April 2025 the RCF renewal date was extended by one year to April 2028 and additional credit
limits were secured increasing the RCF to £100 million.

The Directors have further assessed the debt covenants at Company and Group level for the next
12-month period from the date of approval of the financial statements and consider that sufficient
headroom exists on all covenants. Although the Company is in net assets position, in order to
finance the working capital and capital investment, the Company's group parent has provided
written confirmation that it will for at least 12 months from the date of approval of these financial
statements continue to make available such funds as are needed by the Company and in
particular will not seek repayment of amounts currently made available.

Financial instruments

During the year the Company's operations exposed it to certain financial risks such as liquidity risk,
interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and credit risk, as described below. The Company has a risk
management programme that seeks to limit the adverse effects on the financial performance of
the Company by monitoring levels of cash and controlling foreign currency transactions.
Liquidity risk

The Company continues to invest significant amounts of capital expenditure to support NHS
partners and projects. To mitigate liquidity risk, the wider Group utilises third party financing via a
Revolving Credit Facility ("RCF"). Subsequent to year end the Group has secured an increase to
the limits of the facility. The Company also has asset financing arrangements in place with the
same financing institutions. The Company has cash generation ability to ensure that obligations
associated with the financial liabilities of the Company can be met. The Directors are satisfied that
there is no material risk of the Company being unable to meet its financial obligations as they fall
due.

Interest rate risk

The interest rates on the Company's borrowings are at market rates. The Company's policy is to
keep its borrowings within defined limits such that the risk that could arise from a significant change
in interest rates would not have a material impact on cash flows. The Directors monitor the overall
level of cash, borrowings and interest cost to limit any adverse effect on financial performance of
the Company.

Foreign currency risk

The Company's transactions are predominantly in Sterling, but some transactions are in other
currencies and the Company is therefore exposed to the movement in foreign currency
exchange rates. The risk is considered low due to the volume and value of transactions that occur.

Credit risk

The Company's principal financial assets are cash at bank and trade debtors, which represent
the Company's maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial assets. The Company's
credit risk is primarily attributable to its ttade debtors. The Directors provide robust guidelines to
minimise credit risk however, given the nature of its customers, the Company does not have
significant exposure in this area.

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Directors’ Report (continued)
Research and development activities

Due to the continual need for high standards of care in healthcare, the Company has undergone
developmental activities for the benefits and satisfaction of patients in both acute and primary
care settings. The Company has expanded developments into enhancements in mobile sites as
well as digital infrastructure for automations and utilisation of future functionalities that require
artificial intelligence.

Directors’ indemnities
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of Directors were in force throughout the

financial year and is currently in force at the date of approval of the Annual Report and financial
statements. :

Post balance sheet events

An indication of likely future developments in the business have been included in the Strategic
Report.

On 15 November 2024, InHealth Limited obtained a 38% interest in the Indian.company Apollo
Radiology International Limited (“ARI"). As consideration for the transaction, InHealth Limited
disposed of its wholly owned subsidiary InHealth Reporting Limited to become a wholly owned
subsidiary of ARI.

On 2 April 2025 the RCF renewal date was extended by one year to April 2028 and additional
credit limits were secured increasing the RCF to £100 million.

Disclosure of information to auditors

The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ Report confirm that, so far
as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors
are unaware; and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a
Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the -
Company's auditors are aware of that information.

Independent Auditors

The auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office
and pursuant to Section 487 of the Companies Act 2006, they will be deemed to be reappointed
and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP will therefore continue in office.

Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:

Gee

R J Bradford
Director
28 April 2025

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial statements

The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and regulation.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under
that law the Directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance with United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards,
comprising FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework", and applicable law).

Under company law, Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied
that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss
of the Company for that period. In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required
to:

. select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently:

. state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 have
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial
statements;

. make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and

. prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to

presume that the Company will continue in business.

The Directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The Directors are also responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to
show and explain the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any
time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INHEALTH LIMITED
Report on the audit of the financial statements

Opinion

In our opinion, InHealth Limited's financial statements:

* give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at 30 September 2024 and of
its profit for the year then ended;

* have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 “Reduced
Disclosure Framework", and applicable law); and

* have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial
Statements (the “Annual Report"), which comprise: the Balance Sheet as at 30 September 2024;
the Statement of Profit and Loss and Other Comprehensive Income and the Statement of
Changes in Equity for the year then ended; and the notes to the financial statements, comprising
material accounting policy information and other r explanatory information.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)")
and applicable law. Our responsibilities under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence

We remained independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that
are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical
Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
requirements.

Conclusions relating to going concern

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating
to events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the
Company's ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from
when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going
concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this conclusion is not a
guarantee as to the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are
described in the relevant sections of this report.

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INHEALTH LIMITED
(continued)

Reporting on other information

The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial
statements and our auditors’ report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other
information. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and,
accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly
stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with
the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be
materially misstated. If we identify an apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement,
we are required to perform procedures to conclude whether there is a material misstatement of
the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work
we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report based on these responsibilities.

With respect to the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report, we also considered whether the
disclosures required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.

Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 requires us also
to report certain opinions and matters as described below.

Strategic Report and Directors’ Report

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in
the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report for the year ended 30 September 2024 is consistent with
the financial statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in
the course of the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the Strategic Report and
Directors' Report.

Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements

As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial
statements, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in
accordance with the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair
view. The directors are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Company's
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the
Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INHEALTH LIMITED
(continued)

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We
design procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material
misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are
capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below.

Based on our understanding of the Company and indusiry, we identified that the principal risks of
non-compliance with laws and regulations related to the Companies Act 2006 and Corporate Tax
Legislation, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a material effect
on the financial statements. We evaluated management's incentives and opportunities for
fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements (including the risk of override of controls), and
determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate accounting entries to
manipulate financial results, specifically revenue and EBITDA and/or misappropriation of assets,
specifically cash. Audit procedures performed by the engagement team included:

¢ Held discussions with management, including inquiries of known or suspected instances of non-
compliance with laws and regulations and/or fraud:

¢ Evaluated the design effectiveness of management's control activities designed to prevent
and detect irregularities;

* Reviewed meeting minutes of the board of directors for consideration of known or suspected
instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations and/or fraud;

*« Challenged assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant
accounting estimates and material judgements and assessed the business rationale for
significant contracts and transactions entered. This included an evaluation of whether there
was evidence of management bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to
fraud;

¢ Identified and tested journal entries based on our risk assessment:
¢ Incorporated elements of unpredictability into our audit procedures; and
* Reviewed the disclosures in the Annual Report against the specific legal requirements.

There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. We are less likely to
become aware of instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations that are not closely
related to events and transactions reflected in the financial statements. Also, the risk of not
detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one
resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or
intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on
the FRC’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our
auditors’ report.

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF INHEALTH LIMITED
(continued)

Use of this report

This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company's members
as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other
purpose. We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose
or to any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where
expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.

Other required reporting

Companies Act 2006 exception reporting

Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

* we have not obtained all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

* adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for
our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or

¢ certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
* the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.

We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.

Now Ope

Alex Upton (Senior Statutory Auditor)

for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Watford

29 April 2025

inHealth Limited

Annual Report and Financial Statements

for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Profit and Loss Account and Other Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 30 September 2024

Note 2024 2023

£000 £000
Revenue 3 184,953 169,752
Cost of sales (129,179) (116,101)
Gross profit 55,774 53,651
Administrative expenses (46,257) (43,571)
Other operating income 4 - 2,202
Operating profit 5 : 9,517 12,282
Dividend income Lot 3,461
Interest receivable and similar income 8 716 489
Interest payable and similar expenses 8 (6,962) (3,357)
Profit before taxation 3,271 12,875
Tax on profit . 9 (1,985) (2,422)
Profit for the financial year 1,286 10,453
Other comprehensive (loss)/income:
items that will not be reclassified to profit and loss:
Actuarial loss on defined benefit schemes 2) (119) (158)
Movement of deferred tax relating to actuarial 21 55 39

movement on defined benefit schemes

Other comprehensive loss for the year (64) (119)
Total comprehensive income for the year 1,222 10,334

The accompanying notes on pages 19 to 43 form part of these financial statements.

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Balance Sheet
At 30 September 2024
Note 2024 2023
£000 £000
Non-current assets
Goodwill 1 8,613 8,613
Intangible assets 10 5,086 1,726
Tangible assets 12 162,499 140,370
Investments 13 85,125 75,654
261,323 226,363
Current assets :
Stocks 14 177 948
Contract assets 15 1,209 1,589
Debtors 15 80,585 64,081
Cash at bank and in hand 5,106 3,817
87,077 70,435
Total assets 348,400 296,798
Current liabllities
Trade and other payables 16 (83,959) (54,977)
Non-current liabilities
Trade and other payables 17 (100,884) (92,073)
Borrowings 18 (26,906) (19,169)
Employee benefits 21 - -
Deferred tax liability 22 (5,905) (3,625)
Other provisions 23 (7,316) (4,746)
(141,011) (119,613)
Total liabllities (224,970) (174,590)
Net assets ; 123,430 122,208
Equlty attributable to equity holders
Called up share capital 24 1,073 1,073
Share premium account 50,860 50,860
Other reserves 25 10,659 10,659
Profit and loss account 60,838 59,616
Total equity 123,430 122,208

These financial statements were approved by the Board on 28 April 2025 and were signed on its
behalf by:

R J Bradford
Director

Company registered number: 05190234
The accompanying notes on pages 19 to 43 form part of these financial statements.

inHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 30 September 2024

At 1 October 2022

Comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive loss

Total comprehensive income for the year
Changes in ownership interests
Intercompany loan settlement

At 30 September 2023 and 1 October 2023

Comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
Profit for the year

Other comprehensive loss

Total comprehensive income for the year

At 30 September 2024

Called up
share
capital
£000

1,073

1,073

1,073

Share
premium
account
£000

50,860

50,860

50,860

Other
reserves
£000

11,031

(372)

10,659

10,659

The accompanying notes on pages 19 to 43 form part of these financial statements.

Profit and
loss account
£000

50,902

10,453
(119)

10,334

(1,620)

597,616

1,286
(64)

1,222

60,838

Total
equity
£000

113,866

10,453
(119)

10,334

(1,992)

122,208

1,286
(64)

1,222

123,430


InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements
(forming part of the Financial Statements)

1 Accounting policies
11 Basis of preparation of financial statements

InHealth Limited is a private company incorporated, domiciled and registered in England, United
Kingdom. The registered number is 05190234 and the registered address is Beechwood Hall,
Kingsmead Road, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, HP11 1JL.

The financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with
FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (“FRS 101"). As a result, the Company applies the
recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements per UK-adopted international accounting
standards (“Adopted IFRSs”) but makes amendments where necessary in order to comply with
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. The financial statements are prepared under the
historical cost basis.

The preparation of financial statements in compliance with FRS 101 requires the use of certain
critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise judgement in applying the
Company's accounting policies (see note 2).

The material accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied
consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements.

1.2 FRS 101 - reduced disclosure exemptions

In these Financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101
in respect of the following disclosures:

- IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’: Exemption from providing comparative movement
schedules for share capital, intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment.

- IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements': Exemption from presenting a statement of cash
flows, from making an explicit and unreserved statement of compliance with IFRS standards and
from the capital management disclosure requirements of the standard.

- IAS 7 ‘Cash Flow Statement’: Complete exemption from preparing a cash flow statement and
the related notes.

- IAS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’: Exemption from the
disclosure of new or revised IFRSs that have not been amended, as well as the disclosure of their
likely impact.

- IAS 24 'Related Party Disclosures’: Disclosure exemption for related party transactions entered
into between two or more members of a group provided that any subsidiary which is a party to
the transaction is wholly owned by such a member.

- IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’: Exemption from disclosure of compensation for key
management personnel.

- JAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets': Available exemptions from disclosures af the cash generating unit
level, including as it pertains to assumptions and sensitivity analysis.

-IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments’: Complete exemption of the disclosures mandated by the standard,
other than where required to comply with legal requirements.

- IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’: Complete exemption of the disclosures mandated by the
standard, other than where required to comply with legal requirements.

- IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’: Partial exemption from the new disclosure
requirements set out by the standard.

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
1 Accounting policies (continued)
1.2 FRS 101 - reduced disclosure exemptions (continued)

Taking up these disclosure exemptions is made possible by the inclusion of equivalent disclosures
within the consolidated financial statements of InHealth UK Holdings Limited, the largest group in
which the results of the Company are consolidated.

1.3 Exemption from preparing consolidated financial statements

The Company is a parent Company that is also a subsidiary included in the consolidated financial
statements of its immediate parent undertaking established under UK law and is therefore exempt
from the requirement to prepare consolidated financial statements under section 400 of the
Companies Act 2006.

1.4 Going concern

The Company's business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development
and position, are set out in the Strategic Report on page 2. The financial statements have been
prepared on a going concern basis which the Directors consider to be appropriate for the
following reasons.

The Directors have assessed profit and cashflow forecasts for a period of at least 12 months from
the date of approval of these financial statements. This includes assumptions over the certainty of
cash flows and sensitivities on future performance. In assessing the Company's ability to continue
as a going concen, the Directors have performed appropriate sensitivities on this assessment in
modelling delays to contract commencements and associated capital spend, and removal of
speculative opportunities. These forecasts indicate that, even when considering a severe but
plausible downside, the Company will continue to have sufficient funds to meet its liabilities .as
they fall due and remain compliant with the RCF financial covenants. The Company continues to
be engaged in positive discussions and considers the medium-term outlook to be strong due to
the opportunity to support the NHS in addressing the backlog of diagnostic and screening tests.

After taking into consideration the Company's positive net asset position and availability of cash
as well as the current economic environment, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that
the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future (at least 12 months after the approval of these financial statements). Although the
Company is in net assets position, in order to finance the working capital and capital investment,
the Company's group parent has provided written confirmation that it will for at least 12 months
from the date of approval of these financial statements continue to make available such funds
as are needed by the Company and in particular will not seek repayment of amounts currently
made available. Consequently, the Directors are confident that the Company will have sufficient
funds to continue to meet its liabilities as they fall due for at least 12 months from the date of
approval of the financial statements and therefore have prepared the financial statements on a
going concern basis.

15 Revenue

Revenue, which is measured as the fair vaiue of consideration received for the activity performed,
represents the amounts invoiced for the provision of diagnostic services and healthcare solutions
(excluding value added tax), net of rebates.

Revenue is recognised on the basis of the 5-stép model under IFRS 15, which sets out the rules for
revenue from contracts with customers based on the satisfaction of performance obligations.
Management has undertaken a detailed assessment of all revenue streams using the 5-step
approach specified by IFRS 15:

- Identify the contract(s) with the customer

- Identify the performance obligations in the contract

- Determine the transaction price through contracted agreed price

- Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract

- Recognise revenue when (or as) a performance obligation is satisfied

20

inHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
; for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
1 Accounting policies (continued)
1.5 Revenue (continued]

The Company does not expect to have any contracts where the period between the transfer of
the promised goods or services to the customer and payment by the customer exceeds one year.
As a consequence, the Company does not adjust any transaction prices for the time value of
money.

In the case of fixed-price billing, the customer pays the fixed amount based on a payment .
schedule and regular true-up reconciliations are performed in line with contract. If the services
rendered by the Group exceeds the payment, accrued income is recognised. If the payments
exceed the services rendered, deferred income is recognised.

Rendering of services

Revenue from providing services is recognised in the accounting period in which the services are
rendered and when performance obligations are satisfied. The Company typically satisfies its
performance obligations as services are rendered on a "per procedure" or “per day” basis,
depending upon the terms of the contract. Revenue is recognised when a contract with
enforceable rights and obligations exists and the receipt of consideration is likely, taking into
account the customer's credit quality. Payment terms are typically 30 days with no significant
financing component or variable consideration.

Contract assets

Contract assets represent the right to consideration in exchange for goods that have been
transferred to the customer. Costs to obtain contracts with customers are amortised on a
systematic basis consistent with the pattern of transfer of services being when the related revenues
are recognised.

1.6 Leases
The Company as a lessee

The Company assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease, at inception of a contract. The
Company recognises a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability with respect to all
lease agreements in which it is the lessee, except for short-term leases (defined as leases with a
lease term of 12 months or less) and leases of low value assets. For these leases, the Company
recognises the lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of
the lease unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which
economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed.

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid
at the commencement date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot
be readily determined, the Company uses its incremental borrowing rate.

Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise fixed lease payments
(including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives.

The lease liability is included in 'Creditors' on the Balance Sheet.

The lease liability is subsequently measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest
on the lease liability (using the effective interest method) and by reducing the carrying amount
to reflect the lease payments made.

The Company remeasures the fease liability (and makes a corresponding adjustment to the
related right-of-use asset) whenever the lease term has changed or there is a change in the
assessment of exercise of a purchase option, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by
discounting the revised discount rate.

The Company did not make any such adjustments during the periods presented.

21

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
1 Accounting policies (continued)
1.6 Leases (continued)

The right-of-use assets comprise the initial measurement of the corresponding lease liability, lease
payments made at or before the commencement day and any initial direct costs. They are
subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.

Right-of-use assets are depreciated over the shorter period of lease term and useful life of the
underlying asset. If a lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset or the cost of the right-of-
use asset reflects that the Company expects to exercise a purchase option, the related right-of-
use asset is depreciated over the useful life of the underlying asset. The depreciation starts at the
commencement date of the lease.

The right-of-use assets are included in the ‘Tangible Assets’ line in the Balance Sheet.

The Company applies IAS 36 to determine whether a right-of-use asset is impaired and accounts
for any identified impairment toss as described in note 12.

Sale and leaseback transactions

The Company enters in to hire purchase contracts to possess and control an asset during an
agreed term, while paying instalments over a period of time. The contracts are evaluated to assess
whether they meet the requirements for a sale under IFRS 15 regarding when a performance
obligation is satisfied. Where the contract meets the requirements of a sale the Company
recognises and measures the right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability as outlined
above.

1.7 Current and deferred taxation

Tax on the profit and loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the
profit and loss account except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or
other comprehensive income, in which case it is recognised directly in equity or other
comprehensive income.

Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year,
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment
to tax payable in respect of previous years.

Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The
following temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial
recognition of assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a
business combination; and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that
they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred tax provided is
based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and
liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.

A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits
will be available against which the temporary difference can be utilised.

1.8 Goodwill

Goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is allocated to cash
generating units and is not amortised but is tested annually for impairment.

19 Tangible assets

Tangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment
losses. Cost is defined as all costs necessary to bring the asset to working condition for its intended
use. Where parts of an item of tangible assets have different useful lives, they are accounted for
as separate items of tangible fixed assets.

22

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
1 Accounting policies (continued)
1g Tangible assets (continued)

Depreciation is charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the estimated
useful lives of each part of an item of tangible fixed assets. Land and assets in the course of
construction are not depreciated. The estimated useful lives are as follows:

Short term leasehold property improvements: — over the term of the lease

Plant and equipment: 4 to 10 years straight line
Fixtures and fittings: 3 to 6 years straight line
Motor vehicles: 3 to 8 years straight line

Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.
1.10 Intangible assets

Intangible assets acquired by the Company are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and
accumulated impairment losses. Licences purchased by the Company are amortised to nil by
equal instalments over their useful life.

Amortisation

Amortisation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
lives of intangible assets. Intangible assets are amortised from the date they are available for use.
Intangible assets in the course of development are not amortised. The estimated useful lives are
as follows:

Licenses and software costs: 1 to 5 years
Other intangibies: 1 to § years
Capitalised commissions: over the life of the contract

1.11 Financial instruments
i) Recognition and initial measurement

The Company’s main financial instruments comprise: cash and cash equivalents; trade and other
receivables; trade and olher payables; and borrowings.

Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value in the Company's
balance sheet on the date when the Company becomes party to the contractual provisions of
the instrument.

Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and
financial liabilities are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial
liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.

ii) Classification and subsequent measurement
Financial assets

Classification and subsequent measurement of financial assets is driven by the business model for
managing the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of those financial
assets.

Financial assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest method,
and adjusted for any credit loss allowance, as they are held solely for the collection and payment
of contractual cash flows, being payments of principal and interest where applicable. The effect
of discounting on trade and other receivables is not considered to be material. The amortised
cost is reduced by impairment losses. Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and
impairment are recognised in profit and loss. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognised in
profit and loss.

23

‘inHealth Limited

Annual Report and Financial Statements

for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

1 Accounting policies (continued)

1.11. Financial instruments (continued)

Financial assets (continued)

ii) Classification and subsequent measurement (continued)
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances at bank.
Financial liabilities

Trade and other payables and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost with any
interest cost calculated in accordance with the effective interest rate method. Interest expense
and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in profit and loss. Any gain or loss on
derecognition is also recognised in profit and loss.

iii) Impairment

The Company recognises loss allowances for expected credit losses (ECLs) on financial assets
measured at amortised cost. The Company applies the simplified approach under IFRS 9, using a
loss rate approach adjusting for current conditions and future expectations, based on available
forward-looking information. This is appropriate given the history of default and customer base of
the Company.

Measurement of ECLs

ECLs are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses. Credit losses are measured as the
present value of all cash shortfalls (i.e. the difference between the cash flows due to the entity in
accordance with the contract and the cash flows that the Company expects fo receive). ECLs
are discounted at the effective interest rate of the financial asset.

Credit-impaired financial assets

At each reporting date, the Company assesses whether financial assets carried at amortised cost
are credit impaired. A financial asset is ‘credit-impaired' when one or more events that have a
detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.

Write-offs

The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or in full) to the extent
that there is no realistic prospect of recovery.

_ 1.12. Valuation of investments
Investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost less accumulated impairment.
1.13 Stocks

Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is based on the weighted
average principle and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the stocks and other costs in
bringing them to their existing location and condition. Net realisable value is determined by
expected sales price less costs to sell. ;

1.14 Cash and cash equivalents

Cash is represented by cash in hand with financial institutions repayable without penalty on notice
of not more than 24 hours. Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments that mature in no more
than three months from the date of acquisition and that are readily convertible to known amounts
of cash with insignificant risk of change in value.

24

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
1 Accounting policies (continued)
1.15 Provisions

A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Company has a present legal or
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, which can be reliably measured, and it is
probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions
are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows ai a pre-tax rate that reflects risks
specific to the liability.

1.16 Employee benefits
Defined contribution plans

A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the Company pays
fixed contributions into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay
further amounts. Obligations for contributions to defined contribution pension plans are
recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account in the periods during which services are
rendered by employees.

Defined benefit plans

A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan.
The Company's net obligation in respect of defined benefit pension plans is calculated by
estimating the amount of future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in
the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine its present value, and the
fair value of any plan assets are deducted. The Company determines the net interest on the net
defined benefit liability for the year by applying the discount rate used to measure the defined
benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the net defined benefit liability.

The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on bonds that have a credit rating of at least
AA that have maturity dates approximating the terms of the Company's obligations and that are
denominated in the currency in which the benefits are expected to be paid.

Remeasurements arising from defined benefit plans comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return
on plan assets (excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest).
The Company recognises them immediately in other comprehensive income and all other
expenses related to defined benefit plans in employee benefit expenses in profit and loss.

_The calculation of the defined benefit obligations is performed by a qualified actuary using the
projected unit credit method. When the calculation results in a benefit to the Company, the
recognised asset is limited to the present value of benefits available in the form of any future
refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions and takes into account the adverse
effect of any minimum funding requirements.

1.17 Borrowings

Borrowings are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Accrued interest
is recorded separately from the associated borrowings within current liabilities.

1.18 Borrowing costs

Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying
assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their
intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are
substantially ready for their intended use or sale.

All other borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.

25

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
2 Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty

The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates
and assumptions in the application of accounting policies that affect reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses during the year.

Management periodically evaluates its estimates and judgements and bases them on historical
experience and other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the
results of which form the basis for making judgements about the carrying values of assets and
liabilities that are not readily available from other resources. Actual results may differ from these
estimates.

Investments in Subsidiary undertakings

The Company has a number of investments in subsidiary undertakings. Management are required
to make material assumptions about the future performance of the subsidiary when calculating
the recoverable amount, determined by their value in use. A range of scenarios are assessed with
further disclosure provided in note 13 to the accounts.

3 Revenue
2024 2023
£000 £000
Provision of services 184,953 169,752

Allrevenue arose within the United Kingdom.
Contract assets

£000
Costs to obtain contracts with customers .
At 1 October 2023 and 30 September 2024 2,500
Amortisation
At 1 October 2023 911
Amortisation for the year 380
At 30 September 2024 1,291
Net book value
At 30 September 2023 1,589
At 30 September 2024 1,209

Contract costs are amortised when the related revenues are recognised. No impairment losses
have been recorded for these contract assets (2023: £nil). Revenue generated relating to this
contract asset was £4,084,000 (2023: £3,479,000).

26

InHeaith Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

4 Other operating income
2024 2023
£000 £000
Business interruption income - "2,202

During the prior year the Company received income for a business interruption insurance claim
relating to the COVID-19 period.

5 Operating profit
The operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting}:

Note 2024 2023
£000 £000
Depreciation of owned tangible assets 12 12,021 10,285
Depreciation of leased assets 19 9,020 7,391
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (351) (40)
Amortisation of intangible assets 10 1,138 554
Amortisation of contract asset 3 380 376
Impairment of owned tangible assets 12 186 -
Inventory recognised as an expense 14 4,101 6,230
6 Auditor's remuneration
2024 2023
£000 £000
Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the 162 129

Company's financial statements

Other assurance services provided by the Company's auditor of £26,000 (2023: £25,000) have
been borne by the Company on behalf of another member of the InHealth Group.

The Directors have agreed with the Company's auditors that the auditors’ liability to damages for
breach of duty in relation to the audit of the Company's financial statements for the year to 30
September 2024 should be limited to the greater of £5 million or 5 times the total auditors’ fees
payable under the Limited Liability Agreement ("LLA"), and that in any event the auditors’ liability
for damages should be limited to that part of any loss suffered by the Company as is just and
equitable having regard to the extent to which the auditor, the Company and any third parties
are responsible for the loss in question. The shareholders approved this LLA, as required by the
Companies Act 2006, by a resolution dated 5 March 2025.

7 Employees

The monthly average number of persons employed by the Company (including Directors) during
* the year, analysed by category, was as follows:
Number of employees

2024 2023
Operations 1,572 1,537
Administrative 223 190
Directors 3 3
1,798 1,730

27

inHealth Limited

Annual Report and Financial Statements

for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes fo the Financial Statements (continued)

7" Employees (continued)

The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:

Wages and salaries
Social security costs
Other pension costs

Directors’ remuneration is as follows:

Directors’ remuneration including social security costs
Contributions to money purchase pension scheme

2024
£000

67,549
7,447
2,728

77,724

2024
£000

1,249
48

1,297

2023
£000

61,474
6,720
2,528

70,722

2023
£000

1,266
49

1,315

The aggregate of emoluments of the highest paid Director was £505,000 (2023: £605,000), and
pension contributions of £28,000 (2023: £nil) were made to a money purchase scheme on their

behalf.

8 Interest receivable and similar income and interest payable and similar expenses
2024
£000

Interest receivable and similar income

Interest income 522
Interest on net defined benefit pension plan assets 194
Total interest receivable and similar income 718
Interest payable and similar expenses

Interest expense 1,905
Interest on lease liabilities 2,590
Interest on borrowings 2,341
Interest on defined benefit pension plan liabilities 126
Total interest payable and similar expenses 6,962

2023
£000

323
166

489

1,314
1,365
552
126

3,357

28

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

9 Tax on profit
Recognised in the profit and loss account

2024 2023

£000 £000
UK corporation tax
Group relief - 426
Adjustments in respect of previous years (350) 324
Current tax expense (350) 750
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of timing differences . 2,396 1,925
Adjustments in respect of previous years (61) (253)
Deferred tax expense 2,335 1,672
Tax on profit on ordinary activities 1,985 2,422
Reconciliation of tax expense

2024 2023

£000 £000
Profit before tax 3,271 12,875
Tax using the UK corporation tax rate of 25.00% (2023: 22.01%) 818 2,834
Income not taxable for tax purposes (2) (834)
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 681 36
Adjustments in respect of previous years (411) 7]
Other fixed asset differences, adjustments and movements 695 65
Remeasurement of deferred tax for changes in tax rates - 250
Other short term timing differences 2,153 -
Temporary differences not recognised in the computation (1,949) -
Total tax expense 1,985 2,422

Factors that may affect future tax charges

A change in the UK corporation tax rate, announced in the Spring Budget on 3 March 2021, was
substantively enacted on 24 May 2021. The rate applicable from 1 April 2023 was increased to
25% (from 19%}. The deferred tax liability at 30 September 2024 has been calculated based on
these rates.

29

InHealth Limited

Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

10. Intangible assets

Cost

At 1 October 2023
Additions

Transfers between classes
Disposals

At 30 September 2024

Accumulated amortisation and
impairment

At 1 October 2023
Amortisation for the year
Disposals

At 30 September 2024

- Net book value
At 30 September 2023

At 30 September 2024

11 Goodwill

Cost

At 1 October 2023 and 30 September 2024

Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 October 2023 and 30 September 2024

Net book value

Licences and Other Capitalised Assets in
software intangibles commissions progress
£000 £000 £000
2,110 2,659 - 230
3,721 477 216 90

- - 230 (230)

(13) (3) - -
5,818 3,133 446 90
1,984 1,289 - -
242 512 384 -

(7) (3) - -
2,219 1,798 384 -
126 1,370 - 230
3,599 1,335 62 90
£000
14,183
5,570

, 8,613

At 30 September 2023 and 30 September 2024
Goodwill has been allocated io the Company's one cash generating unit which is inHealth

diagnostics and healthcare solutions.

Goodwill has been generated through the hive up of trade and assets of subsidiaries over a period
of time. This trade has been fully incorporated within the overall InHealth trading activities.

30

Total
£000

4,999
4,504

(16)

9,487

3,273
1,138
(10)

4,401

1,726

5,086


InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continuea)
11 Goodwill (continued)

To calculate the recoverable amount, determined by their value in use, of the CGU, the following
key assumptions were applied:

2024 2023
Period on which management approved plan is based 6 years 5 Years
Average growth rate applied over the forecast period 11% 15%
Discount rate pre-tax 11% 9%
Discount rate post-tax 9% 7%

Management have estimated the discount rate by reference to a weighted average cost of
capital as adjusted for appropriate risk factors reflecting current economic conditions and the risk
profile of the CGuUs.

The Company's estimate of impairments is most sensitive to changes in the discount rate and plan
cashflows. Sensitivity analysis has been carried out by reference to both of these assumptions. This
demonstrated that neither a 5% reduction in the forecast growth rate, nor a 5% increase in the
discount rate would lead to an impairment of goodwill. Based on the above the Company
considers that its goodwill impairment calculations are not highly sensitive to any reasonable
change in the key assumptions.

12 Tangible assets

Short term Assets in the
leasehold Plant and Motor Fixtures course of
Property Equipment vehicles and fittings construction Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 October 2023 56,590 181,404 5,096 15,616 20,428 279,134
Additions 19,893 7,695 - 984 8,087 36,659
Reclassification from owned to right-of-
use assets for sale and leaseback
transactions - (16,903) - - - (16,903)
Additions — right-of-use assets 3,862 19,195 3,039 - - 26,096
Disposals (2,025) (14,889) (17) (269) (1,261) (18,461)
Disposals — right-of-use assets (252) (1,154) - - - (1,406)
Transfer between classes 2,079 7,522 - - {9,601) -
At 30 September 2024 80,147 182,870 8,118 16,331 - 17,653 305,119
Accumulated depreciation and
Impairment
At 1 October 2023 27,743 95,051 2,756 13,214 - 138,764
Charge for the year - owned assets 2.291 8,836 - 894 - 12,021
Charge for the year - right-of-use assets 1,787 6,126 1,107 - - 9,020
Disposals (2,025) (13,986) (17) (257) - (16,285)
Disposals — right-of-use assets (252) (834) - : - (1,086)
Impairment 186 - - - - 186
At 30 September 2024 29,730 95,193 3,846 13,851 - 142,620
Net book value
At 30 September 2023 28,847 86,353 2,340 2,402 20,428 140,370
At 30 September 2024 50,417 87,677 4,272 2,480 17,653 162,499

31

inHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
12 Tangible assets (continued)
The net book value of owned and leased asset included as “Tangible assets” is as follows:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Tangible assets owned 99,798 92,571
Right-of-use assets 62,701 47,799
162,499 140,370
13 Investments
Investments in
subsidiary
companies
£000
Cost
At 1 October 2023 77,266
Additions ; 9,47)
At 30 September 2024 86,737
Provisions
At 1 October 2023 and 30 September 2024 (1,612)
Net book value
At 30 September 2023 75,654
At 30 September 2024 85,125

On 30 April 2024 the Company acquired shares in InHealth Intelligence Limited for consideration
of £2.6 million.

On 31 May 2024 the Company capifalised its intercompany position with InHealth Reporting
Limited for £3.7 million.

On 31 July 2024 the Company acquired shares in TAC Healthcare Limited for consideration of £3.2
million.

32

inHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

13 Investments (continued)
The Company has the following investments in subsidiaries:
Nominal of
shares held

Subsidiary undertakings Ownership

2024 2023
InHealth Molecular imaging Limited (1) £1 100% 100%
Vista Diagnostics Limited (1) £1 100% 100%
Preventicum UK Limited (1) 10p 100% 100%
InHealth Reporting Limited (1) 21 100% 100%
e-Locum Services Limited (1) £1 100% -
Medical Imaging Audit and Accreditation Limited (1) £1 100% -
Lister InHealth Limited (1) £1 100% . 100%
Cardinal InHealth Limited (1) Ip 100% 100%
inHealth Diagnostics and Healthcare Solutions Limited (2) €l 100% 100%
inHealth tntelligence Limited (1) £1 100% 94%
InHealth CATS Limited (1) £1 100% 100%
London Centre for Advanced Diagnostics Limited (1) £1 100% 100%
United Open MRI Limited (1) £1 100% 100%
TAC Healthcare Limited (1) £1 87% * 78.5%
InHealth Audiology and ENT Limited (1) £1 100% 100%
Subsidiary undertaking of Preventicum UK Limited
Euroclinics (UK) Limited (1) £1 100% 100%
Subsidiary undertakings of InHealth Reporting Limited
e-Locum Services Limited (1) £1 - 100%
Medical tmaging Audit and Accreditation Limited (1) . €i : 100%
Subsidiary undertakings of United Open MRI Limited
The London Upright MRI Company Limited (1) £1 100% 100%
Yorkshire Upright MRI Centre Limited (1) £1 100% 100%
Subsidiary undertakings of TAC Healthcare Limited
InHealth Endoscopy Limited (1) £1 100% 100%
InHealth Echotech Limited (1) £1 100% 100%
InHealth Pathology Limited (1) £1 100% 100%
C7 Health Limited (3) £1 100% 100%
TAC (Medical Services) UK Limited (1) £1 90% 90%
Subsidiary undertaking of InHealth Endoscopy Limited
Prime Endoscopy (Bristol) Limited (1) £1 100% 100%
Subsidiary undertakings of C7 Health Limited
Diagnostic World Limited (3) £1 : 100%
TAC Healthcare Group Limited (4) £1 100% 100%
Private GP Services Holdings Limited (3) £1 60% 60%
Subsidiary undertaking of TAC Healthcare Group Limited .
The Aberdeen Clinic Limited (4) £1 100% 100%
Subsidiary undertaking of Private GP Services Holdings Limited :
Private GP Services (UK) Limited (3) £1 100% 100%

{1} The registered office address of these subsidiary undertakings is Beechwood Halll, Kingsmead
Road, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, HP11 1JL.

(2) The registered office address of this subsidiary undertaking is 1 Stokes Place, St Stephen's Green,
Dublin, Republic of Ireland.

(3) The registered office address of these subsidiary undertakings is Gateway West, East Street,
Leeds, LS? 8DA.

(4) The registered office address of these subsidiary undertakings is Wellheads Crescent, Wellheads
Industrial Estate, Aberdeen, Aberdeenshire, AB21 7GA.

33

InHeatth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes fo the Financial Statements (continued)

13 Investments (continued)

The investments in subsidiary companies are shown below:
2024 2023
£000 £000
TAC Healthcare Limited 68,839 65,611
InHealth Intelligence Limited 10,600 8,039
inHealth Reporting Limited 3,919 237
United Open MRI Limited 1,620 1,620
Vista Diagnostics Limited . 69 69
Preventicum UK Limited 78 78
85,125 75,654

To calculate the recoverable amount, determined by their value in use, of the material
investments, the following key assumptions were applied:

2024 2023

Period on which management approved plan is based 6 Years 7 Years

Discount rate (pre-tax) 11% 12%
Average growth rate applied over the plan period:

- TAC Healthcare Limited 8% 12%

-  InHealth Intelligence Limited 2% 2%

Management have estimated the discount rate by reference to a weighted average cost of
capital as adjusted for appropriate risk factors reflecting current economic conditions and the risk
profile of the business units.

The growth assumptions for TAC Healthcare Limited and InHealth Intelligence Limited are
underpinned by newly signed long term contractual agreements.

The Company's estimate of impairment of TAC Healthcare Limited is most sensitive to changes in
the discount rate and plan cashflows, InHealth Intelligence Limited investment is not materially
sensitive to these assumptions. The sensitivity analysis performed would result in a material
impairment of the carrying value of TAC Healthcare Limited if the discount rate increased to 13%
would lead to 2% reduction in growth plan.

14 Stocks

2024 2023
£000 £000
Consumables 177 948

Consumables recognised as cost of sales in the year amounted to £4,101,000 (2023: £6,230,000).

34

InHealth Limited .
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

15 Debtors

Due within one year

Trade debtors

Other debtors

Amounts owed by group undertakings
Prepayments and accrued income

Due after more than one year

Amounts owed by group undertakings
Other debtors
Prepayments and accrued income

Total debtors

2024
£000

23,631
2,953
43,050
8,299

77,933

2,652

2,652

80,585

2023
£000

23,596
1,626
28,400
6,463

60,085

1,396
2,595
5

3,996

64,081

The amounts owed by group undertakings due after more than one year was a loan that was
repaid during the year. The face value of the loan was £1,427,000 at an interest rate of 3.0% in
prior year. The loan was held at amortised cost of £1,345,000 and the amounts owed by group

undertakings included interest on the loan that was due after more than one year.

Amounts owed by group undertakings due within one year are interest free, repayable in

accordance with credit terms and there is no security.

16 Trade and other payables: amounts falling due within one year

Trade creditors

Amounts owed to group undertakings
Other taxation and social security
Lease liabilities (note 19)

Other creditors

Contingent liabilities

Accruals and deferred income

2024
£000

3,343
22,956
3,179
12,095
72\
3,000
38,665

83,959

2023
£000

2,108
4,349
3,759
9,574
380
439
34,368

54,977

Amounts owed to group undertakings are interest free, repayable on demand and there is no

security.

35

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
17 Trade and other payables: amounts falling due after more than one year

2024 2023

£000 £000

Lease liabilities (note 19) 46,903 34,790
Amounts owed to group undertakings 52,391 55,693
Other creditors 1,590 1,590
100,884 92,073

The amounts owed to group undertakings are repayable 2 years from the balance sheet date.
There are loans of face valve of £49,752,000 (2023: £54,263,000) at an interest rate of 3.0% (2023:
3.0%). These loans are held at amortised cost of £46,896,000 (2023: £52,296,000). The amounts
owed to group undertakings includes the interest on the loan that is due after more than one
year.

18 Borrowings
2024 2023
£000 £000
Revolving credit facility 27,500 20,000
Amortised borrowing cost (594) {831}
Net borrowings 26,906 19,169

The revolving credit facility has an interest rate based on SONIA plus a margin based on the
Group's debt leverage. It has been classified as long-term debt due to the Group's intention to
continuously renew drawdowns on quarterly basis. The principal drawdown at 30 September 2024
was £27,500,000 (2023: £20,000,000) with an overall facility renewal date in April 2027. The undrawn
borrowings at 30 September 2024 was £32,500,000 (2023: £40,000,000). On 2 April 2025 the facility
renewal date was extended by one year to April 2028 and credit facility limit increased to £100
million.

19 ~— Leases

The Company has lease contracts for property, vehicles and equipment used in the operations.
The amounts recognised in the financial statements in relation to the leases are as follows:
Amounts recognised in balance sheet

The balance sheet shows the following amounts relating to leases:

2024 2023
£000 £000

Right-of-use assets net book value
Property 13,184 11,109
Plant and machinery 45,306 34,414
Motor vehicles 4,211 2,276
62,701 47,799

36

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
19 Leases (continued)
Amounts recognised in balance sheet (continued)

Lease liabllities

Current 12,095 9,574
Non-current 46,903 34,790
58,998 44,364

The amounts recognised in the balance sheet from sale and leaseback transactions for current
lease liabilities are £9,645,000 (2023: £7,611,000} and non-current lease liabilities £27,566,000 (2023:
£21,414,000). The terms of the sale and leaseback transactions are between five and seven years.

Amounts recognised in the profit and loss account

2024 2023
Note £000 £000
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets
Property (1,787) (1,395)
Plant and machinery (6,126) (5,268)
Motor vehicles (1,107) (728)
5 (9,020) (7,391)
Interest expense 8 (2,590) (1,365)
Lease liabilities are due as follows:
2024 2023
£000 £000
Less than one year 12,095 - 9,574
Between one and five years 34,506 27,523
More than five years 12,397 7,267
58,998 44,364

The total cash outflow for leases during the year was £13,548,000 (2023: £10,396,000).
Contractual undiscounted cash flows are due as follows:

2024 2023

£000 £000

Less than one year : 14,712 11,530
Between one and five years 37,645 29,396
More than five years 16,325 10,071
$8,682 50,997

37

inHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

20 Capital commitments

As at 30 September 2024, the Company had entered into contracts to purchase MRI equipment
and CT scanners for £22,094,000 (2023: £27,227,000). These commitments are expected to be
settled in the following financial year.

21 Employee benefits

The pension cost charged to the profit and loss account for the year represents contributions
payable by the Company to all pension schemes and amounts to £2,728,000 (2023: £2,528,000).

Contributions amounting to £1,256,000 (2023: £707,000) were payable to the schemes at the end
of the year relating to the final month and are included in creditors.

Defined contribution pension scheme

The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme.
Defined benefit pension schemes

The Company operates two Defined Benefit Pension Schemes.

The latest actuarial valuation for the schemes is as follows:

Scheme 1 - InHealth Defined Benefit Pension Scheme 1 October 2022
Scheme 2 - Prudential Platinum Pension — InHealth Limited 31 December 2022

These have been agreed between the Trustees and the Company. GMP equalisation does not
impact any of the pension schemes. Whilst the new actuarial valuations have not yet been
agreed for each scheme, there are no indicators of a significant change in the funding plan
required for each.

The information disclosed below is in respect of the Company for the periods shown.

2024 2023
£000 £000
Defined benefit pension scheme asset
Scheme 1 - InHealth Defined Benefit pension scheme 2,067 2,011
Scheme 2 - Prudential Platinum Pension - InHealth _ 420 366
Total defined benefit asset 2,487 2,377
Defined benefit pension scheme liability
Scheme | - InHealth Defined Benefit pension scheme (2,067) (2,011)
Scheme 2 - Prudential Platinum Pension — InHealth (420) (366)
Total defined benefit liability (2,487) (2,377)

38

inHeaith Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

21 Employee benefits (continued)

Defined benefit pension schemes (continued)

Movements in defined benefit pension net liability
Defined benefit

At 1 October

Included in profit and loss
Current service cost
Interest cost
Administration services

Included in OCI

Actuarial gain/(loss) arising from
change in financial assumptions
Derecognition of pension surplus

Other
Contributions paid by the Company

Contributions paid by the employees
Benefits paid

Balance at 30 September

obligation
2024 2023
£000 £000
(2,377) (2,689)
(31) (52)
(126) (126)
(157) (178)
(74) 436
(74) 436
(17) (22)
138 76
(2,487) (2,377)

Fair value of

plan assets
2024 2023
£000 £000
2,377 2,689
194 166
(23) (42)
171 124
212 = (187)
(257) (407)
(45) = (594)
105 212
17 22
(138) (76)
2,487 = 2,377

Net defined
benefit liability

2024 2023
£000 £000
(31) (52)
68 40
(23) (42)
14 (54)
138 249
(257) (407)
(119) (158)
105 212

The Prudential Platinum Pension is part of a muiti-employer scheme; therefore the Company does
not have an unconditional right of return to the schemes assets were the scheme fo be wound up
and as such would not be paid out a share of any remaining assets. There is a restriction on
recognisable surplus of £500,000 (2023: £419,000).

Due to uncertainty over recoverability, the Company has not recognised the £986,000 surplus on
the InHealth Defined Benefit Pension Scheme for the year ended 30 September 2024 (2023:

£810,000).

39

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
21 Employee benefits (continued)

Defined benefit pension schemes (continued)
The major categories of scheme assets are:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Scheme 1 - InHealth Defined Benefit Pension scheme
Other (including cash and cash equivalents) 42 108
Investment funds 3,011 2,713
Restriction of surplus (986) (810}
2,067 2,011
Scheme 2 - Prudential Platinum Pension - InHealth
Debt Instruments 193 174
Investment funds : 727 611
Restriction of surplus (500) (419)
420 366
Total 2,487 2,377

Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages):

InHealth Defined Benefit Pension scheme 2024 2023
Discount rate at 30 September 5.0% 5.4%
Inflation rate (CPI) 2.6% 2.7%
Future pension increases 3.0% 3.2%

The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the balance sheet date
are based on standard actuarial mortality tables and include an allowance for future
improvements in longevity. The assumptions are equivalent to expecting a 60-year old to live for
anumber of years as follows:

InHealth Defined Benefit Pension scheme As at30 September At 30 September
2024 2023
Retiring today Years Years
Males 26.0 26.0
Females 28.8 28.8
Retiring in 20 years
Mates 27.5 27.5
Females 30.3 30.3
The Company expects to pay £28,000 in contributions to this defined benefit plan in 2025.
Prudential Platinum Pension - InHealth 2024 2023
Discount rate at 30 September 5.0% 5.4%
Inflation rate (CPI) 2.6% 2.7%
Future pension increases 3.0% 3.3%

40

inHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
21 Employee benefits (continued)
Defined benefit pension schemes (continued)

The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the balance sheet date
are based on standard actuarial mortality tables and include an allowance for future
improvements in longevity. The assumptions are equivalent to expecting a 65-year old to live for
a number of years as follows:

Prudential Platinum Pension - InHealth As at 30 September At 30 September
2024 : 2023
Retiring today Years Years
Males 20.8 20.9
Females 23.7 23.9
Retiring in 20 years
Males 22.1 22.2
Females 25.2 25.3

The Company expects to pay £16,000 in contributions to the Prudential Platinum Pension scheme
plan in 2025.

Sensitivity analysis
Analysis of the sensitivity to the principal assumptions of the present value of the defined benefit
obligation is set out below:

: 2024 2023
InHealith Defined Benefit Change in assumptions Change in liabilities Change in liabilities
Pension Scheme ,
Discount rate Decrease by 0.5% Increase by 8% Increase by 8%
Rate of inflation Increase by 0.5% Increase by 4% Increase by 4%
Life expectancy Increase by 1 year Increase by 1% Increase by 1%
2024 2023

Prudential Platinum Pension Change in assumptions Change in liabilities Change in liabilities
- InHealth

Discount rate Decrease by 0.1% Increase by 2% Increase by 3%
Rate of inflation Increase by 0.1% Increase by 2% Increase by 2%
Life expectancy Increase by | year Increase by 3% Increase by 3%

The sensitivities shown above are approximate and each sensitivity considers one change in
isolation. The sensitivity of the schemes obligations to significant actuarial assumptions has been
estimated, based on the average age within the pension schemes and the normal retirement age
of members and the duration of the liabilities of the schemes, which as at 30 September 2024 is
approximately 16 years (InHealth Defined Benefit Scheme) and 26 years (Prudential Platinum
Pension — inHealth Limited).

The plans typically expose the Company to actuarial risks such as investment risk, interest rate risk
and mortality risk. The discount rate used to calculate the defined benefit pension obligation
reflects the yield available on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to
the liabilities at the date of the valuation. A decrease in corporate bond yields, a rise in inflation
or an increase in life expectancy would result in an increase to schemes’ liabilities, which means
movements in the schemes’ assets may well not correspond to changes in the value of the
liabilities over time leading to volatility in the results from year to year.

\f pensions are not bought out and members live longer than expected, the benefits will be
payable for longer than allowed for in the calculation of the liabilities leading to an experience
loss on the plans' liabilities.

4]

InHealth Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

22 Deterred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities
2024 2023
£000 £000
Total carrying amount at 30 September (5,905) (3,625)
Deferred tax assets and (liabilities) are attripnutable to the following:
Pension and
post-
retirement Tax losses and Tangible
benefits Provisions credits fixed assets Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 October 2022 16 281 - (2,289) (1,992)
(Charged)/credited to the 7
profit and loss account (19) (59) (1,594) (1,672)
Credited to other 39 . . . 39
comprehensive income
At 30 September 2023 36 222 - (3,883) (3,625)
(Charged) /credited to the
profit and loss account (11) 1,342 2,045 (5,711) (2,335)
Credited to other 55 . . . 55
comprehensive income
At 30 September 2024 80 1,564 2,045 (9,594) (5,905)

Deferred tax assets of £3,689,000 (2023: £258,000) are only recognised up to the extent of
corresponding deferred tax fiabilities against which the deferred tax assets can be offset on

unwinding. The Company has unrecognised capital losses of £914,000 (2023: nil).

The deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the table above have no expiry.

23 Other provisions

Dismantlement _Dilapidation Onerous

provision Provision Provision Total

£000 £000 £000 £000

At 1 October 2023 728 3,043 975 4,746
Provisions made during the year 2,512 76 - 2,588
Utilised during the year - oo (78) (78)
Unwinding of discounted amount 60 - - 60
At 30 September 2024 3,300 3,119 897 7,316

The dismantlement provision relates to the expected cost of restoring the leasehold properties
based on estimates of the likely cash out flow at the end of the lease, discounted using an
appropriate discount rate. This provision will be utilised at lease exit of between 3 and 14 years.

42

inHeaith Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 30 September 2024

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

23 Other provisions (continued)

A provision has been created for loss-making contracts where no potential contractual or
operational improvements are possible. The provision will be utilised over the remaining contract
terms of between 6 months and 2 years.

The dilapidation provision relates to the estimate of exit costs at the end of the lease term on
leasehold properties entered into without significant asset removal. The provision is being
increased until the end of the lease term of between 1 and 20 years, at which point it will be
Utilised. :

These provisions hold inherent uncertainty, but the estimates and judgements made do not have
a significant impact on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.

24 Called up share capital

2024 2023
£000 £000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
1,072,595 Ordinary £1 shares (2023: 1,072,595 shares) 1,073 1,073
25 Other reserves
£000

At 1 October 2023 and 30 September 2024 10,659

Other reserves relate to a capital contribution reserve comprised of the following:

-  £1,841,000 (2023: £1,841,000) created to reflect the benefit of intercompany interest-free
loans since transition to FRS 101. Under fair value accounting of the long term loans the
below market element of the agreement should be treated as a capital contribution.
Market interest rates have been applied since 2019.

- £1,610,000 (2023: £1,610,000) of goodwill that was reclassified from the parent company to
correct the accounting treatment from the hive down of companies in 2008, creating a
capital contribution.

-  £7,208,000 (2023: £7,208,000) relating to the realisation of a long-term growth share plan in
2021. Certain members of Group management had been invited to purchase shares in’
InHealth Group Limited. The Company is the employer of the plan members. The
settlement of the plan was recorded as a change in equity through retained earnings and
recognised as a capital contribution from the parent company.

26 Controlling party

The ultimate parent Company and controlling party is The Damask Trust, the Trustees of which are
|H Bradbury and The Embleton Trust Corporation Limited.

The largest group in which the results of the Company are consolidated is that headed by InHealth
UK Holdings Limited, incorporated in England and Wales. The smallest group in which they are
consolidated is that headed by InHealth Group Limited incorporated in England and Wales. The
consolidated financial statements of these groups are available to the public and may be
obtained from Beechwood Hall, Kingsmead Road, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, HP11 1JL.

43

