Registered number: 01335229

IOEX LTD

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INFORMATION FOR FILING WITH THE REGISTRAR

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024

wi Mt |

svos2025 #112
COMPANIES HOUSE

SATURDAY

1OEX LTD
REGISTERED NUMBER: 01335229

BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024

2024 2023
Note £ £
Current assets
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 5 236,740 107,547
Current asset investments 6 460,252 434,726
Bank and cash balances 729,082 2,484,064
1,426,074 3,026,337
Creditors: amounts falling due within one :
year 7 (991,863) — (2,698,733)
Net current assets 434,211 327,604
Total assets less current liabitities 434,211 327,604
Net assets 434,211 327,604
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 100 100
Profit and loss account 434,111 327,504
434,211 327,604

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the provisions applicable to companies subject
to the small companies regime and in accordance with the provisions of FRS 102 Section 1A - small entities.

The financial statements have been delivered in accordance with the provisions applicable to companies subject
to the small companies regime.

The Company has opted not to file the statement of comprehensive income in accordance with provisions
applicable to companies subject to the small companies’ regime.

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the board and were signed on its behalf by:

T Scuoler
Director

Date: 29 May 2025

The notes on pages 2 to 7 form part of these financial statements.

Page 1

lOEX LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024

1. General information

|OEX Ltd is a Company limited by shares, incorporated in England and Wales. The Company Registered
Number is 01335229. The Company's registered office and principal place of business is Export House,
Minerva Business Park, Lynch Wood, Peterborough, Cambridgeshire, PE2 6FT.

The principal activity of the Company continued to be the undertaking of trading activities on behalf of its
charitable company parent the Chartered Institute of Export and International Trade.

N

Accounting policies
2.1 Basis of preparation of financial statements

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention unless otherwise
specified within these accounting policies and in accordance with Section 1A of Financial Reporting
Standard 102, the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and the Republic of Ireland and
the Companies Act 2006. : , .

The following principal accounting policies have been applied:
2.2. Going concern
The Director has assessed the going concern status of the Company.

The Director consider that the Company has sufficient liquid resources and shareholder support to
enable the Company to cover its costs and pay its liabilities as they fall due for a period of at least 12
months from the date of approval of the financial statements.

Consequently, the Director has concluded that there are no material uncertainties that may cast
significant doubt about the Company's ability to continue as a going concern for the next 12 months
from the date of approval of these financial statements. Accordingly, the going concern basis has
been adopted in preparing the financial statements.

2.3 Turnover

Turnover is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the
Company and the revenue can be reliably measured. Turnover is measured as the fair value of the
consideration received or receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, value added tax and other sales
taxes. The following criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised:

Rendering of services
Turnover from a contract to provide services is recognised in the period in which the services are

provided in accordance with the stage of completion of the contract when all of the following
conditions are satisfied:

. the amount of revenue can be measured reliably;

. itis probable that the Company will receive the consideration due under the contract;

. the stage of completion of the contract at the end of the reporting period can be measured
reliably; and

. the costs incurred and the costs to complete the contract can be measured reliably.

Income from training courses is deferred when received and released to the profit and loss when the
course is delivered.

Page 2

IOEX LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.4 Foreign currency translation
Functional and presentation currency
The Company's functional and presentational currency is GBP.
Transactions and balances

Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the Spot exchange
rates at the dates of the transactions.

At each period end foreign currency monetary items are translated using the closing rate. Non-
monetary items measured at historical cost are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the
transaction and non-monetary items measured at fair value are measured using the exchange rate
when fair value was determined.

Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of transactions and from the
translation at period-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are recognised in profit or loss except when deferred in other comprehensive income as
qualifying cash flow hedges.

2.5 Interest Income
Interest income is recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
2.6 Distribution of profits

The Company has a policy of paying gift aid of an amount up to the taxable profits each year to the
Chartered Institute of Export and International Trade, its ultimate parent undertaking. The Company
will treat this donation as a distribution of reserves in the financial year in which it is made. Any
donation made in this manner is capped to the level of distributable reserves available. Taxable
profits amounting to £106,607 will be distributed as gift aid to the parent charity within a nine month
period after the end of the accounting date.

2.7 Taxation

Tax is recognised in profit or loss except that a charge attributable to an item of income and expense
recognised as other comprehensive income or to an item recognised directly in equity is also
recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax rates and laws that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date in the countries where the Company
operates and generates income.

2.8 Debtors
Short-term debtors are measured at transaction price, less any impairment. Loans receivable are

measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are measured subsequently at amortised
cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.

Page 3

1OEX LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024

N

2.9

Accounting policies (continued)

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash is represented by cash in hand and deposits with financial institutions repayable without penalty
on notice of not more than 24 hours. Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments that mature in no
more than three months from the date of acquisition and that are readily convertible to known
amounts of cash with insignificant risk of change in value.

2.10 Current asset investments

2.11

Current asset investments are measured at cost less accumulated impairment.
Creditors
Short-term creditors are measured at the transaction price. Other financial liabilities, including bank -

loans, are measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are measured subsequently at
amortised cost using the effective interest method.

2.12 Financial instruments

The Company has elected to apply the provisions of Section 11 “Basic Financial Instruments” of FRS
102 to all of its financial instruments.

Financial instruments are recognised in the Company's Balance Sheet when the Company becomes
party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset, with the net amounts presented in the financial statements,
when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to
settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

Basic financial assets

Basic financial assets, which include trade and other receivables, cash and bank balances, are
initially measured at their transaction price including transaction costs and are subsequently carried
at their amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any provision for impairment, unless
the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the transaction is measured at the
present value of the future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest.

Discounting is omitted where the effect of discounting is immaterial. The Company's cash and cash
equivalents, trade and most other receivables due with the operating cycle fall into this category of
financial instruments.

Impairment of financial assets

Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date.

Financial assets are impaired when events, subsequent to their initial recognition, indicate the
estimated future cash flows derived from the financial asset(s) have been adversely impacted. The

impairment loss will be the difference between the current carrying amount and the present value of
the future cash flows at the asset(s) original effective interest rate.

Page 4

lOEX LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.12 Financial instruments (continued)

bd

If there is a favourable change in relation to the events surrounding the impairment loss then the
impairment can be reviewed for possible reversal. The reversal will not cause the current carrying
amount to exceed the original carrying amount had the impairment not been recognised. The
impairment reversal is recognised in the profit or loss.

Financial liabilities

Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual
arrangements entered into. An equity instruments any contract that evidences a residual interest in
the assets of the Company after the deduction of all its liabilities.

Basic financial liabilities, which include trade and -other payables, bank loans and other loans are
initially measured at their transaction price after transaction costs. When this constitutes a financing
transaction, whereby the debt instrument is measured at the present value of the future receipts
discounted at a market rate of interest. Discounting is omitted where the effect of discounting is
immaterial.

Debt instruments are subsequently carried at their amortised cost using the effective interest rate
method.

Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods and services that have been acquired in the ordinary
course of business from suppliers. Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if the payment is
due within one year. If not, they represent non-current liabilities. Trade payables are initially
recognised at their transaction price and subsequently are measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest method. Discounting is omitted where the effect of discounting is immaterial.

Derecognition of financial assets

Financial assets are derecognised when their contractual right to future cash flow expire, or are
settled, or when the Company transfers the asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership to another party. If significant risks and rewards of ownership are retained after the
transfer to another party, then the Company will continue to recognise the value of the portion of the
risks and rewards retained.

Derecognition of financial liabilities

Financial liabilities are derecognised when the Company's contractual obligations expire or are
discharged or cancelled.

Turnover

During the prior year, the company delivered an ‘Accelerator Programme — Introduction to Export’. The
event was attended by 69 member participants and was provided for free of charge via a voucher
redemption scheme. Had a normal commercial fee been charged for this programme, this would have
resulted in additional income generated of £220,000. There were no transactions for 2024.

Page 5

IOEX LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024

>

s

»

N

Employees

Wages and salaries are recharged to the Company by the parent undertaking the Chartered Institute of
Export and International Trade relating to persons employed by the parent undertaking. These employee

numbers are not reflected in the below.

The average monthly number of employees, including directors, during the year was 1 (2023 - 2).

Debtors

Trade debtors
Prepayments and accrued income

Current asset investments

Fixed term deposits

Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year

Trade creditors

Amounts owed to group undertakings
Corporation tax

Other taxation and social security
Accruals and deferred income

Amounts owed to group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.

Page 6

2024
£

191,897
44,843

236,740

2024
£

460,252

2024

£
60,197
630,163
74,409
20,518
206,576

991,863

2023
£

84,992
22,555

407,547

2023

434,726

2023

£

1,275
2,462,788
24,800
209,870

2,698,733

IOEX LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2024

2

Related party transactions

The Company has taken advantage of the exemption under section 33 of FRS 102 from disclosing
transactions with The Chartered Institute of Export and International Trade on the grounds that it is a
wholly owned subsidiary, other than the charitable donation by the Company to the parent entity in the
prior year of £584,734.

Controlling party

The Company's immediate and ultimate parent undertaking is the Chartered Institute of Export and
International Trade, a royal charter company incorporated in England and Wales by virtue of that entity
owning 100% of its share capital.

The only Group into which the results of the Company are consolidated is that headed by the Chartered
Institute of Export and International Trade.

The registered office of the Chartered Institute of Export and International Trade is Export House, Minerva
Business Park, Lynch Wood, Peterborough, Cambridgeshire, PE2 6FT.

. Auditor's information

The auditor's report on the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2024 was unqualified.

The audit report was signed on 29 May 2025 by Rebecca Hughes BSc (Hons) FCCA (Senior
Statutory Auditor) on behalf of MHA.

Page 7

