Jet2.com Limited
Report & Accounts
For the year ended 31 March 2024

f HOMIE

P)

Jet2.com Limited

CONTENTS

DIRECTORS AND OTHER INFORMATION

STRATEGIC REPORT ........cccccsssssesessssssesssesenesenessenenssesessnesssscsuseaescassenessseseeseneassasssenenensenensneaeseeenseessessaneenenerereces 3

ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS .........sscssecesssscsrcsestcncsreesereseeseesesscsesaeusssegersaeseessseesseesseeacassaeseneesaess 13

DIRECTORS’ REPORT...

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JET2.COM LIMITED ........cceseseseeseteetetseeeeneees 22
CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT........cscccssesssessesessessessssseecsesessteneeseensesesesesesenesseessaeseseeenseneeseenentenes 27
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ...........csscescsscseetsserenseerseeesencerensneceneaeerenes 28
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION .........cccccscsssssessesecestcesenseresnsesesseeseneneneneeteneneeenneees 29
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS...........cccccscssesesetecsseesessseseseneseeensnsssneeseseneneneranseaeneaenenenteesenaes 30
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY... .cccseseesscesssensseseseseeerseansessseseseneeesessseseneeeseesenenes 31

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET.........ccssssecsssssesssssssenscsseesssesenensuaseesesesesenesessueseesaesssesenesenseesseseessenseeees 69
PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY .......-.seesecsstessenseeessesneneneasseatsesneneneatesenerenencarerans 70
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ........ccscsessesesesseseecenserseesesesenereesssessaeeenenssaees 71
GLOSSARY OF TERMS. ........cscsscsssseesesceenressscnscersaanessssessenssensnsseeressaseesaasenseseetentenessseseesacaeesecsssenessenseenstenes 77

Jet2.com Limited

DIRECTORS AND OTHER INFORMATION

Directors

Philip Meeson
Steve Heapy
Gary Brown
Philip Ward
Sean Ablett
lan Brooks
Miriam D'Souli
lan Day
Paul Dobson
“lan Doubtfire
Gavin Forth
Christopher Hubbard
Gary Isaacs
Adam Mulroy

Secretary and registered office

lan Day

Low Fare Finder House
_ Leeds Bradford Airport

Leeds

LS19 7TU

Auditor

KPMG LLP

1 Sovereign Square
Sovereign Street
Leeds

LS14DA

Bankers

Barclays Bank plc
Barclays House

5 St Ann’s Street
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE1 3DX

Lloyds Bank plc

10 Gresham Street
London

EC2V 7AE

Solicitors

Herbert Smith Freehills LLP
Exchange House

Primrose Street

London

EC2A 2EG

Executive Chairman Resigned on 5 September 2023
Chief Executive Officer

Chief Financial Officer

Managing Director

Customer Contact & Jet2holidays Operations Director
Procurement & Property Director

Human Resources Director

Group Legal Director

Director - Flight Operations

Sustainability and Business Development Director
Marketing & Digital Director

Director of Engineering & Maintenance

Chief Information Officer

Commercial and Revenue Director _

HSBC Bank plc
33 Park Row
Leeds

LS1 1LD

National Westminster Bank plc
3"? Floor 2 Whitehall Quay

Leeds

LS14HR

Bird & Bird LLP Norton Rose Fulbright LLP
12 New Fetter Lane 3 More London Riverside
London London

EC4A UP SE1 2AQ

Jet2.com Limited

STRATEGIC REPORT

The Business

Jet2.com Limited, our airline, is the parent of Jet2holidays Limited; together these two companies form the
central pillar of Jet2 pic's Leisure Travel business and are effectively managed as a single operating segment.

The Jet2 plc Group comprises of Jet2.com Limited, Jet2holidays Limited, three other UK-registered and two
overseas-registered actively trading companies as detailed on page 168 of the Jet2 pic Annual Report & Accounts
2024; collectively, these represent the Group’s Leisure Travel business.

The Jet2 pic Group specialises in the provision of ATOL-protected package holidays by Jet2holidays Limited to
leisure destinations in the Mediterranean, Canary Islands and to European Leisure Cities and scheduled holiday
flights by its airline, Jet2.com Limited. The Jet2.com Group (the Group) operates aircraft owned by Jet2 pic and
Dart Leasing & Finance Limited (a subsidiary of Jet2 pic) and are leased to Jet2.com Limited and supplemented
where appropriate by aircraft from third party lessors. These leases have varying durations, thus affording the
Group flexibility to adapt its aircraft fleet to meet customer demand.

Jet2 pic seeks to retain a simple corporate structure, with a well-capitalised Balance Sheet and is fully committed
to the continued growth and development of its Leisure Travel business. :

Results for.the financial year

We are very pleased to have been able to report another year of strong financial results as our Leisure Travel
business delivered an improvement in Revenue of 24% to £6,260.5m (2023: £5,033.9m) and an increase in
Profit before taxation of 31% to £462.2m (2023: £351.8m).

These results underlined the popularity, resilience and flexibility of our holiday products and also our leading
brand position, as despite the continuing inflationary pressures, millions of UK customers still chose to prioritise
their disposable income for a rejuvenating and relaxing Jet2 holiday!

Jet2 plc commits considerable investment in order to be well prepared for its summer operations and Summer
2023 was no different, as it welcomed over 2,500 new Colleagues bringing the total number to over 15,000 at
peak summer flying activity.

Although the widespread aviation sector disruption experienced in Summer 2022 was not repeated, as always,
we anticipated that there would be unpredictable challenges posed by the external operating environment. As
a Customer First organisation, this means investing to embed sufficient resilience into our operations, including
but not limited to, standby aircraft and crews, generous amounts of in-resort customer helpers, plus responsive
‘go teams’ in the event of unforeseen developments.

This proactive approach enabled us to effectively navigate Summer 2023 events such as Rhodes (wildfires) and
Skiathos (flooding), the technological systems failure at NATS, together with the record number of air traffic
control strikes across Europe and mitigate the impact on our Customers.

Jet2.com Limited

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Results for the financial year (continued)
Customer Demand & Revenue

Our Leisure Travel business benefitted from consistent demand for Real package holidays from Jet2holidays®
and scheduled holiday flights from Jet2.com throughout Summer 2023, although the latter months saw a more
pronounced late booking profile. In addition, we were pleased with the progress made in Winter 2023/24 as
flown passengers increased 17.8% to 3.9m.

Having increased overall seat capacity for the year by 10% to 19.73m (2023: 17.93m), Jet2.com’s average load
factors remained healthy at 89.8% (2023: 90.5%).

The proportion of customers choosing our higher margin per passenger end-to-end package holiday product
increased 3.4ppts to 68.3% (2023: 64.9%), underlining the appreciation of our industry-leading levels of
Customer First care together with the security that an ATOL licensed package holiday provides. However, our
flight-only product remains very important, offering considerable flexibility as booking trends evolve and we
were pleased that flight-only passengers remained relatively steady at 5.61m (2023: 5.69m).

With little change in holiday booking trends and customer demand steady although later, pricing for both
products was robust which helped to cover the many inflationary increases in our cost base. Flight-only net
ticket yield per passenger sector increased 14% to £114.23 (2023: £100.28) and the average price of a
Jet2holidays package holiday increased by 11% to £830 (2023: £750)*. :

Non-Ticket revenue per passenger sector increased by 1% to £26.34 (2023: £25.99), driven by improved inflight
retail spend from better product mix and stock availability as compared to the supply issues suffered during
Summer 2022. This was partially offset by lower flight-only hold baggage income due to the increased package
holiday mix (where hold bags are included in the holiday price).

As a result, overall Group Revenue increased by 24% to £6,260.5m (2023: £5,033.9m), equating to an increase
of 14% in revenue per flown passenger to £353 (2023: £310).

* The prior year average price of a package holiday has been restated and is now net of government taxes. Further
information can be found in Note 5.

Operating Expenses

Hotel accommodation costs increased 25% to £2,465.0m (2023: £1,973.6m) primarily due to the growth in
package holiday customers. However, supply-led inflation, in particular on wages, food and energy costs which
was partially offset by the impact of slightly shorter duration holidays (averaging 7.6 days versus 7.8 days last
year) accounted for approximately 9% of the increase.

Despite our well established, proven hedging policy remaining consistent, fuel and carbon costs combined
increased by 34% to £803.7m (2023: £598.1m). This rise was materially above the growth in flying activity, as
geo-political factors meant pricing in both commodity markets remained stubbornly high, with the average cost
of fuel and carbon allowances 24% and 19% higher respectively than the prior year. In addition, ffom 1 January
2024, the EU Emissions Trading Scheme exemption for return flights from the Canary Islands to the UK was
removed, which added a further 1% to the overall cost.

Jet2.com Limited

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Results for the financial year (continued)

Landing, navigation and third-party handling increased 18% to £474.9m (2023: £403.4m), outstripping flying
activity growth due to average rate increases of approximately 8% across UK and European bases, including
increased charges for new security systems, passengers with reduced mobility services and also Eurocontrol
flying fees.

Travel. agents commission of £166.9m (2023: £142.0m) largely moved in line with the increased volume of
package holiday customers and the increase in average package holiday price.

Maintenance costs rose by 32% to £251.5m (2023: £190.8m) as we operated eleven additional aircraft in
Summer 2023, of which eight were leased from third parties and resulted in a total leased aircraft fleet, which
have a higher maintenance rate per flying hour than owned aircraft, of thirty. The balance was a function of
higher costs associated with the maintenance of Jet2.com’s older aircraft which are nearing retirement, plus the
effect of a 6% strengthening of USD in the year.

Other direct operating costs increased 15% to £218.7m (2023: £190.1m), as in-resort agents fees and ATOL costs
increased primarily as a result of package holiday volume growth, but also due to supplier inflationary cost
increases, in particular on fuel for the provision of in-resort transfers to and from hotels. These increases were
offset by a significant reduction in EU261 compensation on the prior year, as the wider aviation infrastructure
returned to stable operations.

Staff costs of £724.2m (2023: £574.7m) increased as a result of a 9% pay award supporting the retention of

happy and motivated colleagues amidst a challenging inflationary environment. In addition, we implemented

our Lifestyle 2023 initiative for flight crew, an investment of approximately £15m, aimed at improving roster

stability and supporting a more balanced lifestyle — pleasingly, feedback from our operational colleagues has

been positive. Finally, we incurred the full year effect of new starters from the prior year and also invested in

colleague recruitment and training to be operationally resilient for the Summer 2024 season where seat capacity
, growth is over 12%.

Brand and direct marketing investment was 26% higher than the previous year at £264.2m (2023: £210.2m).
Booked passengers increased 13%, higher than flown passenger growth, as we pulled forward Summer 2024
customer bookings to optimise load factor, with the remainder being partly inflation and partly mix driven.

Other operating expenses increased 45% to £174.6m (2023: £120.2m), in particular due to increased energy
costs across our property infrastructure; professional costs associated with strategic IT projects; upgrades of
older IT equipment, together with the indirect impact of increased headcount.

_ Total operating expenses increased by 26% to £5,903.4m (2023: £4,692.2m), representing an increase of 15% in
operating cost per flown passenger to £333 (2023: £289).

Operating Profit

Overall Group operating profit increased 5% to £357.1m (2023: £341.7m), which included approximately £14.0m
of lost profitability from the broader disruption caused by the NATS failure, Rhodes wildfires and flooding in
Skiathos as was widely reported.

Jet2.com Limited

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Results for the financial year (continued)

Net Financing Income

Net financing income (excluding Net FX revaluation gains) increased by £68.8m to £95.3m (2023: £26.5m),
primarily due to £124.7m (2023: £39.1m) of finance income driven by higher levels of cash deposits coupled
with increases to bank interest rates made over the course of the financial year.

In addition, a net FX revaluation gain of £9.2m (2023: £17.0m loss) resulted from the year end revaluation of
foreign currency denominated monetary balances.

Statutory Profit for the Year

Consolidated statutory profit before taxation increased by 31% to £462.2m (2023: £351.8m).

Dividend

No dividend has been paid during the year (2023: nil).
Our Strategy

To be the UK’s Leading and Best Leisure Travel business

A holiday for most UK consumers is an experience that is eagerly anticipated and, if provided in the right way,
fondly remembered. Consequently, we are passionate about end-to-end customer service and our investment
decisions focus primarily on how we can enrich our Customers’ holiday experiences, whether embarking on a
Real Package Holiday from Jet2holidays®, or simply enjoying a leisure flight with Jet2.com.

We know how much our Customers value their holidays as a stress-free and refreshing break — a time to be
looked after and to unwind with family and friends, creating countless unforgettable positive memories.
Consequently, our unwavering commitment to a Customer First approach focuses on delivering award-winning
levels of service, where everybody is treated as a VIP. It is this philosophy which has driven Jet2holidays to be
the UK’s largest package holiday provider and Jet2.com to be the UK’s 3rd largest airline by number of
passengers flown; underpins our high levels of repeat bookings and high Net Promoter scores; and has seen
both Jet2.com and Jet2holidays recently awarded the coveted Which? Travel Brand of the Year for the third
consecutive year.

Our long-term ambition remains as relevant today as it has always been: To be the UK’s Leading and Best Leisure
Travel business, which demands a clear strategic vision and an unfaltering customer focus, accompanied by
consistent, and often material, investment.

Our Commitment to Sustainability

Economically, socially and culturally, travel is a force for good and we are extremely proud of our positive effect
in the UK and in communities around the world. However, it is also essential to recognise and act upon the
environmental impact associated with travel.

Our updated Sustainability Strategy published in May 2024 details how we are taking bold, tangible actions on
the journey to our Jet2 Net Zero 2050 commitment. It also reinforces our determination to embed sustainability
throughout our business (In the Air; On the Ground; and In Resort) and ensure that Jet2 pic remains at the
forefront of change in our industry.

Jet2.com Limited

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Our Commitment to Sustainability (continued)

We endeavour to operate in the most efficient manner possible, focusing on minimising both emissions and
carbon intensity (grammes of CO2 emissions per revenue passenger kilometre (gCO2/RPK)). It is pleasing to
report that the Jet2 pic Group has continued to reduce its fuel burn gCO2/RPK from 65.9g in 2023 to 65.7g in the
year ended 31 March 2024, representing positive progress towards our 2035 carbon intensity reduction.

Pleasingly, Jet2.com was also recognised with a platinum rating for airline sustainability in the Centre for
Aviation (CAPA) 2023 sustainability benchmark report. This accolade saw us included in the top 10 airlines
globally for sustainability performance and ranked 4th out of 100 airlines for gCO2/RPK.

The Jet2 pic Group has made further progress on its goal to embed the use of Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF)
into its operations. In 2024, Jet2.com will use a 1% blend of SAF at London Stansted, Bristol and Malaga airports,
purchasing approximately 1,200 tonnes almost a year ahead of the UK and EU governments’ SAF mandates
which are due to be introduced from January 2025. We maintain our belief that SAF remains one of the most
effective solutions for reducing carbon emissions and is key to achieving net-zero status by 2050.

The Jet2 pic Group took delivery of a further six new Airbus A321neo aircraft during the year bringing the total
to seven, with all being powered by CFM Leap engines. In addition, the Jet2 pie Group exercised its remaining
purchase rights with Airbus, and now has firm orders in place for an additional 139 A321neo aircraft, thereby
enabling Jet2.com and Jet2holidays to grow more sustainably over the next ten years. These aircraft are already
demonstrating their efficiency through a 20% per seat reduction in fuel and carbon emissions, plus a 50%
reduction in noise footprint compared to the previous generation of narrow-body aircraft. In addition, we have
invested in aerodynamic split scimitar winglets for our Boeing 737-800NG aircraft which we anticipate will
reduce average fuel burn by up to 1.8%. .

Our actions on the ground mean over 50% of our Jet2.com-owned Ground Support Equipment is now electrified,
whilst in the air we have achieved an 83% reduction in single-use plastics on our aircraft as compared to 2019.

Furthermore, in-resort Jet2holidays has implemented a Global Sustainable Tourism Council accredited hotel
sustainability labelling scheme with over 950 hotel partners engaged thus far, giving our Customers the ability
to make more sustainable accommodation choices.

In order for the industry to achieve Net Zero, we need a number of parties to play their part, including aircraft
and engine manufacturers, fuel producers and, of course, the UK Government.

Consequently, our specific asks from the UK Government are to:

© Upscale the UK Government's investment in SAF;

e Ring-fence annual UK Emissions Trading Scheme revenues for decarbonisation projects;

© Work multilaterally with governments across Europe to implement Air Traffic Management reforms; and
© Support airport operators and remove obstacles around upgrades to electrical infrastructure.

More detailed information on the Group’s Sustainability Strategy can be found = at
www.jet2pic.com/sustainability.

Jet2.com Limited

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Operational Highlights
Retail Operations Centre

In October 2023, we were delighted to officially open our Retail Operations Centre (ROC), the first of its kind in
the UK aviation industry, which will set new standards for Customer First service, efficiency and security. This
150,000 square foot facility, located in Middlewich, Cheshire, acts as a centre to stock, manage and distribute
millions of in-flight retail products for customers to enjoy on their well-deserved leisure flights. The products
being managed include drinks and ambient food that can either be pre-ordered or which feature in our in-flight
menu, as well as products that can be bought from our onboard shop, such as fragrances, beauty products, gifts
and duty-free. ,

The ROC facility employs cutting-edge x-ray scanners and security measures and given the nature of the
Operation, it has undergone thorough examination to ensure it complies with relevant regulations and has been
approved by the UK Civil Aviation Authority.

Since becoming fully operational in January 2024, Jet2.com’s on-board stock availability has improved materially
on the levels achieved in previous years, averaging over 98%, which in turn has improved customer satisfaction.
It is also pleasing that in a relatively short timeframe we have already realised revenue benefits through
increased spend per head. The Group has now commenced the second phase of this initiative and in time
expects to further optimise its inflight revenue potential, combining leading edge automation with customer
data intelligence to create an improved, bespoke onboard retail experience.

New Engineering Hangar

With Jet2 plc’s long-term aircraft delivery stream in mind, Jet2.com acquired additional premises at Manchester
Airport to build a second aircraft maintenance facility which is expected to be operational from late 2025.

This property, which is located next to our existing facility, gives us the opportunity to further build our base
maintenance capability and support our growing aircraft fleet over the coming decade.

New UK Bases

Recognising the significant demand from both consumers and independent travel agents across Liverpool,
Merseyside and the wider region, we were pleased to commence flying from Liverpool John Lennon Airport on
28 March 2024 with over 550,000 summer seats on sale. Our careful preparation ensured a seamless launch, so
that from day one we were able to provide customers with the same award-winning service which has delighted
millions of others across the UK for so many years!

In addition, in late March 2024, we announced the launch of our award-winning flights and holidays from
Bournemouth Airport, our 12th UK base, providing greater geographical reach across the South of England and
reflecting our long-term strategy to grow our successful business. Flights will commence from February 2025 to
many of our most popular destinations across the sun spots of the Mediterranean and Canary Islands.

New Destinations

As always, we listen carefully to what our Customers tell us. Consequently, we added Symi and Athens Coast to
our Summer 2024 programme, the latter giving customers access to eight popular resorts across the region, plus
Portugal’s second biggest city, Porto, steeped in history and combining vibrant city life with beautiful coastal
beaches.

Jet2.com Limited

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Operational Highlights (continued)

We were also excited to announce that from Winter 2024/25 we have added Morocco to our destinations,
offering year-round sun-drenched holidays, city breaks and flights to Marrakech and Agadir, plus the launch of
a new Christmas market destination — Gdansk.

Finally, for Summer 2025 we recently unveiled Pula on the Istrian Coast in Croatia, offering holidaymakers
everything from architectural gems and historic monuments through to Blue Flag beaches, plus Costa de la Luz,
a stunning, authentic and untouched slice of Spain. Each of these new destinations provide our Customers with
an even greater choice of memory-making holiday opportunities.

Our Stakeholders

Our Customers

For many families, booking a holiday is the most important purchase of the year and a smooth customer journey
from start to finish is paramount. We know that each customer's purchasing habits are unique and consequently
we continue to offer four distinct booking channels through our website, mobile app, contact centre and
independent travel agents.

Human interaction remains important for many customers when making such an important purchase, to ensure
their individual needs are catered for. Currently 9% of our Package Holiday customers book through our contact
centre, aided by friendly and informative homeworking sales colleagues who have an intimate knowledge of our
products. Once a booking has been made, our pre-travel services team takes over, answering queries and
ensuring that customers are updated with post booking information, or provided with any further pre-travel
assistance as required.

Sales through travel agents remains an important distribution channel for the business, and our package holidays
can be booked through all major independent travel agent chains, homeworker companies and independent
agents.

Technology and how customers interact with it is perpetually evolving and our websites and mobile app are
continuously developed and refined to ensure that the search and booking experience is as effortless and
efficient as possible.

We have committed considerable resources to the growth of our digital channels in order to provide customers
with a best-in-class Jet2 mobile app experience. This has resulted in a marked increase in the percentage of
package holiday customers now booking via the app of 21ppts since 2020 to 24%. We also took the opportunity
to relaunch our MyJet2 account, which already has over 4.0m members. Having an account enables a seamless
one-click access for customers to proactively manage their bookings in one place; engagement through
competitions such as ‘Bid for a Break’; and a personalised experience to optimise booking conversion via
exclusive discounts on both flights and package holidays.

As it has grown, our Leisure Travel business has benefitted from its breadth and quality of hotel choices, its
family-focused approach and its Customer First strategy, all of which are constantly refined to ensure our
Customers continue to enjoy memorable and relaxing holiday experiences. The agile nature of our business
model means we can adapt our offering to meet emerging consumer trends such as increased demand for
‘bucket list’ style holidays to natural wonders and unique cultures, which are perfectly suited to our experiential
‘Discover More’ Jet2CityBreaks® and our Jet2holidays product.

Jet2.com Limited

. STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Our Customers (continued)

It is immensely satisfying that the considerable investment made in our industry-leading levels of customer care
continues to be independently recognised through a multitude of awards received for all our brands from
Which? and Feefo, together with our pre-eminent ranking on the UK Customer Satisfaction Index. In addition,
we were rated the best short-haul UK airline for punctuality during 2023, according to analysis of Civil Aviation
Authority (CAA) data by the PA news agency. Our repeat customer booking rate for package holidays of over
60% and net promoter scores in the high 60s for both Jet2.com and Jet2holidays products are further clear
indicators that customers truly appreciate the quality of our product and our award-winning VIP customer
service.

As a result, we remain confident that our laser sharp focus on customer service will continue to distinguish a
holiday with Jet2 as an unparalleled and market leading experience that customers choose time and again.

Our Colleagues

Our guiding principles of People, Service, Profits continue to influence the way we engage and motivate our
Colleagues - we firmly believe this underpins our Customer First ethos.

Whether in the UK or Overseas, the ability of colleagues to continuously demonstrate the Company's ‘Take Me
There’ values (Be Present; Create Memories; Take Responsibility; and Work As One Team), is of paramount
importance. It is this approach which has set us apart and enabled us to be consistently recognised as an industry
leader for outstanding customer service — great and attentive customer service is where we aim to excel.

Throughout the year, our Colleagues worked tirelessly, responding admirably to help navigate the many complex
and unpredictable operational demands posed and the Board is hugely appreciative of their tremendous
support and efforts. It is they who enable Jet2.com and Jet2holidays to fulfil the dreams of so many customers,
taking them on their well-deserved and eagerly anticipated holidays.

We pride ourselves on doing the right thing for our Colleagues and to recognise their invaluable contribution,
we were pleased to award a pay increase of 9% for the year ended 31 March 2024. We firmly believe that happy
and well-paid Colleagues are fundamental to our future success and, with this and the pressures of elevated
inflation levels in mind, we have awarded a further generous increase of 5.5% for the year ending 31 March
2025, representing a compound increase of over 24% since the end of the pandemic.

Having colleagues who are passionate about our business and able to share in its success is a powerful quality.
We were therefore pleased to build on the success of Jet2 plc's first ShareSave scheme, which had a take-up
rate in excess of 60%, through a second offering in September 2023, again at a 20% discount to the prevailing
share price at inception, with a third offering imminent.

Furthermore, we are very pleased to be able to award both our Discretionary Colleague Profit Share Scheme
for non-management Colleagues and our Discretionary Bonus Scheme for management Colleagues following
the successful operational and financial performance of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2024.

We recognise that achieving our future growth ambitions and maintaining our industry-leading levels of
customer care will not be possible without appropriately skilled and experienced managerial colleagues who are
empowered to Take Responsibility for key decisions and to lead, support and inspire their teams. Consequently,
we have recently launched a new performance management process — Maximising Business Performance
through our People - to directly link the contribution of each manager to their bonus reward for the year ending
31 March 2025.

10

Jet2.com Limited

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Our Colleagues (continued)

To further enhance the open channels of communication between our Colleagues and the Jet2 pic Board and
ensure that their views can contribute towards our future success, Angela Luger was appointed our Designated
Non-Executive Director for Workforce Engagement in April 2024.

The success of the Jet2 ple Group, proven through the many customer satisfaction accolades won, being
awarded Best Large Company to work for at the Best Workplaces in Travel awards, plus the long-term financial
performance achieved, demonstrates that our People, Service, Profits guiding principles are bearing tangible
benefits. Consequently, commensurate investment in our Colleagues remains an enduring commitment of the
Board.

Our Suppliers

We maintain constructive relationships with our suppliers through frequent dialogue, coupled with our annual
supplier conference which focuses on how we and our supplier partners can work together effectively to forge
mutually beneficial long-term relationships. These strong partnerships are proving crucial as we enter our peak
Summer 2024 flying operation.

We also acknowledge the importance of timely and full payment to our suppliers, including of course our hotel
partners, to underpin their financial well-being. In accordance with the ‘Duty to report on payment practices and.
performance’ legislation, the average invoice payment period during the year was again commendable, being
22.7 days (2023: 20.2 days) for Jet2.com Limited and 24.6 days (2023: 22.7 days) for Jet2holidays Limited.

Outlook

As at 11 July 2024, Summer 2024 on sale seat capacity is 12.3% higher than Summer 2023 at 17.16m seats.
Booked to date Package Holiday customers are up by 7%, representing 72% of overall flown passengers, with
Flight-Only passengers increasing by 16%.

Passengers are currently booking much closer to departure and therefore, pricing for our flight-only and package
holiday products must remain attractive. Summer 2024 pricing to date for both products is showing a modest
increase, helping to offset in part previously announced input cost increases. As ever, we remain mindful of the
current macroeconomic and geo-political environments and how these may influence future consumer spending
patterns.

However, we continue to believe that the end-to-end package holiday is a resilient and popular product which
remains high on the priority list for our Customers, even during uncertain economic times.

For the long term, our strategy remains consistent - To be the UK’s Leading and Best Leisure Travel business -
with People, Service, Profits serving as our guiding principles. With our differentiated and attractive end-to-end
product, breadth of hotel choice and flexibility of duration, plus-our consistently high quality Customer First
approach, we are confident that customers will continue to travel with us from our Rainy Island to the sun spots
of the Mediterranean, the Canary Islands and to European Leisure Cities.

11

Jet2.com Limited

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Principal risks and uncertainties

This section considers the principal risks and uncertainties which may affect the business’s operations, its
reputation, financial results and strategic objectives. This list is not intended to be exhaustive.

The Group considers its key risks to be those listed below. A further detailed description of each risk, along with
its potential consequences and mitigating actions are as detailed on pages 40 to 49 of the Jet2 pic Annual Report
& Accounts 2024:

e Health, safety and security

e Competition

¢ Climate and sustainability

e¢ Economic conditions

e Input cost volatility, including fuel and carbon costs
e@ IT development and strategy (including failure of critical technology)
¢ Liquidity and capital risk

¢ Government policy and regulatory intervention

© Legal / regulatory non-compliance

e Operationa! disruption

e Data security

¢ Recruitment and retention of talent

Key performance indicators

2024 2023 Change
Seat capacity 19.73m 17.93m 10%
Flown passengers 17.72m 16.22m 9%
Load factor 89.8% 90.5% (0.7ppts)
Flight-only passengers 5.61m 5.69m - (1%)
Package holiday customers ~ 6.08m 5.29m 15%
Package holiday customers % of total flown passengers 68.3% 64.9% 3.4ppts
Flight-only ticket yield per passenger sector (excl. taxes) £114.23 £100.28 14%
Average Package holiday price* £830 £750 11%
Non-ticket revenue per passenger sector £26.34 £25.99 1%
Fuel requirement hedged — next 12 months 81.7% 81.8% (0.1ppts)
Advance sales made as at 31 March £3,720.0m £3,028.2m 23%

* The prior year price of a package holiday has been restated and is now shown net of government taxes. Further information on this
~ can be found in Note 5.

The Strategic Report is approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:

ple

Steve Heapy
Chief Executive Officer

15 August 2024
12.

Jet2.com Limited

ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS
SECTION 172 STATEMENT

The Company has a wide range of stakeholders, all of whom are vital to our success in achieving our goals. Key
decisions must therefore consider and balance the needs of our stakeholder groups in order to best implement
our strategy.

The Directors of Jet2.com Limited ~ and those of all UK companies — must act in accordance with a set of duties
detailed in the Companies Act 2006 which include, in Section 172, a duty to promote the success of the company
for the benefit of its members as a whole. In so doing, the Directors must have regard (amongst other matters)
to the following factors:

(a) the likely consequences of any decision in the long term;

(b) the interests of the company’s employees;

{c) the need to foster the company’s business relationships with customers, suppliers and others;

({d) the impact of the company’s operations on the community and the environment;

(e) the desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business
conduct; and

(f) the need to act fairly as between members of the company.

In this Report & Accounts, we provide examples of how we have thought about the likely consequences of long-
term decisions and how we balance the needs and expectations of a range of stakeholders with those of the
business. The Company regards the key stakeholders relevant to its success to be our Colleagues, Customers,
suppliers, shareholders and communities and the environment. More detail on how the Board has had regard
to the matters set out in Section 172 and has engaged with key stakeholders and developed relationships with
them during the year is set out in the subsequent section.

In making decisions during the year ended 31 March 2024, the Board of Directors believe they have given due
consideration to the factors detailed above. In addition, they consider that both individually and collectively they
have acted in good faith and in a manner likely to promote the Company’s success for the benefit of its members
as a whole.

The Board ensures that its decision-making processes consider the interests of key stakeholders and that there
is sufficient time, information and understanding to properly assess the long-term implications of such decisions.
Appropriate stakeholder engagement is achieved through various means: direct interaction by Board members;
receiving reports from management who engage directly with stakeholders; and addressing specific stakeholder
interests in papers which are presented to the Board.

Supported by the Company Secretary, the Board monitors the adequacy of the training received by all new and
existing Directors on their duties, including those under Section 172. The Board recognises that stakeholder
groups will not remain static and can be affected by changes in strategy, legislation or business requirements.
Consequently, they are regularly reviewed along with engagement mechanisms to ensure they remain
appropriate. ;

13

Jet2.com Limited

ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS (continued)

-The consequences of decisions in the long term

The leisure travel industry is dynamic and fast-moving, and the Board must remain agile in order to respond to
opportunities or emerging issues as they present themselves to ensure that the best interests of all stakeholders
are served. .

The Directors fulfil their duties through a governance framework which delegates day-to-day decision-making
to management of the Jet2.com Group,-reflecting the highly regulated environment in which the Group
operates. The Board is mindful that many decisions will have a long-term impact, and that a number of its
contractual commitments will remain with the Group for many years to come.

The Jet2 pic Group continues to make significant progress towards its Jet2 Net Zero 2050 commitment. Its long-
term commitment to purchase 146 Airbus A321neo aircraft, together with our investment in SAF at London
Stansted, Bristol and Malaga airports a year ahead of the UK and EU SAF mandates, the continued roll out of our
Certified Sustainable Hotels collection and meeting our carbon intensity reduction targets to date, have wide-
ranging effects on our stakeholders and the communities where we operate.

The Jet2 pic Group’s Sustainability Steering Committee ensures that decisions with regard to the Jet2 Net Zero
2050 commitment acknowledge and balance the needs of our stakeholders appropriately. Further detail of our
commitment can be found in Jet2 pic’s Annual Report and Accounts on pages 59 to 68.

High standards of business conduct

The Board recognises the importance of corporate governance, and a description of how the ultimate Parent
Company, Jet2 pic, has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018 can be found in the Corporate

Governance Statement section of the Jet2 pic Annual Report & Accounts 2024 on pages 86 to 94. This level-of
compliance is mirrored in the behaviours of the Jet2.com Group Board, ensuring high standards of conduct at
all levels.

The Board recognises that modern slavery and human trafficking are significant issues that pose a challenge for
businesses worldwide. Consequently, it has a zero-tolerance approach to both and has committed to continually
review its practices to combat them and expects its suppliers and contractors to uphold the same values. The
Board will not conduct business knowingly with anyone engaged in slavery or human trafficking practices or
knowingly permit them to be carried out in any part of its business.

The Modern Slavery Act requires the Company to publish an annual slavery and human trafficking statement.
The latest statement can be found on the Jet2.com website at www.jet2.com/modern-slavery-act/.

The Jet2.com Group manages its tax affairs responsibly and seeks to build constructive relationships with
relevant tax authorities. During the year, the Board reviewed and approved the Group’s Tax Policy, with the
Group Chief Financial Officer providing regular updates to the Board on tax matters generally. In addition, HM
Revenue & Customs conducted their periodic business risk review of the tax regimes under which the Group
operates, with the outcome being reconfirmation of the Group’s low-risk tax status.

Jet2 plc's Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the minimum standards, expectations and behaviours that we
require from all our Suppliers, including by their own colleagues and supply chains.

14

Jet2.com Limited

ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS (continued)

High standards of business conduct (continued)

The Board expects all of its colleagues to observe the high standards contained within the Group’s policies in
relation to bribery and corruption, data protection, equality, diversity and inclusion, IT security, fraud and
whistleblowing, each of which is reinforced through appropriate training.

Acting fairly between members of the Group

The Board recognises its legal and regulatory duties and does not take decisions or actions, such as selectively
disclosing confidential or inside information, that would provide any shareholder with an unfair advantage.

OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Colleagues

Without our much-valued Colleagues, we would not be able to provide our award-winning Customer First
service. We aim to ensure that all Colleagues are proud to represent our ‘Take Me There’ values and feel
supported at work. ,

We believe that the wellbeing and motivation of our Colleagues is pivotal to achieving our award-winning
Customer First service and thus sustainable long-term profitability.

Our People, Service, Profits guiding principles are a driving force for our engagement with Colleagues and two-
way communication between colleagues from all areas of the business and our leadership team is fully
encouraged. We use two dedicated inboxes namely, Set2Cares’ and ‘ShareWithSteve’, which allow colleagues
at any level of the organisation to write directly to the CEO of Jet2 pic regarding any matter or concern they may
have, enabling issues raised to be added to the Board agenda for discussion as appropriate. , ;

Our five Information and Consultation Agreement and Protocol (ICAP) working groups meet 4 times a year.
Colleague Representatives continue to show positive engagement and attendance and are encouraged to share
feedback from their business areas and propose ideas and suggestions for improvement to their working lives.

Colleagues received a 9% pay award for the year ended 31 March 2024 and a further 5.5% increase for the year
ended 31 March 2025, helping offset the inflationary pressures on living standards experienced over the past
two years.

Both the Discretionary Colleague Profit Share Scheme for non-management colleagues and the Discretionary
Bonus Scheme for management colleagues have been awarded for a second successive year following the
successful operational and financial performance of the Group during the year ended 31 March 2024.

In addition, in September 2023, our Colleagues were given a second opportunity to join our ShareSave Scheme
and become future shareholders in Jet2 pic at a discounted share option price. ;

WeCare provides an anonymous and confidential 24/7 service to all colleagues and their families including
access to an online GP service, professional counselling, mental health support and all other aspects of health
_and wellbeing.

Sustainability Champions engage with colleagues to champion sustainability initiatives and provide a direct
route for colleagues to offer their own ideas to help. In the coming year the business will focus and promote the
eight areas of our Sustainability Strategy’s social value framework assisted by these colleagues.

Pleasingly, our Glassdoor rating of 4.1 out of 5.0 remains the highest in our industry and serves as an important
barometer in gauging the happiness and engagement of our workforce.

15

Jet2.com Limited

ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS (continued)

Colleagues (continued)

Each UK airport operating base now has a Jet2.com statutory Director responsible for representing and
interacting with colleagues at their appointed base, ensuring a direct link.between our Customer-facing
Operations and the most senior levels of our organisation.

Further information can be found in the Our People section of the Jet2 pic Annual Report & Accounts 2024 on
pages 77 to 82.

Customers

Our Customers continue to seek an operator they can trust who also offers them great value for money.
Engagement with our Customers to improve their holiday choice, experience and enjoyment gives us the
greatest opportunity to retain and attract new customers — the key to continuing profitable growth!

Our Customer First strategy remains unchanged and we continue to challenge ourselves in how we can offer our
Customers a wonderful holiday experience. In response to consumer demand for ‘bucket list’ style holidays, we
have expanded our experiential Discover More’ Jet2CityBreaks® and our Jet2holidays product, offering access
to natural wonders and unique culture.

Our Retail Operations Centre, the first of its kind in the UK aviation industry, is setting new standards for
Customer First service, efficiency and security. The facility distributes millions of in-flight retail products including
drinks and ambient food that can either be pre-ordered or which feature in our in-flight menu, as well as
products that can be bought from the onboard shop, such as fragrances, beauty products, gifts and duty-free.

Operational resilience is vital, thus stand-by aircraft represented 9% of our fleet for Summer 2023 (Summer
2022: 7%) of which the majority were fully crewed to help recover unanticipated events. In addition, we
independently ‘self-handle’ at seven of our eleven UK bases and our Colleagues control and manage passenger
check-in at all but one of our UK bases. This ensures a seamless and efficient experience for customers and
eliminates reliance on third parties for these crucial aspects of our operations.

Our proactive approach to the disruption caused by the NATS system failure, Rhodes wildfires and Skiathos
flooding included the lease of an additional ACMI aircraft together with utilisation of existing standby aircraft,
the provision of generous amounts of in-resort customer helpers and responsive ‘go teams’. Our Contact Centre
responded to approximately 100,000 calls and 44,000 messages for all three events.

Customers have a range of self-service methods including WhatsApp messaging and Manage my Booking to
support amendments, meaning we can increase productivity, improve operational resilience and improve the
customer experience by maintaining the ability to manage customer queries in the event that phone lines are
oversubscribed. Further details on our MyJet2 membership programme and its benefits are available on page
9.

In March 2024 we proudly saw our first flight take off from our eleventh UK base at Liverpool John Lennon
Airport. We were also delighted to announce the launch of our 12th UK base at Bournemouth Airport from
February 2025, expanding our geographical reach across the South of the country.

Jet2.com and Jet2holidays have been awarded Travel Brand of the Year by Which? for the third consecutive
year. This recognition acknowledges our dedication to prioritising our Customers’ satisfaction.

Further information on our customer service proposition can be found in the Engaging with our Stakeholders
section of the Jet2 pic Annual Report & Accounts 2024 on page 55.

16

Jet2.com Limited
ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS (continued)

Suppliers

‘A stable supplier base with trusted partners is key in helping us offer our Customers a fantastic holiday
experience, whether that be hoteliers, aircraft manufacturers or our supportive banking partners.

We recognise the vital work our hotel partners, who number over 5,100, contribute to our Customers’ holiday
experience and our CEO regularly spends time in resort building and developing relationships with them. Such
engagement enables us to discuss how we can better work together, and also allows us to reiterate the
importance of quality and effective risk management by hoteliers, to maintain the highest standards of hygiene
and safety for customers at all times. ;

We work with over 3,900 non-hotel suppliers, developing constructive and effective relationships which help
maintain the successful delivery of our services. Further detail on how the Board engages with suppliers can be
found in the Engaging with our Stakeholders section of the Jet2 pic Annual Report & Accounts 2024 on page 56.

Shareholders

Jet2.com Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Jet2 pic. The Board of Jet2.com ensures active engagement
with members of the Board of its Parent Company throughout the year in order to ensure its actions are in the
best interests of the wider Group. °

Communities and the environment

The Group takes its environmental responsibilities seriously and aspires to grow its operations sustainably over
the coming years. Our local communities are therefore important, including those where our Colleagues live,
and their support allows for the effective operation and future growth of our Leisure Travel business.

In June 2023, we launched a new Emerging Talent & Careers section on our Jet2careers website. This allows
potential candidates to learn more about the wide range of exciting apprenticeship, graduate and placement
opportunities we have across Jet2, in addition to providing tools to assist in job skill development.

We work in partnership with Leeds Beckett University and have supported the redevelopment of two tourism
degree courses to ensure students are developing the skills needed for today’s travel industry. In addition, we
continue to mentor their ABTA Student Representative and have provided three student placements this year.

The Group continues to support its Charitable Partner Programme which includes NSPCC, Planet Patrol, Trees
for Cities and our Colleague chosen charity Macmillan Cancer Support. Jet2.com and Jet2holidays have raised
approximately £450,000 for our partners collectively and have run a number of initiatives to support them
including colleague fundraising and volunteering. In addition, Jet2.com supported the West Cheshire Foodbank
by donating almost £20,000 worth of food and drink from the ROC.

Jet2holidays was proud to be the headline sponsor of Leeds Pride 2023 and we were pleased to continue this
successful partnership for a second successive year in 2024, thereby offering greater support to the LGBTQIA+
community.

17

Jet2.com Limited
ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS (continued)

_ Communities and the environment (continued)

The Company has taken the exemption available for disclosures under the Companies (Strategic Report)
(Climate-related Financial Disclosure) Regulations 2022 and the Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting
(SECR) on the basis the Company’s activities are included in the consolidated report of Jet2 ple.

Further detail on how the Board engages with the community and considers the impact of the Company’s
operations on.the environment can be found in the Engaging with our Stakeholders section on page 58, the
Sustainability section on pages 59 to 68 and the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures section on
pages 69 to 76 of the Jet2 pic Annual Report & Accounts 2024. :

Steve Heapy

Chief Executive Officer
15 August 2024

18

Jet2.com Limited

DIRECTORS’ REPORT ‘
The Directors present their Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2024.

Directors
The Directors who served during the year and at the date of this report are disclosed on page 2.

Going concern

The Group provides scheduled holiday flights and ATOL protected package holidays utilising aircraft leased either
from third party lessors or from Jet2 plc Group companies and, accordingly, the financial performance of the -
Jet2.com Group is inextricably linked with the performance of the rest of the Jet2 pic Group. The Jet2.com Group
makes.use of Jet2 pic’s cash-pooling arrangements along with its own internally generated cash reserves to meet
its day to day working capital requirements.

The Directors have prepared financial forecasts for the Jet2 plc Group, comprising profit before and after
taxation, balance sheets and cash flows through to 31 March 2027.

‘For the purpose of assessing the appropriateness of the preparation of the consolidated Jet2.com financial
statements on a going concern basis, two financial forecast scenarios for the Jet2 plc Group: have been prepared
for the 12 month period following the approval of these financial statements:

© A base case which assumes a full unhindered flying programme utilising an aircraft fleet of 127 at load
factors above 90% against a 13% increase in seat capacity; and

¢ Adownside scenario with load factors reduced to 80% from August 2024 to reflect a possible reduction
in demand or the occurrence of operationally disruptive events and a lack of available funding for new |
aircraft during this period.

The forecasts consider the current cash position and an assessment of the principal areas of risk and uncertainty
as described in more detail in the Jet2 pic Annual! Report & Accounts 2024 on pages 40 to 49.

_ In addition to forecasting the cost base of the Jet2 plc Group, the base case scenario incorporates the funding
by Jet2 pic of future aircraft deliveries with its well-established aircraft financing partners, and no mitigating
actions taken to defer uncommitted capital expenditure during the forecast period.

:
The Directors concluded that, given the combination of a closing Jet2 ple Group cash and money market deposits
balance of £3,184.7m at 31 March 2024 together with the forecast monthly cash utilisation, under both
scenarios, the Jet2 pic Group, and therefore the Jet2.com Group, would have sufficient liquidity throughout a
‘period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements in August 2024. In addition,
the Jet2 pic Group is forecast to meet its RCF covenants at 30 September 2024 and 31 March 2025 under both
scenarios with significant headroom.

As a result, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Jet2 pic Group as a whole, and therefore the
Jet2.com Group and Parent Company, has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for a period
of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements. For this reason, they continue to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024.

19

Jet2.com Limited

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (continued)
Engaging with our stakeholders

Information with regard to each stakeholder group can be found in the Engaging with our Stakeholders section
on pages 13 to 18.

Equality and diversity

The Group employs a diverse workforce in the UK and Overseas and is committed to promoting diversity and
ensuring equality of opportunity for all within the workplace, regardless of age, disability, gender reassignment,

. marriage or civil partnership status, pregnancy and maternity / paternity, race (including colour, nationality and
ethnic or national origin), religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation.

The Group is also committed to ensuring that its procedures and selection processes in respect of recruitment,
terms and conditions of employment, access to training and promotion and the terms upon which it offers
access to facilities and services are free from discrimination.

Further information can be found in the Our People section of Jet2 pic Annual Report & Accounts 2024 on page 81.

Disclosure of information to auditor

Each of the persons who are Directors at the date of approval of this Directors’ Report confirms that:

e so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's Auditor is
unaware; and

e the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s Auditor is aware of that
information. ; ,

Auditor

In accordance with section 487 of the Companies Act 2006, the Auditor is deemed to be re-appointed and KPMG
LLP will therefore continue in office.

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities

’ The Directors are responsible for preparing the Report & Accounts in accordance with applicable law and
regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare the Group and Parent Company financial statements for each
financial year. Under that law they have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with
UK-adopted international accounting standards and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent
Company financial statements in accordance with UK accounting standards and applicable law, including FRS
101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.

Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for
that period.

20

Jet2.com Limited

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (continued)

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities (continued)

In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to:

select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; _
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant, reliable and prudent;

for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with UK- ~
adopted international accounting standards;

for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK accounting standards have
been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

assess the Group and Parent Company's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable,
matters related to going concern; and .

use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent
Company or to cease operations or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the Parent Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of
the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act
2006. They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of ©
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general
‘responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.

The Directors’ Report and the Strategic Report are approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by:

wr

S

—_

Gary Brown

Chief Financial Officer
Jet2.com Limited
Registered No. 02739537

15 August 2024

21

Jet2.com Limited

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JET2.COM LIMITED

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Jet2.com Limited (the Company) for the year ended 31 March
2024 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive
Income, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Equity, Parent Company Balance Sheet, Parent Company Statement of Changes in
Equity and the related notes, including the accounting policies in Note 1 to the Group financial statements
and Note 2 to the Parent Company financial statements.

In our opinion:

e the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the Parent
Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2024 and of the Group’s profit for the year then ended;

e the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK-adopted
international accounting standards;

¢ the Parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with UK
accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework; and

e the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies
Act 2006. ;

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities are described below. We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under,
and are independent of the Group in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical
Standard as applied to listed other entities of public interest. We believe that the audit evidence we have
obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.

Going concern

The Directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to
liquidate the Group or the Parent Company or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that
the Group and the Parent Company’s financial position means that this is realistic. They have also concluded
that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue
as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial statements (the going
concern period). .

We used our knowledge of the Group, its industry, and the general economic environment to identify the
inherent risk to its business model and analysed how those risks might affect the Group’s and Parent
Company’s financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period. The risks
that we considered most likely to adversely affect the Group’s and Parent Company's available financial
resources over this period were the impact of inflation and the associated increased costs of living which
may result in a reduction in customer demand.

We also considered less predictable but realistic second order impacts, such as the erosion of customer
confidence, which could result in a reduction of available financial resources.

22

Jet2.com Limited

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JET2.COM LIMITED
(continued) :

Going concern (continued)

We considered whether these risks could plausibly affect the liquidity or covenant compliance in the going
concern period by comparing severe, but plausible downside scenarios that could arise from these risks

_ individually and collectively against the level of available financial resources and covenants indicated by the
Jet2 pic Group’s financial forecasts.

. We considered whether the going concern disclosure on page 32 to 33 of the financial statements gives a
full and accurate description of the Directors’ assessment of going concern.

Our conclusions based on this work:

e we consider that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the
financial statements is appropriate;

° we have not identified, and concur with the Directors’ assessment that there is not, a material
uncertainty related to events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt
on the Group’s or Parent Company’s ability to continue as a going concern for the going concern period;
and

ewe have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors’ statement on pages
20 to 21 of the financial statements on the use of the going concern basis of accounting with no material
uncertainties that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Parent Company’s use of that basis
for the going concern period, and we found the going concern disclosure on page 19 to be acceptable.

However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in
outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the
above conclusions are not a guarantee that the Group or the Parent Company will continue in operation.

Fraud and breaches of laws and regulations — ability to detect

Identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement due to fraud

To identify risks of material misstatement due to fraud (fraud risks) we assessed events or conditions that
could indicate an incentive or pressure to commit fraud or provide an opportunity to commit fraud. Our
risk assessment procedures included: ,

.. Enquiring of Directors, internal audit and inspection of policy documentation as to the Group’s high-
level policies and procedures to prevent and detect fraud, including the internal audit function and the
Group’s channel for “whistleblowing”, as well as whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected
or alleged fraud;

e Reading Board minutes;
¢ Considering remuneration incentive schemes and performance targets for senior management; and
e Using analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships.

We communicated identified fraud risks throughout the audit team and remained alert to any indications
of fraud throughout the audit.

23

Jet2.com Limited

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JET2.COM LIMITED
(continued) ;

Fraud and breaches of laws and regulations — ability to detect (continued)

As required by auditing standards and taking into account possible pressures to meet profit targets and our
overall knowledge of the control environment, we perform procedures to address the risk of management
override of controls, in particular the risk that Group management may be in a position to make
inappropriate accounting entries and the risk of bias in accounting estimates and judgements. On this audit
we do not believe there is a fraud risk related to revenue recognition because there is little incentive and,
due to the high-volume low-value nature of sales, the scale of any fraud would have to be so significant to
result in material misstatement that the risk is considered remote.

We did not identify any additional fraud risks.

_In determining the audit procedures, we considered the results of our evaluation of the operating

effectiveness of some of the Group-wide fraud. risk management controls. We also performed procedures

including: ,

¢ Identifying journal entries and other adjustments to test for all full scope components based on risk
criteria and comparing the identified entries to supporting documentation. These included. those
revenue and cash journal entries posted to unexpected account combinations, journals with
descriptions which may indicate fraud, and journals posted after the books close date; and

e Assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential
bias. , :

Identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement related to compliance with laws and
regulations

We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on
the financial statements from our general commercial and. sector experience, through discussion with the
Directors and other management (as required by auditing standards), and from inspection of the Group’s”
regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed with the Directors and other management the policies
and procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.

We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any
indications of non-compliance throughout the audit. ,

The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.

Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including
financial reporting legislation (including related companies legislation), distributable profits legislation and
taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of
our procedures on the related financial statement items.

Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-
compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance
through the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Group’s license to operate. We identified the
following areas as those most likely to have such an effect: package travel, aviation, health and safety, anti-
bribery, data protection, environmental, employment law and certain aspects of company legislation
recognising the nature of the Group’s.activities and its lega! form. ;

24

Jet2.com Limited

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JET2.COM LIMITED
(continued)

Fraud and breaches of laws and regulations — ability to detect (continued)

Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and
regulations to enquiry of the Directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal
correspondence, if any. Therefore, if a breach of operational regulations is not disclosed to us or evident
from relevant correspondence, an audit will not detect that breach.

Context of the ability of the audit to detect fraud or breaches of law or regulation

Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected
some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and
performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards. For example, the further removed non-
compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial
statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify
it. ,

In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of fraud, as these may involve
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls. Our audit
procedures are designed to detect material misstatement. We are not responsible for preventing non-
compliance or fraud and cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.

Strategic Report and Directors’ Report

The Directors are responsible for the other information presented in the Strategic Report and Directors
Report together with the financial statements. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the
other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below,
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial
statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial
statements or our audit knowledge. Based solely on that work we have not identified material
misstatements in the other information.

Based solely on our work on the other information:

e we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report;

e in our opinion the information given in those reports for the financial year is consistent with the
financial statements; and
e in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

¢ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Parent Company, or returns adequate for our
audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or

¢ the Parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and
returns; or ,

e certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

ewe have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in these respects.

2s

Jet2.com Limited

“INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF JET2.COM LIMITED
(continued)

Directors’ responsibilities

As explained more fully in their statement set out on pages 20 to 21, the Directors are responsible for: the
preparation of the financial statements including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view; such
internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; assessing the Group and Parent Company’s
ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern; and using
the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Group or the Parent
Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue our opinion in an Auditor's
Report. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted
in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.

A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRC’s website at

www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities.

The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities

This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16
of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s
members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditor's Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
Company and the Company’s members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions
we have formed.

Donel Deroy

David Derbyshire (Senior Statutory Auditor)

for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants

1 Sovereign Square

Sovereign Street

Leeds

LS14DA

15 August 2024

26

Jet2.com Limited

CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Results for the Results for the

year ended year ended

31 March 31 March

2024 2023

Note Em £m

Revenue 5 6,260.5 5,033.9

Operating expenses , 6 (5,903.4) (4,692.2)

Operating profit 7 357.1 341.7
Finance income 124.7

Finance expense (29.4) (12.6)

Net FX revaluation gains / (losses) 9.2 (17.0)

Net financing income 8 104.5 9.5

Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.6 0.6

Profit before taxation 462.2 351.8

Taxation 10 (114.0) (63.5)

Profit for the year 348.2 288.3

(all attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent)

27

: Jet2.com Limited

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the year ended 31 March 2024

Note
Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income / (expense)
Items that are or may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Cash flow hedges:
Fair value losses 21
Net amount transferred to Consolidated Income Statement 21
Cost of hedging reserve movement 21
Related taxation (charge) / credit 10

Total comprehensive income for the year
(all attributable to equity shareholders of the Parent)

Year ended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2024 2023

£m £m

348.2 288.3
(56.5) (61.0)
65.3 (164.8)

(5.3) (17.0)
(0.8) 50.5

2.7 (192.3)

350.9 96.0

28

Jet2.com Limited

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
at 31 March 2024

2024 2023
Note £m \ £m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 11 26.8 26.8
Property, plant and equipment 12 242.6 177.3
Right-of-use assets ; . 13 575.6 407.4
Trade and other receivables 15 21.2 -
Derivative financial instruments owed by Parent Company 21 4.3 0.9
Deferred tax asset 10 90.1 142.6
960.6 755.0
Current assets :
Inventories 14 124.8 40.2
Trade and other receivables 15 1,301.7 1,111.5
Derivative financial instruments owed by Parent Company 21 27.9 45.8
Money market deposits 16 939.1 827.9
Cash and cash equivalents 16 687.1 396.1
3,080.6 2,421.5
Total assets 4,041.2 3,176.5
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 17 514.6 531.8
Deferred revenue : 18 1,903.9. 1,547.2
Lease liabilities , 19 192.8 154.4
Provisions 20 70.9 63.9
Derivative financial instruments owed to Parent Company 21 83.0 85.1
2,765.2 2,382.4
Non-current liabilities
Deferred revenue 18 22.7 16.4
Lease liabilities 19 389.7 259.0
Provisions 20 39.8 40.0
Derivative financial instruments owed to Parent Company 21 5.6 16.8
: 457.8 332.2
Total liabilities 3,223.0 2,714.6
Net assets 818.2 461.9
Shareholder’s equity .
Share capital 22 300.3 300.3
Cash flow hedging reserve 22 (19.1) (25.8)
Cost of hedging reserve 22 (21.9) (17.9)
Retained earnings 22 558.9 205.3

Total shareholder's equity 818.2 461.9

The financial statements on pages 27 to 68 were approved by the Board of Directors at a meeting held on
15 August 2024 and were signed on its behalf by:

Gary Brown

Chief Financial Officer
Jet2.com Limited
Registered No. 02739537

29

Jet2.com Limited

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
for the year ended 31 March 2024

2024 2023
Note £m £m
Profit before taxation 462.2 351.8
Net financing income (including Net FX revaluation (gains) / losses) 8 (104.5) (9.5)
Depreciation 218.2 150.5
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.6) (0.6)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital $75.3 492.2
Increase in inventories (84.6) (31.7)
Increase in trade and other receivables (188.4) (458.9)
Decrease in trade and other payables (13.2) (173.4)
Increase in deferred revenue 363.0 374.5
Increase in provisions 6.8 18.8
Cash generated from operations 658.9 221.5
Interest received 112.1 39.1
‘Interest paid (29.4) (12.6)
Income taxes paid (65.6) . (30.0)
Net cash generated from operating activities 676.0 218.0
Cash flows used in investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 12 (95.6) (84.5)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 0.6 -
Net increase in money market deposits 23 (111.2) (227.5)
Net cash used in investing activities (206.2) (312.0)
Cash flows used in financing activities
Payment of lease liabilities : 23 (178.5) (135.5)
Net cash used in financing activities (178.5) (135.5)
Net increase / (decrease) in cash in the year 291.3 (229.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 396.1 625.4
Effect of foreign exchange rate changes 23 (0.3) 0.2
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 687.1 396.1

30

Jet2.com Limited

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

for the year ended 31 March 2024

Share Cash flow Cost of Retained Total

capital hedging hedging earnings shareholder's

reserve reserve equity

£m £m £m £m £m

Balance at 31 March 2022 300.3 . 154.1 (5.5) (83.0) 365.9

Total comprehensive expense - (179.9) (12.4) 288.3 96.0

Balance at 31 March 2023 300.3 (25.8) (17.9) 205.3 461.9

Total comprehensive income - 6.7 (4.0) 348.2 350.9

Deferred tax on share-based _ . . 54 5.4
payments

Balance at 31 March 2024 300.3 (19.1) (21.9) 558.9 818.2

31

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Accounting policies

Jet2.com Limited (the Company) is a company incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales and the
financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The address of
its registered office is Low Fare Finder House, Leeds Bradford Airport, Leeds, LS19 7TU.

The Group’s financial statements consolidate the financial statements of Jet2.com Limited and its
subsidiaries (the Group).

Basis of preparation

The Group’s financial statements have been prepared and approved by the Directors in accordance with
UK-adopted international accounting standards and applicable law.

The Company has elected to prepare its Parent Company financial statements in accordance with FRS 101
Reduced Disclosure Framework; these statements are presented on pages 68 to 75.

_ The financial statements of the Group and the Parent Company are presented in pounds sterling and all
values are rounded to the nearest £100,000, except where indicated otherwise.

The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods
presented in these Group financial statements.

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention except for all derivative
financial instruments, which have been measured at fair value.

Going concern

The Group provides scheduled holiday flights and ATOL protected package holidays utilising aircraft leased
either from third party lessors or from Jet2 ple Group companies and, accordingly, the financial
performance of the Jet2.com Group is inextricably linked with the performance of the rest of the Jet2 pie
Group. The Jet2.com Group makes use of Jet2 pic’s cash-pooling arrangements along with its own internally
generated cash reserves to meet its day to day working capital requirements.

The Directors have prepared financial forecasts for the Jet2 pic Group, comprising profit before and after
taxation, balance sheets and cash flows through to 31 March 2027.

For the purpose of assessing the appropriateness of the preparation of the consolidated Jet2.com financial
statements on a going concern basis, two financial forecast scenarios for the Jet2 pic Group have been
prepared for the 12 month period following the approval of these financial statements:

e A base case which assumes a full unhindered flying programme utilising an aircraft fleet of 127 at
load factors above 90% against a 13% increase in seat capacity; and

°o A downside scenario with load factors reduced to 80% from August 2024 to reflect a material
reduction in demand or the occurrence of operationally disruptive events and a lack of available
funding for new aircraft during the period.

The forecasts consider the current cash position and an assessment of the principal areas of risk and
uncertainty as described in more detail in the Jet2 pic Annual Report & Accounts 2024 on pages 40 to 49.

32

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Accounting policies (continued)
Going concern (continued)

In addition to forecasting the cost base of the Jet2 pic Group, both scenarios incorporate the funding by
Jet2 pic of future aircraft deliveries with its well-established aircraft financing partners and no mitigating
actions taken to defer uncommitted capital expenditure during the forecast period.

The Directors concluded that, given the combination of a closing Jet2 plc Group cash balance and money
market deposit balance of £3,184.7m at 31 March 2024 together with the forecast monthly cash utilisation,
under both scenarios, the Jet2 pie Group, and therefore the Jet2.com Group, would have sufficient liquidity
throughout a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements in August
2024. In addition, the Jet2 pic Group is forecast to meet its RCF covenants at 30 September 2024 and 31
March 2025 under both scenarios with significant headroom.

As a result, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Jet2 pic Group as a whole, and therefore
the Jet2.com Group and Parent Company, has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for
a period of at feast 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements. For this reason, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31
March 2024. ‘

Climate change

In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have considered the impact of climate change,
particularly in the context of the climate change risks identified in the Sustainability section found on pages
59 to 68 of the Jet2 pic Annual Report & Accounts 2024.

The Directors have considered the future profitability of the Group when assessing the recoverability of
deferred tax assets, in particular those recognised from trading losses carried forward. The forecasts
incorporate higher carbon costs as a result of potential future amendments to the carbon emissions
schemes together with an increased utilisation of SAF in line with government mandates and the Group’s
Sustainability Strategy which includes an objective to operate a 15% SAF fuel mix by 2035. The Directors
concluded that it remains appropriate to record assets in respect of the Group’s trading losses carried
forward.

The Jet2 pic forecasts reflect the purchase of new Airbus A321neo aircraft in the short and medium-term
cash flows, thus ensuring they are captured within the going concern and viability assessments. There are
no further material impacts to other accounting estimates or judgements in the current year as a result of
climate change.

Basis of consolidation
Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has
rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns
through its power over the entity. In assessing control, the Group takes into consideration potential voting
rights that are currently exercisable. The acquisition date is the date on which control is transferred to the
acquirer. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements
from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.

33

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Accounting policies (continued)
Transactions eliminated on consolidation

Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group
transactions, are eliminated on consolidation.

Revenue

Revenue (which excludes Value Added Tax and Air Passenger Duty) arises from package holidays, passenger
aircraft operations, sale of non-ticket ancillary products and charter aircraft operations.

Revenue from package holidays is apportioned over the duration of the holiday. Revenue from ticket sales
for scheduled passenger flights is recognised at the date of departure. A proportion of flight delay
compensation payments are offset against revenue up to the full value of the ticket price, as the benefits
associated with the performance obligation are not transferred to the customer if the flight is delayed. Any-
remaining compensation which exceeds the full value of the ticket price is charged to operating expenses.
Where compensation claims are not yet settled at the year-end, these are held within provisions.

Non-ticket revenues such as hold baggage charges, advanced seat assignment and extra legroom charges
and in-flight retail sales are also recognised once the associated flight has departed, or holiday started.
Commission earned from car hire bookings is recognised on departure, reflecting the point when services
are performed. Commission earned from travel insurance is recognised at the time of booking, as the Group
acts solely as an agent of the insurance company.

Other Leisure Travel revenue includes charter aircraft income which is recognised in the period in which
the service is provided. In addition, cancellation income, in respect of non-refundable amounts paid on
bookings cancelled by the customer prior to the date of departure, is recognised at the time of cancellation.

Cash amounts received from customers for whom revenue has not yet been recognised are recorded in the
Statement of Financial Position as deferred revenue within current liabilities, or within non-current
liabilities if the Group’s services are expected to be performed more than 12 months from the reporting
date.

Employee benefits
Defined contribution plans

Ail Group pensions are provided from the proceeds of money purchase schemes. The cost of the scheme is
recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement on an accruals basis in line with the scheme rules.

Share-based payments

Jet2 ple grants equity settled share-based payments to certain colleagues, most of whom are employed
directly by subsidiary Group undertakings. The share options and deferred awards granted to any
colleagues across the Group are in respect of ordinary shares in Jet2 pic. The resulting cost in relation to
colleagues employed by the Group is recognised in operating expenses in the Consolidated Income
Statement over the period from the beginning of the performance obligation period to the vesting date.
Jet2 pic is reimbursed for the share-based payment expense relating to share options and deferred awards
granted to colleagues employed by other Group undertakings.

34

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Accounting policies (continued)

Net financing income
Finance expense

Lease liabilities are described below, and all other finance expenses are recognised in the Consolidated
Income Statement in the period in which they are incurred. .

Finance income

Interest income is recognised in the Consolidated Income Statement in the period in which it is earned.

Foreign currencies

Transactions in foreign currencies are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at the date of the
transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet date
are translated at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date, and differences arising are recognised in the
Consolidated Income Statement in the period in which they arise. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that
are measured at historical cost in a foreign currency are held at the exchange rate at the date of the
transaction.

The assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated at foreign exchange rates ruling at the balance
sheet date. The revenues and expenses of foreign operations are translated at an average rate for the
period where this rate approximates to the foreign exchange rates ruling at the dates of the transactions.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in Other Comprehensive Income (OCI) and accumulated in
other reserves.

Taxation

Taxation on the profit or loss for the year comprises of current and deferred taxation. Taxation is recognised
in the Consolidated Income Statement or the Statement of Comprehensive Income, except to the extent
that it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case the tax is recognised in equity. Current
taxation is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year and any adjustment to taxation
payable in respect of previous years.

Deferred taxation is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The following
temporary differences are not provided for: the initial recognition of goodwill; the initial recognition of
assets or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit other than in a business combination;
and differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that they will probably not reverse in
the foreseeable future. The amount of deferred taxation provided is based on the expected manner of
realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. A deferred taxation asset is recognised only to the extent
that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised.

Intangible assets

Intangible assets are recognised when it is probable that the future economic benefits that are attributable
to the asset will flow to the entity and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably.

35

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Accounting policies (continued)

Intangible assets (continued)

As airport slots are held in perpetuity, they have an indefinite useful life provided minimum utilisation
requirements are observed and are therefore not amortised. Their useful life is reviewed each reporting
period to determine whether events and circumstances continue to support an indefinite useful life
assessment. These intangible assets are also assessed for impairment at each year end.

Licence agreements to use cloud software provided as a service are treated as service contracts and
expensed in the Group Consolidated Income Statement, unless the Group has both a contractual right to
take possession of the software at any time without significant penalty, and the ability to run the software
independently of the host vendor. In such cases the licence agreement would be capitalised as software
within intangible assets. Implementation costs are expensed unless implementation is a distinct service and
gives rise to a separate intangible asset.

Property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets

Property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and
any provision for impairment.

Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of property, plant and equipment to each asset’s
estimated residual value using the straight-line method over its estimated useful economic life, or the
estimated useful economic life of individual major components, as follows:

Freehold property 30 years

Short leasehold property Over the life of the lease
Aircraft, engines and other components 2-24 years

Plant, vehicles and equipment 3-10 years

The Group depreciates right-of-use assets on a straight-line basis from the lease commencement date to
the earlier of the end of their useful life, break clause date or the end of their lease term. Certain of the
Group’s lease contracts contain lease extension options, which are taken into account in the measurement
of the right-of-use asset only when the Group is reasonably certain that it would exercise the option. The
Group also assesses the right-of-use asset for impairment when such indicators exist.

Residual values are reviewed annually at the balance sheet date and compared to prevailing market rates
of equivalently aged assets; if required, depreciation rates are adjusted accordingly on a prospective basis.
Carrying values are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
values may not be recoverable.

The useful economic lives of all assets have been considered in light of the evolution of environmental
legislation and Jet2 pic’s Sustainability Strategy to both limit and mitigate the Group’s impact on the
environment; the Group believes these have no impact on either the useful economic lives or carrying
values of its assets at this stage.

Financial instruments

Financial instruments are recognised initially at fair value, which is normally the transaction price.

36

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Accounting policies (continued)

Financial instruments (continued)

The Group classifies its financial assets as measured at amortised cost or fair value through profit and loss.
The classification of each financial asset is determined by whether the business model of the Group is to
hold the asset to collect contractual cash flows or to benefit from changes in the fair value of the asset.

Financial liabilities are classified as measured at amortised cost or fair value through profit and loss.
Trade and other receivables

Trade and other receivables are recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost
based on the applicable effective interest rate.

Hotel supplier advances, which are payments to hoteliers for services to be incurred in future periods are
initially measured at cost and are subject to an annual impairment review in accordance with IAS 36 -
Impairment of Assets.

Trade and other payables

Trade payables are recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost based on the
applicable interest rate.

Free carbon allowances are received under the UK and EU Emissions Trading Schemes (ETS). The Group
records the shortfall between the free allowance and its mandatory carbon obligations under both UK and
EU ETS within trade and other payables.

These mandatory ETS liabilities are measured using the annual weighted average of purchased ETS
allowances and carbon forward contracts where these are already in place. If there are insufficient carbon
forward contracts at the point of emission, these liabilities are accrued using a market price of the relevant
ETS allowance at this date.

In addition, the Group voluntarily offsets all carbon emissions not already covered in its ETS obligations,
including covering its free allowances in the period until 31 December 2023. The cost of voluntary carbon
emission offsetting is recorded in the Consolidated Income Statement when the flight occurs with a
corresponding liability in trade and other payables.

These voluntary carbon offsetting liabilities are accrued using the purchase price on a first-in first-out basis
where there are already sufficient purchase commitments for relevant offsetting schemes or by using a
weighted average market price for such schemes where purchase commitments are not yet in place.

Derivative financial instruments and hedging

The Group uses foreign currency forward contracts and aviation fuel swaps to hedge its exposure to foreign
exchange rate and aviation fuel price volatility. Such derivative financial instruments are stated at fair value.

For those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is sought, the hedging
relationship is documented at its inception. This documentation identifies the hedging instrument, the
hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how hedge effectiveness will be
measured throughout its duration. Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective in offsetting
changes in cash flows of hedged items at inception and on an ongoing basis.

37

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Accounting policies (continued)

Financial instruments (continued)

The qualitative technique to test the hedge effectiveness of a hedging relationship is the critical terms
matching method. Hedge effectiveness testing is performed at inception, at each reporting date, and upon
a significant change in the circumstances affecting the hedge effectiveness requirements. Such significant
change can occur as follows: ‘

e changes in occurrence or timing of the payment of the hedged item;
e reduction in the total amount or price of the hedged item; and

e  asignificant change in the credit risk of either party to the hedging relationship.

Where a derivative financial instrument is designated as a hedge of a highly probable forecast transaction
and results in the recognition of expenses within the income statement (including the purchase of jet fuel),
the effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument from the inception of the hedging
relationship is recognised directly in the cash flow hedging reserve within equity and in OCI. Any ineffective
portion is recognised within the Consolidated Income Statement.

For the effective portion of hedging instruments, amounts reported in OCI are subsequently reclassified to
the Consolidated Income Statement in the period in which the hedged transaction affects profit and loss.

Where the forecast hedged item results in the recognition of a non-financial asset (such as the purchase of
aircraft for which foreign currency derivatives are designated as the hedging instrument), the accumulated
gains and losses recorded within both the cash flow hedge reserve and the cost of hedging reserve are
included in the initial cost of the asset and then subsequently depreciated.

When designating the forward contract as a hedging instrument, the change in the value of foreign currency
forward contracts arising as a result of foreign currency basis spread and forward points are held separately.
This does not form part of the designated hedging instrument and is instead held in a separate cost of
hedging reserve. The cost of hedging reserve is subsequently recognised in profit and loss in the period in
which the hedged transaction affects profit and loss.

Those aviation fuel swaps, where value is pre-determined by the average fuel price during the final month
of the year, have been disclosed within trade and other receivables or payables dependent on their mark-
to-market position. These swaps no longer fluctuate in value and therefore do not meet the criteria for a
derivative financial instrument.

The Group also uses forward UK and EU Allowance contracts to hedge its exposure to Carbon Emissions
Allowance price volatility. As the allowances are a non-financial item purchased for the Group’s own-use,
they are not recorded as a derivative financial instrument in line with IFRS 9 — Financial Instruments.

38

Jet2.com Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Accounting policies (continued)
Credit risk

Expected credit losses are recognised as a loss allowance, effectively an impairment of the value of the
asset. The carrying values presented in the financial statements are net of loss allowances.

The Group has three types of financial asset that are subject to the credit loss model: trade receivables,
cash and cash equivalents and money market deposits. Derivative assets are not subject to the credit loss
model, although credit risk is considered when assessing whether those assets are impaired.

‘The Group makes an assessment to determine whether financial assets are impaired. Credit-impaired
receivables would include receivables six months or more past the due date, or receivables where the
counterparty’s solvency indicates that the Group has no reasonable expectation of recovery. In the latter
case, the receivables are written off; in the former case, the expected cash flows are discounted and the
difference between the discounted expected cash flows and the face value of the receivable is recognised
as a loss allowance, in the form of a provision against doubtful debts.

The Group calculates expected credit losses for its trade receivables using the simplified approach
permitted by IFRS 9, applicable where the transaction contains no significant financing element. Under the
simplified approach, expected lifetime credit losses are recognised in the period.

The Group’s policy is to place funds with deposit takers with a long-term credit-rating no lower than A-/A3
and a short-term credit rating no lower than A-2, F2, P2. In the event of the credit ratings for the deposit
taker being inconsistent between agencies, a detailed review is performed to attribute an appropriate
rating for the deposit taker. In addition, the Group considers the historical repayment performance of
deposit takers for which there have been no defaults to date. As a result, expected credit losses on cash
and money market deposits are considered low. Where a deposit taker is considered to be at risk of default,
the expected future cash flows are discounted and the difference from the expected cash inflows
recognised as a loss allowance.

Inventories
Consumables, including goods held for in-flight retail, are accounted for on a first-in first-out basis and

stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realisable value is the estimated resale value.

Carbon emission allowances purchased in advance for the Group’s mandatory and voluntary offset
obligations are recorded in inventories at their historic cost and are not subsequently revalued as they are
held for own use. When the Group settles its carbon obligations, the balances held in inventories and trade
and other payables are derecognised. At 31 March 2024, the value of carbon emission allowances held in
inventories exceeded the amounts accrued in trade and other payables.

Money market deposits

Money market deposits comprise deposits with a maturity of more than three months at the point of
placement and are. accounted for within the amortised cost category of financial assets.

39

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
1. Accounting policies (continued)

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include short-term deposits maturing within three months of placement and
restricted cash, if any, paid over to various counterparties as collateral against relevant exposures. For the
purposes of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand,
and form an integral part of the Group’s cash management activities, are included as a component of cash
and cash equivalents.

The Group's restricted cash, if any, comprises of margin calls and travel insurance deposits.

Leased assets

The Group considers whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. A lease is defined as a contract, or part of
a contract, that conveys the right to use an asset (the underlying asset) for a period of time in exchange for
consideration. To apply this definition the Group assesses if the contract meets three key evaluations which
are whether:

e the contract contains an identified asset, which is either explicitly identified in the contract or
implicitly specified by being identified at the time the asset is made available to the Group;

e the Group has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from the identified asset
throughout the period of use, considering its rights within the defined scope of the contract; and

© the Group has the right to direct the use of the identified asset throughout the period of use.

Measurement and recognition of leases as a lessee

At lease commencement date, the Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The right-of-use asset is measured at cost, which is made up
of: the initial measurement of the lease liability; any initial direct costs incurred by the Group; an estimate
of any costs to restore the asset to the condition required by its lessor at the end of its lease; and any lease
payments made in advance of the lease commencement date (net of any incentives received).

When determining the lease term, the Group includes periods covered by an option to extend the lease
where it is reasonably certain it will be exercised and periods covered by an option to terminate the lease
where it is reasonably certain this option will not be exercised.

At the commencement date, the Group measures the lease liability at the present value of the lease
payments unpaid at that date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease if that rate is readily
available or, alternatively, the Group’s incremental borrowing rate.

Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability are made up of fixed payments (including
in-substance fixed), amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee and payments arising
from options reasonably certain to be exercised. In-substance fixed payments are inclusive of any
contractual maintenance obligations which are not dependent on use of the asset.

40

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

1. Accounting policies (continued)
Leased assets (continued)

Maintenance payments which vary based on usage of the underlying asset are not included within the
measurement of the initial lease liability; these are instead recognised in the Consolidated Income
Statement in line with their usage. Subsequent to initial measurement, the liability will be reduced for
payments made and increased for interest accrued.

The liability is remeasured to reflect any reassessment or modification, or if there are changes to in-
substance fixed payments. When the lease liability is remeasured, the corresponding adjustment is
reflected in the right-of-use asset, or profit and loss if the right-of-use asset is already reduced to zero.

Lease payments are presented in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows as follows:

e short-term lease payments, payments for leases of low-value assets and variable lease payments that
are not included in the measurement of the lease liabilities are presented within Operating cash flows
before movements in working capital. The Group's variable lease payments relate to payments to
aircraft lessors in respect of flying activity on contracted aircraft components, which include Engines,
LLPs and APUs. See Notes 6 and 7 for amounts incurred in the year. The Group will continue to be
exposed to these variable lease payments across the life of the lease dependent on flying activity;

¢ payments for the interest element of lease liabilities are included in ‘Interest paid’ within Net cash
generated from operating activities; and

e payments for the principal element of lease liabilities are included in ‘Payment of lease liabilities’ within
Net cash used in financing activities.

As permitted, the Group has elected not to apply the requirements of IFRS 16 for either short-term leases
or leases of low-value assets. Low-value leases are immaterial to the Group in both the current and prior
year. Instead of recognising a right-of-use asset and lease liability, the payments in relation to these are
recognised as an expense in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Low value leases are
immaterial to the Group in both the current and the prior year.

Leased aircraft maintenance provisions

Provision is made for the estimated future costs of maintenance events over and above those which can be
recovered from the lessor. This reflects the Group's obligation to maintain leased aircraft in accordance
with the aircraft manufacturer's published maintenance programmes during the lease term and to ensure
that aircraft are returned to the lessor in accordance with its contractual requirements.

2. Accounting estimates and judgements

In the application of the Group’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 1, the Directors are
required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Such estimates and associated assumptions are
based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant.

These estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is changed and in future periods if applicable.
For each sensitivity considered below, the Group has demonstrated a reasonably possible outcome to aid
the users of the financial statements in understanding the impact of the estimate or judgement.

41

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
2. Accounting estimates and judgements (continued)

Critical judgements in applying accounting policies

There are no judgements that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial
statements nor a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities within the next financial year. The accounting judgement believed to require the most subjectivity
or complexity is as follows:

Recoverability of deferred tax asset

The Group’s net deferred tax asset of £90.1m (2023: £142.6m) includes a £84.2m (2023: £135.1m) asset
arising on full recognition of the UK tax trading losses accumulated during the Covid-impacted years ended
31 March 2021 and 31 March 2022. The Group has concluded that this deferred tax asset will be fully
recoverable against the unwind of taxable temporary timing differences and future taxable profits.

With the exception of the two years impacted by the pandemic, the Group has a strong history of
profitability. In assessing the recoverability of its deferred tax asset, the Group has used the same long-term
financial forecasts as those used in the going concern and viability assessments. The tax losses can be
carried forward indefinitely and have no expiry date. From its assessment, the Group has concluded that
the deferred tax asset will be fully recoverable against future taxable profits and therefore the full
recognition of this deferred tax asset is appropriate.

Key sources of estimation uncertainty

There are no major sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period that the Directors -
consider to be significant nor that may have a risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year.

3. New and amended accounting standards and interpretations

The following amendments to IFRS became mandatorily effective in the UK in the current year and did not
have a material impact.

Applying to
International Financial Reporting Standards accounting periods
beginning after

New standards
IFRS 17 — Insurance Contracts . January 2023

Amendments to existing standards
Amendments to IAS 1 — Presentation of Financial Statements ~ Disclosure of accounting

policies January 2023
Amendments to AS 12 - Income Taxes — Deferred tax related to assets and liabilities

arising from a single transaction January 2023
Amendments to IAS 8 - Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors —

Definition of accounting estimates January 2023
International Tax Reform — Pillar Two Model Rules - Amendments to IAS 12 . January 2023

42

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
3. New and amended accounting standards and interpretations (continued)
IFRS 17 — Insurance Contracts

The impact of the new standard is not limited to entities which operate in the insurance industry; therefore,
the Group has performed a review of the contracts that may be considered to fall within its scope. {t
concluded that there is no material impact from the adoption of IFRS 17 — Insurance Contracts.

The following are the new and amended accounting standards that have an effective date after the date of

these financial statements and are not expected to have a material impact on the Group’s reported financial
performance or position.

International Financial Reporting Standards . Applying to accounting
periods beginning after

Amendments to existing standards

Amendments to IAS 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements ~ Classification of

liabilities as current or non-current; and non-current liabilities with covenants: January 2024
Amendments to IFRS 16 — Leases — Lease liability in a sale and leaseback

January 2024
arrangement
Supplier Finance Arrangements (Amendments to IAS 7 and IFRS 7) . January 2024

4. Alternative performance measures

The Group’s alternative performance measures are not defined by IFRS and therefore may not be directly
comparable with other companies’ alternative performance measures. These measures are not intended
to be a substitute for, or superior to, IFRS measurements.

Profit before FX revaluation and taxation

Profit before FX revaluation and taxation is included as an alternative performance measure in order to aid
users in understanding the underlying operating performance of the Group excluding the impact of foreign
exchange volatility.

2023 2023

£m £m

Profit before taxation 462.2 351.8
Net FX revaluation (gains) / losses (9.2) 17.0
Profit before FX revaluation and taxation 453.0 368.8

43

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued) ~

5. Segmental reporting

IFRS 8 — Operating Segments requires operating segments to be determined based on the Group’s internal
reporting to the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM).

The CODM is responsible for the overall resource allocation and performance assessment of the Group. The
Board of Directors approves major capital expenditure, assesses the performance of the Group and also
determines key financing decisions. Consequently, the Board of Directors is considered to be the CODM.

The information presented to the CODM for the purpose of resource allocation and assessment of the
Group’s performance relates to its Leisure Travel segment as shown in the Consolidated Income Statement.

The Leisure Travel business specialises in offering package holidays by its ATOL licensed provider,
Jet2holidays, to leisure destinations in the Mediterranean, the Canary Islands and to European Leisure
Cities, and scheduled holiday flights by its airline, Jet2.com. Resource allocation decisions are based on the
entire route network and the deployment of its entire aircraft fleet. All Jet2holidays customers fly on
Jet2.com flights, and therefore these segments are inextricably linked and represent the only segment
within the Group.

Revenue is principally generated from within the UK, the Group’s country of domicile. No customer
represents more than 10% of the Group's revenue. Segment revenue reported below represents revenue
generated from external customers. Revenue can be further disaggregated by its nature as follows:

2026 2~C*«~C‘<«C*«*SKSS

£m £m

Restated*

Package holidays 5,046.4 3,969.7
Flight-only ticket revenue 634.9 556.7
Non-ticket revenue 466.8 421.5
Other Leisure Travel . 112.4 86.0
Total revenue - 6,260.5 5,033.9

* The comparative disaggregation of revenue has been restated to disclose Package holidays revenue net of £59.2m
government taxes (consistent with the measurement of that revenue, as defined in Note 2) and to disclose Flight-only ticket
revenue after deducting compensation payments (up to the full value of the related ticket price) of £13.6m. Previously these
amounts were deducted from Other Leisure Travel revenue. Comparative Package holidays revenue has reduced from
£4,028.9m to £3,969.7m, Flight-only ticket revenue has reduced from £570.3m to £556.7m and Other Leisure Travel revenue
has increased from £13.2m to £86.0m. There is no change to the total revenue reported.

44

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

6. Operating expenses .

2024 «= t*«<C«*‘« DS
£m : £m
Direct operating costs:
Accommodation 2,465.0 1,973.6
Fuel : 697.4 521.4
Landing, navigation and third-party handling : 474.9 403.4
Maintenance 251.5 190.8
Agent commission 166.9 142.0
Carbon 106.3 76.7
In-flight cost of sales 92.6 76.7
Aircraft rentals (less than twelve months) 48.9 61.9
Other direct operating costs 218.7 190.1
Staff costs including agency staff 724.2 574.7
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 30.3 20.7
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 187.9 129.8
Marketing costs 264.2 210.2
Other operating expenses 174.6 120.2
Total operating expenses . 5,903.4 4,692.2
7. Operating profit
2024 2 =) 2023

. im fm

Operating profit is stated after charging:
Variable lease payments on aircraft rentals and components 210.1 165.8
Auditor’s remuneration 2024 2023
_ £m fm
Audit of these financial statements 0.6 0.5

Fees payable for audit-related assurance services in respect of ATOL reporting during the year were £25,000
(2023: £18,000).

8. Net financing income.

2024 2=Sté=<“‘<i:«‘«CDS

£m £m
Finance income 73.4 26.2
Finance income on loans from Group undertakings 51.3 12.9
Finance expense on lease liabilities (22.9) (12.6)
Finance expense on loans from Group undertakings (6.5) -
Net foreign exchange revaluation gains / (losses) 9.2 {17.0)
Total net financing income , 104.5 9.5

45

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
9. Employees

The average monthly number of persons, including Directors, employed by the Group during the year was:

2024 2023

No. No.

Operations 11,793 9,982
Administration 1,683 1,276

13,476 11,258

2024 2023

£m ; £m

Wages and salaries 604.7 479.7
Social security costs : 65.3 54.8
Other pension costs (Note 25) 31.3 : 23.8
Share options — value of employee services 12.5 9.2

713.8 567.5

The share-based payment charge relates to rights granted by Jet2 plc to its equity instruments to the
business’s employees, which are accounted for as equity-settled in accordance with IFRS 2 — Share-based
Payments.

2024 2023
im £m
Directors’ remuneration:
Emoluments 45 4.0
Pension contributions : 0.4 0.3
49 4.3
Highest paid Director:
Emoluments 0.7 0.6
Pension contributions : -
0.7 : 0.6

During the year Philip Meeson, Steve Heapy and Gary Brown were paid by the Company's ultimate Parent
Company, Jet2 pic. Details of their remuneration are included within the total emoluments of £2.4m (2023:
£2.2m) and total pension contributions of £0.2m (2023: £0.2m) disclosed in the financial statements of that
company. Along with the other Directors disclosed on page 2, these employees represent the key
management personnel of the Company.

The number of Directors accruing benefits under the Group’s pension scheme was 11 (2023: 11). The
number of Directors who, at the start of the financial year, held options and/or deferred awards over shares
in long-term incentive schemes in the ultimate Parent Company, Jet2 pic, was 13 (2023: 13).

46

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

10. Taxation

Current taxation:

UK corporation taxation based upon the profits for the year:
- current year
- prior year

Current tax charge for the year

Deferred taxation:
Origination and reversal of timing differences:
- current year :
- prior year
Deferred tax charge for the year
Total taxation charge in Consolidated Income Statement in the year

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Taxation relating to components of OCI

Total taxation recognised in Consolidated Income Statement and OCI in the

year

2024
fm

57.3
(0.4)
56.9

58.9
(1.8)
57.1
114.0

0.8
114.8

2023
fm

41.6
0.2
41.8

21.7

21,7
63.5

(50.5)
13.0

The taxation assessed for the current year is lower (2023: lower) than the standard rate of corporation tax

in the UK. The differences are explained below:

Profit before taxation
Profit before taxation multiplied by standard rate
of corporation tax in the UK of 25% (2023: 19%)

Effects of:

Expenses not deductible

Difference between current and deferred tax rates
Adjustments to tax charge in previous periods
Total

“a7

2024 2023
fm £m
462.2 351.8
115.6 66.8
0.6 (4.0)

: 0.5
(2.2) 0.2
114.0 63.5


Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

10. Taxation (continued)

Deferred tax assets / (liabilities)
At 31 March 2022

Charge to Income Statement
Credit to OCI

At 31 March 2023

Charge to Income Statement
Charge to OCI

Credit to equity

At 31 March 2024

Deferred taxation in relation to financial instruments in the tables above includes the impact of the Group's
forward foreign currency contracts. Other deferred taxation includes a £84.2m (2023: £135.1m) asset recognised

Accelerated Financial Other Total
capital instruments

allowances .

im £m fm £m

2.9 (36.0) 146.9 113.8

(12.9) - (8.8) (21.7)

: $0.5 : 50.5

(10.0) 14.5 138.1 142.6

(9.4) - (47.7) (57.1)

- (0.8) - (0.8)

- - 5.4 5.4

(19.4) 13.7 95.8 90.1

in respect of losses carried forward to be utilised against future profits.

The Group has provided for all deferred tax expected to reverse at 25% (2023: 25%).

The Pillar Two rules are now included within Finance (No. 2) Act 2023 and will come into effect for accounting
periods beginning on or after 31 December 2023. The legislation will mandate a minimum effective tax rate of
15% across each of the Group’s trading jurisdictions. The Group has performed an assessment of its potential
exposure to Pillar Two income taxes under IAS 12 and does not expect any exposure to top-up taxes.

There are no other identified factors which may impact the Group’s future total tax charge.

11. Intangible assets

Airport Slots

Cost & net book value
At 31 March 2023 and 2024

No impairment was identified at the balance sheet date (2023:

48

£nil).

£m

26.8
26.8


Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

12. Property, plant and equipment

Cost

At 1 April 2022
Additions
Disposals

At 31 March 2023

Additions
Disposals
At 31 March 2024

Depreciation

At 1 April 2022
Charge for the year
Disposals

At 31 March 2023

Charge for the year
Disposals
At 31 March 2024

Net book value
At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

Land and Aircraft, engines Plant, Total
buildings and other vehicles and
components equipment

fm £m £m im

24.6 148.0 112.5 285.1

1.9 71.5 11.1 84.5

: (5.5) (7.3) (12.8)

26.5 214.0 116.3 356.8

9.5 $3.3 32.8 95.6

: (7.0) (0.3) (7.3)

_36.0 260.3 148.8 445.1

(11.3) (76.5) (83.8) (171.6)

(1.7) (9.8) (9.2) (20.7)

- 5.5 73 12.8

(13.0) (80.8) (85.7) (179.5)

(1.9) (17.3) (11.1) (30.3)

- 7.0 0.3 7.3

(14.9) (91.1) (96.5) (202.5)

21.1 169.2 52.3 242.6

13.5 133.2 30.6 177.3

49


Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

13. Right-of-use assets

Total

Aircraft, engines Other
and other
components

: im £m —m
Cost
At 1 April 2022 850.0 25.1 875.1
Additions 215.2 7S 222.7
Disposals (2.5) (5.6) (8.1)
At 31 March 2023 1,062.7 27.0 1,089.7
Additions 333.8 22.3 356.1
Disposals (34.3) (4.2) (38.5)
At 31 March 2024 1,362.2 45.1 1,407.3
Depreciation
At 1 April 2022 (547.0) (13.5) (560.5)
Charge for the year (125.7) * (4.1) (129.8)
Disposals 2.4 5.6 8.0
At 31 March 2023 (670.3) (12.0) (682.3)
Charge for the year (182.3) (5.6) (187.9)
Disposals 34.3 4.2 38.5
At 31 March 2024 (818.3) (13.4) (831.7)
Net book value
At 31 March 2024 . $43.9 31.7 575.6
At 31 March 2023 392.4 15.0 -_ 407.4

The net book value of other right-of-use assets of £31.7m (2023
buildings.

14. Inventories

Carbon emissions allowances
Consumables

: £15.0m) solely relates to land and

2024 2023
£m £m
116.0 38.6
88 1.6
1248 40.2

Carbon emissions allowances purchased in advance are recorded in inventories at their historic cost and

are not subsequently revalued as they are held for own use.

50

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

15. Trade and other receivables

Trade receivables

Amounts due from Parent Company
Amounts due from Group undertakings
Prepayments

Hotel supplier advances

Other receivables

Current
Non-current

Non-current balances comprise hotel supplier advances.

Ageing analysis of Trade receivables

31 March 2024

im
Gross Provision
receivables for
doubtful
debts
Not past due 76.5 -
Up to one month past due 0.4 -
Over one month past due 4.5 (0.5)
81.4 (0.5)

2024 2023
£m £m
80.9 81.2
878.5 777.2
43 3.3
51.9 58.7
124.3 64.3
183.0 126.8
1,322.9 1,111.5
1,301.7 1,111.5
21.2 -
1,322.9 1,111.5
31 March 2023
£m
Net trade Gross Provision Net trade
receivables _ receivables for receivables
doubtful
debts
76.5 76.4 - 76.4
0.4 1.8 : 1.8
4.0 3.4 (0.4) 3.0
80.9 81.6 (0.4) 81.2

Expected credit losses in relation to the Other receivables balance and in relation to the amounts owed by
the Parent Company and Group undertakings are immaterial to the Group.

16. Cash and cash equivalents and money market deposits

2024

£m

Free cash and cash equivalents 686.0
Money market deposits 939.1
Total free cash and cash equivalents and money market deposits 1,625.1
Other restricted cash 11
Total cash and cash equivalents and money market deposits 1,626.2

$1

2023
£m

394.1
827.9
“1,222.0

2.0

1,224.0


Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

17. Trade and other payables

2024 2023
£m £m

Current:
Trade payables 114.9 94.9
Other taxation and social security 22.9 19.3
Amounts owed to Parent Company 68.2 205.7
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 2.3 2.9
Other creditors and accruals 306.3 209.0
514.6 $31.8

18. Deferred revenue

Receivables Deferred Advance
revenue customer
deposits
fm £m £m
Balance at 31 March 2022 44.4 (1,189.1) (1,144.7)
Revenue recognised that was included in deferred revenue . 1,142.2 1,142.2

at the beginning of the year
Increase in receivables 21.6 - 21.6
Net cash received, excluding amounts recognised as

revenue in the year - (1,516.7) (1,516.7)
Balance at 31 March 2023 66.0 (1,563.6) (1,497.6)
Revenue recognised that was included in deferred revenue . 1,567.0 1,567.0

at the beginning of the year
Increase in receivables 7.3 - 7.3
Net cash received, excluding amounts recognised as

. - (1,930.0) (1,930.0)

revenue in the year
Balance at 31 March 2024 : 73.3 (1,926.6) (1,853.3)
Current 73.3 (1,903.9) (1,830.6)
Non-current - (22.7) (22.7)
73.3 (1,926.6) (1,853.3)

Receivables relates to invoicing of amounts due from travel agents in respect of package holiday deposits and
balance payments and is included within Trade receivables in Note 15.

The Group's aggregate sales value allocated to the performance obligations that were unsatisfied (or partially
unsatisfied) as at 31 March 2024 was £3,720.0m (2023: £3,028.2m) of which £3,555.2m (2023: £2,903.5m) is
expected to be recognised as revenue within one year. The remaining balance will be recognised as revenue
between one and two years.

52

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

19. Lease liabilities

Lease liabilities are repayable as follows:

2024 2023

fm £m

Within one year 192.8 154.4

Between one and two years 177.0 149.3

Between two and five years ; . 174.6 81.0

Over five years 38.1 28.7

Total 582.5 413.4

Current 192.8 154.4

Non-current 389.7 259.0

Total 582.5 413.4

20. Provisions
. Customer :
Maintenance Compensation Claims Total

2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023

£m £m £m £m £m £m

Opening at 1 April 73.0 56.4 30.9 13.5 103.9 69.9

Provision in the year 33.8 31.0 18.8 44,3 52.6 75.3

Utilised (16.7) (11.2) (15.3) (25.8) . (32.0) (37.0)
Released unused —_ 3.8) 3-2) (20.0) (2) 038) (4.3)

Closing at 31 March 86.3 73.0 24.4 30.9 110.7 103.9

Current liabilities 46.5 33.0 24.4 30.9 70.9 63.9

Non-current liabilities 39.8 40.0 : - - 39.8 40.0

Total 86.3 73.0 24.4 30.9. 110.7 103.9

Maintenance provisions relate entirely to the Group’s obligation to maintain leased aircraft in accordance
with the aircraft manufacturer's published maintenance programmes during the lease term, and to ensure
that aircraft are returned to the lessor in accordance with its contractual requirements. A charge is made
in the Consolidated Income Statement, based on hours or cycles flown or on a calendar basis.

Estimates are required in relation to the likely utilisation of the leased aircraft and the expected cost of
maintenance events at the time they are expected to occur. The interaction of the Group’s estimations of
aircraft utilisation together with the cost of maintenance events could lead to a modification of the
provision. If the Group’s estimated cost of a maintenance event alone were to increase by 5% for each
event respectively, this would have resulted in an increase in the provision at 31 March 2024 of £1.4m
(2023: £1.5m).

Current aircraft maintenance provisions relate to maintenance obligations expected to be fulfilled in the
coming financial year. Non-current provisions relate to future aircraft maintenance obligations of the Group
on leased aircraft falling due over one year from the balance sheet date. Non-current provisions have not
all been discounted on the basis that the impact of discounting would not be material.

53

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

20. Provisions (continued)

Customer compensation claim provisions relate to the Group’s obligation in respect of possible passenger
claims for historical flight delays under Regulation —EU261 UK; together with possible customer
compensation claims that cannot be reclaimed from hotels. The main assumptions underlying the possible
passenger claims for flight delays and possible customer compensation claims are the number of valid
claims received and which may be received, the amount at which those claims may be settled and,
additionally for customer compensation claims, the proportion which may be reclaimed from hotels. The
majority of cash outflows connected with these provisions are expected to occur within three years of the
balance sheet date. ;

21. Financial instruments
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
Credit risk

The Group is exposed to credit risk to the extent of non-performance by its counterparties in respect of
financial assets receivable. However, the Group has policies and procedures in place to ensure such risk is
limited and sets credit limits for each counterparty accordingly. The Group regularly monitors such limits,
incorporating this information into credit risk controls, and does not currently hold any collateral.

Since the Group does not place funds with any deposit taker with a long-term credit rating lower than A-
/A3, and a short-term credit rating lower than A-2, F2, P2, expected credit losses for cash and cash
equivalents and money market deposits are considered immaterial and hence no impairments were
identified. As any expected credit loss are reflected in the value of financial assets, the maximum exposure
to credit risk is limited to the net carrying value of each asset as summarised in section (a).

Liquidity risk
The Group’s strategy for managing liquidity risk is to maintain cash balances in an appropriately liquid form

and in accordance with approved counterparty limits, while securing the continuity and flexibility of funding
through the use of committed banking facilities.

Short-term cash flow risk, in relation to margin calls in respect of fuel and foreign currency hedge positions,
is minimised through diversification of counterparties together with appropriate credit thresholds. In
addition, a regular assessment is made of the Group’s RCF covenant compliance, for which there were no
covenant breaches during the year. The Group continues to monitor its liquidity levels in conjunction with
its Board approved Liquidity Policy.

Foreign currency risk

The Group incurs significant operational costs which are euro and US dollar denominated and can be
exposed to sudden movements in exchange rates.

Transactional currency exposures arise as a result of expenditure on hotel accommodation, aviation fuel,
aircraft maintenance, air traffic control, lease liability payments and airport charges.

The Group’s policy is to forward cover up to 90% of foreign currency requirements by the start of the
season. The remainder of the Group’s requirement is hedged within the season. The Group enters into
forward foreign currency exchange contracts up to 18 months in advance of the hedged transaction.

54

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

21. Financial instruments (continued)

All foreign currency derivatives hedged with its four relationship banks during the year ended 31 March
2024 are linked to one of the Group’s key climate metric, gCO2 per revenue passenger km aircraft fuel burn
only, and compensated via a rebate.

Aviation fuel price risk

The cost of fuel is a considerable element of the cost base of the business and the effective management
of aviation fuel price volatility remains important.

The Group’s policy is to forward cover up to 90% of fuel requirements with aviation fuel swaps by the start
of the season. The remainder of the Group’s requirement is hedged within the season. The Group enters
into aviation fuel swaps up to 18 months in advance of the hedged transaction.

Carbon price risk

The Group is exposed to carbon price risk through its obligation to purchase carbon emissions allowances
to offset emissions in each calendar year. The Group hedges carbon emissions allowances in line with its
approved policy. As these allowances are a non-financial item purchased for the Group’s own-use, they are
not recorded as a derivative financial instrument in line with IFRS 9 — Financial Instruments.

The Group purchases carbon emissions allowances for both its UK and EU carbon requirements under fixed
price forward contracts with different maturity dates.

Additionally, for the period ended 31 December 2023, the Group voluntarily offsets all carbon emissions
not already covered by the UK and EU Emissions Trading Schemes.

55

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

21. Financial instruments (continued)

(a) Carrying amount and fair values of financial instruments

The carrying amounts and fair value of all of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at the year end

was as follows:

Financial assets

Cash and cash equivalents

Money market deposits

Trade receivables

Other receivables

Money market deposits due from Parent Company
Loan to Group undertaking

Amounts due from Group undertakings
Derivative financial instruments due from Parent
Company

Total financial assets

Financial liabilities

Trade payables

Other accruals and creditors

Amounts owed to Parent Company

Amounts owed to Group undertakings

Lease liabilities

Derivative financial instruments owed to Parent
Company

Total financial liabilities

S6

2024

Measured at Measured at ‘Total carrying
amortised cost fair value amount
£m im. £m

687.1 - 687.1

939.1 - 939.1

80.9 - 80.9

183.0 - 183.0

878.5 - 878.5

2.7 - 2.7
16 - 1.6°

- 32.2 32.2

2,772.9 32.2 2,805.1
114.9 - 114.9

306.3 - 306.3

68.2 - 68.2

2.3 - 2.3

582.5 - $82.5

- 88.6 88.6

1,074.2 88.6 1,162.8


Jet2.com Limited

NOTES.TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

21. Financial instruments (continued)

(a) Carrying amount and fair values of financial instruments (continued)

2023
Measured at __ Measured at — Total carrying
amortised cost . fair value. amount
Financial assets £m £m £m
Cash and cash equivalents 396.1 - 396.1
Money market deposits 827.9 - 827.9
Trade receivables 81.2 - 81.2
Other receivables* 126.8 - 126.8
Money market deposits due from Parent Company 777.2 - 777.2
Loan to Group undertaking 3.3 - 3.3
Derivative financial instruments due from Parent 7 46.7 46.7
Company
Total financial assets 2,212.5 46.7 2,259.2
Financial liabilities
Trade payables 94.9 - 94.9
Other accruals and creditors* 209.0 - 209.0
Money market deposits owed to Parent Company 146.2 - 146.2
Amounts owed to Parent Company : $9.5 - 59.5
Amounts owed to Group undertakings . 2.9 - 2.9
Lease liabilities 413.4 - 413.4
Derivative financial instruments owed to Parent
- 101.9 101.9
Company
Total financial liabilities 925.9 101.9 1,027.8

* The carrying amounts and fair value of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 31 March 2023 have been restated to include
Other receivables within financial assets and Other creditors and accruals within financial liabilities.

derivative financial instruments categorised as fair value through profit and loss at 31 March 2024
are, by concession, deferred through OCI as the movements relate to the effective portion of the
cashflow hedge; .

due to the short maturity of money market deposits and cash and cash equivalents, amortised cost
is considered to be a close approximation to fair value;

for trade receivables and trade payables, carrying value at amortised cost approximates to fair
value;

all loans and borrowings are initially recorded at fair value less any directly-attributable transaction
costs. Loans, borrowings and lease liabilities are, where applicable, subsequently measured at

“ amortised cost; and

the fair value of derivative financial instruments has been measured by reference to the fair value
of the instruments, as provided by external counterparties.

57

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

21. Financial instruments (continued)

(a) Carrying amount and fair values of financial instruments (continued)

IFRS 13 — Fair Value Measurement requires the classification of fair value measurements using a hierarchy
that reflects the nature of the inputs used in making the assessments. The fair values of the Group’s
derivative financial instruments are derived using available market information, other than quoted prices
in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. The inputs into the fair value calculations include
quotations by brokers and price index data and are classified as level 2 within the fair value hierarchy.

The valuation methodologies used are as follows:

e the fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts are calculated by discounting the contracted
forward values and translating at the appropriate balance sheet rates; and

e the fair values of aviation fuel swaps are calculated by discounting expected future cash flows and
translating at the appropriate balance sheet rates.

The Group uses derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to currency exchange rates and
aviation fuel prices, consistent with its risk management policies and objectives. These derivatives are

analysed as follows:

US dollar forward contracts
Euro forward contracts
Aviation fuel swaps

‘Total

US dollar forward contracts
Euro forward contracts
Aviation fuel swaps

Total

2024
Asset Liability Other Costofhedging Cash flow hedging
fair value fairvalue _—receivables reserve reserve
£m £m £m £m £m
2.2 (19.9) - (0.4) . 18.1
0.1 (65.3) - 29.7 35.5
29.9 (3.4) 18 - (28.3)
32.2 (88.6) 1.8 29.3 25.3
2023
Asset Liability Other Cost of hedging Cash flow hedging
fair value fair value payables reserve reserve
£m £m fm £m £m
13.3 (30.9) - (3.0) 20.6
23.2 (8.5) - 27.0 (41.7)
10.2 (62.5) (3.0) - 55.3
46.7 (101.9) (3.0) 24.0 34.2

58

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

21. Financial instruments (continued)

(a) Carrying amount and fair values of financial instruments (continued)

The impact of cash flow hedging instruments, by category of risk hedged, on the Statement of Financial
Position is as follows:

aot . oe 2024 2023

Hedging instruments and location in . . .

Statement of Financial Position Notional Carrying Notional Carrying
amount amount amount amount

£m fm £m £m

Currency forward contracts

Non-current assets 137.9 0.5 152.9 0.8

Current assets 338.1 1.8 1,488.3 35.7

Current liabilities 3,336.3 (80.4) 1,449.0 (32.1)

Non-current liabilities 474.6 (4.8) 638.3 (7.3)
4,286.9 (82.9) 3,728.5 (2.9)

Aviation fuel swaps

Non-current assets 105.5 3.8 9.8 0.1

Current assets 386.1 26.1 92.2 10.1

Current liabilities 117.8 (2.6) 396.8 (53.0)

Non-current liabilities 37.6 (0.8) 121.9 . (9.5)

647.0 26.5 620.7 (52.3)

(b) Movements in fair value of financial instruments
Fair value of hedging

instrument
Assets Liabilities
£m fm
At 31 March 2022 : 204.4 (42.0)
Other comprehensive income : 28.6 (99.1)
(Charged) / credited to income statement : (186.3) 39.2
At 31 March 2023 46.7 (101.9)
Other comprehensive income 31.1 (71.8)
(Charged) / credited to income statement (45.6) 85.1
At 31 March 2024 32.2 (88.6)

59

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

21. Financial instruments (continued)

(b) Movements in fair value of financial instruments (continued)

The impact of hedge instrument on Foreign currency Aviation fuel price Total cash flow
cash flow hedging reserve risk risk hedging reserve

£m £m £m
Balance at 31 March 2022 7.2 (161.3) (154.1)
{Gains) / losses transferred to reserves : (8.2) 69.2 61.0
Transfer to profit and loss for the year (21.6) 186.4 164.8
Deferred tax movement : 6.7 (52.6) (45.9)
Balance at 31 March 2023 (15.9) 41.7 25.8
Losses / (gains) transferred to reserves 94.0 (37.5) , 56.5
Transfer to profit and loss for the year (19.3) (46.0) (65.3)
Deferred tax movement (18.7) 20.8 2.1
Balance at 31 March 2024 40.1 (21.0) 19.1

Gains and losses on revaluation of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, shown in the table above,
have an equal and opposite impact on OCI. There were no reclassification adjustments other than the
transfer of gains and losses from the cashflow hedging reserve into the profit and loss account.

The impact of hedge instrument on _ Foreign currency Aviation fuel price Total cost of
cost of hedging reserve risk risk hedging reserve
£m £m fm
Balance at 31 March 2022 3.9 1.6 5.5
Losses / (gains) taken into reserves 14.7 (2.1) 12.6
Transfer to profit and loss for the year 4.4 - 4.4
Deferred tax movement (5.1) 0.5 (4.6)
Balance at 31 March 2023 — a7gsti i‘ OU
Gains taken into reserves , (17.4) - (17.4)
Transfer to profit and loss for the year 22.7 - 22.7
_Deferred tax movement (1.3) - (1.3)

Balance at 31 March 2024 21.9 : 21.9

60

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

21. Financial instruments (continued)

(c) Maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities

The maturity profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at the end of the year was as follows:

Period of maturity

Financial assets

Liquid assets and receivables

Derivative financial instruments owed by Parent
Company

Total financial assets

Financial liabilities

Trade payables

Other creditors and accruals

Amounts owed to Parent Company

Amounts owed to Group undertakings

Lease liabilities

Derivative financial instruments owed to Parent
Company

Total financial liabilities

Period of maturity

Financial assets

Liquid assets and receivables*

Derivative financial instruments owed by Parent
Company

Total financial assets

Financial liabilities

Trade payables

Other creditors and accruals*

Money market deposits owed to Parent Company
Amounts owed to Parent Company

Amounts owed to Group undertakings

Lease liabilities

Derivative financial instruments owed to Parent
Company

Total financial liabilities

31 March 2024

Lessthan 8etween one More than Total
one year and two years two years ©
ém £m £m im
2,772.9 - - 2,772.9
27.9 43 ot 32.2
2,800.8 43 : 2,805.1
114.9 - - 114.9
306.3 - - 306.3
68.2 - - 68.2
2.3 - - 23
192.8 177.0 "212.7 582.5
83.0 5.6 - 88.6
767.5 - 182.6 212.7 1,162.8
31 March 2023
Less than Between one More than Total
one year and two years two years
£m . £m £m £m
2,212.5 - - 2,212.5
45.8 0.9 - 46.7
2,258:3 0.9 - 2,259.2
94.9 - . - 94.9
209.0 - - 209.0
146.2 - - 146.2
59.5 - - 59.5
2.9 - . - 2.9
154.4 149.3 109.7 413.4
85.1 - 16.8 - 101.9
752.0 166.1 109.7 1,027.8

* The maturity profile of the Group’s financial assets and liabilities at 31 March 2023 have been restated to include Other
receivables within financial assets and Other creditors and accruals within financial liabilities.

61

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

21. Financial instruments (continued)
(c) Maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities (continued)

The expected contractual maturity of derivative financial instruments that are marked to market based on
the undiscounted cash flows is set out below. Where the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the
amount has been determined by reference to market data, including forward commodity prices and foreign
exchange rates, illustrated by forward yield curves at the reporting date. Other financial liabilities include
borrowings and lease liabilities, which are presented gross and therefore comprise both principal
repayments and finance expenses not yet accrued.

Period of maturity Lessthanone Between one and More than two Total
(undiscounted cash flows) year two years years
fm £m £m £m

At 31 March 2024

Currency forward contracts payment 3,336.3 _ 474.6 - 3,810.9
Currency forward contracts receipt (3,255.9) (469.8) - (3,725.7)
Aviation fuel swaps payment 117.8 37.6 - 155.4
-Aviation fuel swaps receipt (115.2) (36.8) - (152.0)
Net Derivatives settlement — financial 83.0 5.6 . 88.6
liabilities

Trade payables 114.9 - - 114.9
Other creditors and accruals 306.3 - - 306.3
Lease liabilities 215.2 188.8 228.0 632.0
Amounts owed to Parent company 68.2 - - 68.2
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 2.3 - - 2.3
Total other financial liabilities 706.9 188.8 228.0 1,123.7
Total 789.9 194.4 228.0 1,212.3

62

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

21. Financial instruments (continued)

(c) Maturity profile of financial assets and liabilities (continued)

Period of maturity
(undiscounted cash flows)

At 31 March 2023

Currency forward contracts payment
Currency forward contracts receipt
Aviation fuel swaps payment
Aviation fuel swaps receipt

Net Derivatives settlement - financial
liabilities

Trade payables
Other creditors and accruals*

Lease liabilities
Amounts owed to Parent company
(including money market deposits owed)*

Amounts owed to Group undertakings*
Total other financial liabilities

Total

* The maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities at 31 March 2023 have been restated to include other creditors and

Less than one
year
im

1,449.0
(1,416.9)
396.8
(343.8)

85.1

94.9
209.0
169.0

205.7

2.9
681.5

766.6

Between one More than two
and two years years
fm fm

638.3 -

(631.0) -

121.9 -

(112.4) -

16.8 -

157.2 114.7

157.2 114.7

174.0 114.7

accruals, amounts owed to Parent company and amounts owed to Group undertakings

63

Total

im

2,087.3
(2,047.9)
518.7
(456.2)

101.9

94.9
209.0
440.9

205.7

2.9
953.4

1,055.3

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

21. Financial instruments (continued)

(d) Interest rate risk

Financial assets - cash and cash equivalents and money market deposits and loans:

Cash and cash equivalents and
money market deposits:
Sterling

US dollar

Euro

Other

Loans:

To Jet2 Support Services (Spain)
Limited (Sterling)

31 March 2024

interest Financial Total Interest

bearing assets on bearing

financial which no financial

assets interest is assets
receivable

fm £m fm £m

1,610.5 1.7 1,612.2 1,206.3

4.2 - 4.2 5.5

5.3 1.0 6.3 5.0

3.6 - 3.6 3.6

27 : 2.7 3.3

1,626.3 2.7 1,629.0 1,223.7

31 March 2023
Financial
assets on
which no
interest is
receivable
£m

2.8

0.8

3.6

Total

im

1,209.1
5.5
5.8
3.6

3.3
1,227.3-

The interest bearing financial assets comprise cash on deposit and
market rates according to currency and term.

Financial liabilities — lease liabilities:

Lease liabilities:
Sterling

US dollar

Euro

31 March 2024

Floating Fixed rate Total
rate financial
financial liabilities

liabilities

£m £m fm

- 236.9 236.9

- 344.5 344.5

- 1.1 11

- 582.5 582.5

64

money market deposits at various

Floating
rate
financial
liabilities
£m

31 March 2023
Fixed rate
financial
liabilities

£m

154.0
257.6

1.8
413.4

Total

£m

154.0
257.6

1.8
413.4


Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

21. Financial instruments (continued)
(e) Currency exposure

Financial instruments that are not denominated in the functional currency of the operating unit involved
expose the Group to a currency risk. The carrying value of the Group’s financial instruments at 31 March,
including derivative financial instruments, on which exchange differences would be recognised in the
Consolidated Income Statement in the following year, were as follows:

US dollar Euro Other Total

£m £m im £m

31 March 2023 (319.2) (140.4) 3.7 (455.9)
31 March 2024 : (442.0) (143.5) 3.6 (581.9)

(f) Sensitivity analysis

The following table shows the impact of currency translation exposures arising from monetary assets and
liabilities of the Group that are not denominated in sterling, along with the impact of a reasonably possible
change in fuel prices, with all other variables held constant.

31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Income Other Income Other
Statement Comprehensive Statement Comprehensive
: Income Income
10% increase in aviation fuel prices - 67.3 - 61.1
10% weakening in GBP vs USD (50.0) 137.5 (36.3) © 129.9
10% weakening in GBP vs EUR (15.9) 329.8 (15.6) 284.0
10% decrease in aviation fuel prices - {67.3) - (61.1)
10% strengthening in GBP vs USD 40.9 (112.5) 29.7 (106.2)
10% strengthening in GBP vs EUR 13.0 (270.4) 12.8 (232.3)
22. Capital and reserves
Share capital
2024 2023
fm £m
Allotted, called up and fully paid:
300,250,000 ordinary shares of £1 each? 300.3 300.3

There was no change to the issued share capital in the year (2023: nil).
Cash flow hedging reserve

The cash flow hedging reserve comprises of the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair
value of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged transactions that have not yet matured.

65

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

22. Capital and reserves (continued)
Cost of hedging reserve

The cost of hedging reserve represents changes in the value of foreign currency forward contracts arising
as a result of foreign currency basis spread and forward points, which are held separately when designating
the forward contract as a hedging instrument. This does not form part of the designated hedging instrument
and are instead held in a separate cost of hedging reserve. The cost of hedging reserve is subsequently
recognised in profit and loss in the period in which the hedged transaction affects profit and loss for forward
contracts.

Retained earnings

Retained earnings principally reflect cumulative profit and loss less dividends paid.

23. Notes to Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

Changes in cash and financing liabilities Cash andcash Money market Lease Total
equivalents deposits liabilities Net cash /

(debt)

£m £m £m im

At 1 April 2023 396.1 827.9 (413.4) 810.6
Payment of lease liabilities - - 178.5 178.5
‘Other cash flows 291.3 111.2 . 402.5
Exchange differences (0.3) - 3.0 2.7
Lease movements! - - (350.6) (350.6)
At 31 March 2024 687.1 939.1 (582.5) 1,043.7
Changes in cash and financing liabilities Cash andcash Money market Lease Total
equivalents deposits liabilities Net cash /

. (debt)

£m £m £m £m

At 1 April 2022 625.4 600.4 (318.6) 907.2
Payment of lease liabilities : - : 135.5 135.5
Other cash flows {229.5) 227.5 - (2.0)
Exchange differences 0.2 - (8.1) (7.9)
Lease movements? - - ~ (222.2) (222.2)
At 31 March 2023 396.1 827.9 (413.4) 810.6

tLease movements include new leases and lease term amendments.

66

Jet2.com Limited
NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

24. Contingent liabilities

Various guarantees have been issued in the ordinary course of business, none of which are expected to lead
to a financial gain or loss. None of these guarantees are considered to have a material fair value under IFRS.
17 — Insurance Contracts and consequently no liability has been recorded.

25. Pension scheme

The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The pension charge for the period represents
contributions payable by the Group into the scheme and amounted to £31.3m (2023: £23.8m).
26. Related party transactions

During the year, Jet2.com group companies entered into the following transactions with related parties
who are not members of the Jet2.com group:

2024 2024 2024 2023 2023 2023

im £m £m £m fm fm

Sales Purchases _Interest Sales Purchases __Interest

Jet2 pic - (65.9) 44.8 - (56.9) 12.9
Dart Leasing & Finance Limited - (46.7) - - (46.4) -
Jet2 Support Services (Spain) Limited 6.1 (17.9) - 1.1 (14.1) -
Total 6.1 ~ (130.5) 44.8 11 (117.4) 12.9

The following amounts were outstanding at the balance sheet date:

Amounts owed from Amounts owed to
related parties related parties

2024 2023 2024 2023

fm £m £m £m

Jet2 pic 878.5 777.2 68.2 205.7
Jet2 Support Services (Spain) Limited 2.7 3.3 2.3 2.0
Dart Leasing & Finance Limited 1.6 - - 0.9
Total 882.8 780.5 70.5 208.6

The parent of the smallest and largest group of undertakings for which consolidated financial statements
are drawn up, and of which Jet2.com is a member, is Jet2 plc. Jet2 plc is registered in England and Wales
and copies of its financial statements can be obtained from Low Fare Finder House, Leeds Bradford Airport,
Leeds, LS19 7TU.

Jet2 plc is a related party of the Group because it is the parent and the ultimate controlling party of
Jet2.com. Dart Leasing & Finance Limited and Jet2 Support Services (Spain) Limited are related parties to
Jet2.com because they share the same parent as Jet2.com, Jet2 plc.

Transactions made during the year between Jet2.com group companies and Jet2 pic were at arm’s length
and included rental! and maintenance payments for aircraft leased from Jet2 plc to Jet2.com, various
recharges for shared costs between Jet2 ple and Jet2.com and Jet2holidays, and interest income from
money market deposits placed by other group undertakings on Jet2.com Group's behalf.

Transactions made during the year between Jet2.com and Dart Leasing & Finance Limited were at arm’s
length and included rental and maintenance payments for aircraft leased from Dart Leasing & Finance
Limited to Jet2.com.

67

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

* 26. Related party transactions (continued)

Transactions made during the year between Jet2.com and Jet2 Support Services (Spain) Limited were at
arm’s length and included charges for leisure travel support services.

These amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or
received. There are no expected credit losses in respect of amounts owed by related parties.

Rick Green, a Non-Executive Director of the Company’s ultimate parent, Jet2 pic, is also a Director of
Brooklyn Travel Holdings Limited, Congress Team International (UK) Limited and Stewart Travel Limited,
being subsidiaries of Brooklyn Travel Holdings Limited. Additionally, Steve Heapy is a Director of ABTA
Limited. These counterparties had transactions with the Group during the financial year ended 31 March
2024 as disclosed below:

Revenue / (expense) Amounts outstanding

Relationship in the year at year end
2024 2023 2024 2023
: im £m £m £m
uniintted International Common directorship 8.1 6.3 - -
Stewart Travel Limited* Common directorship (2.7) (2.4) 1.1 0.8
ABTA Limited** Common directorship {0.2) (0.2) : : .

* Expenses in respect of Stewart Travel Limited relate to commissions paid for holidays sold by the agent on the
Group’s behalf.

** Expenses with ABTA Limited relate to the Group’s membership of the regulatory body for package holidays.

68

Jet2.com Limited

PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
at 31 March 2024

2024 2023
Note £m £m
Non-current assets
Intangible assets 5 26.8 26.8
Property, plant and equipment 6 242.6 177.2
Right-of-use assets 7 575.6 407.4
Investments 4 26.5 26.5
Deferred taxation 13 75.1 144.8
946.6 782.7
Current assets -
Inventories 8 124.8 40.2
Trade and other receivables 9 1,644.9 1,322.0
Derivative financial instruments owed by Parent Company 32.0 27.3
Money market deposits , 410.0 376.1
Cash and cash equivalents 525.4 301.6
2,737.1 2,067.2
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables ~ 10 833.5 718.8
Deferred revenue 1,406.8 1,117.9
Lease liabilities 12 192.8 154.4
Provisions 11 64.8 57.9
Derivative financial instruments owed to Parent Company 28.5 80.2
2,526.4 2,129.2
Net.current assets / (liabilities) 210.7 (62.0)
Total assets less current lia 1,157.3 720.7
Non-current liabilities
Deferred revenue 54.0 41.4
Lease liabilities 12 389.7 259.0
Provisions 11 39.8 40.0
Derivative financial instruments owed to Parent Company 4.0 14.6
Net assets 669.8 365.7
Shareholder’s equity
Share capital 300.3 300.3
Cash flow hedging reserve 4.3 (51.9)
Cost of hedging reserve : (3.3) (1.0)
Profit and loss account 368.5 118.3
Total shareholder’s equity 669.8 365.7

The Company reported a profit after taxation for the financial year ended 31 March 2024 of £244.8m (2023:
£240.0m). The financial statements on pages 69 to 76 were approved by the Board of Directors at a meeting
held on 15 August 2024 and were signed on its behalf by: ,

ee

Gary Brown . Jet2.com Limited
Chief Financial Officer Registered No. 02739537

69

Jet2.com Limited

PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

for the year ended 31 March 2024

Share = Cash flow Cost of Profit Total

capital hedging hedging andloss shareholder’s

reserve reserve account equity

£m £m £m £m

Balance at 31 March 2022 300.3 172.8 (2.7) (121.7) 348.7

Total comprehensive income - (224.7) 1.7 240.0 17.0

Balance at 31 March 2023 300.3 (51.9) (1.0) 118.3 365.7

Total comprehensive income - 56.2 (2.3) 244.8 298.7

Deferred tax on share-based - . . 54 5.4
payments

Balance at 31 March 2024 300.3 4.3 (3.3) 368.5 669.8

70

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.

Basis of preparation

The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act
2006. The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 Application of Financial
Reporting Requirements issued by the Financial Reporting Council and has adopted FRS 101 Reduced
Disclosure Framework accordingly.

In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in
respect of the following disclosures:

* cash flow statement and related notes

© comparative period reconciliations for share capital and property, plant and equipment;
¢ transactions with other Group companies;

¢ capital management;

e the effects of new but not yet effective IFRS;

® compensation of key management personnel; and

e certain disclosures required by paragraphs 52, 89, 90, 91 and 93 of IFRS 16 — Leases.

As the Consolidated Financial Statements include. the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also
taken the exemptions under FRS 101 available in respect of the following disclosures:

e IFRS 2 —Share-based Payment in respect of Group settled share-based payments; and

e Certain disclosures required by IFRS 13 — Fair Value Measurement and the disclosures required by
IFRS 7 — Financial Instruments: Disclosures.

The Company proposes to continue to adopt the reduced disclosure framework of FRS101 for future
financial statements.

The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, ‘been applied consistently to all
periods presented in these financial statements. The Company applies consistent accounting policies
for measurement and recognition purposes under FRS 101 to those applied by the Group. To the extent
that an accounting policy is relevant to both the Group and the Company financial statements, details
of these policies have been disclosed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements found from
page 32 onwards.

Accounting policies

Investments

Investments are recorded at cost, less provision for impairment in value where appropriate.

Profit for the year

The Company has taken advantage of the provisions of section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has
elected to not publish its own profit and loss account for the year. Of the Group’s profit on ordinary
activities after taxation for the year, a profit of £244.8m (2023: £240.0m) is dealt with in the financial
statements of the Company.

71

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

4.

Investments

Shares in subsidiary undertakings at cost, and net investment:

At 31 March 2022 and 31 March 2024

The subsidiary undertakings of the Company are:

Subsidiary undertaking:

Principal subsidiary undertaking:
Jet2holidays Limited

Jet2 Support Services (Cyprus) Limited
Jet2 Support Services (Malta) Limited

Dormant subsidiary undertaking:
Jet2 Transport Services Limited*

Principal Activity

Leisure travel package holiday

services
Leisure travel support services
Leisure travel support services

Dormant company

* Owned via shareholding in Jet2holidays Limited.

£m

26.5

Country of incorporation or
, registration

United Kingdom

Cyprus
Malta

United Kingdom

The Company owns 100% of the issued share capital and voting rights of all the companies above.

The issued share capital of each subsidiary undertaking consists entirely of ordinary shares.

With the exception of Jet2 Support Services (Cyprus) Limited and Jet2 Support Services (Malta) Limited, all
of the above subsidiaries share the same registered address as Jet2.com Limited, which is provided on page
2. Their respective registered addresses are as follows:

5.

Jet2 Support Services (Cyprus)
Limited

11 Michael Paridi

1095 Nicosia

Cyprus

Intangible assets

Airport Slots

Cost & net book value
At 31 March 2023 and 2024

Jet2 Support Services (Malta) Limited

Level 1, LM Complex
Brewery Street

No impairment was identified at the balance sheet date (2023: £nil).

72

fm

26.8

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

6. Property, plant and equipment

Cost: .

At 31 March 2023
Additions
Disposals

At 31 March 2024

Depreciation:

At 31 March 2023
Charged during the year
Disposals

At 31 March 2024

Net book value at 31 March 2024

Net book value at 31 March 2023

7. Right-of-use assets

Cost:

At 31 March 2023
Additions
Disposals

At 31 March 2024

Depreciation:

At 31 March 2023
Charged during the year
Disposals

At 31 March 2024

Net book value at 31 March 2024

Net book value at 31 March 2023

Land and Aircraft, engines Plant, Total
buildings andother vehicles and
components equipment

fm £m £m £m

26.5 214.0 113.0 353.5

9.5 53.3 32.7 95.5

: (7.0) (0.3) (7.3)

36.0 260.3 145.4 441.7

(13.0) (80.8) (82.5) ; (176.3)

(1.8) (17.3) (11.0) (30.1)

: 7.0 0.3 7.3

(14.8) (91.1) (93.2) (199.1)

21.2 169.2 52.2 242.6

13.5 133.2 30.5 177.2

Aircraft, engines Other Total

and other
components

£m fm £m

1,062.7 26.8 1,089.5

333.8 22.3 356.1

(34.3) (4.2) (38.5)

1,362.2 44.9 1,407.1

(670.3) (11.8) (682.1)

(182.3) (5.6) (187.9)

34.3 4.2 38.5

(818.3) (13.2) (831.5)

543.9 31.7 575.6

392.4 15.0 407.4

73

Jet2.com Limited
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

8. Inventories

2024 2023

£m £m

Carbon emission allowances 116.0 38.6
Consumables 8.8 1.6
124.8 40.2

Carbon emissions allowances purchased in advance are recorded in inventories at their historic cost and
are not subsequently revalued as they are held for own use.

9. Trade and other receivables

2024 2023
£m £m
Trade receivables 7.6 , 13.4
Amounts due from Parent Company 28.7 -
Amounts due from Group undertakings 1,426.3 1,166.8
Other receivables and prepayments 182.3 141.8
1,644.9 1,322.0

10. Trade and other payables: amounts falling due within one year
2024 2023
im £m
Trade payables 43.6 33.3
Taxation and social security costs : 22.0 18.4
Amounts owed to Parent Company 29.6 188.8
Amounts owed to Group undertakings $12.3 343.8
Other payables and accruals . 226.0 134.5
833.5 718.8

74

Jet2.com Limited

NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

11. Provisions

Customer

Maintenance Compensation Claims Total
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m £m fm fm fm
Opening at 1 April 73.0 56.4 24.9 7.9 97.9 64.3
Provision in the year 33.8 31.0 17.8 43.4 51.6 74.4
Utilised (16.7) (11.2) (14.4) (25.3) (31.1) (36.5)
Released unused (3.8) (3.2) (10.0) (1.1) (13.8) (4.3)
Closing at 31 March 86.3 73.0 18.3 24.9 104.6 97.9
Current liabilities 46.5 33.0 18.3 24.9 64.8 $7.9
Non-current liabilities 39.8 40.0 : - 39.8 40.0
Total 86.3 73.0 18.3 24.9 104.6 97.9

Maintenance provisions relate entirely to the Company’s obligation to maintain leased aircraft in
accordance with the aircraft manufacturer's published maintenance programmes during the lease term,

and to ensure that aircraft are returned to the lessor in accordance with its contractual requirements.

Customer compensation claim provisions relate to the Company’s obligation in respect of possible
passenger claims for historical flight delays under Regulation EU261 UK. Further details can be found on

pages 53 and 54.

12. Lease liabilities

Lease liabilities are repayable as follows:

Within one year

Between one and two years
Between two and five years
Over five years

Total

Current
Non-current

75

2024
fm

192.8
177.1
174.6

38.0
582.5

192.8
389.7
582.5

2023
£m

154.4 |
149.3
81.0
28.7
413.4

154.4
259.0
413.4

Jet2.com Limited
NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

13. Deferred taxation

Accelerated Financial Other Total
capital instruments
_ allowances

Deferred tax assets / (liabilities) . £m _ £m £m £m
At 31 March 2022 2.2 (40.9) 146.9 108.2
Charge to income statement (12.8) - (9.1) (21.9) .
Credit to OCI - 58.5 | - 58.5
At 31 March 2023 (10.6) 17.6 137.8 144.8
Charge to income statement (9.3) - (47.8) (57.1)
Charge to OCI - (18.0) - (18.0)
Credit to equity - - 5.4 5.4
At 31 March 2024 (19.9) (0.4) 95.4 75.1

There are no unrecognised deferred taxation balances at 31 March 2024 (2023: £nil).

Other deferred taxation includes a £84.2m (2023: £135.1m) asset recognised in respect of losses carried
forward to be utilised against future profits.
14. Financial guarantees

The Company has issued various guarantees in the ordinary course of business, including guarantees in
respect of undertakings by its subsidiaries. None of these have a material fair value under IFRS 17 —
Insurance Contracts and consequently no liability has been recorded in the Parent Company balance sheet.

15. Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption granted by paragraph 8(k) of FRS 101, not to disclose
transactions and balances with other Jet2 pic entities that are wholly owned by a member of the Group.

16. Ultimate parent undertaking

The parent of the smallest and largest group of undertakings for which consolidated financial statements
are drawn up, and of which the Company is a member, is Jet2 plc. Jet2 plc is registered in England and
Wales and copies of its financial statements can be obtained from-Low Fare Finder House, Leeds Bradford
Airport, Leeds, LS19 7TU.

76

GLOSSARY OF TERMS
ATOL

Average Package Holiday Price

Flight-only Net Ticket Yield
Flown passengers
Load Factor

Non-ticket Revenue

Seat capacity

Sector

Jet2.com Limited

Air Travel Organiser’s Licence.

Total Package Holiday Price (net of taxes) paid by the customer
excluding discretionary non-ticket revenue, divided by the
number of Package Holiday Customers departing in that period.

Flight-only ticket revenue, net of taxes, divided by the number
of flight-only passengers.

Number of passengers flown on a Sector, including no-shows.
The percentage relationship of Flown Passenger to Seat
Capacity.

All discretionary non-ticket revenue, including hold baggage
charges, advanced seat assignment and extra leg room fees, in-
flight sales and commissions earned on car hire and insurance

bookings.

Total number of seats available according to the Leisure Travel
scheduled flying programme.

Asingle leg flight journey.

77

