ecee
fF

KLIVI UK Engineering

Annual report and financial statements
Registered number 02513110
Year ended 31 December 2024

In

SATURDAY

A13

Integrty — Tanovation —- Te#work Excellence

IKXLivl UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Contents

Strategic report 1
Directors’ report 7
Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the annual report and-the financial statements 10
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of KLM UK Engineering Limited 11
Profit & Loss Account a5
Statement of Other Comprehensive Income a5
Balance Sheet 16
Statement of Changes in Equity 17
Notes 18

m oh S OR

Eotegetig ——Tinovation — Aerk Excellence

Sataty

este
KLM _ UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Strategic report

Review of the business, future developments & principal risks and uncertainties
KLM UK Engineering Ltd provides aircraft maintenance services and technical training.
Introduction

The primary product of KLM UK Engineering is aircraft Base Maintenance services and demand remained high
throughout 2024. With a strong market-place reputation for quality and on-time delivery combined with high
employee engagement and support, KLMUK was in a prime position to benefit from the strong demand and
produced record-breaking results on almost every measure in 2024.

The high level of Base Maintenance demand is expected to continue for the next few years due to forecasted
requirements from airlines and lessors, limited MRO capacity and ongoing worldwide shortage of aircraft
maintenance engineers. The global shortage of engineers is likely to be a long-term challenge due to high average
age of workforce leading to many retirees in the coming years and lead-time, expense and lack of providers to train
new engineers. KLMUK is well positioned for future growth with a lower than average aged workforce and an in-
house Aircraft Maintenance Apprenticeship training program that is projected to provide an additional 50 engineers
to Base Maintenance over the next 3 years.

People are the most important asset of KLMUK, and many initiatives were introduced in 2024 to make KLMUK the
employer of choice. The employee engagement score in 2024 increased to 81%, and focus will continue on improving
the workplace culture and environment. Annual employee turnover reduced to 8.4% and sickness reduced to 3.3%.

KLMUK returned to profitability in 2024. Increased volumes, charge rates and efficiency helped drive turnover to
£50.2m (2023: £42.3m) and profit to £2.8m (2023: loss of £1m).

Business overview
The current range of aircraft we support is as follows:

© Boeing 737 all types e Avro RI / Bae146
e Embraer E jets : e = Airbus A320 family

In 2024, the Boeing 737 provided the majority of Base Maintenance revenue (85%). This is in line with KLMUK
strategy to continue to focus on Boeing 737s, supplemented by other types, primarily Embraer E jets. It is anticipated
that Airbus 320 NEO capability will be added to Base Maintenance in the near future and volumes with this product
will grow year on year.

Line Maintenance activity remained relatively stable compared to 2023 and focus was given to maintaining excellent
service for long-term customers.

KLMUK Technical College achieved ‘main provider’ status from the Department of Education in 2023 and the initial
monitoring visit from Ofsted in November 2024 was successful. At the end of 2024 KLMUK employed 37 Aircraft
Maintenance Apprentices across 3 cohorts, In 2025, it is anticipated that a further 20 Apprentices will be recruited
onto the level 3 Aircraft Maintenance Apprenticeship. Additionally, the Technical College provides aircraft
maintenance training to employees and external customers. The products KLMUK delivers are: UKCAA Part 66 B1/B2
Basic training, Compliance training, Virtual Learning Environment (VLE) and Type training.

Safely Integrity — Thnovarion ATK Excellence

eee
— . .
KLIVI UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Strategic report (continued)

Sustainability

CO:e

Assessed
Organisation

We continue to take steps on our Sustainability journey. In 2024 we complied with the EU Corporate Sustainability
Reporting Directive (“CSRD”) and continued to focus on reducing our impact on the environment. There was an audit
in relation to CSRD compliance by the Air-FranceKLM Group auditors in 2024 and there were no adverse findings.

Our Hangar 9 facility, which opened in 2021, has 735 solar panels on the roof, producing 207MWh in 2024 (2023:
223MWh). This reduced our carbon emissions by 39.54 tCO2e (Carbon Dioxide Equivalent) (2023: 44.82 tCO2e).

In 2023 we introduced an employee electric vehicle salary sacrifice scheme in conjunction with Octopus energy, on
top of our already popular cycle to work scheme. The schemes continue to help to reduce the environmental impact
of our employees travelling to work. In 2024 we have more than doubled our electric cars to 11 (2023: 5 electric
cars) on the road saving an estimated 14.91 tCOze (2023: 4.12 tCO2e) since the scheme was started. Throughout the
year we continue to promote our cycle to work scheme.

This year we implemented the Supplier Sustainability Code of Conduct to which over 80% of our aircraft parts
approved suppliers are signed up. The Supplier Sustainability Code of Conduct requires our suppliers to adhere to
Human Rights and Labour conditions, local, national and international environment legislations and commit to
sustainable procurement, amongst other. Additionally, the Company also established a Charity Committee, focusing
on collaborating.with local and national charities to support their initiatives.

In 2023 we signed a 3-year contract with ClearVue to enable real time monitoring of our electricity usage at circuit
level to enable future cost saving initiatives. The system also allows entering all our Scope 1,2 & 3 emission data.
The partnership is striving to reduce the company’s carbon emissions, this resulted in replacing our lighting with
LED’s, installing PIR sensors to certain areas of the business and complete shutdown of our Remote desktop devices
during out of hours, resulting in a decrease in our energy usage. ClearVue presented us with an improvement report
in 2024 following their on-site visit, which we will implement in the upcoming years to reduce our energy practices
in the future.

Energy and Greenhouse Gas Report

KLM UK Engineering Limited has used a SECR portal and associated report generated from ClearVue. Methodology
follows best practise and is based on HM Government Environmental Reporting Guidelines March 2019. All
emissions factors are taken from UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, version 1.00,
2023 factors. Scope 1 and Scope 2 consumption data (gas and electricity) taken from validated and verified Utility
Suppliers invoices. Scope 1 and 3 (transport) data taken from internal tracking systems, and applicable emissions
factors applied; Company fleet classed as scope 1 emissions as defined in HM Government Environmental Reporting
Guidelines March 2019.

The following table summarises the GHG emissions for reporting year: 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024 and
compares to 2023.

Safety Integrity Tanovation —-Amwvork Excellence ;

KLM UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Strategic report (continued)

Element Location-based ‘ Location-based
(tCO2e) Hl (tCO2e)
Direct emissions (Scope 1) — natural gas, petrol, diesel gas oi! & 361.14
propane

Direct emissions (Scope 1) —Aircraft Engine Testing 532.87

Indirect emissions (Scope 2) - Purchased electricity 307.32

Total tCOze (Scope 1 & 2) .! 1,201.33
Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) — grey fleet travel 11.65
Total tCO2e (Scope 3) 7 : F 11.65
Gross Tota! (Tonnes of COze)

Intensity metric: Tonnes of COze per £M turnover

Total energy consumption (kWh) ° 3,810,692 5,086,208

*Included is the fuel burnt during aircraft engine testing, when the aircraft are in maintenance at our facilities in
Norwich.

The Company was able to reduce its Scope 1 & 2 tCOz,e by over 26% in 2024, compared to 2023. For Scope 1, this is
partly due to less engine testing needed on the aircraft checks performed, while natural gas, petrol, diesel gas oil &
propane has been reduced mainly by needing less fuel for hangar heating and replacing three petrol vehicles in
Edinburgh with electrical vehicles. The purchased electricity decreased in part from the energy savings initiatives on
lighting and Remote desktop shutdown. .

Key Performance Indicators

KLM UK Engineering Ltd has defined Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to align performance and accountability to
its strategic plan. The company’s KPls include financial performance measures that are aligned to the Company's
strategy with the aim to deliver sustainable growth for stakeholders.

The financial measures are revenue, operating profit, profit before taxation and cash generation. Revenue strongly
improved versus last year, as well as operating profit, profit before taxation. Our cash generation, excluding the
share issue and capital contribution improved when compared to the prior year.

Non-Financial KPis

Sold Hours V Attended Hours

110.0%

105.0%

O00

100.0%

95.0%

90.0%

85.0%

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024

Safety Eneagritg Tanovation Teasawork, Excellence ;


KLM UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Strategic report (continued)

Staff Engagement Score

82% 81%

80%
78%
76%
74%
72%
70%
68%
66%
64%
62%

79%

2017 2018 2019 2021 2022 2023 2024

Staff Turnover

25.0%

20.2%

20.0%

15.0%

10.0%

5.0%

0.0%

2017-2018 «=©2019 §=62020 «2021-92022, 2023'S 2024

Lost Time Injury per 200,000hrs

6.01

OPN WRU DN

2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024

Tntegritg Tanovation Teamwork — Excellence

Safely

eve
KLM! UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Strategic report (continued)

Director’s statement of compliance with duty to promote the success of the Company

We report here on how the directors have performed their duty under Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 and
set out a series of matters to which the directors must have regard in performing their duty to promote the success
of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders, which includes having regard to other stakeholders.

It is crucial that the Company maintains a reputation for the highest standards of business conduct and the directors

are responsible for setting, reviewing and upholding culture, values, standards, ethics and reputation of the

Company to ensure its obligations to key stakeholders are met. By using the core values of the business (safety,

integrity, innovation, teamwork and excellence) we aim to sustain and develop strong, stable, profitable
* partnerships with all our customers, employees and suppliers by providing outstanding innovative services.

During the year, the directors consider that they at all times acted in a way, and have made decisions that would
most likely promote the success of the Company and for the benefit of its members as a whole. In making these
decisions we have paid particular attention to:

The likely consequences of any decision in the long term

The interests of the Company's employees

The need to build strong business relationships with suppliers, customers and other stakeholders
The impact the Company's operations has on the community and environment

The desire to maintain the Company’s reputation for high standards of business

The need to act fairly between members of the Company

The Company’s engagement with who it regards as its key stakeholders is summarised as follows:
Our People

We have a range of ways in which we engage and seek feedback from our employees, getting them involved in
projects. We encourage all our employees to share their ideas and opinions to maximise their involvement and
contribution to the business.

Our Customers

We constantly engage with our customers, recognising the importance of building strong relationships with them,
keeping them informed of the service we provide and tailoring it to their needs.

Our Suppliers

We work closely with all our suppliers, ensuring that we both understand each other’s businesses, objectives and
goals to ensure the best outcome for both parties. This enables us to build long term beneficial relationships with
them. In March 2024, the Company established the Supplier Sustainability Code of Conduct, which drives our
Suppliers to adhere to Sustainable practices.

Our Shareholders

The Company is a subsidiary undertaking of Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maatschappij N.V. (also known as KLM Royal
Dutch Airlines) which is the ultimate parent company incorporated in The Netherlands. The ultimate controlling
party is Societe Air France KLM S.A., which is incorporated in France. We ensure we keep them both updated
regularly on all developments.

Our Community

The Company contributes frequently to charities and local organisations within the surrounding areas.

Integrity Tanovarion  TePmwork — Excellence

Safety

odes
KILI UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Strategic report (continued)

Our Environment

The company is aware of its impact on the surrounding environment and aims to reduce its energy consumption and
use of resources.

By order of the board

Wayne Easlea
Director

Date: 22/04/2025

2 & F tee

Integrity Tanovation Teamwork, Excellence

Safety

KER UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Directors’ report
Principal activity

The principal activity of the Company is aircraft maintenance services and technical training.

Results for the year and dividends

The result for the year after taxation amounted to a gain of £2,794k (2023: £982k loss). The directors did not
recommend the payment of a dividend during the year (2023: £Nil).

After taking account of movements on the defined benefit pension scheme, the total comprehensive income for the
year was a gain of £2,943k (2023: Loss of £990k).

Directors

The directors who held office during the year, and to the date of this report, were as follows:

Wayne Easlea (Managing Director}

David Holmes (Appointed 11th July 2024)
Peter van der Horst (Resigned 17th May 2024)
Perwien Meriwani

Gijsbert Woelders

Jeroen Erdman

Martin de Jong

No director in office at 31 December 2024 had any disclosable interest in the shares of Koninklijke Luchtvaart
Maatschappij N.V. (also known as KLM Royal Dutch Airlines), KLM UK Engineering Limited or any other group
company during the year. In addition, no rights to subscribe for shares of Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maatschappij N.V.
(also known as KLM Royal Dutch Airlines), KLM UK Engineering Limited or any other group company were issued
during the year.

Employee involvement policy

During the year the Company continued its policy of regular meetings with cmployees and thei representatives
within the limitations of commercial confidentiality and security. It is the Company's practice when making decisions,
to take into account the views of the employees.

Disabled persons policy

In compliance with current legislation, a Company policy is in existence for encouraging the employment of disabled
persons, where this is practical. Endeavours are made to ensure that disabled employees benefit from training and
other development programmes in common with all employees.

Political contributions

The Company made no political donations or incurred any political expenditure during the year.

m oh S feo

Satety Tntegritg —— Tanovatian —— THAmmork — Excellence ,

KLM UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Directors’ report (continued)
Financial risk management objectives and policies

Price risk

The Company is exposed to price risk through the indirect impact of competitor activities. Our pricing structure is
consistently reviewed via RFP/tenders that we are involved in on a regular basis. It is the policy of the Company to
ensure that the Company’s products and services are competitively priced, whilst reflecting the quality of products
and services supplied.

Credit risk

Credit risk is the risk customers will default on their obligation to make payment for the product or services supplied.
In some circumstances advance payments are required for new customers and we continue to ask several customers
for payment before departure of aircraft.

Foreign currency risk

Foreign currency riskis the risk that the fair value of a financial instrument or future cash flows will fluctuate because
of changes in foreign exchange rates. Most of the Company's revenue is generated in sterling; however, a proportion
is billed in euros and US dollars. The principal exposure relates to euros as US dollars are hedged by purchasing parts
from Boeing. The Company has a policy of natural hedging wherever possible. For Euros we also have forward
contracts with Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maatschappij N.V. (also known as KLM Royal Dutch Airlines), these cover the
projections for the financial year and are arranged annually.

Interest rate risk

The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on its £3m overdraft facility from Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maatschappij
N.V. (also known as KLM Roya! Dutch Airlines), which is based on the current rate card of the In-house banking
facility. As per 31 December 2024, the Company has not drawn on the overdraft facility and does not expect to draw
on the facility in 2025.

Liquidity risk

Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with its financial
liabilities. The risk is mitigated as the Company has access to a £3m overdraft facility provided by Koninklijke
Luchtvaart Maatschappij N.V. (also known as KLM Royal Dutch Airlines).

Principal risks and uncertainties

Labour availability risk

Labour availability risk remains ongoing as the industry has a high average age of its workforce. This will result in
many retirees in the near future and the lead time to train new engineers will pose an ongoing risk.

Mitigating action(s)

The Company is well positioned for future growth with a below average aged workforce and an in-house Aircraft
Maintenance Apprenticeship training program.

Base Maintenance Seasonality Risk

UK aircraft maintenance is still heavily orientated to the Winter period (Nov-Mar), trying to sell maintenance slots
for the Summer months for the available manpower is an annual ongoing challenge.

8 atid

Entegrity Tinovation Teamwork — Excellence

Safety

KLM UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024
Directors’ report (continued)

Mitigating action(s)

Seasonal shift pattern designed to take hours out of the Summer and moved to the Winter period continues to
partially mitigate this risk.

Sales efforts highly focused on selling the Summer period and looking at areas of the world with the opposite
seasonality of aircraft maintenance.

Inflation risk

Increased inflation has caused suppliers to re-evaluate their costs which may not be able to be passed on to our
customers.

Mitigating action(s)

Rates to Customers were reviewed and renegotiated where possible.
Matters covered within the Strategic Report

An indication of likely future developments in the business and particulars of significant events which have occurred
since the end of the financial year have been included in the Strategic Report on page 1.

Directors’ third party indemnity provisions

A qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined in section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 is in force for the
benefit of each of the directors in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, to the extent permitted by
law.

Disclosure of information to auditor

The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors’ report confirm that, so far as they are each
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditor is unaware; and each director has
taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information
and to establish that the Company’s auditor is aware of that information.

Auditor reappointment

The auditors, Larking Gowen LLP, will be proposed for reappointment in accordance with section 485 of the
Companies Act 2006.

By order of the board

Wayne Easlea
Director

Date: 22/04/2025

Registered Office
Liberator Road
Norwich Airport
Norwich

mo SMB

Safety Integritg Tanovacion Teamwork, Excellence

rity .
ILRA UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Norfolk
NR6 6ER

Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the annual report and the financial
statements

The directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic Report, the Directors’ Report and the financial statements
in accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they
have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law
(UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework applicable in the UK
and Republic of ireland).

Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give
_a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:

e select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
e make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

e state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and -

e prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and
enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They have general
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the company and to
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.

Teamwork Excellence

Safety 10

KLM UK ‘Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of KLM UK Engineering Limited

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of KLM UK Engineering Limited (the 'Company’') for the year ended 31
December 2024, which comprise the Profit and Loss Account, Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the
Balance Sheet, the Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes, including a summary of significant
accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law
and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure
Framework’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion the financial statements:

. give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at 31 December 2024 and of its profit for
the year then ended;

. have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice;
and

° have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors' responsibilities for the audit
of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the United Kingdom, including
the Financial Reporting Council's Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the director's use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company's ability to continue as a
going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Satery Integrity —Tanovation — Anwerk —Exeettence ,

Lia UK ‘Engineeting
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of KLM UK Engineering Limited
(continued)

Other information

The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Annual Report, other than the financial statements and our Auditors‘ report thereon. Our opinion
on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly
stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

in connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and,
in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our
knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material
inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material
misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are
required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

. the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors' Report for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
. the Strategic Report and the Directors' Report has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal

requirements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of
the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report and the Directors' Report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006
requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

. adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or

the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Tategrity

qh ST

Safe Innovation Teamwork Excellence D

eseo
— “oo a : ot -
KLIM UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of KLM UK Engineering Limited
(continued)

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the Directors' responsibilities statement on page 10, the directors are responsible for
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such
internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Company's ability to continue
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis
of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no
realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors' report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

The extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures
in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities,
including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, is
detailed below.

Due to the field in which the company operates, we identified the areas most likely to have a material impact on
the financial statements as compliance with UK tax legislation, UK accounting standards and compliance with the
UK Companies Act. In addition, we considered the provisions of other laws and regulations which whilst not having
a direct impact on the financial statements, are fundamental to the Company’s ability to operate, including, health
and safety, employment law, and compliance with various other regulation relevant to the conduct of the
Company's operations.

Safery Entegritg Innovation Teamwork Excellence r

esos
KLIVI UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of KLM UK Engineering Limited
(continued)

Our approach to identifying and assessing the risk of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including
fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, included the following:

e = enquiries with management, including the Compliance Monitoring Manager, about any known or

suspected instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations and fraud;

reviewing correspondence with regulators, including Civil Aviation Authority;

reviewing board minutes;

reviewing Internal Audit and Internal Fraud Risk reports;

reviewing financial statements disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess

compliance with applicable laws and regulations;

© challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates,
in particular in relation to the defined benefit pension scheme assumptions and stock and debtor
provisions; and

® auditing the risk of management override of controls, including through testing journal entries and other
adjustments for appropriateness.

Because of the inherent limitations of an audit, there is a risk that we will not detect all irregularities, including
those leading to a material misstatement in the financial statements or non-compliance with regulation, even
though the audit is properly planned and performed in accordance with the ISAs (UK). This risk increases the more
that compliance with a law or regulation is removed from the events and transactions reflected in the financial
statements, as we will be less likely to become aware of instances of non-compliance. The risk is also greater
regarding irregularities occurring due to fraud rather than error, as fraud involves intentional concealment,
forgery, collusion, omission or misrepresentation.

A further description of our responsibilities is available on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at:
www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members
those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors' report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the
Company's members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Lantin ben LLP
Anders Rasmussen FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Larking Gowen LLP

Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
15 Floor Prospect House, Rouen Road, Norwich, NR1 1RE

Date: 23 April 2025

Teamwork Excellence

14

Profit and Loss Account
For the year ended 31 December 2024

etleo

<LI UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

2024
Note £000
Turnover 2 50,201
Cost of sales (39,465)
Gross profit 10,736
Administrative expenses (8,181)
Government grants 4 9
Other operating expenses 3 (11)
Operating Gain / (Loss) 4 2,553
Other income 3 19
Other interest receivable and similar income 7 97
Interest payable and similar charges 8 (735)
Gain / (Loss) before taxation 1,934
Taxation 9 860
Gain / (Loss) for the financial year 2,794
Statement of Other Comprehensive Income
For the year ended 31 December 2024
2024
Note £000
Gain / (Loss) for the financial year 2,794
Other comprehensive income
Gain on remeasurement of defined benefit pension scheme 17 276
Transfer of pension liability between participant companies 17 (127)
Total comprehensive income for the financial year 2,943

The notes on pages 18 to 39 form an integral part of the financial statements

Safety

Integrity Teamwurk Excellence

Innovation

2023
£000

42,316
(35,635)

6,681
(7,154)

(2)

(475)

60
(713)

(1,128)

146

(982)

2023
£000

(982)

60
(68)

(990)

15

odo

> :
KL UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Balance Sheet

As at 31 December 2024
Note 2024 2024 2023 2023
£000 £000 £000 £000
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 10 4,920 4,735
Right of use assets 11 12,834 12,088
Current assets
Stocks 12 733 $25
Debtors 13 10,985 10,004
Cash at bank and in hand 93 91
11,811 10,620
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 14 (5,867) (7,023)
Net current assets 5,944 3,597
Total assets less current liabilities 23,698 20,420
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one 15 (14,415) (13,276)
year
Net assets excluding the pension Asset 9,283 7,144
Pension Asset 17 3,838 3,034
Total Net Assets 13,121 10,178
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 18 40,700 40,700
Capital contribution 18 1,320 1,320
Profit and loss account (28,899) (31,842)
Shareholders’ Surplus 13,121 10,178

These financial statements were approved by the board of directors and were signed on its behalf by:

Wayne Easlea
Director
Date: 22/04/2025

Company registered number: 02513110

The notes on pages 18 to 39 form an integral part of the financial statements

Safety Integrity

Innovation

Teamwork,

“Excellence

16

See
Lil UK Engineering

Annual report and. financial statements

Year ended 31 December 2024
Statement of Changes in Equity
Called up Other Capital Profit and loss Total
Share Capital and Reserves account equity
£000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 2023 31,000 - (30,931) 69
Total comprehensive income for the financial year
Loss for the year - - (982) (982)
Share Issues Capital contribution 9,700 - - 9,700
Shared based payment charge - 1,320 - 1,320
- - 79 79
Other comprehensive income - - (8) (8)
Total comprehensive income for the financial year 9,700 1,320 (911) 10,109
Balance at 31 December 2023 40,700 1,320 (31,842) 10,178
Total comprehensive income for the financial year
Gain for the year - - 2,794 2,794
Other comprehensive income . - - 149 149
Total comprehensive income for the financial year - . 2,943 2,943
Balance at 31 December 2024 40,700 1,320 (28,899) 13,121

The notes on pages 18 to 39 form an integral part of the financial statements

qi SZ

Safety Tategrity — Tanovirion — Aork Excellence 7

KLIMI UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Notes
(forming part of the financial statements)

1 Accounting policies
KLM UK Engineering Limited (the “Company’”) is a company incorporated and domiciled in the UK.

These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure
Framework (“FRS 101”).

In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure
requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the UK (“Adopted IFRSs”) but makes
amendments where necessary in order to comply with Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage
of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has been taken.

The company’s ultimate parent undertaking, of Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maatschappij N.V. (also known as KLM Royal
Dutch Airlines) includes the Company in its consolidated financial statements. The consolidated financial statements
of Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maatschappij N.V. (also known as KLM Royal Dutch Airlines) are prepared in accordance
with International Financial Reporting Standards and are available to the public and may be obtained from
Amsterdamseweg 55, 1182 GP, Amstelveen, The Netherlands.

In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 101 in respect of the
following disclosures:

e ACash Flow Statement and related notes;
e Comparative period reconciliations for share capital and tangible fixed assets;
e The effects of new but not yet effective IFRSs;

e The requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into
between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is
wholly owned by such a member;

e The requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and
Errors:

e The requirements of paragraph 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS2 Share-based payments.

© The requirements of paragraph 52, the second sentence of paragraph 89, and paragraphs 90, 91 and 93 of IFRS
16 Leases. The requirements of paragraph 58 of IFRS 16, provided that the disclosure of details in indebtedness
relating to amounts payable after 5 years required by company law is presented separately for lease liabilities
and other liabilities, and in total;

As the consolidated financial statements of Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maatschappij N.V. (also known as KLM Royal
Dutch Airlines) include the equivalent disclosures, the Company has also taken the exemption under FRS 101
available in respect of certain disclosures required by IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement and the disclosures required
by IFRS 7 Financial Instrument Disclosures.

The Company proposes to continue to adopt the reduced disclosure framework of FRS 101 in its next financial
statements.

The accounting policies set out below have, unless otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods
presented in these financial statements.

11 Measurement convention

The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis. The amounts in the financial statements are
presented in Sterling (£) and have been rounded to the nearest £1,000 unless otherwise stated.

Integrity Innovation Teamwork Excellence

Safety 18

ogee
KLIM UK Engineeting
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Notes (continued)

1 Accounting policies (Continued)
1.2 Going concern

As part of their going concern assessment, the directors have considered the Company's position at the time of
signing the financial statements. As part of this, the directors have prepared long term forecasts, taking into
consideration expected trading performance, profitability and cash flow.

Based on the above assessment, the directors have concluded that the Company will have adequate resources to
continue in operation for the foreseeable future, and at least twelve months from the date of approval of these
financial statements. They therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.

1.3 Foreign currency

Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the Company’s functional currency at the foreign exchange rate
ruling at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance
sheet date are retranslated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate ruling at that date. Foreign
exchange differences arising on translation are recognised in the profit and loss account.

1.4 Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.

Where parts of an item of tangible fixed assets have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items
of tangible fixed assets.

Depreciation is charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each
part of an item of tangible fixed assets. The estimated useful lives are as follows:

e = Plant and equipment 5-10 years
e Fixtures and fittings 4-10 years
*® Motor vehicles 4 years

Leasehold properties and associated improvements are amortised over the period of the lease.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at each balance sheet date.

The gain or loss on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in other operating income.

Integrity Teamwork, Excellence

Thnovation

Safety 19

eo
KLEVI UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Notes (continued)

1 Accounting policies (Continued)
15 Changes in reporting standards

There were some amendments to IFRS Accounting Standards that became effective on 1 January 2024, however,
none of these had an impact on the company's financial statements:

© Supplier Finance Arrangements (Amendment to IAS 7 and IFRS 7)
e Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback (Amendment to IFRS 16)
* Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-Current (Amendment to IAS 1)
1.6 Lease contracts
Lease contracts as defined by IFRS 16 “Leases”, are recorded in the balance sheet, which leads to the recognition of:
e  Anasset representing a right-of-use of the asset leased during the lease term of the contract; and
e = Aliability related to the payment obligation.

Measurement of the right-of-use asset at the commencement date, the right-of-use asset is measured at cost and
comprises:

e@ The amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability, to which is added, if applicable, any lease
payments made at or before the commencement date, less any lease incentives received;

e Where relevant, any initial direct costs incurred by the lessee for the conclusion of the contract. These are
incremental costs which would not have been incurred if the contract had not been concluded; and

e Estimated costs for restoration and dismantling of the leased asset according to the terms of the contract.

Following the initial recognition, the right-of-use asset must be depreciated over the useful life of the underlying
assets.

Measurement of the tease liability at the commencement date, the lease liability is recognised for an amount equal
to the present value of the lease payments over the lease term. Amounts involved in the measurement of the lease
liability are:

e Fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments; meaning that even if they are variable in form, they
are in-substance unavoidable);

e Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured using the index or the rate in
force at the lease commencement date;

e Amounts expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees;
e The exercise price of a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise this option; and

e Payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising an option to
terminate the lease.

@ F ae vf

Safety Integrity Lanovation Teamwork Excellence 0

KLIVI UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Notes (continued)

1 Accounting policies (Continued)

The lease liability is subsequently measured based on a process similar to the amortised cost method using the
discount rate:

e = The liability is increased by the accrued interests resulting from the discounting of the lease liability, at the
beginning of the lease period; and

e Less payments made.

The interest cost for the period as well as variable payments, not taken into account in the initial measurement of
the lease liability and incurred over the relevant period are recognised as costs. In addition, the lease liability may
be remeasured in the following situations: .

e Change in the lease term;

* Modification related to the assessment of the reasonably certain nature (or not) of the exercise of an
option;

e Remeasurement linked to the residual value guarantees; and

e Adjustment to the rates and indices according to which the rents are calculated when rent adjustments
occur.

1.7 Stocks

Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is based on the weighted average.

18 Financial Instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are initially measured at fair value.

Short term trade debtors principally arise from the provision of goods and services to customers. They are initially
measured at fair value plus transaction costs that are directly attributable to their acquisition or issues, and are
subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment.

All other recognised financial assets are initially measured at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised
cost using the effective interest rate method.

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of
business from suppliers. Trade creditors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at
amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.

Borrowings are initially measured at fair value net of any transaction cost directly attributable to the issue of the
instrument. Such liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method,
which ensures that any interest expense over the period to repayment is at a constant rate on the balance of the
liability carried in the balance sheet.

19 Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short term highly liquid
investments with original maturities of three months or less.

= OGY

Satay Tntegrity Innovation Teamasork, Excellence n

eee
KLIVE UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Notes (continued)

1 Accounting policies (Continued)
1.10 Impairment excluding stocks and deferred tax assets
Financial assets (including trade and other debtors)

A financial asset not carried at fair value through profit or loss is assessed at each reporting date to determine
whether there is objective evidence that it is impaired. A financial asset is impaired if objective evidence indicates
that a loss event has occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, and that the loss event had a negative effect
on the estimated future cash flows of that asset that can be estimated reliably.

1.11 Employee benefits
Defined contribution plans

A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan under which the company pays fixed contributions
into a separate entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay further amounts. Obligations for
contributions to defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an expense in the profit and loss account in
the periods during which services are rendered by employees.

Defined benefit plans

A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other than a defined contribution plan. The Company's
net obligation in respect of the defined benefit pension plan is calculated by estimating the amount of future benefit
that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods; that benefit is discounted to
determine its present value, and the fair value of any plan assets (at bid price} are deducted. The Company
determines the net interest on the net defined benefit liability/(asset) for the period by applying the discount rate
used to measure the defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the annual period to the net defined benefit
liability/(asset).

The discount rate is the yield at the reporting date on bonds that have a credit rating of at least AA that have maturity
dates approximating the terms of the Company’s obligations and that are denominated in the currency in which the
benefits are expected to be paid.

“Remeasurements arising from defined benefit plans comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets

(excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling (if any, excluding interest). The Company recognises them
immediately in other comprehensive income and ali other expenses related to defined benefit plans in employee
benefit expenses in profit or loss.

When the benefits of the plan are changed, or when a plan is curtailed, the portion of the changed benefit related
to past service by employees, or the gain or loss on curtailment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss when the
plan amendment or curtailment occurs.

The calculation of the defined benefit obligations is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit credit
method. When the calculation results in a benefit to the company, the recognised asset is limited to the present value
of benefits available in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions and takes
into account the adverse effect of any minimum funding requirements.

A number of the Company's employees are members of a group defined benefit pension plan. The net defined
benefit cost of this plan is charged to participating entities on the following basis:

¢ contributions for future accrual are based on the employees who are active in the defined benefit pension plan
e — shortfall funding payments are based on the past service liability associated with each participating employer

A defined benefit plan surplus is recognised at the lower of the surplus, and the scheme's asset ceiling. The asset
ceiling is the present value of economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plan or reductions in
future contributions to the plan.

Integrity Tanovation Teamwork — Excellence

Safer 2

eveo
KLIVI UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024
Notes (continued)
1 Accounting policies (continued)
1,12 Provisions

A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a
result of a past event, that can be reliably measured and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be
required to settle the obligation. Provisions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-
tax rate that reflects risks specific to the liability.

1.13 Turnover
Base Maintenance Aircraft Inputs

Turnover and profit are recognised as work is completed during each aircraft maintenance check as customers have
the obligation to pay for services actually received to date, in line with each contract.

Line Maintenance

Turnover and profit are recognised as work is completed daily/monthly, as customers have the obligation to pay for
services actually received to date, in line with each contract.

Educational Services
Turnover and profit are recognised spread evenly over the length of the academic course in line with contract.
Trading of spares

Turnover and profit are recognised upon completion on the sale of the spares when the transfer of the risks and
rewards of ownership are passed to the customer.

Repair of aircraft parts

Turnover is recognised on the progress of the repair while profit is recognised upon completion work when the
transfer of the risks and rewards of ownership are passed to the customer.

1.14 Government grants

Government grants are not recognised until there is a reasonable assurance that the Company will comply with the
conditions attaching to them and that the grants will be received. Government grants relating to staff costs are
recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them with the related cost.

1.15 Expenses
Operating lease payments

Payments (excluding costs for services and insurance) made under operating leases are capitalised in the balance
sheet as per IFRS 16. Low value leases (less than £4,400) and leases less than 12 months are recognised on a straight-
line basis through the profit and loss account.

Interest receivable and interest payable

Interest payable and similar charges include interest payable, and net foreign exchange losses that are recognised
in the profit and loss account (see foreign currency accounting policy). Other interest receivable and similar income
include interest receivable on funds invested and net foreign exchange gains.

Interest income and interest payable is recognised in profit or loss as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis.

Tntegriey Tanavation Teamwork Excellence

Safery . 23

KLIVE UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Notes (continued)
1 Accounting policies (continued)
1.16 Taxation

Tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the profit and loss
account except to the extent that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income,
in which case it is recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income.

Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous
years.

Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial
reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the
expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted
or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.

A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available
against which the temporary difference can be utilised.
1.17 Key accounting estimates and judgements

The Company makes certain estimates and assumptions regarding the future. These are continually evaluated based
on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable
under the circumstances. In the future, actual experience may differ from these estimates and assumptions.

The estimates that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.

Stock provision

The Company considers it necessary to review the recoverability of the cost of stock and the associated provision
required. When calculating the stock provision, the Company considers the nature and condition of the stock, as
well as applying assumptions around anticipated use.

Pension assumptions

The sensitivity analysis relating to the group defined benefit scheme which the company participates in, are disclosed
in Note 17.

internal rate of return

Under IFRS16, the Company is required to estimate the incremental borrowing rate in the context of a right of use
asset if the implicit rate has not been provided by the lessor. Implicit rate has been set by Koninklijke Luchtvaart
Maatschappij N.V. (also known as KLM Royal Dutch Airlines) the calculation is based upon the expected return and
category of asset.

1.18 Share-based payment

During 2023 the company operated a share-based compensation plan whereby employees were able to acquire
shares at a discount in the ultimate parent company, for services provided to this company. The company has no
obligation to contribute to the discount. The fair value of the discount at the date the shares were acquired of £79k
is charged to the profit or loss, with the corresponding credit recognised directly in equity within the profit and loss
account.

1.19 Capital contribution

In 2023 a capital contribution has been recognised in respect of a cash gift from the company’s parent company of
£1,320,000. The capital contribution is recognised directly in equity.

qh Sz

Teamwork Excellence

Safety Integrity 94

Notes (continued)

2 Turnover

Sale of goods
Rendering of services

Total turnover

By activity:

Aircraft Maintenance
Technical Training

Other

By geographical market:

UK

Europe

Middle East & Africa
Austratia

Asia

Americas

Safety

edoo

LRA UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

2024
£000

82
50,119

50,201

2024
£000

49,033
923
245

50,201

2024
£000

3,422
37,348
2,079
7,269
83

50,201

oh G ah Wr

Tntegritg La Teamwork Excellence

2023
£000

42
42,274

42,316

2023
£000

41,156
999
161

42,316

2023
£000

13,419
22,988
2,722
2,715
92
380

42,316

25

Notes (continued)

3 Other operating income / expenses

Included in other operating expenses are the following:

Net(loss)/gain on disposal of tangible fixed assets

included in other operating income are the following:

Research and development tax refund

4 Operating (loss) /gain and auditor's remuneration

Included in the operating (loss)/gain are the following:

Depreciation of tangible assets

Government grant — Apprentice

Impairment loss on stock

Employee/Parent issued share based payment
Foreign exchange loss

KLM UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

2024
£000

(12)

(12)

2024
£000

2024
£000

(1,611)
9
(256)

(11)

2023
£000

(2)

(2)

2023
£000

2023
£000

(1,662)
(119)

(79)
(2)

During 2023 Societe Air France KLM S.A. offered shares to employees in Societe Air France KLM S.A. for a discounted
price and free matching shares up to a limit. The benefit of this to the employees is recognised as a cost in our

operating loss for 2023.

Auditor’s remuneration:

Audit of these financial statements

Safety Tmegeity — tagoonti

2024
£000

21

21

Excellence

2023
£000

21

21

26

Notes (continued)

5 Staff numbers and costs

KL UK Engineering

Annual report and financial statements

Year ended 31 December 2024

The average number of persons employed by the Company (including directors) during the year, analysed by

category, was as follows:

Engineers
Office

The aggregate payroll costs of these persons were as follows:

Wages and salaries

Social security costs

Contributions to defined contribution plans

Contributions to defined benefit plans (Current Service Cost)

6 Directors’ remuneration

Directors’ emoluments
Amounts receivable under long-term incentive schemes
Company contributions to money purchase pension plans

Number of employees

2024

280
171

451

2024
£000

22,554
1,871
1,912

26,376

2024
£000

451
50

2023

261
158

419

2023
£000

19,370
1,638
1,663

22,716

2023
£000

The remuneration of the highest paid director was £285,478 (2023: £173,570), and company pension
contributions of £37,377 (2023: £36,478) were made to the KLM defined contribution scheme on their behalf.

Retirement benefits are accruing to the following number of directors under:

Money purchase schemes

(op, ce;

Treegrity Tnndvation

Safety

ie

Teamwork

Excellence

Number of directors
2024 2023
3 2

27

KL UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Notes (continued)

7 Other interest receivable and similar income
2024 2023
£000 £000
interest from Group company 97 60
Total interest receivable and similar income 97 60
8 Interest payable and similar charges
: 2024 2023
£000 £000
Net foreign exchange (Gain}/loss 69 (33)
Interest to Group Company 18 114
Interest on right of use assets 799 759
Net interest on net defined benefit pension plan (asset)/liability (151) (127)
Total other interest payable and similar charges 735 713

a G ie vr

Safety Integrity —Tanovarion Teamwork —Excetlence -

Notes (continued)

9 Taxation

Recognised in the profit and loss account

2024
£000
Current Tax
Current tax on income for the period -
Payment received for losses surrendered under 490
group relief
Total current tax
Deferred tax (see note 16)
Recognised deferred tax 370

Total deferred tax

Tax on profit on ordinary activities

Reconciliation of total effective tax rate

Profit/(Loss) for the year

Profit/(Loss) excluding taxation

Tax using the composite UK corporation tax rate of 25% (2023: 23.5%)
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation

Timing differences on defined benefit pension scheme
Non-deductible expenses

(Utilisation)/Non-utilisation of tax losses

Tax losses surrendered under group relief

Recognised deferred tax

Other timing differences

Total

Gu

Integrity

Safety

Teamwork,

KEN UK Engineering -
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

2023
£000 £000

146

490

2024
£000

1,934

1,934

(179)
(75)

(293)
490
370

860

(ih Sz

Excellence

£000

146

146

2023
£000

(1,128)

(1,128)

(265)
(93)
(56).

10
430
146

(26)

146

29

Notes (continued)

10 Tangible fixed assets

Cost
Balance at 1 January 2024
Additions
Disposals

Balance at 31 December 2024

Depreciation and impairment
Balance at 1 January 2024
Depreciation charge for the year
Disposals

Balance at 31 December 2024

Net book value
At 1 January 2024

At 31 December 2024

Land and Buildings

The net book value of land and buildings comprises:

Long leasehold
Short leasehold

eo
KLIVE UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Plant and
_ equipment,
Land and fixtures& Motor

buildings fittings vehicles Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
4,594 8,673 136 13,403
96 785 - 881
- (90) - (90)
4,690 9,368 136 14,194
1,911 6,626 131 8,668
169 501 3 673
- (67) - (67)
2,080 7,060 134 9,274
2,683 2,047 5 4,735
2,610 2,308 2 4,920

2024 2023

£000 £000

2,607 2,677

3 6

2,610 2,683

Short leasehold properties have leases of 20 years’ duration or less. Long leasehold properties include leases with

a duration of greater than 20 years.

Sarewy Integrity

Tanovation

Teamwork Excellence

30

Notes (continued)

11 Right of Use Assets

Cost

Balance at 1 January 2024
Additions

Disposals

Balance at 31 December 2024

Depreciation and impairment
Balance at 1 January 2024
Depreciation charge for the year
Disposals

Balance at 31 December 2024

Net book value
At 1 January 2024

At 31 December 2024

12 Stocks

Parts and consumables

KLIVI UK Engineering

Annual report and financial statements

Year ended 31 December 2024

Real Estate Other Total
£000 £000 £000
16,248 1,079 17,327
1,337 347 1,684
(160) (160)

17,585 1,266 18,851
4,475 764 5,239
650 288 938
(160) (160)

5,125 892 6,017
11,773 315 12,088
12,460 374 12,834
2024 2023

£000 £000

733 525

733 525

Parts, consumables and changes in finished goods and work in progress recognised as cost of sales in the year
amounted to £9,401,941 (2023: £7,979,461). The write-down of stocks to net realisable value amounted to
£255,734 (2023: £119,315). The write-down is included in cost of sales.

Safety

Tntegritg

Tinovaition Teamwork Excellence

31

Notes (continued)

13 Debtors

Trade debtors

Amounts owed by parent undertakings
Amounts owed by group undertakings
Other debtors

Deferred tax asset

Prepayments and accrued income

Due within one year

iL UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

2024 2023
£000 £000
3,698 4,376
3,585 1,769
2,304 1,239
405 225
370 -
623 2,395
10,985 10,004

Debtors are stated after a bad debt provision charge recognised within the profit and loss account of ENil (2023:

ENil).

14 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

Trade creditors

Amounts owed to parent undertakings
Obligations under right of use assets
Taxation and social security

Other creditors

Accruals and deferred income

Due within one year

15 Creditors: amounts falling due more than one year

Amounts falling due 1-5 years
Obligations under right of use assets

Amounts falling due after 5 years
Obligations under right of use assets

Safety

2024 2023
£000 £000
2,379 1,963
19 -

253 247
486 479
1,266 1,208
1,464 3,126
5,867 7,023
2024 2023
£000 £000
1,620 1,265
12,795 12,011
14,415 13,276

Excellence

32

Notes (continued)

16 Deferred tax assets and liabilities
Recognised deferred tax assets and liabilities

The elements of recognised deferred tax are as follows at 25%:

Deferred tax

Total recognised deferred tax

Unrecognised deferred tax assets and liabilities

The elements of unrecognised deferred tax are as follows at 25%:

Defined benefit pension scheme surplus or deficit
Accelerated capital allowances
Tax losses carried forward from operating activities

Total unrecognised deferred tax

I<Livl UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

2024
£000

370

370

2024
£000

(960)
(451)
4,920

3,509

& & MR vr

Tntegrieg Innovintion

Safer

Teamwork

Excellence

2023
£000

2023
£000

(759) -

(312)
5,394

4,323

33

esco
KLM UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Notes (continued)

17 Employee benefit

Defined benefit schemes

The Company participates in a group defined benefit scheme for qualifying employees. Under the scheme, the
employees are entitled to retirement benefits based on attainment of a retirement age of 65 and a combination of
1/60" final salary for each complete year and month of pensionable service completed to 31 March 2005 and 1/70th
final salary for each complete year and month of pensionable service completed from 1 April 2005. In addition, the
service period is limited to 40 years. The last triennial valuation of the plan assets and the present value of the
defined benefit liability were carried out at 31 December 2021 by Capita.

Sufficient information is available to identify the company's proportionate share of the defined benefit obligation,
plan assets and costs associated with the plan. As such the Company accounts for its proportionate share in the
same way as for any other defined benefit plan.

The Group sponsors defined benefit schemes for qualifying employees of its subsidiaries. The defined benefit
schemes are administered by a separate fund that is legally separated from the Company. The trustees of the
pension fund are required by law to act in the interest of the fund and of all relevant stakeholders in the scheme.
The trustees of the pension fund are responsible for the investment policy with regard to the assets of the fund.

The scheme exposes the Company to actuarial risks such as: investment risk, interest rate risk, longevity risk and
salary risk. The risk relating to benefits payable to scheme members is partially insured. Approximately 25% of the
Scheme’s liability is insured with external insurance companies.

Investment risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated using a discount rate
determined by reference to high quality corporate bond yields; if the return on pian assets
is below this rate, it will reduce the plan’s surplus. Currently the plan invests mainly in UK
Government Gilts and Corporate Bonds. All plan assets have quoted prices in active
markets and are classified as Level 1 instruments. There are no Level 2 or 3 financial
instruments.

Interest risk A decrease in the bond interest rate will increase the plan liability but this will be partially
offset by an increase in the capital value of the asset.

Longevity risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the best
estimate of the mortality of plan participants both during and after their employment. An
increase in the life expectancy of the plan participants will increase the plan’s liability.

Salary risk The present value of the defined benefit plan liability is calculated by reference to the
future salaries of plan participants. As such, an increase in the salary of the plan participants
will increase the plan’s liability.

No other post-retirement benefits are provided to these employees.

The most recent actuarial valuations of the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit liability for |AS19
were carried out at 31 December 2024 by Capita. The present value of the defined benefit liability, and the related
current service cost and past service cost, were measured using the projected unit credit method.

In relation to the recent Virgin Media Case, as at December 2024 we do not believe this case will impact or increase
the liabilities of the KLM UK Pension Scheme. In addition, we believe that all amendments were correctly executed
with a $37 certificate if required by the legal advisers to the Trustees.

Safety Integrity Tearwork Excellence

Innovation

34

KiLRA UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Notes (continued)

17 Employee benefits (continued)

Actuarial! assumptions

The following are the principal actuarial assumptions at the reporting date (expressed as weighted averages)

2024 2023
Discount rate at 31 December 5.45% 4.60%
Expected return on scheme assets 5.45% 4.60%
Future salary increases (Refer * below) 2.00% 2.00%
Inflation assumption 3.25% 3.15%
Future pension increases:
- Post 6.4.97 accrual 3.10% 3.10%
- Pre 6.4.97 non-GMPs LPI 3% 2.50% 2.40%
~- Pre 6.4.97 non-GMPs LPI 5% 3.10% 3.10%
- Post 88 GMP 2.30% 2.20%

* - Future salary increases to be fixed at 2.0% per annum.

The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the balance sheet date are based on
standard actuarial mortality tables with modifications to reflect expected changes in mortality (S1NA tables with a
1.25% long term rate of improvement). The assumptions are equivalent to expecting a 65-year old to live for a
number of years as follows:

° Current pensioner aged 65: 21.7 years (male), 24.5 years (female).
(2023: 21.8 years (male), 24.6 years (female))

. Future retiree upon reaching 65: 23.0 years (male), 25.9 years (female).
(2023: 23.0 years (male), 25.9 years (female))

The information disclosed below is in respect of the share of the assets and liabilities which the company has been
allocated under an agreed group policy throughout the periods shown.

2024 2023
£000 £000
Total defined benefit asset 33,078 36,043
Total defined benefit liability (29,240) (33,009)
Total net asset in respect of employee benefits 3,838 3,034

The scheme surplus of £3,838,000 (2023: £3,034,000) has been considered in light of the requirements of IFRIC 14
and the Trust Deed and Rules and is recognised in full in the financial statements.

2 om tet

Integrity Tanovattion  eAmwark Excellence

Safer 35

ILIA UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Notes (continued)

17 Employee benefits (continued)
Movements in net defined benefit (asset)

Defined benefit Fair value of Net defined benefit
obligation plan assets (asset)
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Balance at 1 January 33,009 32,053 (36,043) (34,433) {3,034) (2,380)
Included in profit or loss
Current service cost 19 18 - - 19 18
Interest cost/(Income) 1,486 1,506 (1,637) (1,633) (151) (127)
Contributions paid by the employer - - (523) (553) (523) (553)
Included in OCI
Remeasurement loss/(gain):
Actuarial loss/(gain) arising from
- Changes in demographic (129) - : - (129) -
Assumptions
- Change in financial (2,907) 548 - - (2,907) 548
assumptions
- Experience adjustment 230 798 - - 230 798
Return on plan assets (greater}/less
than discount rate - - 2,530 (1,406) 2,530 (1,406)
Other
Net Individual! transfers (16) (3) 16 3 - -
Benefits paid (1,738) (1,557) 1,738 1,557 - -
Transferred to/from fellow group (714) (354) 841 422 127 68
company participant
Balance at 31 December 29,240 33,009 (33,078) (36,043) (3,838) (3,034)

Teamwork Excellence

Trtegrity

Innovation

Safery 36

MLRA UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Notes (continued)

17 Employee benefits (continued)

Plan assets 2024 2023

£000 £000
Cash and cash equivalents 1,638 1,019
Equity - 5,163
Property 880 2,098
Bonds 10,587 8,168
Broad Opportunities Fund - 3,347
LOI Funds 12,903 8,496
Insured annuities 7,070 7,752
Total 33,078 36,043

The above assets represented a 9.44% share of the total scheme assets (2023: 9.65%).
Sensitivity analysis
The calculation of the defined benefit obligation is sensitive to the assumptions set out above. The following table

summarises how the impact on the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period would have
increased (decreased) as a result of a change in the respective assumptions by one percent.

2024 2023
£000 £000 £000 £000
Change: -1.0% +1.0% -1.0% +1.0%
Discount rate 3,808 (3,134) 4,764 (3,865)
Salary increase (63) 65 (85) 90
Pension increase rate (1,918) 1,868 (2,449). 2,462

In valuing the liabilities of the pension fund at 31 December 2024, mortality assumptions have been made as
indicated below. If life expectancy had been changed to assume that all members of the fund lived for one year
longer, the value of the reported liabilities at 31 December 2024 wuuld have increased by £1.07m before deferred
tax.

The above sensitivities are based on the average duration of the benefit obligation determined at the date of the
last full actuarial valuation at 31 December 2021 and are applied to adjust the defined benefit obligation at the end
of the reporting period for the assumptions concerned. Whilst the analysis does not take account of the full
distribution of cash flows expected under the plan, it does provide an approximation to the sensitivity of the
assumptions shown.

Due to the pension scheme being in surplus it has been agreed that no further Company top up payments are
required and the Pension scheme will cover all expenses in 2025.

Tntegrity Innova an «= TAmwork “Excellence

Safety 37


bound + ori 7
KLM UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Notes (continued)

17 Employee benefits (continued)

Defined contribution plans

The Company operates a number of defined contribution pension plans. The total expense relating to these plans in
the current year was £1,911,501 (2023: £1,663,456). At the balance sheet date, £43,084 (2023: £38,528) was
outstanding and recorded within creditors.

18 Capital and reserves
Share capital
2024 2023
£000 £000
Authorised, Allotted, called up and fully paid
40,700,000 Ordinary shares of £1 each 40,700 40,700
Capital contribution 1,320 1,320
42,020 42,020

The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to
one vote per share at general meetings of the Company.

19 Obligations under leases and hire purchase contracts

The future minimum payments expected to be received under non-cancellable
sublease agreements as at 31 December 2024 are as follows:

2024 2023

£000 £000

Less than one year 58 -
Between one and five years - 294
58 294

20 Commitments
Capital commitments.

During the year ended 31 December 2024, the Company entered into a contract to purchase plant and equipment
in respect of which £144,683 (2023: £195,010) remains outstanding at the year end. These commitments are
expected to be settled in the following financial year.

Tategrity Lanovation Teamwork, Excellence

Safety 38

KL UK Engineering
Annual report and financial statements
Year ended 31 December 2024

Notes (continued)

21 Ultimate parent company and parent company of larger group

The Company is a subsidiary undertaking of Koninklijke Luchtvaart Maatschappij N.V. (also known as KLM Royal
Dutch Airlines) which is incorporated in The Netherlands. The ultimate controlling party is Societe Air France KLM
S.A., which is incorporated in France.

The largest group in which the results of the Company are consolidated is that headed by Societe Air France KLM
S.A., which is incorporated in France. The smallest group in which they are consolidated is that headed by Koninklijke
Luchtvaart Maatschappij N.V. (also known as KLM Royal Dutch Airlines) incorporated in The Netherlands. No other
group financial statements include the results of the company. The consolidated financial statements of these
groups are available to the public and may be obtained from 45, Rue de Paris, 95747 Roissy CDC Cedex, France.

& oh S ai

Integrity —Lrnovarion  amwurk — Excellence

Safety, 39

