REGISTERED NUMBER: 01009184

Annual Report and Financial Statements

for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

for

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited

TUESDAY

12/11/2024 #255.
COMPANIES HOUSE

*ADFRAKIA*
A3

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Contents of the Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

Company Information

Strategic Report

Report of the Directors

Report of the Independent Auditors
Statement of Comprehensive Income
Statement of Financial Position
Statement of Changes in Equity

Notes to the Financial Statements

Page .

13

16

17

18

19

n

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited

Company Information.
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

DIRECTORS:

SECRETARY:

REGISTERED OFFICE:

REGISTERED NUMBER:

AUDITORS:

P Boulton (resigned 31 May 2024)
M Slade

M Lynott

D Joyce (appointed 1 June 2024)
A Lane (appointed 1 June 2024)

NB Pabani

ETEL House

Avenue One
Letchworth Garden City
Hertfordshire

SG6 2HU ©

01009184

Deloitte LLP

1 New Street Square
London

United Kingdom
EC4A 3HQ

Page 1

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Strategic Report
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

The directors present their strategic report for the year ended 31 March 2024.

PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY
The Company's principal activity during the period was the operation of automotive repair centres, offering tyres,
exhausts, brakes, MOT testing and vehicle servicing. The company also operates a fleet of mobile tyre fitting vehicles.

REVIEW OF BUSINESS
During the year, the Company continued to play a central role in keeping drivers in the UK safe on the road, giving
them “peace of mind motoring”.

The Company continued to develop its range of products and services, offering these via online and in-centre channels,
as well as at customers’ homes and premises via its fleet of mobile fitting vehicles.

Putting its customers at the core of everything it does, the Company continues to support the motoring needs of all
drivers, whether their vehicle is owned or leased as part of a fleet, and whether they drive a vehicle that is powered by
an electric, combustion or hybrid engine.

The Company’s trading performance continued to improve significantly, with turnover rising by 12.1% (2023:11.1%)
to £633,090,000. Gross margin also increased by 17.5% (2023:20.84% fall), reflecting the reduced impact of increase in
product and energy costs compared to previous years where the company seen significant fall in gross margin. The
Directors consider that this reflects an excellent performance, reflecting the resilience of the Company’s market
position.

The company continues to invest in its retail centres and developing retail offerings, incurring £20,656,000 (2023:
£10,223,000) of capital expenditure during the year.

The Directors intend that the Company will continue with its existing strategy, to focus on the customer experience and
employee experience. In doing so continue to develop the businesses market leading position by adapting to the
changing requirements of the evolving car park and supporting safer, sustainable mobility such as:

+ Project TREE - a whole supply chain initiative that aims to build a greener and more equitable natural rubber
industry.

+ ADAS calibration — to ensure autonomous vehicle equipment operates correctly.

* Sustainable operations — by continually reducing the carbon footprint of its operations as well as working with
responsible supply chain and recycling partners.

KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
The Directors consider the key Company-level KPIs used to monitor performance to be:

Turnover: Current year - £633,090,000 (2023 - £564,266,000).
Gross profit: Current year - £138,304,000 (2023 - £117,615,000).
EBITDA: Current Year - £68,129,000 (2023: £45,484,000).
Operating profit: Current year - £38,420,000 (2023 - £17,813,000).

The number of automotive repair centres as at the 31 March 2024 was 607 (2023: 608).
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

The Company's activities expose it to a number of risks. It is particularly important for the Company to be able to
maintain high levels of service quality and to recruit and retain a highly skilled workforce. To this end, the Company
invests heavily in staff training and development, operates an established quality control system, and incorporates
appropriate KPIs into staff remuneration.

Interest rate risk

The Company's operations expose it to interest rate risk. The Company has both interest-bearing assets and liabilities
that are mainly intercompany. Financial risk management is carried out by the Group finance function under guidance
from the Board of Directors. Group finance identifies and evaluates financial risks in close co-operation with the
management teams of the operating companies within the Group. These risks are highlighted to the Board of Directors
and actions taken to seek to minimise the potential adverse effects on the Company's financial performance.

Page 2

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Strategic Report
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

Credit risk

The Company has implemented policies that require appropriate credit checks on potential customers before credit sales
are made. This is achieved by performing comprehensive Know Your Customer checks, setting appropriate risk-
weighted credit limits, and leveraging in-house expertise. The Company also monitors changes to customer financial
health, taking action when needed.

Liquidity risk
The Company ensures that sufficient liquidity is available for its on-going operations and future developments by
careful monitoring of its financial position and requirements, having access to the Group-wide funding arrangements.

Regulatory Risk

The Company continuously monitors changes in legislation and the regulatory framework to ensure that its operations
are amended as appropriate. Close links are maintained with bodies which influence policy through liaison with the
appropriate government departments and trade organisations to ensure that the Company has an opportunity to
comment at an early stage of proposed regulatory changes. :

Technological risk

The automotive space continues to be subject to rapid change. With advances in technology and changes in the way
vehicles are owned (e.g. connected cars, autonomous vehicles, vehicle sharing and increased electrification) it is likely
that the demand for the Company’s products will evolve. In order to address this, the Directors continue to review the
range of products and services offered to ensure the Company stays relevant.

SECTION 172(1) STATEMENT

Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 requires Directors to take into consideration the interest of stakeholders and
other matters in their decision making and their duty to promote the success of the company. This includes considering
the interest of other stakeholders which will have an impact on the long-term success of the company.

Section 172 requires the directors to have regard, amongst other matters, to:

- The likely consequences of any decision in the long term

- The interests of the company’s employees

- The need to foster the company's business relationships with suppliers, customers and others

- The impact of the company's operations on the community and the environment

- The desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct
- The need to act fairly between members of the company

The directors consider that the key stakeholders of the Company are its customers, employees, suppliers, communities,
shareholders and the Government.

KEY DECISIONS MADE BY THE BOARD IN THE YEAR
The overriding focus for the Board during the financial year has been to ensure that the right decisions have been made
in the long term interests of all of the stakeholders, in particular:

- Customers

The Board undertook detailed data analysis to understand the parts of the country not sufficiently served by the
Company's existing retail network.

- Employees

Consultation took place with relevant employees to obtain their "buy in" to the proposed site openings, in order to
maximise the chance of success

CURRENT TRADING UPDATE
Trading in the first half of the year ending 31 March 2025 has so far been satisfactory. Although concerns remain
around input cost inflation, there are indicators that this may slow in the remainder of the year.

The Directors consider that the Company is well placed to succeed.

Page 3

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Strategic Report
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT

For the year ended 31 March 2024, under The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018, the company
has applied the Wates Corporate Governance Principles for Large Private Companies (published by the Financial
Reporting Council (FRC) in December 2018 and available on the FRC website).

Good corporate governance is fundamental to the Company's success. We have in place a strong and effective
governance framework and practices to ensure that high standards of governance, values and behaviours are
consistently applied throughout the company. We have adopted the disclosure in our 2024 Report and Accounts and set
out below is how we have applied the Principles over the past year throughout our work.

Purpose and Leadership;

Our vision is to make a positive contribution to meeting society's mobility needs as the leading UK independent fast fit
operation. Our values of excellence in Health and Safety, accountability, integrity and teamwork are a core component
of our business and help to guide all our actions. These values are a central driver of success, providing a strong
platform for the creation of sustainable value. We are committed to achieving best-in-class standards, maintaining safe
and reliable operations.

Board Composition;

The composition of the Board and changes during the year is as set out in the Report of the Directors. The Board
believes that it has a balance of skills and experience appropriate to the size and nature of the business. Although there
are no independent directors on the Board, the Directors are highly experienced business leaders and frequently
consider the interests of a broad range of stakeholders, including employees, in their decision-making processes.

Board Responsibilities;

The Board is committed to ensuring that it provides leadership to the Company as a whole, having regard to the
interests and views of its shareholders and other stakeholders. It is also responsible for setting the Company's strategy,
values and standards. The Board is responsible for the effective leadership, operation and governance of the Company.

The Directors act in concert in the best interests of the Company, devoting sufficient time and consideration as
necessary to fulfil their duties. Each Director brings different skills, experience and knowledge to the Company.

Opportunity and risk;

Through regular engagement with the wider leadership team, the Directors continuously evaluate new and emerging
opportunities, such as new products and strategic partnerships, to maximise value whilst mitigating the accompanying
risks. .

Remuneration;

The Directors develop, maintain and implement the Company's remuneration policies. The overriding objective of such
policies is to attract and retain high-calibre individuals with a competitive reward package based on the achievement of
corporate performance targets. These are linked to individual performance and accountability, and are aligned to the
Company's values whilst rewarding long-term value creation.

Stakeholders;
The Board is committed to effective communications with its shareholders and engagement with stakeholders, as
described within the stakeholder disclosure Section of the $172 (1) statement.

EMPLOYMENT OF DISABLED PERSONS

It is the policy of the company that disabled people, whether registered or not, should receive full and fair consideration
for all job vacancies for which they are suitable applicants. Employees who become disabled during their employment
will be retained in employment wherever possible and will be given help with any necessary retraining.

Page 4

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Strategic Report
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

EMPLOYMENT, TRAINING, AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company ensures that employees are recruited, trained and developed in accordance with individual and business
needs to achieve maximum business and personal potential. As part of this process, all employees have an annual
appraisal, which enables both the Company and the employee to assess performance, provide feedback and identify any
future training/development requirements.

The Company is committed to learning and career development for all staff and we will endeavour to support teams and
individuals wherever we can. Our People Development team offer a broad range of development courses and
programmes to support the development of technical, management and leadership skills and where appropriate we
consider further education programmes that are relevant to individuals who work in specialist areas.

We are committed to continually developing our employees and keeping them abreast of key developments and
requirements, we do this through regular meetings and updates from management. The People Development Team
liaise with departmental directors/heads to identify departmental requirements and develop learning interventions to
support individuals and teams, with a focus on improving overall performance of the organisation.

CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES

We recognise the Group's impact on the environment. This year, we have advanced in comprehending the potential
impact of climate-related risks and opportunities within the company, but there is still more work to be done in this
area.

This is our first year of reporting climate-related disclosures under Sections 414 CA and 414 CB of the Companies Act

2006.
We consider that it is difficult to isolate any material impact on the financial statements for the year ending 31 March
2024 in respect of climate risks and opportunities.

The impact of risks and opportunities on future financial statements, in the short, medium and long term, are considered
to have the potential to be material if action is not taken to address them, as detailed in the disclosures below.

1. Governance

It is the Board’s responsibility to ensure that climate-related risks and opportunities are identified and managed
effectively, and the Board of Directors has agreed to consider climate related risk and opportunities on at least an annual
basis.

Such risks, are considered as part of the annual budget-setting process.

The Board has established the Climate/Sustainability Committee, the purpose of which is to support the Board in
assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities, mitigating such risks and making appropriate
disclosures.

The Board of Directors has requested to receive reports twice a year from the Climate/Sustainability Committee, which
is comprised of key senior staff from around the Group. This Committee meets regularly to consider risks,

opportunities, and progress against our goals.

At Board level, the CFO has responsibility for reporting on climate matters

Page 5

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Strategic Report
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

2. Risk Management

During the year we enhanced and expanded our existing climate risk assessment. As described below, the Group has
identified the current key climate-related risks, with suitable external support, assessed their likelihood and qualitative
impact in the short (0-5 years), medium (6-10 years) and long term (11 years plus). The identified risks were discussed
and individually rated by management.

Directors and senior management from the various trading and holding entities within the Group were involved in this
exercise to ensure company-level input was captured.

The Board has tasked the Climate/Sustainability Committee with keeping these under review, whilst seeking to identify
and document emerging additional trends. The Board retains ultimate responsibility for managing climate risk.

Furthermore, the Group is beginning the exercise of integrating its climate-related risk management process into its
wider approach to risk management.

3. Strategy
The Climate/Sustainability Committee is tasked with quantifying, where possible, the impact of the identified risks on
the business.

We conducted a review of climate-related risks and opportunities across the Group with appropriate external support.

No material opportunities were identified by the Group during this exercise. However the review identified several risks
and applicable timeframes, as follows, and will be reviewed periodically:

Page 6

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited

Strategic Report
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

egistered number: 01009184

CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES -— continued

Description

Risk of damage to Group assets
(e.g. property / fleet) because of
more frequent and intense extreme
weather events

Physical Risk

Transition Risk

Reputational risk associated with a
publicised failure to comply with
climate legislation and/or
regulation;

Risk of fines or penalties due to
failure to comply with legal and

Mitigation approach
The Group’s property assets are
geographically widespread,
meaning that this risk is to a degree
mitigated by this lack of
concentration.
The implementation of an enhanced
programme of preventative
maintenance (roof maintenance,
gutter cleaning and repair) to ensure
that the estate remains in good
condition to withstand more
extreme weather events
In addition to its own efforts to stay
abreast of developments, the Group
will continue to engage with
external experts to ensure emerging
requirements are understood and
addressed.

Timeframe
Long Term

Short Term

expectations on climate or achieve
publicly stated climate targets

regulatory requirements around

climate

Reputational risk associated with | Transition Risk Medium Term
failure to meet stakeholders’

The Group will continue to be
selective with public disclosures and
only disclose targets with a robust
plan to meet them.

Risk that changing climate policy | Transition Risk
or regulation threatens or

constrains business strategy

The Group in continuing to invest in
the business model to ensure it
remains relevant, whilst exploring
diversification into complementary

segments.

Medium Term

Risk of requirement for substantial | Transition Risk
CapEx investment to align with
‘pest available technology’ and
reduce direct emissions, and

indirect emissions and pollutants

The Group is continuing to invest in

energy saving technology to reduce

its direct emissions, including usage

monitoring devices and PV cells.

It also continues to develop its

product offering to enable
‘| customers and end users to maintain
their vehicles in an optimum (and
more efficient) condition, such as
via ADAS calibration, thus.
mitigating indirect emissions.

Medium Term

Risk that the company’s supply | Physical Risk
chain is significantly disrupted by

climate risk events

This risk is being incorporated into
the Group’s existing supply chain
management programme, which
aims to understand, anticipate and
mitigate supply disruption.

Long Term

Risk that customer purchasing | Transition Risk
patterns evolve as climate-related
awareness increases, adversely

impacting commercial strategy

The Group is working to understand
B2B and B2C sentiment in this area,
to ensure no adverse impact arises.

Medium Term

Risk that perceived poor ESG | Transition Risk
maturity adversely affects the
company’s valuation and access to

capital

The Group has developed online
materials to explain its work around
ESG; this material will be updated
periodically.

Medium Term

Page 7

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Strategic Report
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES - continued

The Directors consider that the Group’s business model is resilient, due to the non-discretionary nature of the products
and services offered by the Group and the relevant mitigating factors and activities.

During the financial year ending 31 March 2025, the Climate/Sustainability Committee will undertake the development
of climate scenarios.

4, Metrics and Targets

At present the Climate/Sustainability Committee has been tasked with defining ambitious, but achievable, climate-
related targets, as well as devising and managing risk mitigation strategies.

Currently, the group quantifies and discloses scope 1 and 2 emissions in its report of the directors for entities subject to

SECR requirements under part 7a of Schedule 7 to the accounting regulations for unquoted companies, using the UK
Government’s GHG protocol.

APPROVED BY THE BOARD AND SIGNED ON ITS BEHALF BY:

th

M Lynott - Director

Date: BITS aon

Page 8

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Report of the Directors
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

The directors present their report with the audited financial statements of the company for the year to 31 March 2024.

GOING CONCERN
The Directors have adopted the Going Concem basis in preparing these financial statements.

This is on the basis that the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the business will continue in operational
existence for a period of at least 12 months from the date of the signing of these financial statements.

In coming to this conclusion, the Directors have considered the current trading conditions, the Group's performance
against budget and prior years, and the committed funding made available to the Group by its ultimate parent, Itochu
Corporation, via its subsidiary Itochu Treasury Centre Europe PLC.

The Directors have prepared a number of conservative scenarios, reflecting limited sales growth paired with sustained
levels of cost inflation. Under each of these scenarios, there remains significant headroom within the Group's existing
funding facilities as set out below.

As at 31 March 2024, the Group had access to loans totalling £428,572,250 (2023: £428,572,250) expiring on 25 March
2027, in addition to a short term funding facility of £145,000,000 (2023: £150,000,000) from 1 April 2024 until 30
September 2024, increasing to £175,000,000 and then expiring on 31 March 2025.

Itochu Corporation has indicated it will provide adequate financial support to enable the intermediary holding company,
European Tyre Enterprise Limited, to continue its operations and fulfil its financial obligations for a period of at least
12 months from the signing of its financial statements.

Similarly, European Tyre Enterprise Limited has provided the Company with a letter of support indicating that it will
provide adequate financial support to enable the Company to continue its operations and fulfil its financial obligations
for a period of at least 12 months from the signing of the Company's financial statements.

The Directors therefore consider it appropriate for these financial statements to be prepared on a Going Concern basis.

DIVIDENDS
During the year ended 31 March 2024, no dividends were paid (2023: nil) and no dividends were received (2023: nil).

IDENTIFICATION OF THE INFORMATION INCLUDED IN THE STRATEGIC REPORT
Please refer to the Strategic Report details of the Company's principal risks and uncertainties, engagement with
suppliers, customers, and employees.

FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS
The Directors do not anticipate any changes to the Company's activities in the foreseeable future.

POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS

A penalty provision of £3,022,623 was recognised and disclosed within note 13 to the financial statements based on
management’s estimate as a result of uncertain tax matters, which was disclosed in uncertain tax treatment section of
note 1 to the financial statements. After the year ended, a written confirmation has been received from HMRC
confirming that no penalty will be imposed on the matter. This has been treated as adjusting post balance sheet event
and as a result the provision of £3,022,623 was de-recognised.

Page 9

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Report of the Directors
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

STREAMLINED ENERGY & CARBON REPORTING (SECR)
We know that our work has an impact on the environment and that we have a duty to manage that impact in a
responsible and ethical manner.

We do this through identifying all significant environmental impacts and putting processes into place to prevent, reduce
and mitigate them.

To meet our commitment of protecting the environment, we aim to:

- comply with all relevant environmental legislation;

- operate our business in a way that protects the environment; promote environmental awareness to colleagues and enlist
their support in improving the Company's performance with training and instruction;

- minimise waste by making sure processes are as efficient as possible; look to reduce energy and water usage;

- promote recycling internally and with our suppliers and customers; minimise the environmental impact of our logistics
activities; and

- continually develop our environmental management system.

Reducing the size of our carbon footprint remains a priority, A roll-out of energy-saving LED lighting across our estate
is now contributing positively to our ongoing aspirations in this area.

We have followed the 2019 UK Government environmental reporting guidance. The data used is adequate to support
the disclosures below and sourced from primary data points such as gas and electricity meters.

Our base year is April 2022 - March 2023 in line with our financial year.

The figures relate to the required elements of scope 1 (direct energy) for gas, fuel for company cars & vans, scope 2
(energy indirect) for electricity & 3 (other indirect) for business travel in personal cars and rental cars.

We have used UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.

The company replaces over three and a half million tyres a year and it ensures that none of these tyres are sent for
landfill seeking alternative uses to ensure a lasting benefit for the environment.

The company operates a reverse logistics system where used tyres are returned from centres in the same vehicles used
to deliver new tyres.

These tyres are then recycled within a subsidiary company, Murfitts Industries, which is the UK’s largest end-of-life
tyre recycling company.

The company continuously strives to increase the volume of scrap parts returned to suppliers for recycling. This is from
Catalytic convertors, Batteries and other items of scrap metal. The Catalytic convertors are crushed and eventually the
precious metals within them are extracted and reused. Batteries are recycled to predominantly recover the lead content
for reuse.

In addition to these logistics activities, there is an ongoing focus to reduce environmental impact throughout the
business. All retail outlets are continuously reviewed from the perspective of energy usage.

The main source of energy within retail outlets is electricity which runs equipment, heating and lighting.

Page 10

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Report of the Directors
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

Electricity usage is being monitored over the next twelve months using live data from Smart meters installed in each
retail outlet. Any excessive use of electricity during non-trading hours will be flagged to Head Office and Operations
with reason for usage and aim to reduce.

Energy efficient lighting and heating is being installed in a sample of centres to monitor reduction in usage compared to
the current lighting and heating. The company will look to install this in all retail outlets dependent on results of the
sample showing reduction in usage.

The UK Government has indicated that it intends to ban the sale of all petro] and diesel engine vehicles by 2030-
including hybrids. This is likely to accelerate the adoption of fully electric vehicles.

In addition, employees have recently opted for electric vehicles, due to the tax benefits that arise from it. This should
lead to less fuel consumption in the near future.

The data used in these calculated is extracted directly from utility billing information and fuel expense systems, and is
also the basis of the Company's energy efficiency initiatives. For example, energy usage data from properties used by
the Company are analysed to understand the nature of variations within the portfolio, in order to understand how to
bring outliers into line with the best-performing locations. Similar logic is applied to vehicles.

2023/2024 2022/2023
Energy Source. kWh tCo2e kWh tCo2e
Directly Purchased Electricity 17,470,532 3,618 21,933,787* 4,241.6*
Combustion of Gas 225,268 41 412,730* 75.3*
Fuel - Commercial Vehicles 6,161,255 2,009 6,174,815 2,024.0
Fuel - Other Vehicles 2,063,955 691 2,085,800 694.9
Total 25,921,010 6,359 30,607,132* 7,035.8*
Company's Chosen Intensity Measurement:
tCO2E per £1m Group Revenue 4.84 . 5.78*
*Restated
DIRECTORS

The directors shown below have held office during the whole of the period from 1 April 2023 to the date of this report.
M Slade
M Lynott

Other changes in directors holding office are as follows:
D Joyce (appointed 1 June 2024)

A Lane (appointed 1 June 2024)

P Boulton (resigned 31 May 2024)

ULTIMATE PARENT COMPANY
The company's immediate parent company is Kwik-Fit Holdings Limited, registered in the United Kingdom.

The company's ultimate holding and controlling parent company is Itochu Corporation, which is incorporated in Japan,
its registered office address is 5-1, 2 Chome, Kita Aoyama, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

The largest and smallest group into which the activities of the company are consolidated is that headed by Itochu
Corporation.

QUALIFYING THIRD PARTY INDEMNITY

As permitted by the Articles of Association, the directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third
party indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. The indemnity was in force
throughout the last financial year and is currently in force.

Page 11

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184) .

Report of the Directors
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES .
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that Jaw the directors
have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure
Framework”.

Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period. In preparing
these financial statements, the directors are required to:

o select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
o make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

© prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will
continue in business; and

o state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any materia! departures disclosed
and explained in the financial statements.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and
enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud
and other irregularities.

The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on
the Company's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial
statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS

So far as the directors are aware at the date of this report, there is no relevant audit information (as defined by Section
418 of the Companies Act 2006) of which the Company's Auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all the
steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to
establish that the company's auditors are aware of that information. This confirmation is given and should be interpreted
in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.

AUDITORS

Pursuant to sections 485 - 488 of the Companies Act 2006, Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in
office as auditors and appropriate arrangements have been put in place for them to be deemed reappointed as auditors in
the absence of an Annual General Meeting.

APPROVED BY THE BOARD AND SIGNED ON ITS BEHALF BY:

Date; OBI Me sean

Page 12

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited

Report on the audit of the financial statements

Opinion

In our opinion the financial statements of Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (the ‘company’):

* give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 March 2024 and of its profit for the year then
ended;

* have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,
including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and

* have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial] statements which comprise:
+ the statement of comprehensive income;

+ the statement of financial position;

+ the statement of changes in equity and

+ the related notes 1 to 25.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 10! “Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements section of our report.

We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the
financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard, and we
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting
in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions
that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern for
a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant
sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and
our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise
explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears to
be materially misstated, If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required
to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to
report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Page 13

ce

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited

Report on the audit of the financial statements

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of
the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the
directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of
accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at:
www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report.

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line
with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud.
The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.

We considered the nature of the company’s industry and its control environment, and reviewed the company’s
documentation of their policies and procedures relating to fraud and compliance with laws and regulations. We also
enquired of management, and directors about their own identification and assessment of the risks of irregularities
including those that are specific to the company’s business sector.

We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the company operates in, and identified the
key laws and regulations that:

* had a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. These
included the UK Companies Act and tax legislation; and .

* do not have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental to the
company’s ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty.

We discussed among the audit engagement team regarding the opportunities and incentives that may exist within the
organisation for fraud and how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements.

As a result of performing the above, we identified the greatest potential for fraud in the following areas, and our specific
procedures performed to address it are described below:

We presume a risk of fraud relating to supplier rebates. This has been pinpointed to the valuation & allocation and
completeness of the supplier rebates recognised on the purchase and sale of inventories during the year. To address this
particular risk, we performed the following procedures:

+ Performed a test of details on supplier rebate tracing our samples back third party goods shipment and cash
payments where applicable; and .

+ Sent a supplier rebate confirmation to randomly selected supplier and confirmed the supplier rebate rate is accurate.
« Performed a retrospective analysis on the accrued balance to confirm that the management estimates are reasonably
accurate.

Page 14

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited
Report on the audit of the financial statements

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud — continued

In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also required to perform specific procedures to respond to the risk
of management override. In addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, we tested the
appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments; assessed whether the judgements made in making accounting
estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and evaluated the business rationale of any significant transactions that are
unusual or outside the normal course of business.

In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to the risks identified included the following:

* reviewing financial statement disclosures by testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with
provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct effect on the financial statements,

* performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of
material misstatement due to fraud;

* enquiring of management and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims, and
instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations; and

* reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

+ the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

* the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit,
we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report in respect of the following matters if, in our opinion:

* adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from
branches not visited by us; or

* the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

* certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

* we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted
by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

VheGidaseg —

Makhan Chahal, FCA (Senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP

Statutory Auditor

London, UK

Dated: 08/11/24

Page 15

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

Notes
TURNOVER 2
Cost of sales
GROSS PROFIT
Administrative expenses
Other operating income
OPERATING PROFIT
Interest receivable and similar income 4
Interest payable and similar expenses 5
PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION 6
Taxation 7

.PROFIT FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR

OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR

2024
£'000

633,090
(494,786)
138,304
(103,041)
35,263
—_593
35,856
3,294
39,150
— (6,518)
32,632
(9,255)
23,377

23,377

Total comprehensive income derived from continuing operations.

The notes on pages 19 to 44 form part of these financial statements

Page 16

2023
£'000

564,266

(446,651)
117,615

(100,539)
17,076

737

17,813
1,125

18,938
(5,353)
13,585

(3,151)
10,434

10,434

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Statement of Financia] Position
As at 31 March 2024

2024 2023
Notes . £'000 £'000
FIXED ASSETS
Owned .
Intangible assets 8 4,263 4,833
Tangible assets 9 56,793 47,600
Right-of-use .
Tangible assets 9,16 210,255 205,926
Investments 10 3,551 752
274,862 259,111
CURRENT ASSETS
Stocks : 11 36,740 38,621
Debtors: amounts falling due within one 12 237,836 137,597
year
Debtors: amounts falling due after more than
one year 12 3,584 6,400
Cash at bank and in hand 10,420 6,392
288,580 189,010
CREDITORS
Amounts falling due within one year 13 (206,409) (120,813)
NET CURRENT ASSETS : 82,171 68,197
TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT
LIABILITIES 357,033 327,308
CREDITORS
Amounts falling due after more than one
year 14 (222,576) - (218,027)
PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES 17 (11,242) (9,443)
NET ASSETS. 123,215 99,838
CAPITAL AND RESERVES
Called up share capital 18 110 : 110
Retained earnings 19 123,105 99,728
SHAREHOLDERS' FUNDS 123,215 99,838

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on
sussesseeeee and were signed on its behalf by:

M Lynott - Director

The notes on pages 19 to 44 form part of these financial statements

Page 17

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Statement of Changes in Equity
for the Year Ended 3] March 2024

Called up
share Retained Total
capital earnings equity
£'000 £'000 £'000
Balance at 1 April 2022 110 89,294 89,404
Changes in equity
Total comprehensive income : : 10,434 10,434
Balance at 31 March 2023 110 99,728 99,838
Changes in equity
Total comprehensive income - 23,377 23,377
Balance at 31 March 2024 110 123,105 123,215

The notes on pages 19 to 44 form part of these financial statements

Page 18

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

1.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES

General information
Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited is a private company, limited by shares, incorporated in England and Wales under the
Companies Act 2006. The Address of the registered office is ETEL House, Avenue One, Letchworth Garden
City, Hertfordshire, SG6 2HU. The principal activity is set out in the strategic report and the ultimate parent
company is set out in the report of the directors.

Basis of preparation
The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 ‘Application of Financial Reporting
Requirements’ issued by the FRC. Accordingly, these financial statements were prepared in accordance with
Financial Reporting Standard 101 'Reduced Disclosure Framework’.

Financial reporting standard 101 - reduced disclosure exemptions
The company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions under FRS 101:

- a statement of Cash Flows;

- a statement of compliance with IFRS (a statement of compliance with FRS 101 is provided instead);

- additional comparative information for narrative disclosures and information, beyond IFRS requirements;

- disclosures in relation to the objectives, policies and process for managing capital;

- disclosure of the effect of standards in issue not yet effective;

- the remuneration of key management personnel;

- related party transactions with wholly owned members of the group; .

- the requirements of the second sentence of paragraph 110 and paragraphs 113(a), 114, 115, 118, 119(a) to (c),
120 to 127, and 129 of IFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers';

- financial instrument disclosures as required by IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures; and

- fair value measurements - details of the valuation techniques and inputs used for fair value measurement of
assets and liabilities as per paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.

- Pillar Two legislation was not effective at the reporting date.

Where relevant, equivalent disclosures can be found in the consolidated financial statements of Itochu
Corporation as at 31 March 2024 and these financial statements may be obtained from their company's website
which is www.Itochu.co.jp.

New and amended IFRS Accounting Standards that are effective for the current year

The company has adopted the amendments to IAS 1 for the first time in the
Presentation of Financial current year. The amendments change the requirements in JAS 1 with regard to
Statements and IFRS disclosure of accounting policies. The amendments replace all instances of the
Practice Statement 2 Making term ‘significant accounting policies’ with ‘material accounting policy
Materiality Judgements— information’. Accounting policy information is material if, when considered

Amendments to IAS 1

Disclosure of Accounting
Policies

Amendments to JAS 12
Income Taxes—Deferred
Tax related to Assets and
Liabilities arising from a
Single Transaction

together with other information included in an entity’s financial statements, it can
reasonably be expected to influence decisions that the primary users of general
purpose financial statements make on the basis of those financial statements.

The company has adopted the amendments to IAS 12 for the first time in the current
year. The amendments introduce a further exception from the initial recognition
exemption. Under the amendments, an entity does not apply the initial recognition
exemption for transactions that give rise to equal taxable and deductible temporary
differences. Depending on the applicable tax law, equal taxable and deductible
temporary differences may arise on initial recognition of an asset and liability in a
transaction that is not a business combination and affects neither accounting profit
nor taxable profit.

Following the amendments to IAS 12, an entity is required to recognise the related
deferred tax asset and liability, with the recognition of any deferred tax asset being
subject to the recoverability criteria in IAS 12.

Page 19

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued

for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

1.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES - continued

New and amended IFRS Accounting Standards that are effective for the current year - continued

Amendments to IAS 8 The company has adopted the amendments to IAS 8 for the first time in the current

Accounting Policies, year. The amendments replace the definition of a change in accounting estimates

Changes in Accounting with a definition of accounting estimates. Under the new definition, accounting

Estimates and Errors estimates are “monetary amounts in financial statements that are subject to
measurement uncertainty”. The definition of a change in accounting estimates was
deleted.

Going concern
The Directors have adopted the Going Concern basis in preparing these financial statements.

This is on the basis that the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the business will continue in
operational existence for a period of at least 12 months from the date of the signing of these financial statements.

In coming to this conclusion, the Directors have considered the current trading conditions, the Group's
performance against budget and prior years, and the committed funding made available to the Group by its
ultimate parent, Itochu Corporation, via its subsidiary Itochu Treasury Centre Europe PLC.

The Directors have prepared a number of conservative scenarios, reflecting limited sales growth paired with
sustained levels of cost inflation. Under each of these scenarios, there remains significant headroom within the
Group's existing funding facilities as set out below.

As at 31 March 2024, the Group had access to loans totalling £428,572,250 (2023: £428,572,250) expiring on
25 March 2027, in addition to a short term funding facility of £145m (2023: £150m) from 1 April 2024 expiring
on 31 March 2025.

Jtochu Corporation has indicated it will provide adequate financial support to enable the intermediary holding
company, European Tyre Enterprise Limited, to continue its operations and fulfil its financial obligations for a
period of at least 12 months from the signing of its financial statements.

Similarly, European Tyre Enterprise Limited has provided the Company with a letter of support indicating that it
will provide adequate financial support to enable the Company to continue its operations and fulfil its financial
obligations for a period of at least 12 months from the signing of the Company's financial statements.

The Directors therefore consider it appropriate for these financial statements to be prepared on a Going Concern
basis.

Exemption from preparation of consolidated financial statements

This financial statement is prepared as an individual company and do not contain consolidated financial
information as the parent of the group. The company has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by s401 of
the Companies Act 2006 not to produce consolidated financial statements as it is included in the accounts of
Itochu Corporation.

Critical accounting estimate and judgements
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors,
including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.

Incremental Borrowing Rate (IBR) used to measure lease liabilities

When measuring lease liabilities, the Company discounted lease payments using its incremental borrowing rate
(IBR). The IBR is intended to reflect the theoretical cost to borrow money to buy the Right of Use asset for the
term of the lease. It is built up, lease by lease, using an appropriate Risk Free Rate, adjusting for the
creditworthiness of the lessee (the better the credit, the lower the increment) and the quality of the asset (lower
quality assets result in a higher borrowing rate).

Page 20

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

1,

ACCOUNTING POLICIES - continued

Critical accounting estimate and judgements — continued

Dilapidation (see note 17)

Provision is made for dilapidation costs for leasehold properties which are expected to crystallise, in most cases,
at the end of the period of occupancy. During the year, the directors performed a detailed assessment of the
adequacy of the Company's dilapidations provision, taking into account extensive historical data in respect of
costs incurred on exit. Where a specific survey of condition has recently been carried out, the provision is
adjusted to reflect this. In the absence of such a survey, a default amount per square foot is included, based on
the historical experience. The net impact on the dilapidations provision during the year was a charge of
£226,000 (2023: £1,064,000)

Uncertain tax

The Company is subject to significant judgement in determining the provision for corporate taxes. During the
ordinary course of business, there are transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is
uncertain. As a result, the Company recognises tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and
interest will be due. These tax liabilities are recognised when, despite the company's belief that its tax return
positions are supportable, the Company believes it is more likely than not that a taxation authority would not
accept its filing position. In these cases, the Company records its tax balances based on either the most likely
amount or the expected value, which weights multiple potential scenarios. The Company believes that its
accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on its assessment of many factors including
past experience and interpretations of tax law. The Company is carrying uncertain tax positions as at 31 March
2024, most significantly a balance in respect of Corporation Tax which HM Revenue and Customs (HMRC)
considers to be due following a group reorganisation which took place in 2013. The matter was subject to
litigation with the Company, together with several of its fellow group companies, losing its case in the First Tier
Tribunal, the Upper Tribunal and, more recently, the Court of Appeal. The case was awaiting listing for a
hearing in the Supreme Court, but the Supreme Court rejected the Company’s appeal on 14 October 2024.
Therefore, the decision is final, and the Company will be working with HMRC to resolve the historical
uncertain tax position of the company together with several of its fellow group companies. A provision was
recognised in previous years, the valuation of which is based on management's estimate of the eventual outcome
of this case. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a series of complex
judgments about future events. To the extent that the final tax outcome of this matter is different than the
amount recorded, such difference will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is
made, which is likely to be in the year ended 3] March 2025. The provision recognised for uncertain tax as at 31
March 2024 was £5,360,438 (2023: £5,360,438) and forms part of the corporation tax debtor as disclosed within
note 12. A penalty provision of £3,022,628 was also recognised and was included within Accruals disclosed
within note 13 based on management’s estimate. This penalty provision has been released in the current year
due to the post balance sheet event disclosed in note 25.

Valuation of investment in group undertaking (See note 10)

The valuation of an investment in a subsidiary is a complex financial activity that requires the use of significant
estimates and assumptions. These estimates are subject to various uncertainties that can materially affect the
financial statements. The key sources of estimation uncertainty include projected cash flows, duration of cash
flows, discount rate, regulatory and market consideration which has been carefully considered and managed
during the valuation process.

Page 21

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

1,

ACCOUNTING POLICIES — continued

Revenue
The company recognises revenue as follows:

Revenue from contracts with customers is recognised under the five core principles of IFRS 15 and at an amount
that reflects the consideration to which the company is expected to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods
or services to a customer. For each contract with a customer, the company:

1. identifies the contract with a customer;

2. identifies the performance obligations in the contract;

3. determines the transaction price which takes into account estimates of variable consideration and the time
value of money;

4. allocates the transaction price to the separate performance obligations on the basis of the relative stand-alone
selling price of each distinct good or service to be delivered; and

5. recognises revenue when or as each performance obligation is satisfied in a manner that depicts the transfer to
the customer of the goods or services promised. As such, revenue from the sale of goods is recognised at the
point in time when the customer obtains control of the goods, which is generally at the time of delivery.
Revenue from a fleet services contract is recognised over time as the services are rendered based on either a
fixed price or an hourly rate.

Variable consideration within the transaction price, if any, reflects concessions provided to the customer such as
discounts, rebates and refunds, any potential bonuses receivable from the customer and any other contingent
events. Such estimates are determined using either the ‘expected value! or 'most likely amount’ method. The
measurement of variable consideration is subject to a constraining principle whereby revenue will only be
recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue
recognised will not occur.

Rental income
Income received is recognised as detailed in note 23.

Rebates payable .

A large number of the Company's corporate customers are eligible for rebates; the value of rebates earned is
calculated and as reported as a reduction of revenue. The calculation is based on the contract terms agreed with
the customer, and is typically based on purchase volumes

Page 22

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

1.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES - continued

Cost of sales
Cost of sales comprises of all costs directly attributable to operations including distribution and property cost for

the comparative period.

Interest

Interest revenue is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method. This is a method of
calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and allocating the interest income over the relevant period
using the effective interest rate, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through
the expected life of the financial asset to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.

Dividends receivable
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive the dividend payment is established.

Dividends payable

Dividends are recognised when they become legally payable. In the case of interim dividends to equity
shareholders, this is when they are paid. In the case of final dividends, this is when approved by the shareholders
at the AGM.

Investment
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less any provision for impairment.

Tangible fixed assets .
Freehold buildings, leasehold property improvements and plant and equipment are stated at cost to the company
less accumulated depreciation and less provision for any impairment.

Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write-off the assets over their estimated useful economic lives
using the straight-line method, as follows:

Land does not depreciate

Freehold property over 50 years

Leasehold the shorter of the economic life and the remaining term of the lease
Plant and machinery 10% to 25% straight line

Fixtures and fittings 10% to 25% straight line

Computer equipment 25% straight line

Motor vehicles between 20% and 50% straight line

Financial instruments
A financial asset shall be measured at amortised cost if it is held within a business model whose objective is to

hold assets in order to collect contractual cash flows which arise on specified dates and that are solely principal
and interest.

Impairment requirements use an ‘expected credit loss' ('ECL') model to recognise an allowance. Impairment is
measured using a 12- month ECL method unless the credit risk on a financial instrument has increased
significantly since initial recognition in which case the lifetime ECL method is adopted. For trade receivables, a
simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses using a lifetime expected toss allowance is available.

Trade and other receivables .

Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest method, less any allowance for expected credit losses. Trade receivables are generally due for
settlement within 30 days.

The company has applied the simplified approach to measuring ECL, which uses a lifetime expected loss
allowance. To measure the ECL, trade receivables have been grouped based on days overdue.

Other receivables are recognised at amortised cost, less any allowance for ECL.

Page 23

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

1.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES - continued

Impairment of financial assets

The company recognises a loss allowance for ECL on financial assets which are measured at amortised cost.
The measurement of the loss allowance depends upon the company's assessment at the end of each reporting
period as to whether the financial instrument's credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition,
based on reasonable and supportable information that is available, without undue cost or effort to obtain.

Where there has not been a significant increase in exposure to credit risk since initial recognition, a 12-month
ECL allowance is estimated. This represents a portion of the asset's lifetime expected credit losses that is
attributable to a default event that is possible within the next 12 months. Where a financial asset has become
credit impaired or where it is determined that credit risk has increased significantly, the loss allowance is based
on the asset's lifetime ECL. The amount of ECL recognised is measured on the basis of the probability weighted
present value of anticipated cash shortfalls over the life of the instrument discounted at the original effective
interest rate.

Impairment of non-financial assets (excluding stocks and deferred tax assets)

Non-financial assets are subject to impairment tests whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that
their carrying amount may not be recoverable, or annually for goodwill. Where the carrying value of an asset
exceeds its recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell), the asset is
written down accordingly.

Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the impairment test is carried
out on the smallest group of assets to which it belongs for which there are separately identifiable cash flows; its
cash generating units ((CGUs’). In this context, individual centres are treated as CGUs, and assessed accordingly.

Impairment charges are included in statement of comprehensive income, except to the extent they reverse gains
previously recognised in other comprehensive income. An impairment loss recognised (except for goodwill) is
reversed in a subsequent period if, and only if, the reasons for the impairment loss have ceased to apply. Any
impairment of goodwill is not reversed.

Share capital

Financial instruments issued by the company are classified as equity only to the extent that they do not meet the
definition of a financial liability or financial asset. The company's ordinary shares are classified as equity
instruments.

Stock

Stock is stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Net realisable value is based on estimated normal
selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal. Provision is made for
obsolete or slow moving items where appropriate. At each reporting date, stocks are assessed for impairment. If
stock is impaired, the carrying amount is reduced to its selling price less costs to complete and sell and the
impairment loss is recognised immediately. There was no impairment recognised in the current year or prior
period.

Page 24

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

1.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES - continued

Taxation
Current taxes are based on the results shown in the financial statements and are calculated according to local tax

rules, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the statement of financial position date.

The company is within the scope of the Pillar Two legislation enacted in the UK, which will come into effect for
the company from 1 April 2024. Since the legislation was not effective at the reporting date, the company has no
related Pillar Two current tax expense.

Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on taxable temporary differences, arising from
differences between carrying amounts and the tax base, unless it arises from the initial recognition of goodwill
or from assets and liabilities where differences will not impact on accounting profits or taxable profits. Deferred
tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible
temporary differences can be utilised.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that
it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be
recovered.

Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or
the asset is realised based on tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance
sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the profit and loss account, except when it relates to items
charged or credited in other comprehensive income, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in other
comprehensive income.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets
against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the
Company intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.

Uncertain tax
When there is uncertainty concerning the Company's filing position regarding the tax bases of assets or
liabilities, the taxability of certain transactions or other tax-related assumptions, then the Company:

- Considers whether uncertain tax treatments should be considered separately, or together as a wider Group,
based on which approach provides better predictions of the resolution;

- Determines if it is probable that the tax authorities will accept the uncertain tax treatment; and

- If it is not probable that the uncertain tax treatment will be accepted, measure the tax uncertainty based on the
most likely amount or expected value, depending on whichever method better predicts the resolution of the
uncertainty. This measurement is required to be based on the assumption that each of the tax authorities will
examine amounts they have a right to examine and have full knowledge of all related information when making
those examinations.

Foreign currency translation

The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling, which is the currency of the economic environment in
which the Company operates (its functional currency). Amounts have been presented in round thousands
("£'000s").

Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at rates of exchange
ruling at the balance sheet date. Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the rate ruling
on the date of the transaction. Exchange gains and losses are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive
Income.

Page 25

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued

for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

1,

ACCOUNTING POLICIES - continued

Leases
As a lessor
The Company accounted for its leases in accordance with IFRS 16 from the date of initial application.

The Company concluded the basis of a finance lease are:

- the lease transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset to the lessee by the end of the lease
term ; or

- the lease term is for the major part of the economic life of the underlying asset, even if title is not transferred;
or

- risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying assets are substantially transferred to the lessee.

When the Company is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for the head lease and the sub-lease as two separate
contracts. The sub-lease is classified as a finance or operating lease by reference to the right-of-use asset arising
from the head lease.

At inception of a contract, the Company assess whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is, or
contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in
exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys the right of control the use of an identified
asset, the Company assesses whether:

- the contract involves the use of an identified asset - this may be specified explicitly or implicitly, and should be
physically distinct or represent substantially all of the capacity of a physically distinct asset. If the supplier has a
substantive substitution right, then the asset is not identified;

- the Company has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of the asset throughout
the period of use; and

- the Company has the right to direct the use of the asset.

- the Company has this right when it has the decision-making rights that are most relevant to changing how and
for what purpose the asset is used. In rare cases where the decision about how and for what purpose the asset is
used is predetermined, the Company has the right to direct the use of the asset if either:

- the Company has the right to operate the asset; or
- the Company designed the asset in a way that predetermines how and for what purpose it will be used.

At inception or on reassessment of a contract that contains a lease component, the Company allocates the
consideration in the contract to each lease component on the basis of their relative stand-alone prices. However,
for the leases of land and buildings in which it is a lessee, the Company has elected not to separate non-lease
components and account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.

As a Lessee

All leases are accounted for by recognising a right of use asset and a lease liability except for:
~ leases of low value assets; and

- leases with a term of 12 months or less.

The Company recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-of-
use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any
lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate
of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is
located, less any lease incentives received.

Page 26

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

1, ACCOUNTING POLICIES - continued

Leases - continued

The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date
to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The estimated
useful lives of right-of-use assets are determined on the same basis as those of property and equipment. In
addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain re-
measurements of the lease liability.

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the contractual lease payments due to the lessor
over the lease term, that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the
lease or, if that rate cannot readily be determined, the Company calculates an incremental borrowing rate for the
lease. The incremental borrowing rate for the lease is intended to reflect the theoretical cost to borrow money to
buy the Right of Use asset for the term of the lease.

It is built up, lease by lease, using an appropriate Risk Free Rate adjusting for the creditworthiness of the lessee
(the better the credit, the lower the increment) and the quality of the asset (lower quality assets result in a higher
borrowing rate).

Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise the following:

- fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments;

- variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured using the index or rate as at the
commencement date. In such cases, the initial measurement of the lease liability assumes the variable element
will remain unchanged throughout the lease term and other variable lease payments are expensed in the period
to which they relate;

- amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee; and

- the exercise price under a purchase option that the Company is reasonably certain to exercise, lease payments
in an optional renewal period if the Company is reasonably certain to exercise an extension option, and penalties
for early termination of a lease unless the Company is reasonably certain not to terminate early.

The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is re-measured when
there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, if there is a change in the
Company's estimate of the amount expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, or if the Company
changes its assessment of whether it will exercise a purchase, extension or termination option. Subsequent to
initial measurement tease liabilities increase as a result of interest charged at a constant rate on the balance
outstanding and are reduced for lease payments made.

When the lease liability is re-measured to reflect a change in the estimate of the lease term, it adjusts the
carrying amount of the lease liability to reflect the payments to make over the revised term, which are
discounted at the same discount rate that applied on lease commencement. When the carrying value is re-
measured to reflect any of the instances in the paragraph above, a corresponding adjustment is made to the
carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-
use asset has been reduced to zero.

When the group renegotiates the contractual terms of a lease with the lessor, the accounting depends on the
nature of the modification:

- if the renegotiation results in one or more additional assets being leased for an amount commensurate with the
standalone price for the additional rights-of-use obtained, the modification is accounted for as a separate lease in
accordance with the above policy;

- in all other cases where the renegotiated increases the scope of the lease (whether that is an extension to the
lease term, or one or more additional assets being leased), the lease liability is remeasured using the discount
rate applicable on the modification date, with the right-of-use asset being adjusted by the same amount; and

- if the renegotiation results in a decrease in the scope of the lease, both the carrying amount of the lease liability
and right-of-use asset are reduced by the same proportion to reflect the partial of full termination of the lease
with any difference recognised in profit or loss.

The lease liability is then further adjusted to ensure its carrying amount reflects the amount of the renegotiated

payments over the renegotiated term, with the modified lease payments discounted at the rate applicable on the
modification date. The right-of-use asset is adjusted by the same amount.

Page 27

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued

for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

1,

ACCOUNTING POLICIES - continued

Leases - continued

For contracts that both convey a right to the company to use an identified asset and require services to be
provided to the company by the lessor, the group has elected to account for the entire contract as a lease, i.e. it
does allocate any amount of the contractual payments to, and account separately for, any services provided by |
the supplier as part of the contract.

Break clauses

The Company sometimes negotiates break clauses in its property leases. On a case-by-case basis, the Company
will consider whether the absence of a break clause would expose the Company to excessive risk. Typically
factors considered in deciding to negotiate a break clause include:

- the length of the lease term;

- the economic stability of the environment in which the property is located; and

- whether the location represents a new area of operations for the Company.

At commencement date the Company considers all relevant factors and circumstances that create economic
incentives for the Company to exercise, or not to exercise, the option, including expected changes in facts and
circumstances from the commencement date until the exercise date of the option.

Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets

The Company has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases of
machinery that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets, including IT equipment.
The Company recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis
over the lease term.

Defined contribution schemes

The company operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The assets of the scheme are held separately from
those of the company in an independently administered fund. The amount charged against profits and losses
represents the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the accounting period.

Summary of significant accounting policies and key accounting estimates
The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

Intangible fixed assets (see note 8) .
Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful lives. The estimated useful life and amortisation method are reviewed at the end of each
reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis.
Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated
impairment losses.

Tangible fixed assets (see note 9)

Tangible fixed assets are depreciated over their useful lives taking into account residual values, where
appropriate. The actual lives of the assets and residual values are assessed annually and may vary depending on
a number of factors. In re-assessing asset lives, factors such as technological innovation, product life cycles and
maintenance programmes are taken into account. Residual value assessments consider issues such as future
market conditions, the remaining life of the asset and projected disposal values.

Impairment of tangible fixed assets (see note 9)

When determining whether there are indicators of impairment of the company's tangible assets, factors taken
into consideration in reaching such a decision include the economic viability and expected future financial
performance of the asset and where it is a component of a larger cash-generating unit, the viability and expected
future performance of that unit.

Page 28

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

2.

TURNOVER

The company has one trading activity from which it derives its turnover and profits. It operates solely within the
United Kingdom.

EMPLOYEES AND DIRECTORS

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Wages and salaries 146,889 127,275
Social security costs 13,661 12,276
Other pension costs (note 20) 2,929 2,547
163,479 142,098
The average number of employees during the year was as follows:
2024 2023
Sales and distribution , 4,892 4,665
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Directors' emoluments 256 255
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes (note 20) 34 33
Directors’ Benefit in kind 3 3
Information regarding the highest paid director is as follows:
2024 2023
£'000 £1000
Directors' emoluments 256 255
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes (note 20) 34 33
Directors' Benefit in kind 3 3
293 291

One director is accruing benefits under money purchase pension schemes (2023 - 1 director).

The remuneration of the other directors is paid by European Tyre Enterprise Limited, Intermediate parent
company, which makes no recharge to the company. The directors of Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited are also the
directors of the parent company and a number of fellow subsidiaries, and it is not possible to make an accurate
apportionment of their remuneration in respect of each of the subsidiaries. Accordingly, the above details
include no remuneration in respect of the directors. The total remuneration is included in the aggregate of
directors' remuneration disclosed in the financial statements of the parent company.

Page 29

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

4. INTEREST RECEIVABLE AND SIMILAR INCOME

Interest receivable - inter-company

5. INTEREST PAYABLE AND SIMILAR EXPENSES

Unwinding of discount
Interest on lease liabilities

6. PROFIT BEFORE TAXATION

The (loss)/profit before taxation is stated after charging:

Cost of inventories recognised as expense

Depreciation - owned assets

Depreciation - right of use assets

Amortisation - Computer Software

Dilapidations provision (note 17)

Right of use disposal - loss

Loss/gain on disposal of fixed assets

Variable lease payments not included in the measurement of lease liabilities
Income from sub-leasing right-of-use assets

Expenses relating to short -term leases & low-value assets
Right of use impairment

Service fee rental expense

Other adjustments on lease liabilities

ECL provision

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
3,294 1,125

2024 2023
£'000 £000

564 230

5,954 5,123
6,518 5,353
2024 2023
£'000 £000
357,232 337,318

11,382 10,766

16,569 15,061
1,758 1,844

226 1,064
466 31
(26) 2,398
4,365 1,845
(448) (486)
1,075 361
- (1,522)
15,166 18,817
- (233)
2,749 582

During the current and prior year, the auditors' remuneration for the Company was paid by a fellow group

undertaking amounting to £464,000 (2023: £266,000).
There were no other non-audit fees to auditors in the current year or prior period.
7. TAXATION

Analysis of tax expense

2024 2023

£'000 £'000
Current tax:
Corporation tax charge -
current year 6,209 2,086
Adjustment in respect of prior period 492 164
Total current tax 6,701 2,250
Deferred tax - current year 1,936 901
Adjustment in respect of prior period 618 :
Total deferred tax 2,554 901
Total tax expense in statement of comprehensive income 9,255 3,151

Page 30

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

7.

TAXATION - continued

Factors affecting the tax expense
The tax assessed for the year is higher (2023 - higher) than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK. The
difference is explained below:

2024 . 2023

£'000 £'000
Profit before income tax 32,632 13,585
Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 25%
(2023 - 19%) 8,158 2,581
Effects of:
Fixed asset differences (15) 1,567
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 70 168
Income not taxable for tax purposes (68) -
Impact of tax rate changes - (1,329)
Adjustment in respect of prior period 1,110 164
Tax expense 9,255 3,151

The current tax charge includes amounts due to other group companies in relation to group relief.

Factors that may affect future tax charges

The Finance Bill 2021, which was granted Royal Assent on 10 June 2021, provided that the main rate of
corporation tax for the financial years 2022 and 2023 was to be 19% and 25% respectively. The Finance Act
2022 did not make any further amendments to these rates.

The company is within the scope of the Pillar Two legislation enacted in the UK, which will come into effect for
the company from 1 April 2024. Since the legislation was not effective at the reporting date, the company has no
related current tax expense.

The company applies the exception to recognising and disclosing information about deferred tax assets and
liabilities related to Pillar Two income taxes, as provided in the amendments to IAS 12 issued in May 2023.
ITOCHU Corporation, the company’s ultimate parent company, has conducted a global group-level analysis and
assessment of the expected impact of the Pillar Two rules based on financial information relating to the annual
reporting period ended March 2023. Based on this assessment, ITOCHU group companies in the UK are
expected to meet the temporary safe harbour and are, therefore, not expected to have a liability to Pillar Two
income tax. ITOCHU Corporation will update its assessment once financial information for the following
reporting period becomes available.

Deferred tax

Deferred tax has been shown in note 12. As at 31 March 2024 there are no unrecognised deferred tax items
(2023 - £nil).

Page 31

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

8. INTANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS

Computer
Goodwill software Totals
£'000 £'000 £'000

COST
At 1 April 2023 439 11,849 12,288
Additions - 1,188 1,188
At 31 March 2024 439 13,037 13,476
AMORTISATION
At I April 2023 439 7,016 7,455
Amortisation for year : 1,758 1,758
At 31 March 2024 439 8,774 9,213
NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 March 2024 : 4,263 4,263
At 31 March 2023 : 4,833 4,833

Page 32

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

9. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS

COST

At 1 April 2023
Additions
Disposals

At 31 March 2024

DEPRECIATION

At 1 Apri! 2023
Charge for year
Eliminated on disposal

At 31 March 2024

NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

COST

At 1 April 2023
Additions
Disposals

At 31 March 2024
DEPRECIATION

At 1 April 2023
Charge for year
Eliminated on disposal

At 31 March 2024

NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

Fixtures
and
fittings

£'000

20,197
4,166

—c)
24,286

11,721
2,285
Gl)

13,975

10,311

8,476

Freehold
property
& land

£'000

943

943

16
22

38

927

Motor
vehicles
£'000

921
7

928

782
48

830

98

139

Leasehold
£000

76,807
5,844

(63)
82,588
51,914

4,848

(41)

56,721

25,867

24,893

Computer
equipment
£'000

4,050
508

Q)
4,557
2,072

931

@)

3,002

1,555

1,978

Plant and
machinery
£'000

44,904
10,131

(37)
54,998

33,717
3,248

(24)

Totals
£'000

147,822
20,656

(178)
168,300

100,222
11,382
(97)

311,507

56,793

47,600

Page 33

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

9. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS - continued
As a Lessee
The Company leases many assets including land and buildings and vehicles. An extract from the table below for
which the Company is a lessee is presented below:

Lease payment changes represent modifications to existing leases under IFRS16.

Right-of-use Assets:

Motor
Leasehold Vehicle Equipment Total
£'000 £000 £'000 £'000

COST
Balance as Ist April 2023 250,102 11,504 4,449 266,055
Addition 11,912 1,731 - 13,643
Lease payment change 7,100 159 - 7,259
Transfer - - - -
Disposal (3) (1) - (4)
At 31 March 2024 ° 269,111 13,393 4,449 286,953
DEPRECIATION
At Ist April 2023 51,748 7,434 947 60,129
Charge for year 13,304 2,357 908 16,569
Impairment - - - -
Disposal - - - -
At 31 March 2024 65,052 9,791 1,855 76,698
NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 March 2023 198,354 4,070 3,502 205,926
At 31 March 2024 204,059 3,602 2,594 210,255

Page 34

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

10.

11.

12.

INVESTMENTS
Shares in
group
undertaking
£'000

COST
At 1 April 2023 752
Additions 2,799
At 31 March 2024 3,551
NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 March 2024 3,551
At 31 March 2023 752

On 27 December 2023, the company acquired a 100% ownership of Fettle Bike Repair Ltd.

The directors consider that the carrying value of the fixed asset investments are supported by their underlying
net assets. The investments in subsidiaries are held at cost less accumulated impairment losses.

The company directly owns of 100% of the ordinary share capital of the following group undertakings:

Country of
incorporation or
Name registration Nature of business
Kwik-Fit Properties Limited UK* Holding and managing of properties
TPAS (UK) Limited UK* Operation of automotive repair centres
Central Tyre (Commercial) Limited UK* Operation of automotive repair centres
Fettle Bike Repair Ltd UK* Operation of bicycle repair centres

* Registered address: ETEL House, Avenue One, Letchworth Garden City, Hertfordshire, SG6 2HU

STOCKS
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Stock for resale 36,740 38,621

The estimated replacement cost of stock is not materially different from the balance sheet value. Total stock
expense during the year was £357,232,000 (2023: £337,318,000).

DEBTORS
. 2024 2023
£'000 £'000

Amounts falling due within one year:

Trade debtors 25,011 27,544

Amounts owed by group undertakings 192,636 85,831

Amounts receivable in respect of finance

leases 78 139

Prepayments and accrued income 12,540 9,900

Other debtors 819 1,843

Corporation tax : 6,752 12,340
237,836 137,597

Page 35

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

12. DEBTORS - continued

Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Amounts receivable in respect of finance
leases

Deferred tax

Aggregate amounts

Deferred tax
The deferred tax balance is made up as follows:

Accelerated capital allowances
Other temporary differences

Total deferred tax

Deferred tax reconciliation

Opening balance

Current year charge to the Statement of Comprehensive Income (note 7)

Adjustment in respect of prior year

Closing balance

2024 2023
£1000 £000
220 482
3,364 5,918
3,584 6,400
241,420 143,997
2024 2023
£'000 £000
(1,250) 1,138
4,614 4,780
3,364 5,918
2024 2023
£1000 £000
5,918 6,820
(1,936) (902)
(618) -
3,364 5,918

Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest method, less any allowance for expected credit losses. Trade receivables are generally due for
settlement within 30 days, and the receivables have no significant financing component.

As at 31 March 2024, the lifetime expected loss provision for trade receivables is as follows:

59 days or less 90 dayst+ Total

Expected loss rate 0% 100%
£7000 £7000 £000
Gross carrying amount 24,947 307 25,331
Loss provision 45 (307) (320)
Net balance 24,992 - 25,011

As at 31 March 2023, the lifetime expected loss provision for trade receivables is as follows:

59 days or less
Expected loss rate 0%
£'000
Gross carrying amount 27,698
Loss provision (142)
Net balance 27,556

Page 36

90 dayst Total
100%
£7000 £7000
177 27,969
(177) (390)
- 27,579

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

12. DEBTORS - continued

The Company has found that the vast majority of receivables are settled by 60 days, after which the default rate
increases sharply. :

Amounts owed by group undertakings are unsecured, interest free, have no fixed date of repayment and are
repayable on demand.

Amounts owed by group undertakings are considered to be a low credit risk. Credit risk for these assets has not
increased significantly since their initial recognition.

The company considers the provision against these intercompany receivables to be immaterial.

13. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Leases (see note 15) 16,763 15,849
Trade creditors 17,364 18,571
Amounts owed to group undertakings 118,484 36,906
Taxation and social security . 2,975 2,906
VAT 18,268 17,412
Other creditors 6,245 5,584
Accruals and deferred income 26,310 23,585
206,409 120,813

Amounts owed to group undertakings are unsecured, interest free, have no fixed date of repayment and are
repayable on demand.

14. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE

YEAR
2024 2023

£'000 £'000

Leases (see note 15) 222,576 218,027
15. FINANCIAL LIABILITIES - BORROWINGS
2024 2023

£'000 £000
Current:
Leases (note 16) 16,763 15,849
Non-current:
Leases (note 16) 222,576 218,027

Page 37

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

16. LEASES
2024 2023
£'000 £000
1 year or less 16,763 15,849
1-2 years 15,903 14,969
2-5 years 41,052 38,444
More than 5 years 165,621 164,614
Total 239,339 233,876
Motor Plant &
Leasehold Vehicle Machinery Total
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Lease Liability .
Balance at Ist April 2023 226,266 4,198 3,412 233,876
Addition 10,380 1,729 - 12,109
Lease payment change 8,190 135 - 8,325
Disposal 1,030 - - “1,030
Interest Charge : 5,741 131 88 5,960
Lease Payment (18,401) (2,595) (965) (21,529)
Balance at 31st March 2024 233,206 3,598 2,535 239,339

Lease payment changes represent modifications to existing leases under IFRS16.

The total cash outflow for leases during prior year was £22,000, with interest charge on lease liabilities being
£6,000.

17. PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES

Dilapidation Total

£000
At 1 April 2023 9,443
Utilised during the year 1,009
Unwinding of discount : 564
Charge to the Statement of Comprehensive Income 226

Transfer to group companies =
31 March 2024 11,242
Dilapidations

The dilapidations provision represents the assessment of contractual repair liabilities relating to certain leasehold

properties. The timing of the utilisation of this provision will vary according to the individual properties
concerned.

Page 38

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

18. CALLED UP SHARE CAPITAL

Authorised, issued and fully paid

Number Class Nominal 2024 2023

Value £'000 £'000
1,000,001 (2023 : 1,000,001) Ordinary Shares Ip 10 10
1,000,000 (2023 : 1,000,000) Deferred Shares 10p 100 100

110 110

All of the ordinary shares rank pari passu as regards distributions of profits and voting rights. The deferred
shares do not carry voting rights, nor do they carry the right to participate in any distribution of profits. They do
carry certain rights to a distribution on a return of assets or winding up of the company.

19. RETAINED EARNINGS
The retained earnings represent cumulative profits or losses, net of dividends paid and other adjustments.
20. PENSION COMMITMENTS

Defined Contribution Schemes:

The amount recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as an expense in relation to defined
contribution scheme is £2,929,000 (2023: £2,547,000). The amount owing at the year-end was £575,000 (2023:
£221,000).

Defined Benefit Schemes:

The company has a small defined benefit scheme which was closed in 1989 and no contributions are made to the
scheme. The date of the last actuarial valuation was 30 June 2023 and the amount of the surplus was £538,000.
The valuation is performed on an annual basis.

The Scheme provides members with pension benefits relating to two bulk transfers. The benefits in relation to
‘Eastern' members are governed by a Transfer Agreement dated 6 March 2000. The benefits in relation to 'Grp'
or 'Ex-Euro Exhaust’ members are governed by a Deed of Amendment dated November 2007. Members’
benefits are bought out on retirement with an insurance company.

The Scheme is legally separate from the company and is administered by a board of Trustees. The Trustees are
legally required to act in the best interests of members of the Scheme.

The Scheme is exposed to a number of risks, including:

- Interest rate risk: on the LDI investments comprising bonds and interest rate swaps held through pooled
investment vehicles and cash .

- Currency risk: subject to indirect currency risk because some of the Scheme's investments are held in

overseas markets via pooled investment vehicles.

- Credit risk: The Scheme invests in pooled investment vehicles and is therefore directly exposed to credit

risk in relation to the instruments it holds in the pooled investment vehicles and is indirectly exposed to

credit risks arising on the financial instruments held by the pooled investment vehicles

- Other price risk: arises principally in relation to the Scheme's return seeking portfolio which includes

equities held in pooled vehicles, equity futures, hedge funds, private equity and investment properties.

The valuation has been rolled forward from 30 June 2022 to 31 March 2024 for IAS 19 valuation purposes,
adjusting for known member movements.

Page 39

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

20. PENSION COMMITMENTS - continued

The information disclosed below is in respect of the whole of the plans for which the Company is the sponsoring

employer.
Defined benefit asset
Effect of net asset ceiling

Total defined benefit asset
Total defined benefit liability

Net asset/liability for defined benefit obligations (see following table)

Movements in net defined benefit liability/asset (excluding asset restriction)

Defined benefit Fair value of plan
obligation assets
31.3.24- 31.3.23. 31.3.24  — 31.3.23
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Balance at 31 March (803) (925) 1,351 2,001
Inc. in profit or loss Interest
cost/(income) (23) (22) 62 51
Inc. in OCI :
Remeasurements loss/(gains)
Actuarial loss/(gain) arising - - - -
Change in financial - 197 - -
assumption
Change in demographic
assumption 8 - : -
Experience adjustments (55) 36 (164) (490)
Return on plan assets
excluding interest income - - - -
Other
Benefit paid 41 2u1 (41) (211)
Balance at 31 March (532) (503) 1,208 1,351

31.3.24
£'000
1,208

(676)

532
(532)

31.3,23
£'000
1,351

(848)

503
(503)

Net defined benefit

liability (asset)

31.3.24  — 31.3.23
£'000 £'000

848 1,076

39 29

- 197

8 -

(219) (454)
676 848

The above table summarises the movement in the gross plan assets and defined benefit obligation before any
asset restriction. The asset restriction removes the impact in the profit and loss account and OCI to a £nil

position.

Plan assets

Cash and cash equivalents

Equity instruments

Debt instrument e.g. Government bonds
Total

Actuarial assumptions

Discount rate at 31 March

Retail Price Inflation (CPI) - Pre-retirement
Consumer Price Inflation (CPI) - Pre-retirement
Future salary increases

Deferred Revaluation

Retail Price Inflation (RPI) - Post Retirement
Future pension increases

Expected return on assets

Page 40

31.3.2¢

£'000
614
594
1,208

31.3.24
4.80% pa
3.85% pa
2.55% pa
3.55% pa
2.55% pa
3.55% pa
3.25% pa
4.80% pa

31.3.23

£000
51
861
439
1,351

31.3.23
4.75% pa
3.50% pa
2.50% pa
3.50% pa
2.50% pa
3.45% pa
3.20% pa
4.75% pa

%

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued

for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

20.

21.

PENSION COMMITMENTS - continued

The assumptions relating to longevity underlying the pension liabilities at the balance sheet date are based on
standard actuarial mortality tables and include an allowance for future improvements in longevity. The
assumptions are equivalent to expecting a 65-year old to live for a number of years as follows:

- Current pensioner aged 65: 21.3 years (male), 23.7 years (female).

- Future retiree upon reaching 65 in 2044; 22.2 years (male), 24.9 years (female)

The mortality assumptions use 100% of the S3PxA base table, which was published by the Actuarial Profession
in December 2018 and represents the experience of occupational pension schemes in the period 2009-2016, with
improvements in line with the CMI_2022 projection table published by the Actuarial Profession in June 2023.
The model assumes that recently observed mortality improvements will converge to a long-term improvement
rate of 1.00% per annum. Unless otherwise stated, the core model assumptions have been used.

Sensitivity analysis

The calculation of the defined benefit obligation is sensitive to the assumptions set out above. The following .
table summarises how the impact on the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period would have
increased (decreased) as a result of a change in the respective assumptions by one percent.

31.3,24
£'000
Discount rate :
Plus 1% pa (46)
Less 1% pa . 55
Inflation (RPILCPI)
Plus 1% pa 35
Less 1% pa (35)

In valuing the liabilities of the pension fund at 31 March 2024, mortality assumptions have been made as
indicated above. If life expectancy had been changed to assume that all members of the fund lived for one year
longer, the value of the defined benefit obligation at 31 March 2024 would have increased by £13,000 before
deferred tax.

The above sensitivities have been calculated consistently with the core defined benefit obligations, by amending
the 30 June 2022 valuation data for membership movements and re-calculating on the appropriate basis.

Funding

The Company expects to pay £nil in contributions to its defined benefit plans in 2024/25 i.e. the next annual
reporting period. The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting
period is 11 years (2023: 12 years).

OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS

The company is party to the group banking arrangements which allows the company the facility for borrowing
and depositing funds with European Tyre Enterprise Ltd, a fellow group company.

Facilities with Barclays Bank ple:
BACS Facility of £38,000,000 and Company Barclaycard Facility of £398,000.

Debenture on the Banks Standard Form (dated 23/09/2005) and Charge Over Stock Exchange given by Kwik-fit
(GB) Limited (dated 23/09/2005).

Page 41

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

21.

22.

"23.

OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS - continued
The company hold unlimited guarantees given by:

- Central Tyre (Commercial) Limited
- Kwik-fit Group Limited

- Kwik-fit Finance Limited

- Kwik-fit Properties Limited

- Stapleton's (Tyre Services) Limited
- Detailagent Limited

- Kwik-fit Euro Limited

- Kwik-fit Holdings Limited

- Kwik-fit Nederland BV

- Kwik-fit Netherlands Cooperatief WA
- Speedy 1 Limited

- TPAS (UK) Limited

RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
All related party transactions and balances relate to companies wholly owned within the group.

Information about the company's immediate parent and ultimate holding and controlling parent company is
provided in Note 24.

GUARANTEES AND OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS

As a lessor
When the Company acts as a lessor, it determines at lease inception whether each lease is a finance lease or an

operating lease.

To classify each lease, the Company makes an overall assessment of whether the lease transfers substantially all
of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the underlying asset. If this is the case, then the lease is a
finance lease; if not, then it is an operating lease. As part of this assessment, the Company considers certain
indicators such as whether the lease is for the major part of the economic life of the asset.

When the Company is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head lease and sub-lease
separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sub-lease with reference to the right-of-use asset arising from
the head lease, not with reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease is short -term to which the Company
applies the exemption described above, then it classifies the sub-lease as an operating lease.

If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Company applies IFRS 15 to allocate the
consideration in the contract.

The Company recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income on a straight-line basis over
the lease term as part of "other income".

Lease liabilities

2024
Maturity analysis - contractual undiscounted cash flows £'000
Less than one year 22,043
One to five years 75,689
More than five years 202,114
Total undiscounted lease liabilities as at 31 March 2024 299,846
Lease liabilities included in statement of financial position at 31 March 2024:
Current 21,537
Non-current 217,802
239,339

Page 42

vw

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued

for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

23.

GUARANTEES AND OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS - continued
i) Real Estate Leases

The Company leases land and buildings for its retail stores. The leases of retail store space typically run for a
period of 30 years. Some leases include an option to renew the lease for an additional period of the same
duration after the end of the contract term.

The Company leases a number of properties. It is customary for lease contracts to provide for payments to
increase each year by inflation or and in others to be reset periodically to market rental rates. In some property
leases the periodic rent is fixed over the lease term. The Company sub-leases some of its properties under
operating and finance leases (see note 12).

The Company sub-leases some of its properties under operating and finance leases (see note 12).

Extension options

Some leases contain extension options exercisable by the Company up to one year before the end of the non-
cancellable contract period. Where practicable, the Company seeks to include extension options in new leases
to provide operational flexibility. The extension options held are exercisable only by the Company and not the
lessors. The Company assesses at lease commencement whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the
extension options. The Company reassesses whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the options if there is a
significant event or significant change in circumstances within its control.

ii) Other leases

The Company leases vehicles and equipment, with lease terms of 4 to 7 years. In some cases, the Company has
options to purchase the assets at the end of the contract term; in other cases, it guarantees the residual value of
the lease assets as the end of the.contract term.

iii) Surplus leases

Some of the properties that the Company leases have been vacant during the period. The Company expects to
be able to sub-let these properties or surrender the leases within 3 years.

As a Lessor

Lease income from lease contracts in which the Company acts as a lessor is £137,000 (2023: £158,000).

i) Operating lease

The Company leases out property. The Company has classified leases as operating leases where they do not
transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of the assets. The note. below sets

out information about the operating leases.

The following table sets out a maturity analysis of lease payments, showing the undiscounted lease payments to
be received after the reporting date:

2024

£'000

Less than one year 123
One to two years 110
Two to three years 69
Three to four years 60
Four to five years 58
More than five years 172
Total undiscounted lease payments 592

Page 43

Kwik-Fit (GB) Limited (Registered number: 01009184)

Notes to the Financial Statements - continued
for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

23.

24.

25.

GUARANTEES AND OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS - continued
ii) Finance lease

The Company also sub-leases properties. The Company has classified the sub-leases as finance leases, because
the sub-leases are for the more than 75% of the lease term of the head term.

The following table sets out a maturity analysis of the lease receivables, showing the undiscounted lease
payments to be received after the reporting date.

2024

£'000

Less than one year 86
One to two years 86
Two to three years 86
Three to four years 46
Four to five years 27
More than five years :
Total undiscounted lease payments. 331

ULTIMATE PARENT COMPANY
The company's immediate parent company is Kwik-Fit Holdings Limited, registered in the United Kingdom.

The company’s ultimate holding and controlling parent company is Itochu Corporation, which is incorporated in
Japan, its registered office address is 5-1, 2 Chome, Kita Aoyama, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

The largest and smallest group into which the activities of the company are consolidated is that headed by Itochu
Corporation.

POST BALANCE SHEET EVENT

The Company's tax treatment of the group reorganisation which took place in 2013 was subject to litigation in
the Courts. Following the year-end, the Supreme Court rejected the Company’s appeal, finalising the judgement
of the Court of Appeal. The Company will collaborate with HMRC to resolve this historical uncertain tax
position. At this stage, there is no change to the provision of £5,360,438recognised for uncertain tax included
within Corporation tax (Note 13). While a penalty provision of £3,022,628 was recognised within Accruals
(Note 13) based on management's initial estimate, a written confirmation from HMRC after the year-end
confirmed no penalty would be imposed. This has been treated as an adjusting post-balance sheet event,
resulting in the full release of the £3,022,628 provision.

Page 44

ty

v

