Company registration number 07487702 (England and Wales}

LEADING RESULTS LIMITED
UNAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

PAGES FOR FILING WITH REGISTRAR


LEADING RESULTS LIMITED

CONTENTS

Page

Balance sheet 1-2

Notes to the financial statements 3-8


LEADING RESULTS LIMITED

BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 MARCH 2024

Notes
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 5
Current assets

Debtors 6
Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors: amounts falling due within one

year 7
Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due after more
than one year 8

Provisions for liabilities
Net assets

Capital and reserves
Called up share capital

Profit and loss reserves

Total equity

2024
£ £
9,980
249,771
405,434
655,205
(384,080)
271,125
281,105
(11,338)
(1,896)
267,871
100
267,771
267,871

2023

266,426
209,307

475,733

(221,306)

12,394

254,427

266,821

(21,382)

(2,355)

243,084

242,984

243,084


LEADING RESULTS LIMITED

BALANCE SHEET (CONTINUED)
AS AT 31 MARCH 2024

For the financial year ended 31 March 2024 the company was entitled to exemption from audit under section 477 of the
Companies Act 2006 relating to small companies.

The members have not required the company to obtain an audit of its financial statements for the year in question in
accordance with section 476.

The directors acknowledge their responsibilities for complying with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 with respect
to accounting records and the preparation of financial statements.

These financial statements have been prepared and delivered in accordance with the provisions applicable to companies
subject to the small companies regime.

The directors of the company have elected not to include a copy of the profit and loss account within the financial statements.

The financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on 22 November 2024 and are
signed on its behalf by:

AJ Douglas
Director

Company registration number 07487702 (England and Wales)


LEADING RESULTS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

4.1

1.2

1.3

1.4

Accounting policies

Company information
Leading Results Limited is a private company limited by shares incorporated in England and Wales. The registered
office is Carleton House, 268-268 Stratford Road, Shirley, Solihull, B90 3AD.

Accounting convention

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland” (“FRS 102") and the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 as
applicable to companies subject to the small companies regime. The disclosure requirements of section 1A of FRS 102
have been applied other than where additional disclosure is required to show a true and fair view.

The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the company. Monetary amounts
in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest £.

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, [modified to include the revaluation
of freehold properties and to include investment properties and certain financial instruments at fair value]. The principal
accounting policies adopted are set out below.

Turnover

Turnover is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods and services provided in
the normal course of business, and is shown net of VAT and other sales related taxes. The fair value of consideration
takes into account trade discounts, settlement discounts and volume rebates.

When cash inflows are deferred and represent a financing arrangement, the fair value of the consideration is the
present value of the future receipts. The difference between the fair value of the consideration and the nominal amount
received is recognised as interest income.

Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have
passed to the buyer (usually on dispatch of the goods), the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, it is probable
that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the entity and the costs incurred or to be incurred
in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.

Revenue from contracts for the provision of professional services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion
when the stage of completian, casts incurred and costs to complete can be estimated reliably. The stage of completion
is calculated by comparing costs incurred, mainly in relation to contractual hourly staff rates and materials, as a
proportion of total costs. Where the outcome cannot be estimated reliably, revenue is recognised only to the extent of
the expenses recognised that it is probable will be recovered.

Intangible fixed assets - goodwill

Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of acquisition of unincorporated businesses over the fair value of net assets
acquired. It is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is considered to have a finite useful life and is amortised on
a systematic basis over its expected life.

For the purposes of impairment testing. goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units expected to benefit from the
acquisition. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment at least annually, or
more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the
cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the
carrying amount of each asset in the unit.

Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost or valuation, net of depreciation
and any impairment losses.


LEADING RESULTS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1

1.5

1.6

1.7

Accounting policies (Continued)

Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets less their residual values over their useful
lives on the following bases:

Fixtures, fittings & equipment 25 % Straight Line

The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the
carrying value of the asset, and is credited or charged to profit or loss.

Impairment of fixed assets

At each reporting period end date, the company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to
determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication
exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any).
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the company estimates the
recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.

Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current
market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future
cash flows have not been adjusted.

If the recoverable amount of an asset {or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the
carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is
recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the
impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease.

Recognised impairment losses are reversed if, and only if, the reasons for the impairment loss have ceased to apply.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is
increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed
the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or
cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless
the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a
revaluation increase.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents are basic financial assets and include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other
short-term liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are
shown within borrowings in current liabilities.

Financial instruments
The company has elected to apply the provisions of Section 11 ‘Basic Financial Instruments’ and Section 12 ‘Other
Financial Instruments Issues’ of FRS 102 to all of its financial instruments.

Financial instruments are recognised in the company's balance sheet when the company becomes party to the
contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset, with the net amounts presented in the financial statements, when there is a
legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to realise
the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.


LEADING RESULTS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1.8

1.9

Accounting policies (Continued)

Basic financial assets

Basic financial assets, which include debtors and cash and bank balances, are initially measured at transaction price
including transaction costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method unless
the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the transaction is measured at the present value of the
future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest. Financial assets classified as receivable within one year are not
amortised.

Classification of financial liabilities

Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements
entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the company after
deducting all of its liabilities.

Basic financial liabilities

Basic financial liabilities, including creditors, bank loans, loans from fellow group companies and preference shares that
are classified as debt, are initially recognised at transaction price unless the arrangement constitutes a financing
transaction, where the debt instrument is measured at the present value of the future payments discounted at a market
rate of interest. Financial liabilities classified as payable within one year are not amortised.

Debt instruments are subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business
from suppliers. Amounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they
are presented as non-current liabilities. Trade creditors are recognised initially at transaction price and subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of transaction costs. Dividends
payable on equity instruments are recognised as liabilities once they are no longer at the discretion of the company.

Derivatives

Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently
remeasured to fair value at each reporting end date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss
immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the
recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.

A derivative with a positive fair value is recognisec as a financial asset, whereas a derivative with a negative fair value
is recognised as a financial liability.

Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.

Current tax

The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the
profit and loss account because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years
and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The company’s liability for current tax is calculated
using tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting end date.


LEADING RESULTS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1.12

1.13

Accounting policies (Continued)

Deferred tax

Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all timing differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the
extent that it is probable that they will be recovered against the reversal of deferred tax liabilities or other future taxable
profits. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the timing difference arises from goodwill or from the initial
recognition of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting end date and reduced to the extent that it is
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the
assetis realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the profit and loss account, except when it relates to items
charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are offset when the company has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the
deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority.

Employee benefits
The costs of short-term employee benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense, unless those costs are
required to be recognised as part of the cost of stock or fixed assets.

The cost of any unused holiday entitlement is recognised in the period in which the employee's services are received.

Termination benefits are recognised immediately as an expense when the company is demonstrably committed to
terminate the employment of an employee or to provide termination benefits.

Retirement benefits
Payments lo defined contribution retirement benefil schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.

Leases

Rentals payable under operating leases, including any lease incentives received, are charged to profit or loss on a
straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease except where another more systematic basis is more
representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leases asset are consumed.

Foreign exchange

Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of
the transactions. At each reporting end date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies
are retranslated at the rates prevailing on the reporting end date. Gains and losses arising on translation in the period
are included in profit or loss.

Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the company’s accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and
assumptions about the carrying amount of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The

estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be
relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are
recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised where the revision affects only that period, or in the period of
the revision and future periods where the revision affects both current and future periods.


LEADING RESULTS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

3 Employees

The average monthly number of persons {including directors) employed by the company during the year was:

Total

4 Intangible fixed assets

Cost

At 1 April 2023 and 31 March 2024

Amortisation and impairment
At 1 April 2023 and 31 March 2024

Carrying amount
At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

§ Tangible fixed assets

Cost

At 1 April 2023

Additions

At 31 March 2024

Depreciation and impairment
At 1 April 2023

Depreciation charged in the year

At 31 March 2024

Carrying amount
At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

2024 2023
Number Number

18 17

Goodwill
£

20,000

20,000

Plant and
machinery etc

£

36,818
7,125

43,943

24,424
9,539

33,963


LEADING RESULTS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

6 Debtors
Amounts falling due within one year:

Trade debtors
Other debtors

7 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

Bank loans

Trade creditors

Taxation and social security
Other creditors

8 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year

Bank loans and overdrafts

9 Operating lease commitments

Lessee

2024

248,575
1,196

249,771

2024

9,663
140,632
130,178
103,607

384,080

2023

265,934
492

266,426

2023
£

9,663
120,742
76,980
13,921

221,306

At the reporting end date the company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under

non-cancellable operating leases, as follows:

2024

2023

17,748


This document was delivered using electronic communications and authenticated in accordance with the
registrar's rules relating to electronic form, authentication and manner of delivery under section 1072 of
the Companies Act 2006.

