Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885

fidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY. os

Annual Report and Financial Statements
For the year ended

31 July 2024

>
<
fa)
4
>
-
<
wv

mn

\
\

Registered Company Number
06305220

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 ns .
Commercial in Confidence

_ LEEDS TRINITY UNI VERSITY

ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year-ended 31 July 2024

CONTENTS , . . - ; : page
Directors and Advisors oo . . : ; ; oy
Introduction and Nature of the University , ; ‘ . ‘ , 2

. strategic Report : a - we, 3 -

‘+ Charitable Purpose and Public Benefit a 7 OS BE

Directors" Report a , ' : . , 15, .

“ Corporate Governance , . , ; , 18
Independent Auditor's Report . , : : ; ; 7 24
Statement of Principal Accounting Policies . —— ; ; 28-

. , ‘
Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure _ ‘ ; re 33

Statement of Changes in Reserves . , . oo : oo 34
Balance Sheet- , . Le oor , "35

' Cash Flow Statement — a, ; , ‘ 360°

Notes to the Financial Statements - a : 7 37

-Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-. 2D0FF7D66885

-LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

DIRECTORS AND ADVISORS

Commercial in Confidence

‘Directors and Governing Body Members serving during the year and up to the date of approval of the annual |

report and financial statements were:

Mr Lawrence Bentley

Prof Charles Egbu (Vice-Chancellor)

Ms Thelma Fforde-Escobar ‘

Ms Maddeleine Goodhand (from 1 July 2024)
Fr Paul Grogan : —

Mr Jamie Hanley (Board Chair)

Ms Susan Hogston (from 1 August 2023)

Mr Martin Holden (Chair of Audit Committee)
Ms Kelsey Howard-Matthews (retired 30 June 2024)
Mr Denis Kobzev

Mr Roland Maposa

Mr Bill McCarthy (Chair of Partnerships Committee
from 26 March 2024)

Mr Stuart McLeod (from | April 2024)

’ Clerk to the Board and Company Secretary
Ms Joanna Green ;
Chancellor

_Mr John Studzinski

‘Auditor

Grant Thornton UK LLP
No 1 Whitehall Riverside
Whitehall Road ~
Leeds

LS1 4BN

‘Registered Office

- Leeds Trinity University
Brownberrie Lane

- Leeds
LS1I8 5HD.
ENGLAND

Ms Sophia Milnes :

Ms Ceri Nursaw (Chair of Academic Assurance and’
Student Experience Committee)

- Mr Kevin O’Connor (Chair of Finance and Resources .

Committee from 26 January 2024)
Mr David Oldroyd (from 1 August 2023)

Ms Emily Reed (Chair of Governance and Nominations

- Committee and Senior Independent Governor)
Ms Susan Rix (resigned 31 July 2024)"

.Mr Vijay Sharma (Chair of Remuneration Committee)

Ms Tara Smith (Chair of Finance and Resources
Committee to 26 January 2024)

Rt Reverend Marcus Stock

- Ms Amy Wilson ‘

Pro Chancellors -
Mr Ed Anderson
Rt Hon John Battle ~

Solicitors’

Eversheds Sutherland LLP
Bridgewater Place

Water Lane

Leeds

LS11 5DR

“Company and Charity Numbers

06305220
1120102

Registered Company Number
Registered Charity Number

“Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB 1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 ,
. ~~ * Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

INTRODUCTION, STRUCTURE AND NATURE OF THE UNIVERSITY -

Introduction

The Governors present their annual report, including the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report, and the audited
financial statements for the year ended 31 July.2024. The financial statements comprise the results for the year for
the University. :

The. Strategic Report has been: prepared forthe purpose of providing additional information to funders, financial
supporters and other stakeholders to assess the University’s strategies and the potential for those strategies to succeed
and is not intended for use for any other purpose. The ‘Strategic Report contains forward looking statements. These
“statements are based on the information available to the Governors up to the time of their approval of this report. -

The University is both a company limited by guarantee and a registered charity. Each Governor is both a director of”
the Company and a trustee of the Charity. ‘The Governors deem the principal activity of the University, in both the
current and prior year, to be the advancement of education.

Nature of the University

-Leeds Trinity University (“Leeds Trinity” or the “University”) is an autonomous, teaching-led and research-informed
higher education institution, inspired by Catholic values and based in Horsforth, Leeds.

The origins of Leeds Trinity can be traced back to two Catholic teacher training colleges, Trinity College and All
Saints College, founded by the Cross and Passion Sisters and the Catholic Education Service in 1966. Their mission
was to provide the best educational opportunities possible for the children of the poor and to actively support social
justice — aspirations that Leeds Trinity still maintains. : .

Over the last half century, the institution has evolved and developed culminating in the award of university title in
December 2012, but ifs Catholic faith foundation remains central to its activities and is enshrined within its legal
objects which ‘shall be the establishment, conduct and development of a Roman Catholic institution for the
advancement of education for the benefit of the public’. . .

The University’s origins and faith foundation continue to be reflected in its Mission, Vision and Values.

Our Mission

Leeds Trinity’s mission is rooted in its Catholic foundation. We are a diverse and inclusive University welcoming
students from all backgrounds and beliefs which exists to provide a transformational educational experience, forming
students and learners whose lives will flourish and find wholeness in their work and world. Focused on the innate
dignity and value of each person, we seek to provide our students with a distinctively supportive academic and
professional community, empowering them to discover their unique gifts and talents, and so fulfil their personal and
professional potential. Our leadership and governance are committed to promoting social solidarity and the common
good through our commitment to social justice, enhancing opportunities, collaboration, and adding value to the lives
of our students, staff, and University community.

Our Vision’

We will bea leading career-led and applied university. Our students will achieve outstanding outcomes. Our well-
rounded learners and graduates will be sought by employers. They ¥ will shape a rapidly changing world.

Our Values
Rooted in our Catholic heritage, our core values define us-as a university, and we seek to uphold them in all that we

do — Dignity and Care; Solidarity and Service; Honesty and Integrity; - Respect and Inclusivity; Knowledge and
Excellence.

\

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 : a .
Commerciai in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

STRATEGIC REPORT

Strategic Plan 2021-26

The University’s current five-year Strategic Plan was approved in July 2021. Our-hallmark will be as an enterprising
anchor institution where social justice is at the core of who we are and what we learn. We commit to equality, diversity,
and inclusion in all we do. We will create new ways of linking to our City Region. Partnering will help our students
to thrive through work, volunteering and learning insights.

On our Horsforth campus, or through our partner colleges in the UK and around the world, we will develop rounded .
earners. Our learners will leave with skills passports to take into the many careers and quests they pursue. They will
be ready and prepared for lifelong learning. They will contribute to a Leeds City Region which is creative, fun and
caring. We will grow and sustain our Leeds campus base’ and expand student numbers through our partnerships. We
expect to grow our international links and make this part of our students’ learning journeys.

We will make our Strategic Plan work through four thematic pillars. Each will have an action plan linked to the
University’s enabling strategies and a set of key performance indicators to monitor progress. Each pillar has a clear
role to play‘in achieving our Vision by 2026: wy y

Education & Experience.
o Leeds Trinity’s student experience will be unrivalled in the higher education sector. Our students will engage

.in depth with their learning. Our approaches will stimulate curiosity and inquiry. Students who j join us will
always feel part of an extraordinary community. They will be more than a number. They will flourish as
individuals and in cross-disciplinary teams. They will partner with us to: co-create the curriculum. They will
challenge us to innovate in our teaching and learning.

vt * People & Sustainability .
o We care about our people. We know that professional development lielps people to feel fulfilled. Personal

. growth increases health and wellbeing. This leads to better outcomes for our learners. It creates a caring
community. Our care for the environment means that our campus will be greener. The learning environments
we. offer, including through our partners, will put human connections first. This will happen through digital
channels and through physical spaces. We will achieve all of this through being financially stable.

Research, Impact & Innovation
o We will advance knowledge to help people and society. Our social partners will challenge us to innovate and

make an impact. We will enable our students to contribute to society through their own applied research, and
our work will enrich our teaching. Our practice and our research will cross disciplinary boundaries as we
collaborate. We will innovate as we grow our commercial partnerships. We will inform public debate,
engaging and helping communities to make sense of the changing world around us.

Careers & Enterprise
o From acareer-led university, our students will be sought by employers and society. Our graduates and staff
will shine through skills that mark them out as both local and global citizens. They wil be effective as social
and cultural entrepreneurs as they build their careers.

Underpinning and supporting these four thematic pillars are two cross cutting themes:

Digital Futures
© Through all four of our strategic pillars, our use of digital technology will enable a cultural transformation of
the way we work, study, and connect within the University and with our external stakeholders.

Leeds City Region
o  Wewill engage with our partners and build our profile i in the Leeds City Region. This will bring opportunities

for our learners. It will also increase our influence and impact as an anchor institution.

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 Gali,
- : Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

STRATEGIC REPORT

Operating Environment

The higher education landscape continues to be a challenging one, with teaching income tied to student numbers ina «
competitive recruitment market; continued uncertainty as to the longer term future of the current fee and funding
regime where the £9,250 fee is now worth around £6,000 in real terms after adjusting for inflation; increased
competition for home undergraduate students, including higher tariff institutions trading down to secure additional

~ numbers; lower numbers of international students as a result of the government’s visa policy; an emergence of
government questioning of the principle of continued increases in participation in higher education; and the impact of
the regulatory regime led by the Office for Students (OfS) as it responds to various government priorities, in particular -
the introduction of the ‘B3’ outcome metrics and an increased regulatory focus on the franchise partnership segment
of the sector. . .

‘Leeds Trinity is very reliant on student related income and has recently been seeking greater diversification of income
streams through development of additional student provision to reduce its dependency on its traditional on-campus
undergraduate market. These include the development of degree apprenticeships, where the market has been
stimulated by the government's apprenticeship agenda, and the further consolidation of partnerships and
collaborations. . :

The potential risks from the operating environment to both short term liquidity and longer-term fi financial sustainability
have been considered in the going coricern assessment which is discussed in the Going Concern section of the Strategic
Report.

Principal Risks and Uncertainties .
The major strategic and financial risk areas facing the University (which group together several linked risks) and its
response to those risks are: :

Financial Sustainability, Policy Environment and Partnerships:

Failure to adequately address the changeable environment brought about by the risks and uncertainties around student
recruitment, together with uncertain political environment around fees & funding, government policy direction with
regards to teacher education, increasing pressures from pension costs and the current inflation and energy costs
environment, would mean the ability to respond to changes is restricted and financial sustainability is threatened. The
increased regulatory focus on the franchise partner segment of the sector also brings increased risk to this area of the
University’s provision. :

The University is managing these risks by careful management of the cost base to ensure value for money and to retain
flexibility; by 4 financial strategy prioritising levels of liquidity which would enable downturns to be managed; by
strategic investment into new facilities and subject areas to drive growth in undergraduate numbers, including opening
a new campus in Leeds city centre;,by diversification into recently developed income streams such as degree
apprenticeship and partnerships; by a keen awareness of the additional risks of partnerships working and the need for
a more robust approach to monitor quality; and by robust scenario planning and consideration of available options.

Student Recruitment, Experience, Progression and Employability:

As‘a teaching focussed University which derives most of its income from tuition fees, the ability to recruit and retain :
planned student numbers in an increasingly competitive market is fundamental to the University’s success. The
University’s ability to provide an excellent student experience and enable students to succeed is central to its reputation

and the risks of failure in these areas is that the University becomes less attractive in the student recruitment
marketplace.

IT Infrastructure and Cyber Security

in addition to the grouped risk areas outlined above, the University continues to monitor and address significant risks
associated with IT infrastructure and information security. The external cyber threat environment remains dynamic,
with an increased frequency and sophistication of cyber-attacks-in recent years. In response, the University has’
invested in upgrading its data storage infrastructure, deploying new hardware solutions that incorporate the latest
technologies and provide enhanced resilience. .
“4

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6881-4DA3-6105-200FF7D86885 . Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY _ ; ‘
STRATEGIC REPORT '. °

Ongoing cyber security assurance activities include monitoring outcomes from the Cyber Security Self-Assessment
Questionnaire, which underpins the University’s Microsoft Cyber Essentials accreditation. These activities inform
continuous improvement in security posture and support the protection of institutional data assets.

Staff and Student Mental Wellbeing

Risks relating to staff and student mental health and wellbeing have remained elevated following the COVID-19
pandemic, where prolonged periods of home working and remote study contributed to increased pressures. These
challenges have been compounded by the current cost of living crisis. The University remains committed to promoting
a supportive environment, with a range of interventions and services designed to safeguard and enhance the mental
wellbeing of its community.

Strategic Investment in Facilities and Subject Areas

The University” s strategic investment programme, aimed at developing new facilities and expanding provision in
emerging subject areas, underpins its ambitions for future growth. These initiatives, however, carry inherent risks
relating to cost inflation, resource availability, and programme delivery timescales. To mitigate these risks, the
University has embedded strong programme management disciplines and governance arrangements, ensuring that
investments are delivered in a controlled and prioritised manner in support of its strategic objectives.

The University is managing these risks by ensuring the continued attractiveness of its portfolio through regular
planning and review, including extension into new areas of identified market opportunity; by continuing and evolving
the marketing approach of recent years; by the introduction of a personalised applicant approach to utilise the
University’s strengths and provide distinctiveness in the market; and through embedded student engagement,
provision of integrated support for students, an enhanced focus on improvements in retention and progression, and
strong employer engagement including placements on every undergraduate programme. :

Significant Events and Performance in the Year

Following Board approval in 2022 of several business cases to support the University’s strategic growth ambitions,
on implementation of these has continued during the year. These included entry into new areas of provision in Health &
4 Life Sciences, including Nursing where the first cohort commenced in January 2024; and plans to establish a presence
wy : in Leeds city centre in addition to the existing Horsforth campus, where the University has teased a 50,000 square foot

ie city centre premises and during the year commenced a £15m capital investment fit out ahead of welcoming the first
students in October 2024. . : : :

Performance in the year is discussed under the various headings below and in the Financial Sustainability section.

Student Experience: : .
The attractiveness of Leeds Trinity to potential students is enhanced by its reputation for high quality learning and
teaching, which is the product of a commitment to providing personalised, one-to-one support for students. This is
reflected in traditionally high levels of student satisfaction. The most recent outcomes from the National Student

- Survey (NSS) placed the University 8" nationally for assessment & feedback, and in the top quartile of the sector for
learning resources and student voice.
Student Recruitment: . .
Following a fall in undergraduate recruitment in September 2021, the cycle to September 2022 had seen a part
recovery with a small increase in enrolments. The cycle to September 2023 saw a further uplift with enrolments now -
back above the 2021 position. :

Learning and -Téaching: . . vy . .

Attainment continues to be strong and when combined with an entry tariff profile that reflects the University’s
commitment to widening participation, this reflects the University’s success in enabling students to achieve their
potential. The University ranked 8" nationally for satisfaction with teaching and 3 nationally for satisfaction with
feedback in the latest Guardian University Guide. The University also continues to hold its silver rating in the Teaching
‘Excellence Framework, (TEF) outcomes.

Docusign Envelope {D: F.3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 wae .
Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

STRATEGIC REPORT

Student Employability:

_ Leeds Trinity has also long been attractive for its employability record and figures from the Higher Education Statistics
Agency (HESA) for the Graduate Outcomes (GO) Survey continue to show high levels of overall employment or
further study. The latest release of figures, for 2021-22 graduates and surveyed 15 months after graduation, in
September — November 2023, showed 96.3% of graduates in employment or further study (up 1.5%) placing in the”
sector upper quartile. The outcome for graduates in highly skilled employment or further study showed a slight 0.6%
drop to 74.2%, although this is still the second highest point across a five-year period.

Apprenticeships and Partnerships: . . ; :

The University sees the government’s policy push for more apprenticeships as an opportunity for those institutions
which can respond quickly and is bringing its traditionally strong.employer links to bear in this area. Over recent
years, contracts secured with both public and private sector employers have seen numbers increase significantly each
year since. The 2023/24 year saw an extension awarded of the University’s significant partnership with West
Yorkshire Police as policing movés towards being a graduate entry profession, with delivery of the Police Constable
Degree Apprenticeship for non-graduates and the Degree Holder Entry Programme for those already holding a non-
policing degree. The University also secured the contract for a similar partnership with West Midlands Police during
the year. The University’s successful partnership with the Unlocked leadership programme for new prison officers
further expands the University’ s growing reputation in the criminal justice area. ,

The University has made significant progress in developing partnerships that help it reach its aim of providing wider .
access to higher education. Partnerships with six UK private providers, including two new partners in the 2023-24
year, saw student numbers across the six partners growing to over 10,000. The recruitment markets of all the partners
have a significant element of ethnic communities that traditional higher education providers find difficult to access.

OfS Investigation

The University is in the final stages of agreeing the outcomes of the Office for Students (OfS) investigation into its
franchised partnership arrangements. It is anticipated that the penalties and regulatory actions arising from this process
will not have a material impact on the University's operational activities or financial position. The University remains
committed to working closely with the OfS to ensure full compliance with all regulatory expectations and to
strengthening its oversight of partnership arrangements going forward. :
Financial Overview

Financial performance for the year ended'31 July 2024, together with the corresponding figures for the previous year,
is summarised in the financial highlights shown below.

2024 2023

£000 = £7000,
Tuition fees 57,300 53,319
Other Income ; 12,822 10,911
. ‘Total Income : ‘ "70,122 64,230
Staff costs . , + 43,106 35,574
Other costs . *. 25,935 22,821
Total Expenditure : . 7 * 69,041 58,395.
Operating surplus before pension actuarial adjustments 1,081 5,835
Pension actuarial adjustments:
- Current service costs in excess of contributions (795) 1,218

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

STRATEGIC REPORT

- Net interest on pension liabilities co, (77) . 182

Surplus for the year as per the Statement of Comprehensive .
Income & Expenditure . : 1,953 4,435

* excluding pension actuarial adjustments

Cash generation and liquidity: . . - - 2024. 2023

: £7000 £000
EBITDA for the year : . oO 5,491 : 9,441

: ,

Operating cash flow . . > 2,533 6,911 -
Cash and short term investments” * 25,137 37,173
Borrowings : Lo (7,176) (7,847)
Net funds: . : 17,961 29,326 °

Total income increased by 9.2% and total expenditure (excluding pension actuarial adjustments) increased by 18.2%,
leading to an operating surplus before pension actuarial adjustments of £1.1m, a reduction of £4.7m from prior year.
Tuition fee income rose by 7.5% and now represents 81.7% of income (83.0% in 2023). However, within-that the
University’s strategy to diversify its income streams away from a reliance on its traditional on-campus undergraduate
provision is continuing to be successful with partnerships and degree apprenticeships now accounting for 53.1% of
tuition fee income and 43.4% of all income (up from 49.0% and 40.6% respectively). - .

Within the operating cost base, staff costs were up 21.2% driven by a 15.0% increase in average staff numbers in order
to deliver on strategic plan ambitions, note the in-year effect of the increase to Teachers Pension Contribution does
account for the costs rising more than the staffing numbers. Other costs increased by 13.6%, as a result of increased
costs of delivery associated with growth and support for cost-of-living pressures and hardship. -

"The j pension actuarial adjustments were a credit figure of £872k ‘taking an operating surplus £1,081k to a £1,953k
surptus as per the Statement of Comprehensive Income & Expenditure.

The annual actuarial adjustments bear no relation to the actual cost of pension commitments made in the year.

Accounting standards mandate that the current service cost is calculated using the prevailing (and currently much
lower) corporate bond rate for investment returns rather than the long-term investment return assumptions which the
fund actuary uses for the scheme valuation and the setting of employer contributions (which were 3.95% as per the
2019 valuation which produced a fully funded position for the University). The rate used for the annual actuarial
adjustments has remained at 5% as per previous year having been 3.4% in 2021/22. The result has seen an increase of
the fair value of the scheme assets and a decrease in the defined benefit obligation. The result is a surplus in the scheme
of £5.1m albeit one that in line with accounting guidance has not been recognised. This means that the only liability
shown on the balance sheet is that relating to the unfunded element of the pension scheme (£33k).

There was a reduction in cash and short-term investment balances of £8.7m, which together with borrowing
repayments led to a decrease in net funds of £8.1m. Net assets increased by £1.1m due to an increase in fixed assets

" of £10m offset by the movement in cash and short term investment balances of £8.7m with minor movements on other
receivables.

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 toes :
: Commerciat in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

STRATEGIC REPORT

Financial Sustainability,

The three main financial indicators are shown below with performance for.the year, prior year and target. The
indicators have targéts generated internally in the financial strategy as-appropriate for future financial sustainability
“and which may vary from year to year.

Target 23/24 | Actual 23/24 | Actual 22/23

EBITDA

£5.5m £9.4m
él.im- | £5.8m

61.5% | 55.0% |

| Operating Surplus (exc pension actuarial adjustments)
: Staff costs as a % of income (exc pension actuarial
adjustments

Earnings before Interest Tax Depreciation and Amortisation (EBITDA) is included as a proxy for cash generation.
The targets are derived from the strategic plans of the University, the investment associated with this and the cash
generation required to fund it.

Operating surplus excluding pension actuarial adjustments has a relatively close relationship to EBITDA but measures
the same performance in a perhaps easier to understand concept. It is also the key loan covenant in terms.of headroom
and the target provides a comfortable level of headroom.

In both cases the EBITDA and the operating surplus showed a reduction due to increased staff costs representing
recruitment ahead of profile and non pay pressures.

Staff costs as a % of income is a key indicator (excluding pension adjustments as with the operating surplus measure)
reflecting the importance of staff costs to the University’s financial health given that as a people business staff costs
necessarily form by far the most significant part of the cost base. The target for this was 59.0% with an outturn
percentage of 61. 5% reflecting additional in year recruitment. . j

The graph below shows performance against the new indicators over the last few years. The operating surplus and
staff cost % shown exclude exceptional restructuring costs as well as pension adjustments to facilitate comparison of
underlying performance. The inflationary pressures over recent years on pay which is embedded year on year as a
cost-of-living increase combined with a drop off in recruitment and therefore income in certain provisions has led to
a deterioration overall of the staff cost as % of income. The University has been putting in plans actions to reduce the
pay cost as it moves into the next financial year and beyond.

' : Financial Indicator Comparisons

£16000 -  -- - -- eo ee nee . 65.0%

£14,000

£12,000 60.0% !

£10,000 , /

. £8,000 55.0%

"£6,000

£4,000 50.0%

£2,000 - - ,

£0 . so

: | / oe : 45.0% '
19/20 20/21 21/22 22/23 23/24 ,

Mmmm Operating Suplus © MMMM EBITDA = +e Staff Costs

Docusign Envelope !D: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8 105-2D0FF7D66885 Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

STRATEGIC REPORT

Left hand scale — Operating Surplus and EBITDA :
Right hand scale — Staff Costs excluding pension adjustments and restructuring as % of income.

Plans for Future Periods

The outlook over the next few years’ will remain a challenging one as outlined in the Operating Environment and
Principal Risks & Uncertainties sections. The strategic plan for the period 2021-26 sets out how Leeds Trinity will
distinguish itself in the market. The Governors believe Leeds Trinity’s distinctiveness will enable it to continue to be
able to compete successfully'and to thrive. Our hallmark will be as an enterprising anchor institution where social
justice is at the core of who we are and what we learn. We will create. new ways of linking to our City Region.
Partnering will help our "students to thrive through work, volunteering and learning insights.

Undergraduate recruitment will continue to be central to the success of the University, with the expansion into new
subject areas and expanding of its footprint via the new city centre campus. Recruitment to Health & Life Sciences
courses commenced from 2023 entry with a first Nursing cohort in January 2024, with these subject areas planned to
grow over the next few years.

The financial forecast for the current year indicates a deterioration in performance compared to the prior year, with
the University projected to move into a position where net operating-cash generation becomes negative. In response,
the University has launched a comprehensive programme of cost-saving initiatives across both pay and non-pay
expenditure areas.

To restore the University’s net operating cash position to a sustainable level — targeting annual net operating cash -
generation equivalent to 10% of income —:an £11 million savings target has been established. Progress has béen
made toward achieving this, with further work underway to review and restructure both academic and professional |
services functions, alongside targeted reductions in non-pay areas such as estates and IT.-

This programme forms part of a broader "Reset" of the University’s operating model, which aims not only to deliver
financial sustainability but also to reallocate resources to better align with current and emerging institutional needs.

In parallel, selective investment is being made in new areas where the University has identified critical gaps in capacity
and expertise, supporting long-term Strategic development.

During the year, the University successfully opened its new city centre campus at 1 Trevelyan Square, Leeds. This
development marks a significant step in expanding the University’s presence within the city, enhancing its
accessibility for students, staff, and partners, and supporting future growth ambitions. The new campus offers high- | |
quality facitities designed to deliver an outstanding learning environment and to strengthen the University’s
engagement with business and community stakeholders across the region.On our Horsforth campus, or through our
partner colleges in the UK and’around the world, we will develop rounded learners. Our learners will leave with skills
passports to take into the many careers and quests they pursue. We will grow and sustain our Leeds campus base and
expand student numbers through our partnerships. We expect to grow our international links and make this part of our
students’ learning journeys.

Through all four of our new Strategic pillars, our use of digital technology will enable a cultural transformation of the
way we work, study, and connect’ within the University and with our external stakeholders. We will seize the
opportunities opened up by the pandemic’s acceleration of longer-term changes which were already in play, in order
to enable aspirations around agile working by staff and the combination of the digital and the personal by students.

Leeds Trinity is also targeting further growth in degree apprenticeships by using its outstanding employer links to
build on the success of its existing partnership with West Yorkshire Police. Diversification of income streams will be
continued by the franchised partnership provision. :

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885,

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

Commercial in Confidence

STRATEGIC REPORT
Going Concern

The University’s activities, together with the uncertainties arising and the factors likely to affect its future
developments, performance and position are set out in the Operating Environment, Principal Risks and
Uncertainties, and Plan for Future Periods sections. The financial position of the University is described in the
Financial Overview and Financial Sustainability sections and in more detail within the financial statements and
accompanying notes. The University has carried out analysis and stress testing on its going concern status to 31
July 2026.

The Board believes that the University is suitably placed to manage its risks successfully, with a.good performance
base in 23/24 and a liquidity position as at 31 July 2024 equal to 143 liquidity days. The University has. put in
place cost saving measures including a voluntary severance scheme, targeted reductions in non-pay spend and
reviews of operating-models to ensure there is a concentrated focus on value for money and efficiency as the
operating environment for the University becomes more challenging. This is in response to a reduction in
forecasted income for 2024//25 of £9m concentrated on a shortfall against planned recruitment for Leeds Trinity
University delivered tuition fees and a fall in partner fee income. ,

The University notes that, aligned to its strategic plan, the completion and opening of Trevelyan Square has been
funded through existing cash reserves in 23/24 and as a result means that the University’s cash balances will be
lower in the néar future than previously experienced. It was always the intention of the University to obtain
additional funding, however at the time of issuing the annual report and financial statements this facility is not in
place. In order to cover short term working capital requirements the University has put in place an overdraft
facility. The University’s current gearing position is very low, both for the overall sector, and in comparison to
Cathedral group peers, and this will reduce even further with the scheduled repayment of the Lloyds loan in June
. 2025 resulting in a borrowing to income ratio of 2.5% versus a sector average between 25% and 30%. This shows
there is adequate gearing headroom to support borrowing to support the University’s liquidity Position after a
period of extensive capital investment financed by reserves.

Consideration has been given to the potential for interruptions to income streams in terms of the stress testing.

‘Thése considerations have been applied in addition to the known downsides in 2024/25. The reasonable downside
sensitivities cover reduced recruitment, progression and residential occupancy; changes to the fee and funding ~
environment; and from other demands on the University’s cash reserves including commitments on its strategic

growth investments. The stress testing shows that the University would continue to have sufficient cash headroom
throughout the period and would remain in a positive net cash / debt position indicating the continuing ability to

service loan obligations from cash in hand. The stress testing includes the £5m overdraft agreed with Barclays

with effect from the signing date of the accounts. This £5m overdraft is sufficient for working capital requirements

up to 31 July 2026. From this point onwards, an additional facility will be required.

It is necessary to clarify that the funding currently secured to support the assertion above is a £5m overdraft that
is renewable as of the 30th of June 2026 and is repayable on demand for the duration of the going concern period. ,
The overdraft provides the University with access to working capital and its forecast shows that it maintains a
minimum of 30 days liquidity which is a regulatory requirement. However due to the overdraft being repayable °
on demand for the going concern period, and the requirement to obtain further funding from the 31“ July 2026,
there is a material uncertainty related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the entity's ability
to continue as a going concern. This reflects the inherent uncertainty regarding the timing and confirmation of
replacement funding rather than any concern about the University's underlying viability or financial sustainability.
The University recognises that the source of:long-term funding to. replace the short-term overdraft is not yet
finalised. -

The Board of Governors considers that the University has adequate resources to continue in operational existence
for the foreseeable future (to the end of the 2025/26 financial year). Accordingly, it continues to adopt the going ©
concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements. The current position, is the result of
deliberate strategic investment in key transformation programmes and infrastructure, alongside a prolonged period
of engagement with the Office for Students concerning franchise partnership arrangements. The Board remains
confident in the University's ability to manage its working capital and secure longer-term financing. :

Docusign Envelope ID: F3870451-68B1-4DA3-8105-2D0F F7D66885 Commercial in Confidence

* LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

STRATEGIC REPORT

$172 Statement .
Context’ . ote ; ; -

In accordance with the requirements of section 172 of the Companies Act 2006, as applied to higher education
institutions, the Board of Governors confirms that it has had due regard-to the long-term success of the University, the
interests of its students, staff and other key stakeholders, and the need to foster positive relationships with suppliers,

: partners, and the wider community. The following statement sets out how these duties have been discharged during
the reporting period : :

Statement

Engagement with Key Stakeholders

The Board recognises that sustainable growth depends on understanding and responding to the views and needs of its
stakeholders, including students, staff, partners, ‘suppliers, and the wider community. The Board’s decisions are
informed by the University’s mission, vision, and values, as set out in the Nature of the University section of this
report. In particular, the Board is guided by the values of dignity and care, solidarity and service, honesty and integrity,
respect and inclusivity, and knowledge and excellence, which are rooted in the University's Catholic heritage.

Board and committee agendas routinely include reports and presentations on operational performance, strategy, and
people matters. Members of the executive team and functional leads attend meetings to ensure the Board remains
closely connected to the operational realities of the institution. Staff and student representatives also serve on the
Board and committees, ensuring these two key groups have a direct voice in governance processes.

N

Interests of Employees . : : oo

The Board places a high priority on promoting the interests and wellbeing of University employees. During the year,
the Board oversaw initiatives aimed at supporting staff: through organisational change, particularly through the
University’s “Reset” programme designed to drive longer-term sustainability. These activities included engagement
programmes, support for professional development, and maintaining a focus on health and wellbeing. Open and
‘regular communication with staff is maintained throygh a variety of formal and informal channels, reflecting the
Board’s commitment to fostering an inclusive, supportive working environment.

Relationships with Suppliers and Partners 1

The Board recognisés that suppliers and strategic partners are essential to the University’s operations and growth. The:
University maintains responsible procurement practices that emphasise fairness, transparency, and value for money.
Engagement with suppliers and partners is based on collaboration and a commitment to long-term, sustainable
relationships that support both the University's objectives and broader economic development in the region.

,

Strategic Developments -

During the year, the Board oversaw the implementation of previously approved strategic investments, including the
expansion into Health and Life Sciences (notably through the introduction of new nursing programmes) and the
establishment of a new city centre campus at | Trevelyan Square, Leeds. These developments involved the careful
allocation of significant capital investment, aligned to the University’s strategy of enhancing student opportunity,
widening participation, and supporting regional needs.

Wider Community Impact :

Further examples of the University’s contribution to public good and wider community impact are outlined in the

Charitable Purpose and Public Benefit section of this report, including the University’s work in outreach, student

success, and the Access and Participation Plan.
: a

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF 7066885 sal
. Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

STRATEGIC REPORT

The Board considers that its decision-making processes during the year have been consistent with the principles set
_ out in section 172 of the Companies Act 2006, promoting the, success of the University for the benefit of its
stakeholders and wider society. :

_ Approval : .
The Strategic Report has been approved by the Board and is signed below on its behalf.

Mr Jamie Hanley ; -

On behalf of the Board of Governors and Board of Directors

30 April 2025 i

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-68B1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 . aon 5
: : Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY.

CHARITABLE PURPOSE AND PUBLIC BENEFIT

Charitable Purpose and Public Benefit

The University’s charitable purpose is ‘the advancement of education for the benefit of the public’ as set out in its
Articles of Association. It does this through the teaching of a diverse curriculum and by educating a broad range of
students. Its students and potential students are the principal beneficiaries.

The Board of Governors has complied with its duty to have due regard to the Charity Commission’s public benefit
guidance when exercising any powers or duties to which the guidance is relevant. A principle of public benefit is that
benefits must be balanced against any detriment or harm. The Governors consider that none of the University’s
activities causes detriment or harm.

- The University has a successful history and strong track record in the recruitment of students from under-represented
groups. The Catholic social mission of the University is played out in our desire to empower individuals, regardless

. of their background or route into higher education, to achieve their true potential and reach the highest standards
possible. It is important to Leeds Trinity that access to education is offered in an open and affordable way to all who
may benefit. Widening access and improving participation to higher education is actively promoted and this: is-
reflected in the student profile, with 98% .of students coming from state schools and 20% from low participation
neighbourhoods (POLAR 2).

Outreach *

Leeds Trinity has an excellent track record in terms of the extent and success of its outreach work, with a dedicated
Student Recruitment and Outreach team supporting teachers, advisors and young people by raising aspirations
regarding progression to higher education. Notable investment, activities and interventions include:

e. Extensive reach with schools and colleges in West Yorkshire, with relationships with over 190
institutions, together with a highly-targeted approach to prioritise schools’ with high ratios of under-
represented pupils. .

° A structured programme of academic HE “subject focus days” and a number of residential summer
schools.

¢ Care Leavers are-offered an enhanced package of advice and guidance in both the pre and post
- application process and once they arrive. This includes a single point of contact. Adult learners are also
offered a dedicated package of advice and guidance, as well as § tailored financial advice and a dedicated

‘return to learn’ programme prior to induction.

Leeds Trinity is committed to Go Higher West Yorkshire (GHWY), established by twelve providers of higher
education in West Yorkshire. It is also committed to the National Collaborative Outreach Programme (NCOP) secured
by Go Higher West Yorkshire. Go Higher West Yorkshire’s mission isto work in collaboration to act as a single point
of contact for information on its HE provider partners, improving access to, and achievement in, Higher Education to
enhance individual and economic development.

GHWY’s activities are directed. through two operational groups. The Business Engagement Planning Group has a
remit to work in partnership to open up higher education options to underrepresented groups, with a particular focus
on employers and their employees, and its partners have worked together to develop higher and degree apprenticeships
which aim to appeal to a wide range of students, and seek to investigate the social mobility potential of this emerging
‘area of work. The Widening Participation Planning Group has a focus on working with specific target groups which
_have been identified: looked-after young people and care leavers, estranged students, former. National Networks for
Collaborative Outreach (NNCO) schools (which do not form part of NCOP) i in HE cold-spot areas, and current
students from non-traditional backgrounds. .

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 |” a
° . Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

CHARITABLE PURPOSE AND PUBLIC BENEFIT

Student Success

Leeds Trinity is committed to enabling all students to reach their full potential and succeed. Our model for widening
participation is based upon the student’s decision line through from thinking, applying, starting, progressing and
succeeding. Notable investment, activities and interventions in place to support student success include:

* Learning Support — The dedicated Learning Hub offers personalised, one-to-one academic skills
support to all students, working closely with academic departments to support and assist students who
‘have been identified by progress and module tutors as being in danger of withdrawing or failing. The
Learning Hub was commended by the QAA as an area of good practice in its most recent review.

« Personal Tutors — When students enrol on their course, a member of the lecturing staff will become
their development tutor, offering’ students personalised academic support. Students have the same
development tutor throughout the whole of their programme of study.

e Resident Mentors — Experienced and trained students live in all of our halls of residence on campus as
Resident Mentors. They are available to support students as they make the transition to student life,
they also play a crucial role in maintaining the community feel that the University is renowned for.

¢ Peer Learning Mentors (PLMs) — PLMs are level 5 and 6 students on track to achieve a first or upper
second-class degree in each academic department and offer students advice on all aspects of academic
“work through one-to-one or group Sessions.

© Professional Work Placements ~ Every degree course at Leeds Trinity includes two professional work
. placements. This helps students to gain degree-relevant employment experience and gain contacts and
future work opportunities that often lead to further placements or on-going opportunities.

¢ Employability Focus — The University is proud of its employability focus which includes a blend of
support and guidance that gives our graduates a head start in getting their first graduate job.
Innovations include:
o Employers are involved in the development ‘of our degrees through involvement on approval
panels and through tutor consultancy with a range of employers.
oA focus on recruiting teaching staff with extensive professional experience in relevant areas.
o Embedded employability skills and two credit-bearing placement modules in all our degree
courses. °
© The opportunity to undertake a final-year consultancy-style project with an employer.
. © Opportunities for students to have direct contact with employers throughout their degree at,
events such as Professional Development Week, In-Leeds Days, Employer Challenge Days,
“and student- -employer networking events.

Access and Participation Plan

The University’s-Access and Participation Plan (APP), approved by the Office for Students, covers its outreach and
student success activities and also contains a range of financial support arrangements intended to complement the
government’s provision of loans and maintenance grants and are targeted at those identified as being most in need.

. \
The University has an APP in place for the five year period from 2020/21 which includes the 2023/24 year. This
ambitious plan targets the elimination of access and attainment gaps and identifies clear priorities, with those from
low-participation areas and BAME ethnicities underachieving across the whole student lifecycle. The University was

‘ in the first wave of institutions to revisé their plan in line with the new OfS approach and now has a new approved
APP’ for the four year period 2024/25 to 2027/28.

‘Expenditure by the University during the year on its access and participation activities is shown within the note to the
financial statements in note 25.

Docusign Envelope 1D: F3879451-6B81-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 a
“ : . Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY.

DIRECTORS’ REPORT

Risk Management , : ‘
The Accounts Direction from the Office for Students requires that the University embeds risk management. within thé
organisation. The Board of Governors and its Audit Committee have carefully considered the risk management process

* .within the institution and are of the opinion that this requirement has been met. The University reviews its risks and
updates its corporate risk register on a regular basis. Key risk indicators and early warning mechanisms are highlighted
and control arrangements established. If necessary, action plans to reduce the major risks are designed and
implemented. The most significant risks are outlined in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section of the Strategic
Report. . : : , : :

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting

As a company limited by guarantee, the University is covered by the government's policy on Streamlined Energy and
Carbon Reporting, which aims to increase awareness of energy costs and help to prompt a reduction on the impact on

climate change. . : .
‘Greenhouse gas emissions and energy use data for the period: , - 2023/24 “2022/23
” Energy consumption used to calculate emissions (kWh) . 7,662,862 © 7,725,707

Energy consumption break down (kWh) (optional):

Gas. ; oo se 5,636,984 5,901,080"
* Electricity ae Co ; 2,025,878 . 1,824,627
Transport fuel* a ; 8 24,917 16,203

Scope 1 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e:

Gas consumption , 7 1,015 1,062

oS

Owned transport . a 5.8

Total scope: . ; 1,021 - 1,066

Scope 2 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e:

w

. Purchased electricity . ‘ - . ~ 420 © 35

i

Scope 3 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e: , . . . . -

Business travel in employee owned vehicles : ; 14 5
‘Total gross emnissions in metric tonnes CO2e 1 1,455. 1, 424

Intensity ratio:

Tonnes CO2e per member of staff and students , : 0.25. . 0.24

*note prior year figure restated from 482,240

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-68B 1-4DA3-8 105-2D0FF7D66885 Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
Quantification and Reporting Methodology:

Leeds Trinity University has followed the 2023 HM Government Environmental Reporting Guidelines, has used the
GHG Reporting Protocol — Corporate Standard, and has also used the 2023 UK Government's Conversion Factors for
Company Reporting. . :
Intensity measurement: . :

The chosen intensity measurement ratio is total gross emissions in metric tonnes CO2e per student and staff member,
the recommended ratio for the sector. This is due to teaching and residencies being on campus and as such part of the
consumption is student related:

Measures taken to improve energy efficiency:

Leeds Trinity University aims to improve energy efficiency at all opportunities and is continuing to implement energy
reduction measures where practicable, such as: continuation of lighting upgrades to LED, which not only lasts longer,
but is more efficient than existing; utilisation of automatic lighting controls (occupancy and absence detection) to
avoid wastage; specification of new buildings to be electric only, reducing the demand for gas heating; utilisation of
energy efficient boilers; percussion/sensor taps .to avoid wastage; re-contracting with a provider of 100%
sustainable/renewable electricity; installation & maintenance of CHP plant to provide heating and cooling from a
single source of energy; utilisation of electrical sub-metering to further inform efficiency initiatives; implementing
improvements in M&E design to reduce transmission losses; and provision of free EV charging points.

Employment Policy

The University is committed to ensuring that its workplaces are free from discrimination of any kind. Recruitment

and employment decisions are made on the basis of fair and objective criteria. Pay.and grading structures operate

within a national pay framework designed to support the recruitment and retention of staff and to ensure equal pay for
‘work of equal value, and equality impact assessnients are conducted as appropriate. : .

Remuneration Committee and Policy

The aim of the remuneration policy is to attract, retain and continue to motivate talented Executives within an overall
remuneration strategy for the Institution that supports the achievement of the Strategic Plan. The Board has an .
established Remuneration Committee which comprises five independent members of the Board. The Vice-Chancellor
‘and HR Director attend parts of meetings by invitation to provide advice to the Committee and the Clerk to the Board
also attends the meetings. Executives are not in attendance when their own remuneration is being considered. The
Committee operates under Terms of Reference agreed by the Board. An annual report is made to the Board and a
readily accessible annual statement is published on the University website based on this.

Staff and Student Involvement

Leeds Trinity believes good communication with staff and students to be very important. There is an effective
communication strategy which includes staff newsletters, meetings and regular updates. Staff are encouraged to .
‘participate through.formal and informal consultations at various levels and through membership of formal committees.
There is also a regular staff perceptions survey that is considered by senior management, governors and the Joint
Consultative Committee. There are two elected staff members of the Board of Governors.

The Trade Union (Facility Time Publication Regulations) 2017 require the University to publish information on trade

union facility time which allows employees. to act as trade union representatives. For the year to 31 March 2024, 12

FTE employees acted as trade union representatives each spending 1-50% of their hours on facility time. The total

cost of facility time was £13,417 which was 0.03% of the total pay bill and no time was spent on paid trade union .
activities. ,

The President of the Students’ Union is a member of the Board of Governors (which the Vice President of the Students’
Union also attends as an observer) and the Academic Board. Students are represented on departmental committees
aid their views are sought through various means including student surveys and at least one annua! student forum.
The deliberative structures allow for both academic and support staff and for students to be represented throughout.

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105- 2DOFF7D66885 ; .
Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY : . , ; : : ,

" DIRECTORS’ REPORT |

Equal Opportunities

The University is an equal opportunities organisation and is committed to an environment that is free from any form
of discrimination on the grounds of colour, race, ethnicity, religion, gender, sexual orientation or disability. The
University operates an Equal Opportunities Policy and is committed to equal opportunities for both staff and students,
ensuring that all individuals are always treated with respect and are given equality of opportunity in all activities.

The policy of the University is that applications from disabled persons should receive equal consideration for posts
for which they are suitable applicants. Where-an existing employee becomes disabled, they will be retained in.
employment. wherever reasonably possible and will be given help with any necessary rehabilitation and training.
Disabled employees are provided with the same opportunities as other employees.

Strategic Report .

Further information on the University and its activities can be found in the Strategic Report, including its strategy and
__ progress against the strategy, its operating environment and principal risks, likely future plans and developments and

significant research and development activities.

Going Concern

Consideration of going concern is contained within the Going Concem section of the Strategic Report. As a result of
that consideration, the Board of Governors considers that the University has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future (to the end of the 2025/26 financial year). Accordingly, it continues to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements.

Conclusion

The Governors believe that the University has a sound base from which to meet the likely challenges that will face
the higher education sector over the short to medium term. The Governors are confident that the University, through
sustainable investment in the future and very careful management of the risks, has the necessary plans and strategies
in | place to help ensure that the targets set for the coming years can be achieved. .

Directors

The Directors who served in the period and up to the date of approval of the financial statements are ‘set out on page
1 of these financial statements. Attendance at Board and committee meetings during 2023-24 was 89.3% of possible
attendance. :

The Chair is the only director remunerated for being a director. The remunération is set at £10,000 per annum. During
2023-24, remuneration of £20,000 was paid which included delayed payment of the remuneration due’ for 2022-23.

Three other directors are paid in respect of their employment by the University (the Vice Chancellor and two elected
staff governors) and not in respect of any duties for acting as directors (see note 7 to the financial statements).

Disclosure of Information to Auditors
- Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that:

© so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditor is
unaware; and
© the director has taken all: the steps. that hie/she ‘ought to have. taken as a director in order to make
‘ himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’ s auditor is
aware of that information. :

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted i in accordance with the provision of s418 of the Companies Act
2006.
.Approval

The Directors’ Report has been approved by the Board and is signed below on its behalf.

Mr Jamie Hantey
On behalf-of the Board.of Governors and Board of Directors
30 April 2025

Docusign Envelope 1D: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 ial i
Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY =~

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Responsibilities of the Board of Governors :

In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the University’s Articles of, the Board of Governors of Leeds Trinity
University is responsible for the administration and management of the affairs of the University and is required to
present audited financial statements for each financial year. The Board of Governors is also responsible for preparing
the Strategic Report and Directors’ Report,and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and
regulations. : 7.

‘ Company law requires the Board of Governors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that jaw,
the Board of Governors is required to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law) including FRS 102 “The
Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland’. In addition, the Board of Governors is
required to prepare the financial statements in accordance .with the Office for Student (‘OfS’) Accounts Direction
(issued October 2019), the OfS Terms and conditions of funding for higher education institutions (issued July 2023)
and the terms and conditions of its the funding agreement with UK Research and Innovation (including Research
England), the Education & Skills Funding Agency and the Department for Education through its accountable officer.
Under.company law, the Board of Governors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that
they give’a true and fair view of the situation of the University and of the surplus or deficit, gains and losses, changes
in reserves and cash flows of the University for that year.

,In causing the financial statements to be prepared, the Board of Governors has ensured that:

° suitable accounting policies are selected and applied consistently.
° judgements and estimates are made that are reasonable and prudent. ’
¢ - applicable accounting standards have been followed subject to any material departures disclosed and explained
in the financial statements; and
° the financial statements are prepared on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the a

University will continue in operation.

. The Board of Governors is responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and
explain the University's transactions and disclose with reasonable ‘accuracy at any time the financial position
of the University and enable it to ensure that the financial statements comply with the OfS Terms and conditions
of funding for higher education institutions (issued July 2023), the Statement of Recommended Practice -
Accounting for Further and Higher Education, 2019 Edition, the OfS Regulatory Advice 9: Accounts Direction

" (issued October 2019) and the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of
the University and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and. detection of fraud and other:
irregularities. :

The Board of Governors has taken reasonable steps to:

ensure that funds. from the Office for Students are used only for the purposes for which they have been given
and in accordance with the Terms and Conditions of Funding and aiy other conditions which may be
prescribed; :

. ensure that funds from UK Research and [nnovation (UKRI, including Research England), the Department for

Education (DfE) and the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA), are used only for the purposes for
which they .have been given and in accordance with any conditions which may be prescribed; .

. safeguarding the assets of the University and taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other
irregularities;
° ensure that the University has a robust and comprehensive system of risk management, control and corporate
governance, which includes the prevention and detection of corruption, fraud, bribery and irregularities;
° ensure that there is regular, reliable, timely and adequate information to monitor performance and to track the
use of public funds;
«plan and manage the University’s activities to remain sustainable.and financially viable;

. ensure that it’informs the OfS of any material change in its circumstance, including any significant
developments that could impact on the mutual interests of the University and the OfS :

18

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 - eli
, Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
= ensure that there are adequate and effective arrangements for the management and quality assurance of data
submitted to HESA, the Student Loans Company, the OfS, the ESFA, UKRI and other funding or regulatory
_ bodies;
. ensure an effective framework, overseen by the University’s Academic Board, to manage the quality of
learning and teaching and to maintain academic standards; and
- . consider and act on the OfS assessment of the University’ s risks, specifically those i in relation to funding
_ Purposes. -

The Board of Governors is responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information
included on the University’ 's website. .

The Baard of Governors conti irm that:
e so far as each member is aware, there is no relevant audit information of the University’s auditor is
unaware; and . ‘
¢ the members have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken in order to make themselves aware of
any relevant audit information and to establish that the University’s auditor is aware of that information.
e Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements
‘may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Statement on Internal Control
'

\
The Board of Governors is responsible for maintaining a sound system of, internal control that supports the
achievement of policies, aims and objectives, while safeguarding the public and other funds and assets for which it is
responsible, in accordance with the Articles of Association and the Terms and Conditions of Funding from the Office
for Students (OfS). The system of internal control covers business, operational and compliance risks as well’ as
financial risks. :

The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achiéve policies, aims
and objectives; it-can therefore only provide reasonable and-not absolute assurance of effectiveness. The system of
interrial control is based on an ongoing process designed to identify the principal risks to the achievement of policies,
aims and objectives; to evaluate the nature and extent of those risks; and to manage them efficiently, effectively and
economically. The Board of Governors is of the opinion that this process has been in place for the year ended 31 July
2024 and up to the date of approval of the financial statements, is'in accordance with OfS guidance, and that there
were no significant internal control weaknesses that should be disclosed.

The Board of Governors has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of: internal control. The
following processes have been established:. .

© The Board receives periodic reports from the Chair of the Audit Committee concerning internal control and
requires regular reports from managers on the steps they are taking to manage risks -in their areas of
‘ responsibility, including progress reports on key projects.

¢ = The Board of Governors formally approves the risk register at least annually.

« - The Executive acts as the Risk Management Group. The Risk Management Co-ordinator reports regularly, 0 on
-behalf of the group; to.the Audit Committee who oversees the risk management process on behalf of the Board
of Governors.

e - Risk management processes.are embedded throughout the University. .
.© A robust risk prioritisation methodology based on likelihood and significance has been established.

¢ An organisation wide risk register is maintained and reviewed regularly as a key tool for the management of
tisk ©

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 sali
. Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY —

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE,

The University has an outsourced internal audit service with an annual programme approved by the Audit Committee
and whose head provides the Board of Governors, through the Audit Committee, with a report on internal audit activity
within the University and an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the University’s system of internal control,
including risk management, control, governance processes and the arrangements in place to secure economy,
efficiency, and effectiveness.

The review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control by the Board of Governors is informed by the work —
of the internal auditors and the executive managers within the University who have responsibility for the development
and maintenance of the internal control framework and by comments made by the external auditors in their

“ management letter and by other reports.

The Audit Committee has adopted the.CUC Code for Audit Committees and undertakes an annual self-assessment
against the Code. The Audit Committee compliés with the Code. ">

Governors’ Statement on Corporate Governance
:

The following statement is provided to enable readers of the annual report and financial statements to obtain a
better understanding of the governance and legal structure-of Leeds Trinity University.

Leeds Trinity University is a company: limited by guarantee, formally established in 2007 as an incorporated body
under the Companies Act. It is registered in England and Wales and has no subsidiaries. It is also a registered charity
and regulated by the Charity Commission. Its objects, powers and framework of governance are set out in its
Memorandum and Articles of Association. Members of the Board of Governors are Directors of the Company and
Trustees of the Charity. As a Catholic foundation established in 1966, the institution operated under a Trust Deed until
its incorporation in 2007. The current Memorandum and Articles of Association of Leeds Trinity University state:
‘The objects of Leeds Trinity University shall be the establishment, conduct and development of.a Roman Catholic
institution for the advancement of education for the benefits of the public.’ The Board of Governors approves the
Strategic Plan of the institution. The Articles of Association require the University to have a governing body. and an -
academic board, each with clearly defined functions and responsibilities, to oversee its activities.

The Board of Governors

The Board of Governors is the governing body and comprises external independent Members, together with staff and
student members, appointed in accordance with the Articles of Association. There is a majority of independent, non-
executive members.

The Board of Governors is responsible for the overall direction of Leeds Trinity University; its specific powers and
responsibilities are set out in the Articles of Association.and in the Terms-and Conditions of Funding of the Office for

Students (OfS). The Chair of the Board of Governors is separate from the role of the Vice-Chancellor and Chief

‘ Executive. The Catholic Bishop of Leeds is ex-officio Chair of the Board of Governors, but the Articles of Association
, contain provision, ‘at the discretion of the ex-officio Chair, for another member to act as nominated Chair of the Board,
subject to the agreement of the Board, and this arrangement has been in operation since incorporation in 2007.
Permission.to-remunerate the Chair was secured from the Charity Commission in 2021 -22 to start from 1* August

2022 for an initial period of three years.

The Academic Board

The Board of Governors has established an Academic Board, which is responsible for the oversight of the academic
work and activities of the institution, and for safeguarding and enhancing academic standards and which plays a
significant leadership role in the strategic academic : development of the University. The Vice-Chancellor chairs the
Academic Board, which comprises ex-officio and élected staff and students. . The Board of Governors receives reports
from Academic Board. The Chair of the Board’s Academic Assurance & Student Experience Committee attends
meetings of Academic Board.

Docusign Envelope iD; F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 + alin Cre
Commercial in Confidence,

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

The Vice-Chancellor

The Vice-Chancellor is Chief Executive of the institution and has general responsibility for the organisation and
management of Leeds Trinity University. Under the terms of the Terms and Conditions of Funding of the Office for
Students (OfS), the Vice-Chancellor is the designated officer and, in that capacity, can be summoned to appear before
the Public Accounts Committee of the House of Commons. The Vice-Chancellor makes reports to Board of Governors
meetings on developments in the higher education sector and their potential impact on Leeds Trinity University.

The Clerk to the Board

The Clerk to the Board and Company S¢cretary is appointed by the Board of Governors under the Articles of
Association to act as Clerk to the Board and its committees. All Governors have access to the advice and services of
the Clerk to the Governors and may seek independent advice if they wish. Some company secretarial work is
undertaken for the Directors by an external firm. : .

The Structure of Governance’

Leeds Trinity University endeavours to conduct its business in accordance with the seven principles identified by the
Committee on Standards in Public Life and with best practice derived from advice from the Committee of University
Chairs (CUC) and from the corporate sector. The University complies in all material respects with the CUC
Governance Code of Practice. The exception to this is the role of the Chair, which is ex-officio rather than appointed
__ by the governing body from amongst its independent members. However as noted above, the Articles of Association
. contain provision, at the discretion of the ex-officio Chair, for another member to act as nominated Chair of the Board, "*
subject to the agreement of the Board, and this arrangement has been in operation since incorporation in 2007. The
Board has in place a Statement of Primary Responsibilities. The University maintains and publishes on the website a
Register of Interests of members of the Board and senior officers which is updated annually and whenever new
interests occur. . : ,

The Articles of Association donot permit the Board of Governors to delegate any matter relating to:
© The determination of the educational and Catholic character and objects of the University;
e The approval of annual estimates of income and expenditure; , :
© Ensuring the solvency of the University, and ensuring the safeguarding of its assets;
© - The appointment of senior post-holders, including the Vice-Chancellor; and |

© The termination of the membership of any Governor.

The Board receives regular reports from the Vice-Chancellor and other senior officers on the work of the University.

-In line with good practice and CUC guidance, the Board conducts rigorous reviews of its effectiveness, of the
effectiveness of the University’s structure of corporate and academic governance, and of the performance of the Chair
and members. The effectiveness reviews include the use of indepéndent external expertise. The most recent such .
review took place in 2023 and is published on the University website.

The Board of Governors meets six times each year with typically an away day meeting to consider strategy and
governor development matters. The Board has established committees to support its work. All of these committees
are formally constituted with terms of reference and membership approved by the Board. Their membership comprises
independent members of the Board and in some cases staff and student members. Some committees also have co-
opted committee members from outside the Board to further strengthen the work of the committees and to support
effective succession planning for Board membership. The standing committees are:

© Academic Assurance and Student Experience Committee
“e = Audit Committee

e Finance and Resources Committee

e Governance and Nominations Committee

‘e Partnerships Committee

e Remuneration Committee

21

Docusign Envelope 1D: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885
LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

* Commercial in Confidence

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE oo, °

All of these committees, together with the Academic Board, ‘report and make vecommendations to the Board of
Governors, either i in the form of a written report or their approved minutes.

' Statement of Primary Responsibilities

The Board of Governors adopts the following Statement of Primary Responsibilities, which are - based upon the
Memorandum and Articles of Association and recommended good practice. This statement is based:on the Model ~
Statement contained in the Governance Code of Practice published by the Committee of University Chairs, adapted
to reflect the powers and responsibilities that the Board of Governors of Leeds Trinity University has that derives
from the ‘University * Statutes.

The Board of Governors is the governing body of the University. The Board of Governors has ultimate responsibility
for the affairs of the University. It.is responsible for reviewing the work of the University and taking such steps as it
thinks proper for the purpose of advancing the interests of the University, maintaining its efficiency, encouraging
teaching, the pursuit of learning and research and providing for the recreation and wellbeing of students.

Consistent with the University’s constitution, the primary responsibilities of the Board of Governors are:

a) The'determination of the educational and Catholic character and objectives of Leeds Trinity and for the
supervision of its activities. This is achieved by the approval of the University’s mission, values and vision as
part of the approval and ongoing monitoring of the strategic plan; :
b) To approve-the mission and strategic vision of the institution, long-term academic and business plans and
key performance indicators, and to monitor these on an ongoing basis to ensure that these meet the interests of
stakeholders; . : . ’
c) To delegate authority to the head of the institution as Chief Executive for the academic, corporate,
financial, estate and personnel management of the institution. And to establish and keep under regular review
“. the policies, procedures and limits within such management functions as shall be undertaken by and under the
authority of the head of the institution;
d) To ensure the establishment and monitoring of systems of control and accountability, including financial
and operational controls and risk assessment, and procedures for handling internal grievances and for managing
conflicts of interest; . :
' e) To ensure that processes are in place to monitor and evaluate the performance and effectiveness of the
institution against the plans and approved key performance indicators, which should be — where possible and
appropriate ~ benchmarked against other comparable institutions; .
f) To establish processes to monitor and evaluate the performance and effectiveness of the governing body
itself; . :
g) To conduct its business in accordance with best practice in higher education corporate governance and with-
the principles of public life drawn up by the Committee on Standards in Public Life;
h) To safeguard the good name and values of the institution;
i) To appoint the head of the institution as Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive, and to put in place suitable
arrangements for monitoring her/his performance;’
j) To appoint a secretary to the governing body and to engure that, if the person appointed has managerial
responsibilities in the institution, there is an appropriate separation in the lines of accountability;
k) - To ensure that appropriate systems are in place with regards to the employment of staff:
1) To be the principal financial and business authority of the institution, to ensure that proper books of
account are kept, to approve the annual budget and financial statements, and to have overall responsibility for
the institution’s assets, property and estate; .
’ m) To ensure that appropriate systems are in place for meeting.all the institution’s legal obligations;
n) To make such provision as it thinks fit for the general welfare ofstudents i in consultation with the
academic board;
.0) To act.as trustee for any property, legacy, endowment, bequest or gift i in support of the work and welfare of
the institution; and :
22

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-68B1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 Commercial in Confidence

- LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE :

p) ’ To ensure that the institution’s constitution is followed at all times. and that appropriate advice is available
to enable this to happen.

This Statement shall be published widely, including on the internet and in the annual report, along with identification
of key individuals (that is, Chair, Vice Chair, Senior Independent Governor, Vice-Chancellor, and Chairs of all
committees). . : . ‘

The description of the responsibilities that the governing body delegates to the Vice- Chancellor i is that outlined i in
Article 14 of the Articles of Association - an

23

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8 105-2D0FF7D66885 sal i ;
* . Commercial in Confidence

Independent auditor's report to the governing body members of Leeds Trinity University

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Leeds Trinity University (the 'University') for the year-ended 31 July 2024,
which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, thé Statement of Changes in Reserves, the Statement of
Financial Position, the Statement of Cash Flows and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant
accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and
-Unitéd Kingdom Accounting Standards; including Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting, Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland’ (United'Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

Jn our opinion, the financial statements:

© give a true and fair view of the state of the University's affairs.as at 31 July 2024 and of its surplus, income and
expenditure, gains and losses, changes in reserves and cash flows for the year then ended;

¢ have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards ¢ on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law.

.Our responsibilities. under those standards are further described: in the ‘Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the University in accordance with the ethical
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard,

and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit .
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Material uncertainty related to going concern

We draw attention to note 2 in the financial statements, which indicates that there are uncertainties inherent in the
University obtaining further funding facilities ahead of 31 July 2026 and its reliance on an overdraft of £5m that is
repayable on demand and renewable as of the 30th of June 2026 to meet its working capital requirements in this period.
As stated in note 2, these events or conditions, along with the other matters as set forth in note 2, indicate that a material
uncertainty exists that may cast significant doubt on the University’s ability to continue as a going concern. Our opinion
is not modified in respect of this matter.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the governing body members’ use of the going c concern basis
of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate. .

Our responsibilities

We are responsible for concluding on the appropriateness of the governing body members’ usé of the going concern basis
of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or
conditions that may cast significant doubt on the University’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our report to the related disclosures in the financial

"statements of, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify the auditor’s opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit
evidence obtained up to the date of our report. However, future events or conditions may cause the University to cease to
continue as a going concern.

In our evaluation of the governing body members’ conclusions, we considered the inherent risks associated with the
University’s business model including effects arising from macro-economic uncertaintiés such as continued higher
inflation, we assessed and challenged the reasonableness of estimates made by the governing body members and ‘the related

"disclosures and analysed how those risks might affect the University’s financial resources or ability to continue operations
over the going concern period.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the governing body members’ use of the going concern basis
of accounting in the preparation of the financial statemeitts is appropriate.

_ Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the governing body member with respect to going concern are described i in
the relevant sections of this report.

24

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 : .
. Commercial in Confidence

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report and Financial Statements, other than the
financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The governing body members are responsible for the ottier

_ information contained within the Annual Report and Financial Statements. Our opinion on the financial statements does
not cover the other information and, except-to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon. :

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine
whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performéd,
we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

© the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report prepared for the purposes of company law,
included in the Report of the governing body members for the financial year for which the financial statements are
prepared, i is consistent with the financial statements; and .

e the strategic report.and the directors’ report included in the Report of the governing body members have been
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.
Matter on which we are required to report under the Companies Act 2006

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the University and its environment obtained in the course of the audit,
we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report included i in the Annual Report
and Financial Statements. :

Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Office for Students (‘OfS’) Accounts direction (issued October 2019)
(the ‘OfS Accounts direction’)
In our opinion, in all.material respects:

_ funds from whatever source administered by the University for specific purposes have been properly applied to those
purposes and managed in accordance with the relevant legislation, ,

e funds provided by the OfS, the Education & Skills Funding Agency and the Department for Education hhave been
applied in accordance with the OfS Terms and.conditions of funding for higher education institutions (issued July
* 2023), the Education and Skills Funding Agency and the Department of Education, and any other terms and
conditions attached to them; and : ‘

© the requirements of the OfS Accounts direction have been met.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to
report to you if, in our opinion: .

© adequate. accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from
branches not visited by us; or :

* the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
: ¢ certain disclosures of the governing body member's remuneration specified by law are not made; or
© we have not received all the information and explanations we require-for our audit.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the OfS Accounts direction requires us to report to
you where: : .

« the University’s grant and fee income, as disclosed in the note to the accounts, has been materially misstated; or °

“e the University’s expenditure o on access and participation activities for the financial year has been materially
misstated. — :

25

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885

Commercial in Confidence

Responsibilities of governing body members

AS explained more fully in the Statement of responsibilities of governing body members set out on page 16, the governing

body members (who are also the directors of the charitable company for the purposes of company law) are responsible for

the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such interna!

* control as the governing body members determine is necessary to enable the preparation of fi nancial statements that are
‘free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the governing body-members are responsible for assessing the University’s ability
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern
basis of accounting unless the governing body members either intends to liquidate the University or to cease operations,
or has no realistic alternative but to do so.

\ =
Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit‘of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. : :

~ Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. -

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. The extent to which our
procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below:

« We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the University and the
sector in which it operates. We determined that the following laws and regulations were most significant: The
Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and the Republic of Ireland (FRS 102), FEHE SORP 2019, the
Companies Act 2006, OfS Accounts Direction (October 2019), Relevant ofs regulatory notices and advices and the
Charities Act 2011;

« We understood how the University is complying with these legal and regulatory frameworks by making inquiries of
management and those charged with governance. We enquired of management and those charged with governance
whether there were any instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations, or whether they had any knowledge
of actual or suspected fraud. We corroborated the results of our enquiries through our review of relevant committee
minutes and through our legal and professional expenses review;

© We assessed the susceptibility of the University’s financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud —
might occur and the risk of material override of controls. Audit procedures performed by the engagement team ’
included:

~ Evaluating the design and implementation of processes and controls established to address the risks related
to irregularities and fraud;

- Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular journal entries relating to management estimates and
journal entries deemed to relate to unusual transactions;

- Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in its significant accounting estimates;
- Identifying and testing related party transactions; and

- Completion of audit procedures to conclude on the compliance of disclosures i in the financial statements
with applicable financial reporting requirements.

« These audit procedures were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from
fraud or error. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting”
+ one resulting from error and detecting irregularities that result from fraud is inherently more difficult than detecting
those that result from error, as fraud may involve collusion, deliberate concealment, forgery or intentional
misrepresentations. Also, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from events and
transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it;

¢ The engagement partner’s assessment of the appropriateness of the collective competence and capabilities of the
engagement team included consideration of the engagement team’s knowledge of the industry in which the client

26

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 +
. . . Commercial in Confidence

operates in and understanding of, and practical experience through training and participation with audit engagements
of a similar nature; and :

* We communicated relevant laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members, and
. remained alert to an indications of fraud or noncompliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit:

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting
Governing body member’s “website at: www.fre.org. uk/auditorsresponsi ibilities. This description forms part of our.
- auditor’ $ report.

Use of our report ,

This report is made solely to the University's governing body members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so: that we might state to the University's
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the University and the
__ University's governing body members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

’

Katy Dolrty

- Katy ‘Doherty
Senior Statutory Auditor
for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants
Leeds :

Date: 30/4/2025

27

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8 105-2D0FF7D66885, rn
Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
For the year ended 31 July 2024

1. Basis of preparation

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with both the Statement of Recommended.

Practice (SORP): Accounting for Further and Higher Education published in October 2019 and in accordance

with applicable United Kingdom laws and Accounting Standards including FRS102. The financial statements

are prepared in accordance with the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of certain land

and buildings for which a cost is not readily ascertainable. The financial statements have been prepared on
_the going concern basis. The financial statements are presented in sterling (£).

The principal accounting policies are summarised below. They have been applied consistently throughout
the current and prior years.

The University is a public benefit entity and therefore has applied the relevant public benefit requirement of |
the applicable UK laws and accounting standards.

2. Going concern

The University’s activities, together with the uncertainties arising and the factors likely to affect its future ©
developments, performance and position are set out in the Operating Environment, Principal Risks and
Uncertainties, and Plan for Future Periods sections. The financial position of the University is described in
the Financial Overview and Financial Sustainability sections and in more detail within the financial
statements and accompanying notes. The University has carried out analysis and stress testing on its going
concern status to 31 July 2026.

The Board believes that the University is suitably placed to manage its risks successfully, with a good
- performance base in 23/24 and a liquidity position as at 31 July 2024 equal to 143 liquidity days. The
University has put in place cost saving measures including a voluntary severance scheme, targeted reductions
in non-pay spend and reviews of operating models to ensure there is a concentrated focus on value for money
and efficiency as the operating environment for the University becomes more challenging. This is in response
to a reduction in forecasted income for 2024//25 of £9m concentrated on a shortfall against planned |
recruitment for Leeds Trinity University delivered tuition fees and a fall in partner fee income.

The University notes that, aligned to its strategic plan, the completion and opening of Trevelyan Square has
been funded through existing cash reserves in 23/24 and as a result means that the University’s cash balances
will be lower in the near future than previously experienced. It was always the intention of the University to
obtain additional funding, however at the time of issuing the annual report and financial statements this
“facility is not in place. In order to cover short term working capital requirements the University has put in
place an overdraft facility. The University’s current gearing position is very low, both for the overall sector,
and in comparison to Cathedral group peers, and this will reduce even further with the scheduled repayment
of the Lloyds loan in June 2025 resulting in a borrowing to income ratio of 2.5% versus a sector average
between 25% and 30%. This shows there is adequate gearing headroom to support borrowing to support the
University’s liquidity position after a period of extensive capital investment financed by reserves.

Consideration has been given to the potential for interruptions to income streams in terms of the stress testing.
These considerations have been applied in addition to the known downsides in 2024/25. The reasonable
downside sensitivities cover reduced recruitment, progression and residential occupancy; changes to the fee
and funding environment; and from other demands on the University’s cash reserves including commitments
on its strategic growth investments. The stress testing shows that the University would continue to have.

- sufficient cash headroom throughout the period and would remain in a positive net cash / debt position
indicating the continuing ability to service loan obligations from cash in hand. The stress testing includes the
£5m overdraft agreed with Barclays with effect from the signing date of the accounts. This £5m overdraft is
sufficient for working capital requirements up to 31 July 2026. From this point onwards, an additional facility
will be required.

It is necessary to clarify that the funding currently secured to support the assertion above is a £5m overdraft
that is renewable as of the 30th of June 2026 and is repayable on demand for the duration of the going concern
period. The overdraft provides the University with access to working capital and its forecast shows that it
maintains a minimum of 30 days liquidity which is a regulatory requirement. However due to the overdraft
being repayable on demand for the going concern period, and the requirement to obtain further funding from
the 31% July 2026, there is a material uncertainty related to events or conditions that may cast significant
doubt on the entity's ability to continue as a going concern. This reflects the inherent uncertainty regarding
the timing and confirmation of replacement funding rather than any concern about the University's underlying -
viability or financial sustainability. The University recognises that the source of long-term funding to replace
the short-term overdraft is not yet finalised. ,

28

Docusign Envelope 1D: F3879451-6BB1 -4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 7 oe -
For the year ended 31 July 2024 : .

The Board of Governors considers that the University has adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future (to the end of the 2025/26 financial year). Accordingly, it continues to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements. The current position
is the result of deliberate strategic investment in key transformation programmes and infrastructure, alongside
a prolonged period of engagement with the Office for Students concerning franchise partnership
arrangements. The Board remains confident in the University's ability to manage its working capital and
secure longer-term financing. :

3. Basis of consolidation

The financial statements do not include those of Leeds Trinity Students’ Union as it is a separate organisation
over which the University does not have control or significant influence.

The University holds a £1 guarantee in respect of Yorkshire Universities, a company limited by guarantee.
As the University does not have control or significant influence and holds less than 10% of the total guarantee
the results have not been included in these financial statements.

4. Recognition of income .
Funding Council block grants are accounted for in the period to which they relate.

’ Fee income is credited to the statement of comprehensive income and expenditure over the period in which ~
an students are studying. ‘Fee income includes the fee per student receivable from its franchise partners which
’ is accounted for on an agency basis. Fee remissions are deducted from income. Bursaries and scholarships
N are accounted for as expenditure and not deducted from income.

Recurrent income from grants, contracts and other services rendered are accounted for on an accruals basis
and included to the extent of the completion of the contract or service concerned; any payments received in
advance of such performance are-recognised on the balance ’sheet as liabilities.

Non exchange transactions without’ performance related conditions are donations and endowments.
Donations and endowments with donor imposed restrictions are recognised in income when the University
is entitled to the funds. Income i is retained within the restricted reserve until such time that it is utilised in

nN

line with such restrictions at which point the income is released to general reserves through a reserve transfer.
Donations with no restrictions are recognised in income when the University is entitled to the funds. Non-
recurrent grants from the Office for Students, the Department for Education or other bodies received in
. respect of the acquisition or construction of fixed assets are treated as deferred capital grants. Such grants
are credited to deferred capital grants-and an annual transfer made to the income and expenditure account”
: __ over'the useful economic life of the asset, at the same rate as the depreciation charge on the asset for which
.the grant was awarded.

Income from the sale of goods or services is credited to the income and expenditure account when the goods
or services are supplied to the-external customers or the terms of the contract have been satisfied.

5. Agency arrangements .
Funds the University, teceives and disburses as paying agent on behalf of.a funding body are e excluded from
the income and expenditure of the University where the University is exposed to minimal risk or enjoys :
minimal economic benefit related to the transaction.
The University’s arrangements with franchise partners are aécounted for as agency arrangements with the
income recognised being the fees due from the franchise partner, on the basis that the franchise partner retains
the risks and rewards of the student income. The income is recognised with fee income as mentioned above.

‘

6. Accounting for retirement benefits

The University contributes to, the Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS) for academic staff (lecturing staff and
holders of some senior posts) and to the Local Government Pension Scheme administered. by the West
Yorkshire Pension Fund (WYPF) for other staff. Both schemes are defined benefit schemes. .

The TPS is a multi employer scheme and it is not possible to identify the assets of the scheme which are
attributable to the University. In accordance with FRS102, this scheme is accounted for on a defined
contribution basis and contributions to the scheme are included as expenditure i in the périod in which they
are payable.

For WYPF the University is able to identify its.share of assets and liabilities and thus the University fully |
adopts the recognition and disclosure requirements of FRS102 “Retirement Benefits”.

‘ . . 29

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 core .
Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY |

STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
For the year ended 31 July 2024

For WYPF the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit method, with actuarial
valuations being carried out at each Balance Sheet date. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in
the period in which they occur. They are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and
Expenditure. In accordance with FRS102 any surplus on the scheme is restricted to nil.

Past service cost is recognised immediately to the extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise
is amortised on a straigtit-line basis over the average period until the benefits become vested.

The pensions deficit / surplus recognised in the Balance Sheet represents the present value of the defined
benefit obligation adjusted for unrecognised past service cost, and the pension asset ‘represents the fair value
j : of the scheme assets. Where there is a surplus in the scheme the value of this surplus is restricted.

7. Land and buildings

Land and buildings are stated , at valuation or cost; the basis of valuation is depreciated replacement cost.
Valuations are carried out by independent Chartered Surveyors.

On ‘adoption of FRS15, the Institution followed the transitional provision to retain the book value of land and
buildings, which were valued on 31 July 1995 by Gerald Eve, Chartered Surveyors, but not to adopt a policy
of revaluations of these properties in the future. On transition to FRS102, these values were retained and the
policy continued of non-revaluation of these properties.

Costs incurred in relation to a tangible fixed asset, after its. initial purchase or production, are capitalised to

the extent that they increase the expected future benefits to the institution from the existing tangible fixed

asset beyond its previously assessed standard of performance; the cost of any such enhancements are added
_ to the gross carrying amount of the tangible fixed asset concerned.

Freehold land is not depreciated. Freehold buildings are depreciated over their expected useful life of 50
years and extensions to buildings over 20-30. years on the amount at which the tangible fixed asset is included
in the balance sheet. Depreciation is on a straight line basis.

Where buildings are acquired with the aid of specific grants-they are capitalised and depreciated. The related
* grants are credited to a deferred capital-grant account and released to the income and expenditure account
over the expected useful economic life of the buildings on a basis consistent with the depreciation policy. ©

8. Equipment, furniture, vehicles, fixtures and fittings

Equipment, including computers, software and furniture costing less than £5,000 per individual item or group
_ of related: items is written off to the income and expenditure account in the year of acquisition. All other
tangible assets are capitalised at cost.

All assets are depreciated on a straight line basis over their useful.economic life as follows:

Equipment, furniture and fittings - 3-10 years
Motor vehicles : 4-6 years
Assets under construction are not depreciated until completed and brought into use.

Where equipment. has been acquired with the aid of specific grants, it is capitalised and depreciated in

accordance with the policy set out above, with the related grant credited to a deferred capital grant account

and released to the income and expenditure account over the expected useful economic life of the related
. equipment.

“9, Cash and cash equivalents / Investments

Cash includes cash in hand, cash at bank, deposits repayable on demand and overdrafts. Deposits are
repayable on demand if they ¢ are available within 48 hours without penalty. No other investments, however
liquid, are included as cash.

Term deposits held as cash but not available within 48 hours without penalty are shown as investments. Other
current asset investments, which may include listed investments, aré shown at fair value. ..

10. Stock

Stock represents goods held for resale and is stated at the lower of purchase cost or estimated selling price
less costs to complete and sell.

30

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-68B1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 a
Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINI ITY UNIVERSITY

‘ STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
For the year ended 31 July 2024

li. - Operating Leases
Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight line basis over the period of the lease term.

12. ‘Taxation status

The University is registered under the Charities Act 2011 and as such is a charity within the meaning of
section 506(1) of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 (ICTA 1988). Accordingly, the University is
potentially exempt from taxation in respect of income or capital gains received within categories covered by -
section 505 of ICTA 1988’or section 256 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992, to the extent that
such income or gains are applied to exclusively charitable purposes.

The University receives nd similar exemption in respect of Value Added Tax. Irrecoverable VAT on inputs
is included in the costs of such inputs. Any irrecoverable VAT allocated to tangible fixed assets is included
in their cost. : :

13. Financial Instruments

Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when the University becomes a party to the contractual
provisions of the instrument. Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the
substance of the contractual arrangements entered into..An equity instrument is any contract that evidences
a residual interest in thé assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. All financial assets and

. liabilities are initially measured at transaction price (including transaction costs), except for those financial
assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value (which is
normally the transaction price excluding transaction costs). Financial assets.and liabilities are only offset in
the statement of financial position when, and only when there exists a legally enforceable right to set off the
recognised amounts and the Company intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle,
the liability simultaneously.

Debt instruments that have no stated interest rate (and do not constitute financing transaction) and are!

classified as payable or receivable within one year are initially measured at an.undiscounted amount of the

cash. or other consideration expected.to be paid or received, net of impairment. Other debt instruments not

meeting conditions of being ‘basic’ financial instruments are measured at fair value througly profit or Joss.

Commitments to make.and. receive loans which meet the conditions mentioned above are measured at cost
_ (which may be nil) less impairment. :

Financial assets are derecognised when and only when a) the contractual rights to-the cash flows from the
financial asset expire or are settled, b) the Company transfers to another party substantially all of the risks
and rewards of ownership of the financial asset, or c) the Company, despite having retained some, but not

. - all, significant risks and rewards of ownership, has transferred control of the asset to another party. Financial
liabilities are derecognised only when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or
expires. :

Basic financial instruments are initially recognised at the transaction price, adjusted for transaction costs,

' unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the transaction is. measured at the present
value of the future receipts/ payments discounted at a market rate of interest: Such assets/liabilities are
subsequently carried, at the end of each reporting period, at amortised cost using the effective interest rate
method. :

14, Provisions

Provisions are recognised in the financial statements when the University has a present legal or constructive
obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be required to settle
the obligation and a reliable estimate can be ‘made of the amount of obligation.

‘15. Cash flows and liquid resources ~

Cash flows comprise increases or decreases in cash. .Cash includes cash in hand, cash at bank, deposits

_ tepayable on demand and overdrafts. Deposits are repayable on demand if they are available within 24 hours _
without penalty. No other investments, however liquid, are included as cash. Liquid resources comprise
assets held as readily disposable store of value. They include term deposits, government securities and loan
stock held as part of the University’s treasury management activities. They exclude any such assets held as
endowment asset investments. .

31

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 © beads
. . Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY : ; . .

STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
For the year ended 31 July 2024

16. =. Accounting for charitable donations

Charitable donations are recognised in the ‘financial statements when the charitable donation has been
received or if, before receipt, there is sufficient evidence to provide the necessary certainty that the donation
will be received and the value of the incoming resources can be measured with sufficient reliability. Where
charitable donations are to be retained for the benefit of the University as specified by the donors, these are
accounted for as endowments. The University’s endowments are restricted expendable endowments - the
‘donor has specified a particular objective other than the purchase or construction of tangible fixed assets, and
the University can convert the donated sum into income.

17. Significant accounting estimates and judgements

Preparation of the financial statements requires management to make significant estimates and judgements.

_ Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors,
including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The
estimates and judgements that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts.
of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are addressed below. an

a. Estimates i in pension costs

The University has obligations to pay. pension n benefits to certain employees who are members of the West
Yorkshire Pension Fund (WYPF), a scheme.accounted for as a defined benefit plan. The cost of these benefits
and the present value of the obligation depend on a number of factors including: life expectancy, salary.
increases, asset valuations, the duration of liabilities and the discount rate on corporate bonds. Management
estimates these factors, using external professional advice, in determining the net pension obligation in the
balance sheet. The assumptions reflect historical experience and current trends. Estimates arising from the.
impact of recent court cases on the pension liabilities are discussed in note 21. ‘

b. Judgements in agency arrangements

. The University. has judged that its arrangements with franchise partners should be accounted for as agency
arrangements after consideration of the agentY principal test, with the University receiving a fixed fee per
student whilst the partners have primary responsibility for providing services to students, have latitude in.
establishing pricing and bear any credit risk. :

c. Judgements in fixed assets and depreciation

- Costs incurred in relation to a tangible fixed asset, after its initial purchase or production, are capitalised to
the extent that they increase the expected future benefits to the University from the asset beyond its previously
assessed standard of performance. The assessment of these factors requires management’s judgement. The
annual depreciation charge for fixed assets is sensitive to changes in the estimated useful economic lives and
residual values of the assets. Depreciation methods, useful economic lives and residual valiies are reviewed
by management at the date of preparation of each Balance Sheet and amended where necessary. The
assessment of these factors requires management’s judgement.

32

Docusign Envelope | ID: F3879451 “6BB1-40A3- 8105- 2D0FF7D66885 _ . °
Commercial in Confidence

rm ,

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY,

“STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND EXPENDITURE
For the year ended 31 July 2024 .

’ . ‘ : 0 -.  Yearended Year ended
, Note . 31 July  . 31 July
. 2024 2023
: £ £
INCOME :
Tuition fees and education contracts : 1 57,300,229 53,319,295
Funding body grants , 2 . 6,151,265 4,711,114
Research grants and contracts 73 160,231 102,309 -
Other income 4 4,578,544 4,570,251
Investment income : 5 1,931,693 1,521,908
Donations and Endowments _ -) 6 7 5,000
Total income : . . so ‘ . . 70,121,962 . 64,229,877 °
EXPENDITURE
Staff costs . 78 , 42,310,355 36,792,402
- Other operating expenses : : 8 21,290,010 . 18,991,524
Depreciation . Le : . 8,9 . 4,123,455 3,414,982
Interest and other finance costs . 8 444,768 595,768
Total expenditure 7 8 68,168,588 59,794,676
Surplus forthe year - 4,953,374 4,435,201
Actuarial gain in respect of pension schemes 15 : . 10,195,000 13,706,000
Restriction in the recognition of the scheme
surplus - . (11,061,000) — (5,703,000)
Total Comprehensive income for the year : co ; . 1,087,374 12,438,201
Represented by: oo i :
_ Unrestricted comprehensive income for the year, - . : 1,087,374 12,438,201

1,087,374 12,438,201

The Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure is in respect of continuing operations.

The notes to the financial statements are included on pages 37-55

33

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-68B1-4DA3-8 105-2D0FF7D66885 bat a
Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY : ‘

: STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN RESERVES.
> For the year ended 31 July 2024

Income and Expenditure Account Revaluation Total.
‘ Reserve

Endowment’ Restricted Unrestricted

£ £ £ o£ £.

Balance at 1 August 2022 6,272 318: 51,017,395. : 4,492,592 ~ 55,516,577 .
Surplus from income — and ‘ oot * * 5,000 4,430,201. - 4,435,201 . ,
expenditure statement ” ‘ ‘

Other comprehensive expense. : - aan - ° 8,003;000 - - 8,003,000
Transfer between revaluation and °- - *. (144,094) 144,094 -
income and expenditure reserve .

Total comprehensive income / - 5,000 12,289,107 ‘ 144,094 12,438,201
(expense) for the year © : ane
‘Balance at 1 August 2023 6,272 5,318 63,306,502 4,636,686 67,954,778
Surplus from income’ and Oe - 1,953,374 “= 1,953,374
expenditure statement _ . . : .
‘Other comprehensive expense : - - (866,000) . - (866,000)
Transfer between revaluation and -" ; . - 220,231. (220,231) -
income and expenditure reserve . ,

Total comprehensive income / - - 1,307,605 (220,23 1) 1,087,374
(expense) for the year . . se

Balance at 31 July 2024 6,272 5,318 64,614,107 4,416,455 69,042,152

" The notes to the financial statements are included on pages 37-55.

34

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 - a {
Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY
“BALANCE SHEET ,
As at 31 July 2024 Lo . , nN
Note 31 July © 3t July
mo 2024. 2023-
: £o £
NON CURRENT ASSETS . . Oo
Fixed Assets : 9 54,847,657 44,481,011
CURRENT ASSETS : a
Stock : 17,529" 13,986
* Trade and other receivables, : : . 10 7,731,451 6,182,174
Investments [l 14,424,790 — 13,630,530
. Cash and cash: equivalents . . : : 10,712,938 23,542,618
Receivables: Amounts falling due after more - : 12 3,300,000 -
than one year: . . , . .
Less: ae , 36,186,708 43,369,308
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 13 : (16,892,856) (9,201,036)
NET CURRENT ASSETS , , . : “19,293,852 34,168,272
Total assets less current liabilities . oe 74,141,509 78,649,283
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year “14 (4,817,786) (10,374,360)
Provisions for pensions - 15° , (281,571) (320,145) |
TOTAL NET ASSETS ae Te 69,042,152 67,954,778
Restricted Reserves . .
Income and expenditure reserve — endowment reserve . 16 - . 6,272 6,272
Income and expenditure reserve — restricted reserve -- : _ 16 5,318 5,318
Unrestricted Reserves . 7 .
Income and expenditure reserve . . 64,614,107 63,306,502
Revaluation reserve . 17 . _ 4,416,455 4,636,686
TOTAL RESERVES , : : 69,042,152° 67,954,778 :

The notes to the financial statements are included on pages 37-55.

The financial statements of the University (registered company number 06305220) on pages 28 to 55 were approved
by the Board of Governors on 30 April 2025 and were signed on its behalf by: . :

Mr Jamie Hanley , - . Prof Charles Egbu |’
_ Chair of the Board of Governors oy . Vice-Chancellor and Chief Executive

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

CASH FLOW STATEMENT
For the year ended 31 July 2024

Cash flow from operating activities
Surplus for the year

: Adjustment for, non-cash items

Depreciation (note 8) : .

Deferred capital grants released to income (note 2) ©
(Increase) in stock

(Increase) in debtors

Increase in creditors

(Decrease) in provisions .

Current and past service cost in excess of contributions (note 8)

Adjustment for investing or financing activities
Investment income (note 5)

Interest and other finance costs.(note 8)

Loss on write-off and disposal of fixed assets

Net cash inflow from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities
Payments made to acquire fixed assets
Movement on deposits

Deferred capital grant received

Other interest received

Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid
Repayment of previous loan borrowings

(Decrease) in cash in the year (note 18)

The notes to the financial statements are included on pages.37-55.

Year ended
31 July

- 2024

£

1,953,374

4,123,455
(235,193)
(3,542)
(1,549,278)
- 558,490

* (32,574) |

(795,000)

(1,931,693)
“444,768

2,532,807

(12,024;078)
(4,094,260)

* 50,000
1,905,873

(14,162,464)

(529,435)
(670,588)

(1,200,023)

(12,829,680)

Year ended
31 July
2023

£.

4,435,201
i

‘

3,414,982
(223,322)
(840)

(1,190,066)
181,314

(32,094)

1,218,000

(1,526,908)
595,768

39,395 .

6,911,430

(9,106,264)
(436,929)
100,000
1,198,947

(8,244,246)

(383,957)
(670,588)

(1,054,545)

(2,387,361)

36

Commercial in Confidence

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885

- LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

Commercial in Confidence

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS an
For the year ended 31 July 2024 : : a -

1. TUITION FEES AND EDUCATION CONTRACTS _ . .
uo . Yearended Year ended
31 July 2024 31 July 2023

: -£ .. £

Full-time home and EU students P 55,285,160 51,661,582
_ Full-time international students ; . : 775,500 507,500
Part-time home and EU students : oO 1,239,569 1,150,213

57,300,229 53,319,295
’ Included within tuition fee income above, i is £21,313, 712 (2023: £19,315,108) relating to income from the
University’s arrangements with its franchise and validation partners. :

2. “FUNDING BODY GRANTS : :
Yearended Year ended
31 July 2024. 31 July 2023

ofs _ DofE UKRI Total . Total

£ 8 ae £.

Recurrent grant So, 5,5 25,491 - 267,929 5,793,420 3,900,416
Specific grants i 52,652 - - 70,000 122,652 587,376
Releases of deferred my : : .
capital grants, : . o , : .
Buildings . 235,193 - . - 235,193 223,322
Total =. 2 5,813,336 “| 337,929 6,151,265 - 4,711,114

Note: The source of grant and fee income included within notes | and 2 is as follows:

Year ended Year ended
31 July 2024 . 31 July 2023
.O £

. £

Grant income from the OfS : -  §,812,336 “4,089,889

, Grant income from other bodies Ts . 338,929 621,225

Fee income for taught awards . 37,223,764 53,179,263

Fee income for-research awards - . 31,310 ° 25,600
Fee income from non-qualifying courses . . 45,155 86,685

63,451,494 58,002,662

3. | RESEARCH GRANTS AND CONTRACTS ‘
. 2 Yearended Year ended
31 July 2024 31 July 2023

£ “g
Research councils and charities : ' . 45,593 81,624
Government : : . . 68,115 20,685,
Other  - ; : . co * 46,523 7
160,231 - 102,309 -

37

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 July 2024”

4

x

OTHER INCOME

Residences, catering and conferences
Other income

INVESTMENT INCOME

2
Income from short term investments

DONATIONS AND ENDOWMENTS

Restricted donations

STAFF COSTS

The average number of persons (including senior post-holders) employed
by the University during the year, expressed as full-time equivalents, was:

Lecturing staff, holders of senior posts, staff paid on academic scales and
part-time lecturers

Administrative, professional and teclinical staff

Other

Note
Staff costs for the above persons:
Wages and salaries
Social security costs .
Contributions to pension schemes 21
Pension enhancement costs : 21
Restructuring costs, . : :

. Service cost in excess of contributions : . 21

‘ Total

, _A further breakdown of pension costs have been included in note 21 Pension

Schemes.

’ Year ended

31 July 2024
£

3,396,096
1,182,448

4,578,544

Year ended
31 July 2024
£

1,931,693

’ Year ended
31 July 2024
£

Year ended
31 July 2024
Number

316

‘376

Si.

743

Year ended
31 July 2024
£

32,710,668
3,389,176
6,763,118

28,046
214,347
(795,000)

42,310,355

5

Commercial in Confidence

Year ended
31 July 2023
£.

3,502,975
1,067,276

4,570,251

_Year ended
31 July 2023
. £

1,526,908

Year ended
31 July 2023
£

_ 5,000

Year ended
31 July 2023.
Number

* 283

318
45

646

Year ended
31 July 2023
£

27,251,246
2,851,974
5,374,879

33,818
62,485
1,218,000

36,792,402

38

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885
~ LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
For the year ended 31 July 2024"

7. | STAFF COSTS (CONTINUED)

y

Severance payments included within staff costs:

Year ended
31 July 2024

Commercial in Confidence

Year ended .
31 July 2023

. : . . £ : £
Total severance and other compensation paid : ‘ 214,347 - 62,485
— Number Number

The number of people that this relates to 8 3

‘

The numbers of staff, including the Vice-Chancellor and other key management ‘personnel, _who received

emoluments (excluding pension contributions) i in the following ranges were:

Year ended

Year ended

31 July 2024 31 July 2023

Number | Number

£100,001 to £105,000 . 1 2- -

£105,001 to £110,000 ao 1 2

: £110,001 to £115,000 . uv 5 1
7 £115,001 to £120,000 : . : b --

£135,001 to £140,000 - |

£195,001 to £200,000 - 1

£205,001 to £210,000 . | \ 1 -

Year ended . Year ended

Directors’ remuneration 31 July 2024 31 July 2023

 £ £

‘Emoluments 335,305 317,447

Pension contributions 81,517 72,796

416,822 * 390,243

“The number of directors who: . Year ended Year ended

: 31 July 2024 31 July 2023

Number Number

Are members of a defined benefit pension scheme 3 ‘ 3

The amount shown for Directors’ remuneration represents amounts paid to three (2022/23: three) directors in
respect of their employment by the University (the Vice Chancellor and two elected staff governors) and not in
respect of any duties for acting as directors. During the year three directors (2022/23: three) were members of a ©
defined benefit scheme.

39

, Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-68B1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

Commercial in Confidence

NOTES-TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 July 2024

“7, STAFF COSTS (CONTINUED)

Remuneration of the Vice Chancellor (being the highest paid director):

Yearended Year ended
: 31 July 2024 31 July 2023
: - &£ £

Salary ” ; , 205,602. 197,657
Bonus - . - e -
. Supplement in lieu of pension contributions —-- . : - Jo.
205,602 197,657
Pension contributions . 52,113 “46,805

257,715 244,462

—==

‘Ratio of the remuneration of the Vice Chancellor to the median, for the whole workforce:

Year ended. Year ended
31 July 2024 31 July 2023

Basic Salary : : nn ~ 5.8:1 . 5.4:1

. Total Remuneration "65:1 6.0:1

-In line with the Committee of University Chairs (CUC) guidance, the remuneration package of the Vice-
Chancellor is reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee, with a full external benchmarking éxercise
undertaken every three years. This process is conducted independently of the Vice-Chancellor, who is not a

_ member of the Committee and withdraws from any discussions relating to their own remuneration. The
benchmarking exercise uses. independent advice and sector data to assess the Vice-Chancellor’s pay against a
defined comparator group of higher education institutions ofa similar size and scale. -

The most recent benchmarking review took place during 2023 to inform the remuneration package effective
from 1 August 2023. The Vice-Chancellor’s basic salary is set by reference to the median of the agreed
comparator group, with clear performance expectations attached. Performance is assessed annually by the
Remuneration Committee against a set of individual and institutional objectives agreed at the start of each year.

The ratios for both basic salary and total remuneration are below the guideline ratio of 8.5 above which CUC
guidance suggests that an institution should be prepared to justify why this is desirable.

Yearended Year ended

Key Management Personnel ; 31 July 2024 31 July 2023
; . £ £
Emoluments | ~ ; . . 889,720 703,311

889,720 703,311

Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and -
controlling the activities of the University, here defined-as the University’s Executive Team and comprising
seven people (2023: six people). Emoluments includes compensation paid to key management personnel,

- excluding any employer’s pension contribution. . .

40

2

Docusign Envelope ID: F387945 1-688 1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885,

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

Commercial in Confidence

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

For the year ended 31 July 2024

8. ANALYSIS OF 2023/2024 EXPENDITURE BY ACTIVITY

Services are inclusive of VAT for the University
Prior year auditor costs restated to include VAT.

Interest * Total Total
Other andother Yearended Year ended
operating finance © 31 July 31 July
Staff costs Depreciation expenses ‘costs 2024 2023
£ ne 2 £ £ £ &£
Academic departments 21,910,677 82,805 6,324,384 84 =. 28,317,950 23,800,938
Academic services 4,174,994 1,423,691 2,967,652 1,366 8,567,703 6,981,800
Residences and catering 747,634 451,634 982,095 379 2,181,742 2,179,527
Research grants and contracts "9,642 : 57,963 -  .' 67,605 127,475
Premises 1,790,145 2,148,348 2,221,254 - - 6,159,747 5,062,821
Administration and other 14,262,917 16,977 8,747,679 519,939 23,547,512 20,145,234
Exceptional restructuring cost 209,346 - ce - 2095346 57,485
(Profit)/Loss on w/off of fixed ’ - (11,017) - (11,017) 39,396
assets ~ a . : :
Service cost in excess of (795,000) - - - (795,000) 1,218,000
_ contributions
Exceptional past service cost - - : - -
Net interest on pension * - - - (77,000) (77,000) 182,000
liabilities ‘ . : :
Total per income and 42,310,355 4,123,455 21,290,010 444,768 68,168,588 . 59,794,676
expenditure account
Other operating expenses include: Year ended Year ended
, 31 July 2024 = 31 July 2623
External auditor’s remuneration for auditing of the financial statements 94,740 ° 72,000
External auditor’s remuneration for other assurance services 19,200 _ 18,720
External auditor’s remuneration for taxation compliance services ~ - a
Payments under operating leases in respect of equipment Oo \ 428,010 203,913

41

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885_ -
LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

Commercial in Confidence

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 July-2024

9." TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS , ;
. : : . Furniture,
‘Assetsinthe Freehold equipment,
course of land and fixtures Motor
construction buildings and fittings _ vehicles Total
. £ £ £ £ “ £
Cost/valuation a . : ‘

. At | August 2023 at cost . _ 4,708,828 67,218,454 9,962,254. 57,558 81,947,094
Additions during the year * 9,671,565 2,995,083 ~ 1,763,597 59,856 14,490,101
Completed during the year + (3,977,705) 3,430,803 546,902 - -.
Disposals during the year = (105,880) (404,019) . - (509,899)
At 31 July 2024 10,402,688 73,538,460 11,868,734 117,414 95,927,296
At cost . 10,402,688 73,538,460 11,868,734 ‘1175414 95,927,296
At 31 July 2024 10,402,688 73,538,460 11,868,734 117,414 - 95,927,296

. O09 7? 7

Accumulated depreciation : Loe

At 1 August 2023 . - - 30,351,573 °7,056,952 57,558 37,466,083

Charge for the year . - 2,557,414 — 1,551,077 14,964 4,123,455
- Disposals . : : - (105,880) © (404,019) -. (509,899)

At 31 July 2024 . , , - 32,803,107 8,204,010 72,522 41,079,639

Net book value : . . :

At 31 July'2024 . . 10,402,688 40,735,353 3, 664,724 44,892 54,847,657

At 31 July 2023 - : , 4,708,829 36,866,880 — 2,905,302 © > 44,481,011

Land and Buildings .

The transitional rules set out in FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets were applied on. implementing FRS 15.
Accordingly, the book values at implementation were retained. Land and buildings were last valued in 1995
at depreciated replacement cost by a firm of independent chartered surveyors at a valuation of £12, 907, 355
This treatment has been continued during the transition to FRS 102.

42

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885
LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY .

“ NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
‘For the year ended 31 July 2024

10. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES

11.

12.

13.

Amounts falling due within one year:
Trade debtors :
Prepayments and accrued income

‘INVESTMENTS

Deposits maturing:

“In one year or less

31 July 2024

£.

- 5,339,260
2,392,191

"7,731,451

31 July 2024

£-

"14,424,790

DEBTORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR

Cash guarantee in respect of
Trevelyan Square Lease

31 July 2024
£

3,300,000

Commercial in Confidence :

31 July 2023
. Ea

4,281,970
~ 1,900,204

6,182,174

31 July 2023
£

13,630,530

31 July 2023
£

— =

The lease agreement for Trevelyan Square required a sum of £3.3m to be placed in a cash guarantee account
with the lessor as beneficiary to be accessed in the event of default on the lease.

_CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR

Trade creditors ;
Bank loan repayable in less than one year

* Payments received in advance
, Social security and other taxation payable

Pensions and similar obligations
Deferred capital grants

Accruals and other deferred income
Amounts owing to funding councils

31 July 2024

£

2,223,719 .

5,376,470

-¢ 7,246 .

854,668
841,199
243,599
7,238,217
107,738

~ 16,892,856

31 July 2023

£

2,425,160
~ 670,588
215,638
833,085
707,710
248,687
3,976,830
123,338

9,201,036

43

’

. Docusign Envelope iD: F3879451-6881-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 . ar
| $ ia : : : Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 July 2024

14. CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR

- 31 July 2024 31 July 2023

‘ . ; £  £
Bank loan ; . . 1,800,000 7,176,470
Deferred capital grants Oo . 3,017,786 + . 3,197,890

4,817,786 10,374,360

‘ The bank loans are repayable as follows: 31 July 2024 31 July 2023
. . £ : £

Due within one year 5;376,470 670,588
Due between one and two years . . . 200,000 5,376,470
Dué between two and five years , , , 600,000 600,000
Due in five years or more ~ 1,000,000 1,200,000
Due after more than one year ; 1,800,000 7,176,470
Total bank loans. _ 7,176,470 7,847,058

All bank loans are unsecured.

~ One of the two bank loans is a 25 year term loan of £4m split into four equal portions, each with a fixed interest
rate period of between 5 years and 20 years before. reverting to a floating rate. Repayments are by quarterly
instalments which commenced August 2014. Half of the loan has now reverted to the floatirig rate (which was
1,7% above LIBOR), with the other half remaining on the fixed interest rate of 7.27%. Interest i is payable ona
quarterly basis. Following the cessation of LIBOR as a reference rate from 1 January 2022, the loan agreement
was varied to change the reference rate to be the Bank of England Base Rate. The applicable portion now has
an interest rate of 1.83% above Bank of fEngland Base Rate. As at 31 July 2024 the outstanding balance on this ©
loan was £2.0m. :

Following a 3 year revolving credit period, a term loan of £8m was drawn down in June 2018 for a7 year .
period with quarterly repayments over a 17 year profile and a residual balance remaining at the refinancing
point. At 31 July 2020 the loan was split into a £5m floating portion at 1.1% above LIBOR and a fixed portion
of £3m at 2.88%. Interest is payable on a quarterly basis. Following the cessation of LIBOR as a reference rate
from 1 January 2022, the loan agreement was varied to change the reference rate to be the Bank of England
Base Rate. The applicable portion now has an interest rate of 1.18% above Bank of England Base Rate. As at -
31 July 2024 the outstanding balance on this loan was £5.2m

44

_Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105- ‘2DOFF7D66885 |

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

‘ NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
For'the year ended 31 July 2024

18. PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS

Defined benefit

\
At |.August 2023

Utilised in year :

Transfer from income and expenditure account

Current service cost in excess of contributions

Net interest on liabilities’ . ‘
Actuarial gain

Commercial in Confidence

Total |

Pension
provision under enhancement
, FRS102_—- : .
£. £ . £
39,000 281,145 * 320,145 |
, - (46,540) (46,540)
an 13,966 13,966
(795,000)... -) - (795,000) .
(77,000) . ae (77,000)
866,000 | . - 866,000
_ 33,000 248,571 281,571

“At3l July 2024

<<

Thé pension enhancement provision relates to pension enhancements which the University has awarded to
former staff members. The provision will be utilised over the period to which these individuals are entitled to

their pensions, which is estimated to be over the next 25 years.

See note 21 for further pension disclosures.

16. . ENDOWMENT RESERVES

. Restricted Reserve Expendable 2024 Total 2023 Total
: Endowments
ge. £ £ : £
Balances at 1 August : _ ,
Capital 5,318 ¢ _ 6,272 11,590 6,590
New Restricted Donation . oe - - §,000
Investment income - , oo - - -
Expenditure . . . - - 2 -
At 31 July - 5,318 6,272 11,590 11,590
Represented by : a
Cash 5,318 6,272 11,590 © 11,590
Analysis by type of purpose - “ - =
Scholarships and bursaries 5,318 4,965 10,283 10,283
Prize funds : . . - 1,307 1,307 1,307
5,318 6,272 11,590 11,590 |

45

Docusign Envelope 1D: F3879451-6BB 1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

’ NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

For the year ended 31 July 2024 ~

17.

_ 18.

19.

REVALUATION RESERVE

At 1 August

Transfer from revaluation reserve to general reserve in respect of:

_ Depreciation on revalued assets

At3i July *

31 July 2024
. £

4,636,686
(220,231)

4,416,455

Commercial in Confidence

31 July 2023
£

4,492,592
144,094

* 4,636,686

The increase in the revaluation reserve relates to an adjustment to correct.the cumulative position as identified

in the prior year audit.

Cash at bank and in hand

Current asset investments

Total short term funds

Debts due within one year

. Debts due after one year

Total

LEASE OBLIGATIONS

Rentals payable under operating leases

_ Future minimum lease payments due:

Due within one year
Due between two and five years
Due in five years or more

Total lease payments due _

At 3] July
2023
£

23,542,618

13,630,530

37, 173,148

(670,588)

(7,176,470)

29,326,090

=

ANALYSIS OF CHANGES IN NET FUNDS AND RECONCILIATION OF CASH FLOW TO
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION .

Non -

Cash flows Cashflow
4 £

(12,829,680) :

794,260 . :

* (12,035,420) —

. (4,705,882)
670,588 —. 4,705,882

. (11,364,832) Oo -

31 July 2024
: £

2,259,150
7,974,756
18,510,633

28,744,539

At 31 July
2024

€
10,712,938
14,424,790
25,137,728

(5,376,470)
(1,800,000)

17,961,258

31 July 2023
£

- 228,047
304,119

532,166

On 4 March 2024 the University entered into a lease agreement for a premises in Leeds City Centre. The lease
is for a term of 15 years with a tenant break at 12 years; at a rent of £2m (net of VAT) per annum.

46

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 aan .
: , . , : Commercial in Confidence
LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 July 2024 :

20. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Provision has not been made for the following capital commitments:

31 July 2024 31 July 2023 °

£ £.
.. Commitments contractéd for . o 10,475,147 2,771,172

_ This represents commitments entered into by 3 July 2024 for expenditure as part of the following year’s
capital Programme. : : . :

47.

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 . ‘ cate 7
| : Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 July 2024

21. PENSION SCHEMES , .
The two pension schemes for the University’s staff are the Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS) for academic staff
and the Local Government Pension Scheme administered by the West Yorkshire Pension Fund (WYPF) for

support staff.
The total pension cost for the University was:

Yearended Year ended
31 July 2024 31 July 2023

. £ ° &
Contributions to TPS. . 3,560,241 —-2,808,740

Contributions to WYPF a : ; 3,202,877 2,566,139

6,763,118 5,374,879

Pension enhancements costs" , : . : 28,046 . 33,817
“Service cost in excess of contributions (795,000) 1,218,000 ~
Net interest on pension liabilities - (77,000) 182,000
Total pension cost - oe ; "5,919,164 6,808,696

‘Teachers’ Pension Scheme

TPS is valued not less than every four years by the Government Actuary. Contributions are paid by the —
University at the rate specified. The Scheme is unfunded and contributions are made to the Exchequer. The
payments from the Scheme are made from. funds voted by Parliament. The contribution rate payable by the
employer during the year was 23.6% until April 2024 and then 28.68% onwards. .

Under the definitions set out in Financial Reporting Standard 102 (FRS 102), the TPS is a multi-employer
defined benefit pension scheme. The University is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and
liabilities of the scheme due to the’nature of the scheme. Accordingly, the University has taken advantage of
the exemption in FRS 102 and has accounted for its contributions as if it were a defined contribution scheme.

The University is not liable for any obligations other than the regular contributions.

' The estimate for the contribution to the TPS for the 2024/25 year is c.£4.0m.

West Yorkshire Pension Fund

:) ‘ : WYPF is valued every three years by professionally qualified independent actuaries using the projected unit
method, the rates of contribution payable being determined by the trustees on the advice of the actuaries. In the’
intervening years, the WYPF actuary reviews the progress of the WYPF scheme.

For WYPF, the actuary has indicated that the resources of the scheme are likely, in the normal course of events,

to meet the liabilities as they fall due at the level.specified by the WYPF Regulations. The most recent valuation
. in 2022 showed the University to be in a small surplus position with a funding level of 101%. The employer

contribution rate payable by the University during the year was 19.20%. :

Under the definitions set out in FRS 102, the WYPF is'a multi- -employer defined benefit pension scheme. In
the case of the WYPF, the actuary of the scheme has identified the University” s share of its assets and liabilities -
as at 31 July 2024.

The pension scheme assets are held in a separate Trustee-administered fund to meet long-term ‘pension
liabilities to past and present employees. The trustees of the fund are required to act in the best interests of the
fund’s beneficiaries. The appointment of trustees to the fund is determined by the: scheme’s trust
documentation. The trustees are responsible for setting the investment strategy for the Scheme ‘after
consultation with professional advisers.

The FRS102 disclosures below relate only to the University’s pension costs in respect of the WYPF.

48

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451 -6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885 7

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

, i NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 July 2024 -

21. PENSION SCHEMES (continued)

* The material assumptions used by the actuary for FRS102 at 31 July 2024 were:

Rate of increase in salaries
Liability discount rate
Inflation assumption .

The assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65 are:

Retiring today .
Males : :

Females

Retiring in'20 years \
- Males

Females

The asset allocation of the defined benefit scheme is shown below:

Value

Equities

Property

Government Bonds

Other Bonds

Cash/liquidity . . :
” Other . oo . . . ‘

Total

31 July
2024

3.85%

5.00% -
2.60% -

. 31 July
/. 2024

20.8
24.0

21.7
24.7

31 July 2024
. £000

53,968
1,837
5,989
2,722 °
1,837

1,701 |

68,054

Commercial in Confidence

31 July
2023

3.85%
5.00%
2.60%

31 July
. 2023

21.0
24.1

22.2
25.1.

“31 July 2023
£7000

46,921
_ 1,933
4;335
2,636
2,285
469

58,579

The following amounts at 31 July 2024 were measured in accordance with the requirements of FRS102.

Analysis of the amount shown in the balance sheet

The University’s estimated asset share
Present value of the University’s Scheme liabilities
Restriction in the recognition of the scheme surplus

Deficit in the Scheme - Net pension liability

31 July 2024 31 July 2023
£°000 £000

68,054 58,579
(56,993) (52,876) ,

(11,061) (5,703) ~

49

* Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF 7066885

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31.July 2024

21.-

PENSION SCHEMES (continued) .

Analysis of the amount charged to staff costs within operating surplus 31 July 2024
. . . £7000
Current service cost : . oO (2,410)

Past service cost

Total operating charge sti; , : _ (2,410)
Analysis of amount that is charged to other finance costs - 31 July 2024
: £000
Interest income on pension scheme assets ‘ . : 2,965
Interest on pension scheme liabilities : . (2,603)
Net charge ; , : , 362

Analysis of the amount recognisable in the Statement of Comprehensive © 31 July 2024

~ Income and Expenditure (SOCI)

. . £7000
Actuarial gain in response of pension : . 10,195
Schemes ° ;
Restriction in the recognition of the scheme . . — (11,061)
surplus. : :
Net gain(loss)" ; ' (866)
Analysis of the movement in the present value of the scheme liabilities 31 July 2024
: £000
At beginning of year : : : ; 52,911
Current service cost, . : : 2,410
Interest cost a , an : 2,603
Contributions by scheme participants . 1,135
Actuarial gain/(loss) ~ : : 924
Benefits paid . (2,961)
Past service cost -
At end of year ; : : o, 57,022
Analysis of the movement in the market value of the scheme assets , 2024
: . £000
At beginning of year ‘ : ¢ : 58,579
Expected rate of return on scheme assets : 2,965 .
Actuarial gain/(loss) : : me 5,131
Contribution by employer » . . 3,205
Contribution by scheme participants . 1,135
Benefits paid Lo . ; (2,961)
At end of year- : ; . 68,054

Commercial in Confidence

31 July 2023
£7000

(3,785)

(3,785) |

31 July 2023
£7000:

1,890
(2,072)

(182)

31 July 2023

£7000
13,706

(5,703),
8,003

31 July 2023
£000

60,953 :
3,785
2,072

923
(13,866)
(956)

52,911

2023
. £7000

54,311
1,890 |
- (156)
2,567
923
(956)

58,579 -

50

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885

Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY uN , , }

. NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS . oo - ,

For the year ended 31 July 2024
21. PENSION SCHEMES (continued)

History of experience gains and losses: Year ended 31 July a
2024 2023 * 2022 ‘2021 2020

; £7000 £000 = £7000 £000 £000
Funded ‘ . (56,993) (52,876) (60,907) (80,866) (76,620)
Unfunded (29) (35) (46) (55) (64)
Restriction in recognition of the scheme (11,061) (5,703) - - -
surplus
Fair value of scheme assets ‘ 68,054 "58,579 54,311 50,898 41,127
Deficit in the scheme . (29) (35) (6,642) (30,023) (35,557)
Actuarial gain on scheme assets .
Amount (£7000) 5,131 156 1,187 8,347 (3,152)
Percentage of Scheme assets OO ' 75% 0.3% 2.2% 16.4% (7.7)%
Total amount recognised in SOCI , ~
Amount (£7000) : . (866) 8,003° 27,227 8,811 (15,362)
Percentage of present value of scheme liabilities 1.3% = 13.7% = 44.7% | 10.9% — 20.0%

The expected return on assets is determined with regard to various factors impacting each class of asset.
The bond’return is based on the prevailing return available on ‘bonds. The return on equities, property and
other assets is based on a number of factors including the income yield at the measurement date, the long
term growth prospects for the economy in general, the long term relationship between each asset class and
the bond returns and the movement in the market indices since the previous measurement date.

Defined benefit scheme assets do not include any of the University’s own financial instruments, or any
property occupied by the University. .

The estimate for the contribution for the defined benefit scheme for the year 2024/25 is c.£3.6m.

* Guaranteed Minimum Pension

Defined benefit pension schemes will be affected by the equalisation of benefits for men and women in

relation to Guaranteed Minimum Pension provisions. The method of equalisation has increased the

University’s pension liabilities in respect of the West Yorkshire Pension Fund and the fund actuary -
calculated an estimated liability which’ was recognised during 2018/19. Any changes to the estimated

liability in 2023/24 have been recognised through actuarial gains / losses.

_ Transitional Protection Arrangements (McCloud) — - . ; \

Following the loss of a court case (the McCloud judgement) which found that transitional protections put
in place when public sector pension schemes were reformed were age discriminatory, the government has
committed to seeking a remedy across all public sector schemes. The University’s pension liabilities in .
respect of the West Yorkshire Pension Fund have increased due to this although the method of remedy and
hence the amount of the incréase in liabilities is not yet known. The fund actuary calculated an approximate
estimated liability which was recognised during 2018/19. Any changes to the estimated liability in 2023/24
have been recognised through actuarial gains / losses.

.Contracted-out Benefits (Virgin Media Ltd)

The Directors are aware of the ‘Virgin Media Ltd v NTL Pension Trustees II Ltd( and others)’ case. There
is potential for the outcome of the case to have an impact on the UK pension scheme. The case affects
defined benefit schemes that provided-contracted-out benefits before 6 April 2016 based on meeting the
reference scheme test. Where scheme rules were amended, potentially impacting benefits accrued from 6
_ April 1997 to 5 April 2016, schemes needed the actuary to confirm that the reference scheme test was still
being met by providing written confirmation under Section 37 of the Pension Schemes Act 1993. In the

51

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6881-4DA3-6105-2D0FF7D66885 Commercial in Confidence

; LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL. STATEMENTS
_ For the year ended 31 July 2024

Virgin Media case the judge ruled that alterations to the scheme rules were void and ineffective because
of the absence of written actuarial confirmation required under Section 37 of the Pension Schemes Act
1993, The case taken to the Court of Appeal in June 2024 and the original ruling was upheld.

As a result, there may be’a further liability to the West Yorkshire Pension Fund for benefits that were -
reduced by previous amendments, if those amendments prove invalid (i.e. were made without obtaining
$37 confirmation). The trustees and their legal advisors have started reviewing the records of the scheme
to look for evidence of having obtained the necessary written actuarial confirmation where relevant. Thé
trustees will continue to investigate the possible implications with their advisors, but it is not possible at -
present to estimate the potential impact, if any, on the scheme and consequently the defined benefit ”
obligation in the financial statements. ,.

. Widower Benefits (Goodwin) |

Following a récent Employment Tribunal ruling that a female member in an opposite sex marriage is
treated less favourably than a female in a same sex marriage of civil partnership,.and that treatment amounts
to direct discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation, the government announced in July 2020 that
it believed changes would be. required to all public sector schemes, with similar arrangements. For the *

» University, this will increase the liability in respect of the West Yorkshire Pension Fund, but no allowance
has been made in the accounting figures as it is expected that the impact on the liabilities will be immaterial
and there is currently insufficient data available to estimate a cost. ~

Sensitivity‘ Analysis

. The approximate impact of changing the key assumptions on the present value of the funded “defined
benefit obligation as at 31 July 2024 and the Projected service cost for the period ending 31 July 2025 is
set out below. ~

Adjustment to discount rate +0.1% p.a -0.1% p.a
Present value of total obligation (£m) $5.91 58.076

% Change in present value of total obligation -1.9% 1.9%
Projected service cost (£m) | 2.339 2.59
Approximate % change in projected service cost -5.0% 5.2%
Rate of general increase in salaries +0.1% p.a -0.1% p.a
Present value of total obligation (£m) 57.107 56.879

% Change in present value of total obligation 0.2% -0.2%
Projected service cost (£m) 2.462 2.462 ,
Approximate % change in projected service cost 0.0% 0.0%
Rate of increase to pensions and rate of revaluation of pension . .

accounts , : +0.1% p.a -0.1% p.a
Present value of total obligation (£m) 57.962 56.024

% Change in present value of total obligation 1.7% -1.7%
Projected service cost (£m) . 2.59 2.339
Approximate % change in projected service cost 5.2% -5.0%
Post Retirement mortality assumption +1 year -1 year
Present value of total obligation (£m) 58.418 $5,568

% Change in present value of total obligation 2.5% “-2.5% °
Projected service cost (£m) ; 2.556 2.368
Approximate % change in projected service cost 3.8% -3.8%

52

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY -

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS |
For the year ended 31 July 2024 -

22.

RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

During the year the University's transactions with-Yorkshire Universities, a company limited by guarantee

in which the University holds a £1 guarantee and where the Vice Chancellor is a director, were as

summarised below: : :

: Yearended Year ended —
31 July 2024 = .31 July 2023

- : oo : £

Purchases from Yorkshire Universities "10,400 =. ~——s«L0,400°

The above transactions were undertaken on normal trading terms. At 31 July 2024 the amount owed to
Yorkshire Universities was £Nil (2023: £Nil). The results of Yorkshire Universities have not been included
in the results of the University.

, oy

\

_During the year the University's transactions with Leeds Learning Alliance, a company limited by
“guarantee in which the University holds a £10 guarantee and where the Vice Chancellor is a director, were
- as summarised below: - :

Year ended Year ended
*31 July 2024 = 31 July 2023
. _£ £

Purchases from Leeds Learning - . ; ; : 8,250 7,500
Alliance vo :

The above transactions were uridertaken on normal trading terms. At 31 July 2024 the amount owed to

_Leeds Learning Alliance was £Nil (2022: £Nil). The results of Leeds Learning Alliance. have not been

included in the results of the University.

The President of the Leeds Trinity Students’ Union (LTSU) is a member of the governing body of the
University. During the year the University's transactions with Leeds Trinity Students’ Union were as
summarised below:

. Year ended Year ended
31 July 2024 31 July 2023
£ :

£

Subvention paid to LTSU : : » . 409,578 314,000 |

Other payments to LTSU 91,788 77,167"
501,366 _ 391,167

At 31 July 2024 the amount owed to LTSU was £Nil (2023: ENil). The results of Leeds Trinity Students’
Union have not been included i in the results of the University. .

53 -

Commercial in Confidence

Docusign Envelope ID: 'F3879451-68B1-4DA3-8105-2D0FF7D66885. sal
. Commercial in Confidence

LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY

-NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Por the year ended 31 July 2024

The Catholic Bishop of Leeds is a member of the governing body of the University. During the year the
University's transactions with the Catholic Diocese of Leeds were as summarised below: .

my “Yearended ‘Year ended
. - 31 July 2024 31 July 2023
: £-. £

Visiting Lecturers oo: : ; 12,718 12,643"

At 31 July 2024 the amount owed to the Diocese of Leeds was £nil (2023: £9,693). The results of the ,
Diocese of Leeds have not been included in the results of the University.

During the year the University's transactions’ with Universities UK, a company limited by guarantee where
the Vice Chancellor is a director, were as summarised below: ~

‘

Year ended Year ended

31 July 2024 = 31 Juty 2023
: . 7 € £
Purchases from Universities UK . . ; . 25,998 -

The above transactions were undertaken on normal trading terms: At 31 July 2024 the amount owed to .
Universities UK was £Nil (2023: £Nil). The results of Universities UK have not been included in the results :
of the University.

'

All transactions involving organisations in which a member of the Board of Governors may have an interest
are conducted at arm's length and in accordance with the University’s financial regulations and normat
* procurement procedures, -

“23. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD

None to report.

I

ay AMOUNTS DISBURSED AS AGENT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (FORMERLY
NATIONAL COLLEGE FOR TEACHING AND LEADERSHIP (NCTL)) °

31 July 2024 31 July 2023
£

£

Funds received: . : , "2,004,000 775,000

Disbursed to students _ °. 1,966,000 734,800

‘ Balance unspent at 3t July 38,000 40,200

54

Docusign Envelope ID: F3879451-6BB1-4DA3-8 105-2D0FF7066885 .. : . Commercial in Confidence
LEEDS TRINITY UNIVERSITY .
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

For the year ended 31 July 2024.”

These funds are available solely for students, with the University acting only as a paying agent. The income
and related disbursements are therefore excluded from the Income and Expenditure Account. Within the
cash flow they appear within the movement on creditors/debtors, . .

25. ACCESS AND PARTICIPATION
; 31 July 2024 31 July 2023
£

£-
Access Investment 7 . ; : 2,812,634 1,914,052
_ Financial Support : : 1,944,580 1,800,447
. Disability Support : . 134,967 223,456
Research and Evaluation : : Le -

4,892,181 3,937,955

£1,150,925 of these costs are included in the overall staff costs figure included within these financial
statements (note 7).

The University’s approved Access and Participation Plan included for 2023/24 a commitment to
expenditure of £1,480,000 across the above activities, of which £833,000 was funded by higher fee income
and the balance from other sources. The University is committed to widening participation and ypically
spends more than the commitments in its Access and Participation Plan.

The University’s approved Access and Participation Plan for the five year period 2020/21 to 2024/25 can |

.be access be accessed here: -
Access and Participation Plans - Public information - About - Leeds Trinity University

55

