Companies House

Leigh
Academies
Trust

Annual Report and Financial
Statements

31 August 2024

Company Limited by Guarantee
Registration Number 02336587
(England and Wales)

THURSDAY

*ADWS21ZM*
A04 #23

20/02/2025
COMPANIES HOUSE

Contents

Reports

Reference and administrative information 1

Directors’ report 3
Governance statement 31
Statement of regularity, propriety and

compliance 37

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities 38

Independent auditor's

report on the

financial statements 39
Independent reporting accountant’s

report on regularity 44
Financial Statements

Consolidated statement of financial

activities 46
Balance sheets 47
Consolidated statement of cash flows 48
Principal accounting policies 50
Notes to the accounts 57

Leigh Academies Trust

Reference and administrative information

Members

Directors

Secretary

Trust Executives

Registered office

Company registration number

External Auditor

Professor G Randsley de Moura
Clir R Gough (resigned 16 July 2024)
Professor D Moore

Sir G Leigh (resigned 12
December 2023)

Lord Leigh of Hurley
(appointed 12 December
2023)

Mr A F X Green

Mr A F X Green (Chairman) = Mr K Ellis

Mr S P Beamish Mrs H Esmonde
Cllr Sir P Carter Mr J Nicholson
Mr M Costello Dr J Wetherall
Mrs T Davies Dr J Wales

Mr N Willis

Chief Executive
Chief Financial Officer

Mr S P Beamish
Ms F Reizopoulou

Mr P Whittall Estates Director
MrS Vernoux + Chief Information Officer
Mr R Taylor People & Communications Director

Academies Director
Academies Director
Academies Director

Mrs D Biggenden
Mrs T Trusler
Mrs E Elwin

Strood Academy
Carnation Road
Rochester

ME2 2SX

02336587 (England and Wales)

Buzzacott LLP
130 Wood Street
London

EC2V 6DL

Leigh Academies Trust 1

Reference and administrative information

Bankers

Solicitors

Actuaries

HSBC plc

38 High Street
Dartford

Kent

DA1 1DG

NatWest Bank
County Gate 2
Stacey's Street
Maidstone

‘ME14 1ST

Stone King LLP
16 St John's Lane
London

EC1M 4BS

Barnett Waddingham
Cheapside House
138 Cheapside
London

EC2V 6BW

Leigh Academies Trust 2

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

The Directors present their report together with the financial statements and auditor's report
of the charitable company for the period from 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024. The
annual report serves the purpose of both a Trustees’ report and a Directors’ report under
company law.

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set
out on pages 50 to 56 of the attached financial statements and comply with the Trust's
Memorandum and Articles of Association, applicable laws and Accounting and Reporting by
Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their
accounts in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the United
Kingdom and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102).

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT

Background and constitution

The Trust is a company limited by guarantee and an exempt charity. The charitable
company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association are its primary governing documents.
The Trustees are also Directors of the charitable company for the purposes of company law.
The charitable company is known as Leigh Academies Trust (LAT).

Members of the company are nominated by the sponsors, Sir Geoffrey Leigh, the University
of Kent and the University of Greenwich. Kent County Council is no longer a sponsor of the
Trust.

Since February 2008, LAT has been a multi-academy Trust with Master Funding
Agreements (MFA) and separate Supplemental Funding Agreements (SFA) to govern each
academy.

LAT Academies

There were 32 academies within the Trust on 31 August 2024 as shown below. It should be
noted that LAT embarked on a phased change of academy names in September 2024. The
purpose of this change was for a clearer brand identity across all academies in the Trust
and to also reinforce the fact we are one community. By September 2024, 22 academies
were using the common academy naming convention, with the remaining 10 doing so in
September 2025. Two academies new to the Trust joined LAT in the last twelve months
with Leigh Academy Hugh Christie doing so on ‘1st April 2024 and Leigh Academy Minster
on 1st September 2024.

+ Ebbsfleet Academy (an 11-19 Secondary School)

+ The Hundred of Hoo Academy (a 4-19 all-through School)

+ Leigh Academy Bearsted (a 3-11 Primary School and Nursery)

+ Leigh Academy Bexley (an 11-19 Secondary School)

+ Leigh Academy Blackheath (an 11-19 Secondary School)

+ Leigh Academy Cherry Orchard (a 3-11 Primary School and Nursery)

+ Leigh Academy Dartford (a 3-11 Primary School and Nursery)

Leigh Academies Trust 3

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT (continued)

LAT Academies (continued)

¢

+

¢

Leigh Academy Halley (an 11-19 Secondary School)

Leigh Academy Hartley (a 3-11 Primary School and Nursery)

Leigh Academy High Halstow (a 4-11 Primary School)

Leigh Academy Horsmonden (a 4-11 Primary School)

Leigh Academy Hugh Christie (an 11-19 Secondary School)

Leigh Academy Langley Park (a 3-11 Primary School and Nursery)
Leigh Academy Milestone (a 3-19 Special School)

Leigh Academy Molehill (a 3-11 Primary School and Nursery)

Leigh Academy Oaks (a 3-11 Primary School and Nursery)

Leigh Academy Paddock Wood (a 3-11 Primary School and Nursery)
Leigh Academy Rainham (an 11-19 Secondary School)

Leigh Academy Tonbridge (an 11-19 Secondary School)

Leigh Academy Tree Tops (a 3-11 Primary School and Nursery)

Leigh Stationers' Academy (an 11-19 Secondary School)

Leigh Stationers' Primary Academy (a 3-11 Primary School and Nursery)
Longfield Academy (an 11-19 Secondary School)

Marden Primary Academy (a 4-11 Primary School and Nursery)
Mascalls Academy (an 11-19 Secondary School)

Peninsula East Primary Academy (a 3-11 Primary School and Nursery)
Sir Geoffrey Leigh Academy (an 11-19 Secondary School)

Sir Joseph Williamson's Mathematical School (an 11-19 Secondary School)
Snowfields Academy (an 11-19 Special School)

Strood Academy (an 11-19 Secondary School)

The Leigh UTC (an 11-19 Secondary School)

Wilmington Academy (an 11-19 Secondary School)

Members’ liability :

Each Member of the charitable company undertakes to contribute to the assets of the Trust
in the event of it being wound up while they are a member, or within one year after they
cease to be a member, such amount as may be required, not exceeding £10, for the debts
and liabilities contracted before they ceased to be a member.

Leigh Academies Trust 4

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT (continued)

Directors Indemnities :
In accordance with normal commercial practice the Trust has purchased insurance to
protect directors, governors and officers from claims arising from negligent acts, errors or
omissions occurring whilst on Trust business. The insurance provides cover up to £10 million
on any one claim.

Directors

The Articles of Association require the appointment of at least three Directors (unless
otherwise determined by ordinary resolution). Directors are appointed to the Board by the
Members. Governors are appointed to Academy Boards by the Directors.

The training and induction provided for new Directors depends on their existing experience.
Where necessary, induction provides training on charity, education, legal and finance
matters. All Directors are provided with copies of policies, procedures, minutes, accounts,
budgets, plans and other documents to undertake their role as Directors.

The following Directors served throughout the period from 1 September 2023:

Director Appointed/Retired Committees

Mr S P Beamish

Cllr Sir P Carter Resources

Mr M Costello Standards (Chairman)

Mrs T Davies (Vice Chair) Resources (Chairman), Audit
Mr K Ellis Audit (Chairman)

Mrs H Esmonde Standards

Mr A F X Green (Chairman)

Mr J Nicholson

Dr J Wetherall Resources
Dr J Wales Standards

During the year under review the Trust Board held four full meetings and nine committee
meetings.

Organisational Structure

The Board of Directors governs the activities of the Trust and oversees the work of the
Academy Boards. It is also ultimately responsible for the strategic direction of the Trust and
its overarching policies. Each Academy Board governs the work and outcomes of its
assigned academies. Individual Academy Board governors are directly attached to a
secondary or primary academy; they carry out regular visits to monitor progress at the
Academy and report their findings to the next available meeting. The Trust's Scheme of
Delegation sets parameters for decision-making by executives and approvals by governors.

The senior managers of the Trust are the CEO, Chief Financial Officer, three Academies
Directors, Estates Director, Chief Information Officer and People & Communications
Director. They lead and manage the Trust, setting strategy and implementing policy in
conjunction with the Board. Principals lead and manage the individual academies.

Leigh Academies Trust 5

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT (continued)

Subsidiary companies
The Trust has three wholly owned subsidiary companies:

@ LAT Enterprises C.I.C, a community interest company incorporated in February 1991.

© The objects of the C.I.C. are to carry on activities which benefit the community and
in particular by making available sporting and other facilities to individuals and
community groups. Proceeds from the hiring of facilities to the community are gift-
aided to academies within LAT for the benefit of students.

@ The Hundred of Hoo Nursery and Kids Club, a company limited by guarantee
incorporated in October 2007.

© The objects of the company are to advance education by the provision of a full
childcare service and nursery for children from the age of 0 to 11. The Nursery and
Kids Club is located on the site of The Hundred of Hoo Academy and its activities
are closely aligned with those of the academy.

«@ LAT Apprenticeships C.I.C, a community interest company incorporated in October
2019.

© The objects of the Company are to carry on activities which benefit the community
and in particular to provide training opportunities, including apprenticeships, for
members of the community. Many apprentices on the C.I.C’s training programmes
are employees of LAT and the trust governs its activities.

The financial results of the subsidiary companies are included in the notes to the financial
statements.

Arrangements for setting pay and remuneration of key management personnel

The pay and remuneration of key management personnel are set by the Senior Pay
Committee which comprises the Chairman of the Trust Board, the Chairman of the
Resources Committee and the Chief Executive Officer. The key management personnel
comprise the Executive Directors and Academy Principals. The pay and remuneration of the
Chief Executive Officer is determined by the Chairman of the Trust Board and the Chairman
of the Resources Committee.

Trade union facility time

The following information is provided in accordance with the provisions of the Trade Union
(Facility Time Publications Requirements) Regulations 2017.

Leigh Academies Trust 6

go

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT (continued)

Relevant union officials

Number of employees who were relevant union | Full-time equivalent employee number
Officials during the relevant period

Percentage of time spent on facility time

Percentage of time Number of employees

0

1%-50%
51%-99%

Percentage of pay bill spent on facility time

Provide the total cost of facility time £31,160

Provide the total pay bill £145,118,000

Provide the percentage of the total pay bill spent
on facility time, calculated as:
(total cost of facility time + total pay bill) «100

Related Parties and other Connected Charities and Organisations

No Director received any remuneration in respect of their services during the year, nor for
any other work undertaken on behalf of the Trust, with the exception of Mr S P Beamish in
his capacity as an employee of the Trust. Governors of individual academies are from
sponsoring organisations, employers, local authorities or other organisations, some of which
from time to time have dealings with the Trust in the course of their usual work. All
transactions between these organisations and the Trust were carried out at arm’s length and
all material transactions were at standard rates.

Engagement with employees (including disabled persons)
As a Trust we believe that engaging with our workforce is a fundamental aspect of day-to-
day operations and accordingly we have the following mechanisms in place:

¢ Operate a Joint Consultative Committee with trade unions to consult on all key matters
relating to the employment of teaching and support staff.

« We undertake staff engagement pulse surveys six times a year which are sent to all
staff with the results forming key action plans by academy. The results of these surveys
are also reviewed by the Trust and actioned accordingly.

Leigh Academies Trust 7

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT (continued)

Engagement with employees (including disabled persons) (continued)
@ We have a staff portal that contains news and policies as well as details of any
initiatives for wellbeing and other projects.

@ We operate a number of staff network groups to ensure that staff from specific
communities have a voice and are able to be involved in the direction of the Trust.

¢ We also regularly publish documents on the future direction of the Trust, its vision and
goals for the year ahead as well as the long-term future.

Engagement with suppliers, customers and others in a business relationship with the
Trust

The Trust meets regularly with all of its principal suppliers in the spirit of cooperation and
mutual interest. The Trust's academies work in partnership with suppliers at local level on
the day-to-day delivery of services and Trust Executives engage with regional or national
representatives to address contract management and value for money. Through its wholly
owned subsidiary, LAT Enterprises C.1.C., the Trust maintains a strong dialogue with
customers in the community who use academy facilities. This engagement is led by a
dedicated team within the C.1.C.

The Trust and its academies engage fully with parents and guardians of our students. This
engagement ranges from termly newsletters to specific, issue-based communications at
academy level and through parent/guardian consultation events which address the progress
of students.

OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES

Objects and Aims
The objects of LAT are summarised as follows:

« To advance for the public benefit education in the United Kingdom, by establishing,
maintaining, running, managing and developing schools which offer a broad and
balanced curriculum or are specifically organised to make special educational provision
for pupils with Special Educational Needs; and

« To promote for the benefit of the inhabitants of the areas in which the Academies are
located and the surrounding areas the provision of facilities for recreation or other
leisure.

Leigh Academies Trust 8

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES (continued)

Objectives, Strategies and Activities
The Trust's Vision 2030 sets out an Excellence Charter which establishes the context for the
LAT Performance Agreement. The Charter commits the Trust to do the following:

@  Wewill ensure excellent teaching so that young people achieve their ambitions.

@ Weill ensure outstanding leadership to drive improvement in our own academies and
across the sector.

@ Weill ensure an exceptional International Baccalaureate curriculum.
« Wewill ensure a world class digital strategy for education.
@ Weill ensure a highly developed and engaged workforce who make a difference.

@ We will ensure a small school model of education that delivers high quality pastoral
care.

@ Weill ensure disruption-free learning and a wide personal development programme.

« Weill ensure targeted support for those who need it so that they can succeed.

Public Benefit
In setting the Trust’s objectives and planning its activities, the Directors have given careful
consideration to the Charity Commission's general guidance on public benefit.

STRATEGIC REPORT
Achievements and performance

Overview

On 1 April 2024, Hugh Christie School joined the Trust following its transfer from a local
authority maintained school, under Kent County Council. On joining LAT, the school's name
changed to Leigh Academy Hugh Christie. In September 2024, the Trust opened Leigh
Academy Minster following the closure of Oasis Academy Isle of Sheppey. The addition of
these two schools brings the total number of schools in the Trust to 33.

International Baccalaureate

LAT is committed to providing all of its pupils with an outstanding educational experience
that gives them the knowledge, skills and personal attributes they need to be successful
lifelong learners. It is for this reason that LAT took the ground-breaking decision to introduce
International Baccalaureate (IB) programmes across all phases of education in its
academies. IB programmes are delivered in 150 countries worldwide and participation in the
development of the IB programmes has given our staff the opportunity to engage with the
best research and training from around the world.

Leigh Academies Trust 9

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Achievements and performance (continued)

International Baccalaureate (continued)
All academies are either fully accredited International Baccalaureate World Schools or, for
the schools newest to LAT, candidate World Schools.

Primary Years Programme Middle Years Programme Career-related Programme (CP)
PYP) World Schools MYP) World Schools Diploma Programme [DP)

Leigh Academy Bearsted Leigh Academy Halley

Leigh Academy Bexley CP
(candidate)

Leigh Academy Cherry Orchard | Hundred of Hoo Academy
(Secondary)

Wilmington Academy CP
Leigh Academy Dartford

Sir Geoffrey Leigh Academy Leigh Academy Halley CP

Leigh Stationers Primary

Academy Leigh Academy Blackheath Leigh UTC CP

Leigh Academy Hartley The Leigh UTC Leigh Academy Blackheath

CP/DP

Leigh Academy High Halstow Longfield Academy
Strood Academy CP

Hundred of Hoo Academy Mascalls Academy

(Primary) Sir Geoffrey Leigh Academy CP

Leigh Stationers’ Academy
Leigh Academy Horsmonden Sir Geoffrey Leigh Academy DP

(Candidate)

Strood Academy
Leigh Academy Langley Park
Leigh Academy Minster CP

Wilmington Academy
(Candidate)

Leigh Academy Molehill

Leigh Academy Rainham
Leigh Academy Oaks

Leigh Academy Rainham CP

Ebbsfleet Academy (Candidate)

Leigh Academy Paddock Wood

Leigh Academy Tonbridge CP

Leigh Academy Tonbridge (Candidate)

Peninsula East Primary (Candidate)
Academy

Snowfields Academy
Leigh Academy Tree Tops (Candidate)

Marden Primary Academy Leigh Academy Bexley
(Candidate)
Leigh Academy Milestone

(Candidate) Leigh Academy Hugh Christie
(Candidate)

Leigh Academies Trust 10

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Achievements and performance (continued)

The Leigh Institute

Leigh Academies Trust is privileged to run four organisations mandated to provide fantastic
opportunities for staff professional learning and development. The Thames Gateway
Teaching School Hub (TGTSH), Kent and Medway Maths Hub (KMMH), Kent and Medway
Training (KMT) and LAT Apprenticeships collectively work with over 400 schools and
academies across Kent and Medway. They oversee teacher training, development and
apprenticeships providing professional qualifications inside and outside of education. Each
organisation has its own funding arrangements, governance structure and personnel - but
there are more similarities than differences.

The Leigh Institute has now completed its maiden year, successfully bringing the four
separate organisations under a single point of leadership in order to maximise the benefits
of collaboration and teamwork. Strategic oversight of all existing bodies is the responsibility
of the Director of The Leigh Institute simplifying the direction, finance and governance whilst
enhancing the delivery of all four. Whilst each organisation, part of The Leigh Institute,
holds its own reputation, The Leigh Institute is fast becoming the preeminent brand for
teacher development, training and apprenticeships in Kent and Medway utilising the
strength of each organisation to provide a curriculum for life spanning from reception
through public examinations, apprenticeships and professional qualifications. A child in
reception can remain with LAT all the way through to employment and beyond.

Key achievements during the year:

TGTSH — more than 960 Early Career Teachers (ECT) worked with the hub this year as part
of their induction period; 570 were recruited and supported to access the hub’s full suite of
NPQs. A pass rate of 99% or above for all NPQ courses has been maintained.

KMMH - the hub has worked with over 250 primary and secondary schools this year,
bringing the total number to 554 schools across Kent and Medway; three quarters of all
schools in the region.

KMT — Over 220 associate teachers achieved Qualified Teacher Status this year and will be
beginning their careers across our partner schools. More than 220 new trainees have been
recruited to start with KMT next year.

LAT Apprenticeships — During the year we have built on the success of our good Ofsted
result, by completing a strategic review, aligning our delivery further with the needs of our
region and the strengths of our sector. We have bought in a digital delivery system, allowing
us to expand the delivery of our educationally-based programmes. Our first teacher
Apprentices are approaching end point assessment and we have a number of plans to
expand our offer.

Leigh Academies Trust 11

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Achievements and performance (continued)

OFSTED inspections

During the year, eight academies received an OFSTED inspection and all achieved

excellent judgements.

Academy

Date of Ofsted judgement
Ofsted judgement

Leigh Academy Dartford

Longfield Academy

Leigh Academy Hartley

Leigh Academy
Horsmonden

Leigh Academy Paddock
Wood

Leigh Academy Rainham

The Hundred of Hoo
Academy

Peninsula East Primary
Academy

inspection on joining LAT
Inspection converted to a
graded inspection within 1-2
years because inspectors
believe that the academy may

Sep 2023 Inadequate
be outstanding overall

Good with Outstanding Post- | Sep 2023 Satisfactory
16

Outstanding in all areas Oct 2023

_
_ pe
Feb 2024 First inspection

Mar 2024

May 2024 Requires
improvement

Good with outstanding
leadership and PD

Good with outstanding
behaviour and PD

Good with outstanding
leadership, behaviour and PD

Inspection converted to a
graded inspection within 1-2
years because inspectors
believe that the academy may
be outstanding overall

Good with outstanding
leadership, behaviour, PD
and early years

These recent inspections take the total number of outstanding LAT academies to eleven
with three awaiting a graded inspection to confirm outstanding status overall. Should these
three convert, it will take the percentage of outstanding schools in LAT of those inspected so
far to 47%. This is well above the national average of 15%. Not only is this figure over three
times the national average, but LAT has outstanding academies across all school types.

Leigh Academies Trust 12

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Achievements and performance (continued)

OFSTED inspections (continued)

The following tables show the current Ofsted ratings for each academy. The final column
gives the overall effectiveness of the academy, whilst the other columns indicate the rating
for various sub-categories evaluated through an inspection.

Primary Academies

ove [sea aw ro oe _]

Dartford Converted to graded inspection for probable Outstanding

sa a CC
High Halstow 1 1 1 1 1 1
Converted to graded inspection for probable Outstanding

Leigh Academies Trust 13

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Achievements and performance (continued)

OFSTED inspections (continued)

Secondary Academies

a

Nlwl]rm nN

NR
nN

CC 2
a CC NA

3 - Ebbsfleet Academy has not been inspected since joining LAT in September 2021.

Special Academies

[Joo Youn iaw po evr dor
CC CCC
ESC COC

N.b.

Qof E : Quality of Education

B&A : Behaviour and Attitudes
L&M_ : Leadership and Management
PD: Personal Development

EY : Early Years

6F : Sixth Form

OE: Overall Effectiveness

Leigh Academies Trust 14

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Achievements and performance (continued)

People Strategy

We have continued to deliver on the core elements of our People Strategy, ensuring it
remains aligned with the Trust’s Vision 2030 and the Department for Education’s descriptors
of Trust Quality. Our focus remains on fostering a strong sense of belonging across the
organisation, which we know is key to retention.

In 2024-25, we are introducing the Stay & Grow initiative, a targeted two-year retention
strategy designed to drive staff retention through a series of projects. This initiative will
support and engage our workforce by delivering on key areas:

« Workload and Wellbeing: Building on our "Tackling Workload Together" programme,
we continue to prioritise staff wellbeing and effective workload management to create a
sustainable working environment.

« Recruitment and Retention: Through Stay & Grow, we are launching several key
projects to improve recruitment and retention, including an improved professional
development offer and projects aimed at building relational trust and improving working
conditions.

@ Working Environment: We maintain our commitment to providing a_ safe,
empowering, and inclusive work environment through robust behaviour and attendance
policies and staff empowerment initiatives.

« New and Early Career Teachers: We continue to invest in developing new talent,
ensuring support and development through high-quality training aligned with the Early
Career Framework.

¢ Continuing Professional Development (CPD): Our Trust-wide Thrive platform
continues to deliver innovative professional development, fostering peer learning and
collaboration.

¢ Collaboration: We remain dedicated to building a vibrant professional community,
promoting the sharing of best practice and expertise across all academies.

« Line Management & Career Progression: We are reinforcing effective line
management practices and supporting career progression through transparent
pathways, further strengthened by the Stay & Grow initiatives.

¢ Equality, Diversity & Inclusion: Our commitment to inclusive working environments
remains strong, with flexible working arrangements and policies that reflect our values.

A strong People Strategy is essential to ensuring that we continue to deliver high-quality
education and positive outcomes for our students. By investing continually in our staff, promoting
their development, and fostering an inclusive and supportive environment, we are equipping
them to perform at their best. This, in turn, drives the progress and success of our students,
ensuring they receive the best possible opportunities to thrive both academically and personally.

Leigh Academies Trust 15

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Achievements and performance (continued)

Estate Strategy

In 2023/24, LAT continued its substantial investment in its academies, prioritising the
creation of safe, inspiring and sustainable tearning environments. Approximately seventy
capital projects were undertaken, ranging widely in scope and budget. Some highlights of
completed projects include:

Sustainability and Energy Efficiency

+

+

Leigh Stationers’ Primary: Complete replacement of induction lighting with
energy-efficient LED lighting.

Leigh The Halley Secondary Academy: Extensive window replacement at this
Grade II listed building to improve energy efficiency and comfort.

Transforming Learning Environments

+

Snowfields Cranbrook: KCC-funded multi-phase transformation of a traditional
school into a state-of-the-art SEN secondary academy. Renovations included
specialised classrooms for retail, horticulture, health and beauty, quiet dining
spaces and enhanced P16 provision. The car park and surrounding areas were also
remodelled to accommodate pupil transport.

Leigh Academy Bexley: Complete remodel of all WC facilities to create clean,
accessible, and well-supervised spaces.

Leigh Academy Minster: Significant refurbishment over a ten-week programme, .
including the creation of a library, art, D&T classrooms, nine new science
laboratories, and a replacement all-weather pitch.

Enhancing Outdoor Spaces

o

The Hundred of Hoo Academy: Extensive refurbishment of the all-weather pitch.

Leigh Academy Treetops and Leigh Academy Molehill: Creation of outstanding
outdoor spaces, including canopies, safety flooring, and new play equipment,
specifically designed for EYFS provision.

Accommodating Growth and Expansion

+

Leigh Academy Marden: Full refurbishment to address insufficient classroom sizes
and circulation, and installation of temporary classrooms in advance of a new block
planned for 2025.

Sir Geoffrey Leigh Academy: Preparatory work to accommodate increased intake,

including the creation of two additional classrooms and additional WC facilities,
ahead of a P16 new build scheduled for 2026.

Leigh Academies Trust 16

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Achievements and performance (continued)
Estate Strategy (continued)

Accommodating Growth and Expansion (continued)
@ LA The Halley: Construction of a new visual arts centre, providing state-of-the-art
art, drama, music and classroom facilities.

Supporting Special Educational Needs
¢ Leigh Academy Cherry Orchard: KCC-funded construction of a new purpose-built
SEN EYFS building for Milestone students, providing specialised facilities to support
the most vulnerable pupils.

By investing in these projects, LAT is committed to providing exceptional learning
environments that inspire and empower its students.

IT Strategy

Improving the efficiency of the support teams

We made a major investment in 2023 for an enterprise-grade helpdesk system. We took on
the challenge of centralising our separate disjointed helpdesk packages into a unique
premium system using Al technology. When all support requests and resolutions are logged
in a centralised environment, it becomes easier to identify recurring issues, create
knowledge-based articles and share best practices among support agents. This has led to
faster resolution times, improved customer satisfaction and a more efficient support team
overall.

Empowering students and teachers

We undertook an entire refresh of technology to our new academies and increased the use
of Al. We modernised the entire technology ecosystem in our three latest joining academies:
Leigh Academy Bexley, Leigh Academy Hugh Christie and Leigh Academy Minster. This
created a more equitable, engaging and effective educational environment. Raising the level
of technology fosters a deeper understanding and a more engaging educational journey. It
helps our students become more active and enthusiastic learners. Teachers are at the
forefront of the Al transformation and by embracing Al, teachers can push the boundaries of
education, empower students to reach their full potential and prepare them for the future. It
is for these reasons that we have developed specific programmes and use a range of
software to enable teachers to explore the use of Al in our academies.

Leigh Academies Trust 17

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Achievements and performance (continued)
IT Strategy (continued)

A New Era for LAT's Server Infrastructure

Implementation of Microsoft's Hyper-V platform. For at least the past ten years VMware
virtualisation platform has provided the server environment for both our local site server
installations and our central data centre, totalling in excess of 400 servers. However,
towards the end of 2023 VMware was acquired by Broadcom and it quickly became
apparent that they were introducing a radical change to their business model.

Fortunately, alongside this we have been working on plans to reduce our local server
requirements, as we increase our usage of both Google’s and Microsoft 365's cloud
platforms, and so we have decided it is the right time to move away from VMware to the
logical alternative for us - Microsoft's Hyper-V platform. Since the beginning of 2024, we
introduced Hyper-V into our academies and our data centre

Unified Academies rebranding

This year we have worked across our academies to create a stronger brand identity. Leigh
Academies Trust has evolved its goals and values, and a rebrand was necessary to help
communicate this to the community and adapt to new trends and challenges of the
education sector. We started in 2024 with a rebranding programme for about two-thirds of
our academies to help create this stronger sense of identity and cohesion across our trust.
The next phase will complete over the following twelve months.

Primary Students’ Performance
The results are summarised below. In all key categories, LAT primary pupils have
performed better than the national average.

Primary Key Stage 2 SATs results 2024

eS rr
Writing expected standard 80%
Maths expected standard

Combined expected standard 70% 80% 61%
GPAS expected standard 75% 83% 72%

Reading expected standard

Leigh Academies Trust 18

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Achievements and performance (continued)

Secondary Students’ Performance
The results of Key Stage 4 and 5 students are summarised below:

Average

Performance measure | 2028 |
GCSE % of pupils achieving a grade 65
9-4 in English and maths
% of pupils achieving a grade 42
9-5 in English and maths
Key Stage 4 Attainment 8 45.3 46.2 | 459 |
Progress 8 (unvalidated) -0.07 0.03
EBacc APS 3.93 4.20

Key Stage 5 Average point score per 32
Academic ent
Average point score per 29 34
Applied General entry
Average point score per IB 29 NA
entry
‘ P|

T Level Average point score per T 4
Level entry
pe

T Levels

The Leigh UTC was part of the national T Level pilot in 2019 and last year substantially
outperformed national data with students achieving an average points score of 42 (grade B).
T levels were rolled out across other LAT academies from September 2023 with nine of our
academies now offering nine different T Level routes namely, Health, Childcare,
Engineering, Digital, Media, Legal, Finance, Accountancy and Business. .

Student numbers have increased from 80 in year 1 to 230 in year 2. We expect these
numbers to increase year on year as more of our academies expand their offer to include T
Levels. We have benefited from approximately £1.3m of funding from the DfE to ensure
these programmes, mostly in the form of the specialist equipment allocation.

Going concern

After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the
Trust has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable
future. For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its
financial statements. Further details regarding the adoption of the going concern basis can
be found in the statement of accounting policies.

Leigh Academies Trust 19

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Promoting the success of the Trust to achieve its charitable purposes

The Board of Directors consists of individuals with a wealth of experience in local
government, primary, secondary and tertiary education, local business and national
charities. The wide range of skills and experience enables the Board to understand the
wider impact of its decisions on the local private and business communities. Trust
Executives are challenged by Directors to maintain professional relationships in their day-to-
day business with stakeholders and external organisations. Engagement with the wider
community is a high priority for the Board and is underpinned by the Trust's values.
Directors are cognisant of the diverse communities in which the academies are located and
foster strong relationships with local academy boards to fully understand the impact the
academies and the Trust has on local communities. The Directors have led and supported a
number of initiatives which address staff wellbeing and operate in a manner which takes
account of relationships with stakeholders.

Financial review

Financial report for the year

Most income is obtained from the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) in the form
of recurrent grants restricted to particular purposes. The grants received during 2023/24 and
associated expenditure are shown as restricted funds in the Statement of Financial
Activities.

The Trust also receives grants for fixed assets from the ESFA and capital donations from
commercial sponsors. In accordance with the Charities SORP, Accounting and Reporting
by Charities, such grants are shown in the Statement of Financial Activities as restricted
fixed asset funds. The restricted fixed asset funds are reduced by transfers of amounts
equivalent to any depreciation charges over the expected useful life of the assets
concerned.

The net movement in funds for the Trust for the year was an increase of £62,942,000 (2023
- £43,921,000), including depreciation and amortisation of £11,457,000 (2023 —
£11,666 ,000), actuarial losses to the pension schemes of £1,764,000 (2023 — actuarial gain
of £12,727,000), income from donated assets of ENil (2023 — £315,000) and income from
the transfers of academies to the trust of £52,748,000 (2023 - £33,663,000).

The operational result for the year before transfers was a surplus of £4,554,000 (2023 —
surplus of £3,809,000). This excludes movement on the fixed assets fund, adjustments
felating to the Local Government Pension Scheme and funds from schools joining the Trust.

This can be summarised as follows:
2023/24 2022/23

£000 £000
Net income after losses/gains on defined benefit pension scheme 62,942 43,921
Net income attributable to the fixed assets fund (57,940) (28,740)
Revenue funds attributable to entities joining the Trust (289) (1,141)
LGPS adjustments (159) (10,231)
Operational surplus for the year before transfers to fixed asset fund 4,554 3,809

Leigh Academies Trust 20

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Financial review (continued)
Financial report for the year (continued)

One of the Trust’s subsidiaries, LAT Apprenticeships C.1.C., achieved an operational surplus
of £1,000 for the first time during the year. However, it continues to have net liabilities, the
Trust Board has agreed to stand behind the temporary net-liability position using
unrestricted funds, with the subsidiary expected to achieve a surplus in future years.

At 31 August 2024 the net book value of fixed assets was £387,982,000 (2023 —
£379,808,000) and movements in fixed assets are shown in notes 13 and 14 to the
accounts.

Financial position

The Trust held fund balances at 31 August 2024 of £448,168,000 (2023 — £384,922,000).
This consists of unrestricted funds of £4,521,000 (2023 - £5,132,000), restricted general
funds of £5,928,000 (2023 — £3,233,000), the Trust’s fixed asset fund of £438,757,000
(2023 — £378,058,000) and the Trust's pension reserve liability of £1,342,000 (2023 —
£1,501,000). The fund balances are currently adequate to fulfil the known obligations of the
Trust and are in line with the reserves policy set out below.

The Trust is required to include the Local Government Pension Scheme deficit of
£1,342,000 (2023 — £1,501,000) on its balance sheet although the Directors have no control
over the management of the pension fund, its financial arrangements or investment
decisions. The Trust is required to remain a member of the pension scheme.

Additionally, the Trust will inherit the pension liability or asset of any new schools that join
the Trust, thus potentially increasing the overall liability. The Trust accepts its financial
responsibilities, subject to assurances received from the Department for Education, and has
fully implemented the provisions of FRS102 relating to the Pension Scheme.

The Trust has received confirmation that in the unlikely event that the operation of an
academy ceased altogether, the Department for Education would undertake discussions
with the relevant pension authorities as to the best way in which the deficit could be dealt
with, having regard for that academy’s members of the scheme. These discussions would
recognise that the Trust was never funded to meet any outstanding pension deficit.
Parliament has agreed, at the request of the Secretary of State for Education, to a
guarantee that in the event of academy closure, outstanding local government pension
scheme liabilities would be met by the Department for Education. The guarantee came into
force on 18 July 2013.

Leigh Academies Trust 21

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Financial review (continued)

Reserves policy and financial position

The Directors consider it essential to review each year the reserves target. The unrestricted
reserves at the year-end stood at £4,521,000 (2023 — £5,132,000) and restricted income
reserves at £5,928,000 (2023 — £3,233,000). The Directors have determined that the target
level of free reserves, not invested in tangible fixed assets or restricted or designated for
specific projects, should be at least 5% of annual income. In the year we have achieved that
target.

Some funding for essential building repairs comes from the DfE School Condition Allocation,
but this does not cover all of the medium-term cost of maintaining the estate.

Although no further advances of funding were received during the year, the Trust is now
repaying funds advanced from the DfE in previous years which have supported The Leigh
UTC.

Individual Trust academies do not hold reserves, and surpluses are managed centrally for
the benefit of academies. Fund balances at academy level are therefore zero (Note 20).

Tangible fixed assets are all held for use by the Trust.
In the next year, the Trust will continue to make strategic use of reserves in renewing IT

infrastructure, completing the programme to provide a Chromebook to every secondary-age
student and in a range of measures to support improvement in educational outcomes.

Investment policy
The Trust invests surplus funds prudently to maximise interest returns with minimal risk.

Leigh Academies Trust 22

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Principal risks and uncertainties

The Trust has a rolling programme of risk assessment and management through which risks
across all areas of the Trust's operations are identified and managed. The risk register is
reviewed at least three times a year by Directors and key members of staff.

Principal risks on the risk register are:

e

Failure of, or disruption to the IT network due to a firewall security breach, ransomware
or dedicated denial of service attack - mitigated by reinforcement of network security
and the use of Artificial Intelligence to detect sophisticated cyber threats.

Reduction in real terms funding adversely impacting on the delivery of high-quality
teaching and learning — mitigated by efficient delivery of educational and support

services and regular Board review of budgets and long-term plans.

Failure to recruit and retain high quality staff — mitigated by implementation of a funded
recruitment and retention strategy, with staff wellbeing at its core.

Insufficient capital investment in buildings maintenance causes buildings to become
unsafe — mitigation strategy is set out below. Measures in place to ensure the estate is
safe, well maintained and complies with relevant regulations:

Health and Safety strategy. The Trust has established a Health and Safety Board which
is chaired by a Board Director. This board is supported by a network of H&S
committees at academy level and its key priorities are as follows:

© Reviewing the H&S task dashboard using Compliance Pod specialist software to
ensure compliance with regulations.

® Considering any accident or incident data.

® Reviewing any reports from enforcing authorities.

% Reviewing any legislative changes affecting the trust.

© Reviewing key discussions and outputs from academy H&S committee meetings.

Prioritisation of capital investment. Decisions on the allocation of School Condition
funding provided by the DfE are based on the following priorities:

& Keeping school buildings safe and in good working order
® Health and safety
& Compliance with building regulations

o Energy efficiency

Leigh Academies Trust 23

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Principal risks and uncertainties (continued)

¢ The Trust’s Project Review Board meets quarterly to review the following information to
populate a building condition risk register which informs funding allocations, based on
the above priorities.

0 Trust and DfE condition surveys

0 Roof surveys

© Planned maintenance defect rates

© Health and Safety Executive and industry updates
% Legislative changes affecting compliance risk

% Decarbonisation strategies

Fundraising

During the year the academies received donations from The Tallow Chandlers Company,
The Stationers’ Company, Sir Joseph Williamson's Charitable Trust and others. There has
been no active fundraising this year and the Trust has received ho complaints to do with
fundraising in the year.

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting

UK energy use and associated greenhouse gas emissions

The Trust is pleased to report its current UK based annual energy usage and associated
annual greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions pursuant to the Companies (Directors’ Report)
and Limited Liability Partnerships (Energy and Carbon Report) Regulations 2018 (“the 2018
Regulations”) that came into force 1 Apri! 2019, and the relevant information is shown
below.

Organisational boundary

In accordance with the 2018 Regulations, the energy use and associated greenhouse gas
emissions are for those assets owned or operated within the UK only as defined by the
operational control boundary, with the mandatory inclusion of scope 3 business travel in
employee-owned or hire vehicles (grey fleet). This includes all schools controlled during the
reporting period along with minibuses and grey fleet. This reporting year saw the addition of
Leigh Academy Hugh Christie. A full 12 months of energy and emissions have been
reported for benchmarking and future annual comparisons.

Reporting period

The annual reporting period is 1 September to 31 August each year and the energy and
carbon emissions are aligned to this period.

Leigh Academies Trust 24

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (continued)

Quantification and reporting methodology

The 2019 UK Government Environmental Reporting Guidelines and the GHG Protocol
Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (revised edition) were followed. The 2024 UK
Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting were used in emission
calculations. The report has been reviewed independently by Zenergi Limited (trading as
Briar Consulting Engineers Limited).

Electricity, gas, oil, and minibus diesel consumption were compiled from invoice records,
meter reads and monthly consumption figures. Where meter reads and invoices did not
cover the whole reporting period, consumption figures were estimated using the pro-rata
estimation technique. Mileage claims were used to calculate energy use and emissions
associated with minibuses and grey fleet. On site renewable solar photovoltaic electricity
generation has been monitored via meter readings. Exported energy is not measured but
estimated to be 50%. Generally gross calorific values were used except for grey fleet
mileage energy calculations as per Government GHG Conversion Factors.

The associated emissions are divided into mandatory and voluntary emissions according to
the 2018 Regulations, then further divided into the direct combustion of fuels and the
operation of facilities (scope 1), indirect emissions from purchased electricity (scope 2) and
further indirect emissions that occur as a consequence of Trust activities but occur from
sources not owned or controlled by the organisation (scope 3).

Breakdown of energy consumption used to calculate emissions (kWh):

Energy type 2023/24 2022/23
Mandatory requirements:

Gas 19,119,417 18,083,559
Purchased electricity from the grid 9,322,594 8,588,385
Transport fuel 366,573 457,842"
Total energy (mandatory) 28,808,584 27,129,786
Voluntary requirements:

Gas Oil 19,504 127,176
Consumed electricity from on-site renewable

sources 123,538 17,631
Total energy (voluntary) 143,042 144,807
Total energy (mandatory & voluntary) 28,951,626 27,274,593

12022/23 transport fuel figures have been revised following updated figures

Leigh Academies Trust 25

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (continued)

Breakdown of energy consumption used to calculate emissions (kWh) (continued):

Emission source 2023/24 2022/23
Mandatory requirements:

Scope 1

Natural gas 3,497 3,308
Transport - Company owned vehicles (mini-buses) 25 522
Scope 2

Purchased electricity (location-based) * 1,930 1,778
Scope 3

Transport — Business travel in employee-owned

vehicles 65 618
Total gross emissions (mandatory) 5,517 5,199
Voluntary requirements:

Scope 1

Gas Oil 31 33
Consumed electricity from on-site renewable

sources 0 0
Total gross emissions (voluntary) 31 33
Total gross emissions (mandatory & voluntary) 5,548 5,232

?2022/23 Trust-owned vehicles emissions have been revised following updated figures
2022/23 Business travel emissions have been revised following updated figures

Intensity ratios 2023/24 2022/234
Mandatory emissions

Tonnes of CO2e per pupil 0.259 0.231
Tonnes of CO2e per square meter floor area 0.016 0.015

Mandatory and voluntary emissions

Tonnes of CO2e per pupil 0.260 0.233
Tonnes of CO2e per square meter floor area 0.016 0.015

*2022/23 intensity ratio figures have been revised following updated transport figures

Leigh Academies Trust 26

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (continued)

Breakdown of energy consumption used to calculate emissions (kWh) (continued):

Two intensity ratios are reported showing emissions (tCO2e) per pupil and per square meter
floor area. Emissions per pupil is the recommended ratio for the sector for consistency and
comparability and pupil numbers are based on the Autumn 2023 Census. Emissions per
square meter floor area is reported to reflect the energy efficiency of the buildings, which are

the source of most emissions.

Mandatory & voluntary emissions

Mandatory emissions

Year ended 31/08/2024

Tonnes of CO2e per pupil 31/08/2023 31/08/2023 31/08/2024
Ebbsfleet Academy 0.384 0.535 0.384 0.535
Leigh Academy Bexley 0.051 0.331
Leigh Academy Blackheath 0.202 0.173
Leigh Academy Cherry Orchard 0.113 0.091
Leigh Academy Dartford 0.197 0.209
Leigh Academy Halley 0.281 0.376
Leigh Academy Hartley 0.091 0.103
Leigh Academy High Halstow 0.119 0.137

0.044 0.047

NIA 0.208 NIA 0.208
Leigh Academy Langley Park 0.131 0.129 0.131 | 0.129
Leigh Academy Milestone 0.564 0.566 0.564 | 0.566
Leigh Academy Molehill 0.198 0.201 0.198 | 0.201
Leigh Academy Oaks 0.132 0.157 0.132 | 0.157
Leigh Academy Paddock Wood 0.099 0.193 0.099
Leigh Academy Rainham 0.169 0.183 | 0.169 ‘|
Leigh Academy Tonbridge 0.264 0.265
Leigh Academy Tree Tops 0.245 0.306
Leigh Stationers' Academy 0.313 0.299 0.313 0.299
Leigh Stationers’ Primary Academy 0.172 0.139
Longfield Academy 0.137 0.154 0.137
Marden Primary Academy 0.148 0.148 0.148
Mascalls Academy 0.174 0.21 0.174
Peninsula East Primary Academy 0.136 0.13 0.136
Sir Geoffrey Leigh Academy 0.174 0.211 0.174
Si Joseph Williamson Mathematical 0.281 0.299 0.284
Snowfields Academy (Cranbrook) 0.444 0.587 | 0.444
Strood Academy 0.287 0.31 [0.287
The Hundred of Hoo Academy (inc
Pamary) y ( 0.186 0.211 0.186
The Leigh UTC 0.183 0.183 0.183
Wilmington Academy 0.165 0.134 | 0.165

Total energy use and emissions have increased this year by 1,677,032 (+6.2%) kWh and
315.1 tCOze (+6.0%) respectively. This increase is due to the inclusion of Leigh Academy
Hugh Christie which joined the Trust during the academic year. Therefore, the increase in
emissions compared to last year is a result of structural changes.

Leigh Academies Trust 27

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (continued)
Breakdown of emissions associated with the reported energy use (tCOze) (continued)

Intensity ratio (continued)
In the current financial year, Leigh Academies Trust has implemented the following energy
efficiency actions:

¢ Improved maintenance efficiencies have been implemented at Leigh Academy Halley,
through the replacement of 241 windows and 4 doors single units for 28mm
hermetically sealed double glazed units.

@ Approximately 1,400 lights were replaced with LED fittings at Leigh UTC. 60 lights were
replaced with LED fittings at Leigh Academy Tonbridge.

¢@ Floodlight lighting replacement for LED fittings took place at The Hundred of Hoo
Academy and Sir Joseph Williamson's Mathematical School.

Plans for future periods

Our young people are the adults of tomorrow and we want to help them shape our world for
the better. Our next set of goals — called Vision 2030 — will have at the centre the major
social, economic and technological challenges facing the world today:

Challenge 1: Modern lifestyles are destroying our planet, increasing inequality and
impacting mental health.

We will develop resilient learners who feel empathy, act compassionately and behave
ethically. We will create pioneering social entrepreneurs with a sense of service to others,
future generations and to the planet.

Challenge 2: Humans are overloaded with information.

We will develop learners who think critically, based on secure knowledge and
understanding. We will enable them to apply insight and judge the significance and reliability
of information.

Challenge 3: The pace of global change is exponential.

We will develop internationally-minded learners who appreciate differences and have a wide
range of perspectives, ensuring they are adaptable, innovative, creative and can harness
the power of digital technology.

Leigh Academies Trust 28

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Plans for future periods (continued)

Challenge 4: A lack of employment skills risks UK wealth and productivity.

We will develop confident learners who have a positive can-do attitude and strong work
ethic, able to collaborate and work as part of a team. We will focus on STEM and employer
links to increase the flow of well-qualified young people entering the workplace.

Challenge 5: Changes to the workplace from the Covid pandemic combined with the
impact of Brexit mean that our economy faces challenges for years to come.

We will recruit and retain the best staff and build for succession in all key job roles so that
our learners can thrive. We will deploy resources efficiently and sustainably by using our
economies of scale to ensure continued investment in our academies.

Measures in place to ensure the estate is safe, well maintained and complies with relevant
regulations:

¢ Health and Safety strategy. The Trust has established a Health and Safety Board which
is chaired by a Board Director. This board is supported by a network of H&S
committees at academy level and its key priorities are as follows:

© Reviewing the H&S task dashboard using Compliance Pod specialist software to
ensure compliance with regulations;

Considering any accident or incident data;

Reviewing any reports from enforcing authorities;

Reviewing any legislative changes affecting the trust; and

oocomUmUlUCODOUCOS

Reviewing key discussions and outputs from academy H&S committee meetings.

Reinforced autoclaved aerated concrete (RAAC). During the year, using DfE guidance,
the Trust identified buildings which may have RAAC. Structural engineers carried out
inspections of these buildings and tested core samples; all tests were negative for the
presence of RAAC. The DfE plans to undertake follow-up surveys in due course.

« Asbestos. During the year new asbestos management surveys were carried out in all
buildings containing asbestos, covering 16 academies. Asbestos management plans
were updated and are in place.

¢  Prioritisation of capital investment. Decisions on the allocation of School Condition
funding provided by the DfE are based on the following priorities:

Keeping school buildings safe and in good working order;

Health and safety;

Compliance with building regulations; and

oococmUmUmcCOmmUCUCS

Energy efficiency.

Leigh Academies Trust 29

Directors’ report 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Plans for future periods (continued)

The Trust’s Project Review Board meets quarterly to review the following information to
populate a building condition risk register which informs funding allocations, based on the
above priorities:

¢« Trust and DfE condition surveys

@ Roof surveys

@ Planned maintenance defect rates

¢« Health and Safety Executive and industry updates
« Legislative changes affecting compliance risk

¢ Decarbonisation strategies.

Policies towards employees and disabled persons

The Trust's Diversity and Inclusion policy embeds equal opportunity for all colleagues,
including those with disabilities, through a fair and consistent approach to the application of
policies and procedures. This ethos is embedded in all stages of the recruitment and
selection policy as well as throughout a colleague’s employment. Managers who are
responsible for recruitment, selection and promotion, or who supervise other staff are
required to complete equal opportunities training. Other colleagues have the opportunity to
access awareness training in equality to avoid discrimination.

The Trust engages in consultation with employees through termly meetings at least three
times each year, with representatives from the following recognised trade unions: NEU,
NASUWT, Unison, GMB, ASCL and Voice Community.

AUDITOR
In so far as the Directors are aware:

@ there is no relevant audit information of which the charitable company’s auditor is
unaware; and

the Directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that
information.

“AF X Green
Chairman

Leigh Academies Trust 30

Governance statement 31 August 2024

Scope of responsibility

As Directors, we acknowledge we have overall responsibility for ensuring that LAT has an
effective and appropriate system of control, financial and otherwise. However, such a
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business
objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss.

The Directors have delegated the day-to-day responsibility to the Chief Executive Officer, as
Accounting Officer, for ensuring financial controls conform with the requirements of both
propriety and good financial management and in accordance with the requirements and
responsibilities assigned to it in the funding agreements between the Trust and the
Secretary of State for Education. The Chief Executive Officer is also responsible for
reporting to the Directors any material weaknesses or breakdowns in internal control.

The Directors met three times during the year and at each of these scrutinised the financial
reports of the Trust and its academies. The Board has agreed a scheme of delegation of
financial powers and is supported in the discharge of its financial oversight responsibilities
by the Resources Committee. The committee met three times during the year, scrutinising
management accounts and holding executive budget holders to account for the
effectiveness of financial management and budgetary control. The Audit Committee
provides further support to Directors by setting the Trust’s programme of internal scrutiny
and reporting to the Board on the adequacy of the Trust’s financial and other controls and
management of risks. Local Academy Boards are sub-committees of the Board and provide
Directors with further assurance on the adequacy of financial management and budgetary
control through scrutiny of academy management accounts and by providing challenge to
Principals. The Board is satisfied that these governance arrangements work effectively to
assure Directors that they can fulfil their responsibilities for financial oversight of the Trust.

Governance

The information on governance included here supplements that described in the Directors’
report and in the statement of Directors’ responsibilities. Outside of Trust Board meetings
Directors give of their time generously. Each has a specific responsibility either as a Cluster
Director, working with Chairs of Academy Boards, or for oversight of a central trust service.

Director Number of meetings attended Out of a possible
Mr A F X Green (Chair) 2 3
Mr S P Beamish 3 3
Cllr Sir Paul Carter 3 3
Mr M Costello 3 3
Mrs T Davies 3 3
Mr K Ellis 3 3
Mrs H Esmonde 3 3
Mr J Nicholson 3 3
Or J Wales 3 3
Dr J Wetherall 3 3

Leigh Academies Trust 31

Governance statement 31 August 2024

Governance (continued)

The Resources Committee is a sub-committee of the main Trust Board. Its purpose is to
focus on compliance with approved budgets, policies, legislation and regulations. It is
responsible to the Board of Directors. Three meetings were held in the year. Attendance at
meetings in the year was as follows:

Committee Member Number of meetings attended Out of a possible
Mrs T Davies (Chair) 3 3
Ms R Bahia 1 3
Cll Sir P Carter 3 3
Prof L Drew 2 3
Mr S Lockwood 2 3
Ms P Reid 0 3
Ms C Robinson 1 3
Ms K Shiner 1 3
Mr J Weir 1 3
Dr J Wetherall 3 3

The Standards Committee is a sub-committee of the main Trust Board. Its purpose is to
focus on delivering the Trust and Academy curriculum to students and ensure that quality of
teaching remains high. It is responsible to the Board of Directors. Attendance at meetings in
the year was as follows:

Committee Member Number of meetings attended Out of a possible

Mr M Costello (Chair)
M B Archibald

Mr C Barker

Prof C Donovan

Ms H Esmonde

Mr B Sherwood

Mrs P Reid

Mr S Wilkins

Mr M Costello (Chair)

w

OwWAN WOW =
WOWWWWWWN Ww

The Audit Committee is a sub-committee of the Directors. It helps the Board oversee
financial and other controls including risk management, in the context of the planned growth
in the network. The committee exists to ensure probity, efficiency, and compliance with the
requirements of the ESFA Academies Financial Handbook. [t is responsible to the
Members. Three meetings were held in the year. Attendance at meetings in the year was as

follows:

Committee Member Number of meetings attended Out of a possible
Mr K Ellis (Chair) 3

Mrs T Davies

Mr K Morrison
Mr J Nicholson
Mr A Styles

WNNW
WNWwWwWw

Leigh Academies Trust 32

Governance statement 31 August 2024

Conflicts of interest

In accordance with the Articles of Association and the Academy trust handbook, LAT
maintains an up-to-date and complete register of interests for all governors, including
Directors. The register is published on the trust's website, is reviewed throughout the year
and its accuracy and completeness is assessed by the trust's independent internal
assurance partner. Directors are required to disclose any potential conflict of interest at
each meeting of the full board or its subcommittees and the same requirements are in place
for meetings of subsidiary company boards.

Governance Structure

As of 10 June 2024 there were 211 filled governance posts within LAT and another 27 posts
vacant at that time. The Trust has an active recruitment strategy which enables it to attract
new governors from a wide range of backgrounds, age profiles and experience. It carefully
monitors the skills and attributes of each board to ensure that it can appropriately support
and challenge its academy/academies.

Governance Professional and support

A Governance Professional and Company Secretary, Mr N Willis, is in post to support the
efficient functioning of the Trust Board. All governors are further supported by a dedicated
governance team which provides effective induction and training, access a wide range of
information and resources regarding the role, as well as communication and documentation
in advance of meetings and in relation to other Trust events.

Governance Audit and Review

Outcomes from its audit process has led the Trust Board and its academy subcommittees to
review their practice and enhance the quality of its governance. The most recent trust wide
governance audit took place between December 2023 and March 2024 reflecting the
evolving cohort of governors across an increasing number of academies.

Terms of reference and expectations documents were reviewed and adjusted as required at
the start of the year. The Scheme of Delegation was also reviewed, amended and approved
by the Trust Board in July 2024. These documents can be accessed via the trust website.

The Trust Board reviews at each meeting its compliance against the Schedule of Musts
published within the Academy trust handbook. The schedule is reviewed annually to ensure
that it is consistent with the latest iteration of the Academy trust handbook.

Governance Training

Governors have had access to a range of training opportunities and resources, covering a
wide range of educational topics, finance, safeguarding through the LAT Thrive online
portal. Programmes are tailored to meet governors’ individual experience, skills and
knowledge, as well as being specific to the type of academies for which they provide
oversight.

Leigh Academies Trust 33

Governance statement 31 August 2024

Governance Training (continued)

All new governors undertake an induction process which ensures their DBS status and
provides essential training on trust structures, expectations of the role, safeguarding, data
protection and cybersecurity.

Dedicated training for all new Chairs and Vice Chairs of Academy Boards takes place to
ensure that they are thoroughly prepared and supported to undertake their new role.

All governors have undertaken Safeguarding update training since September 2024 in line
with the requirements of the DfE statutory guidance Keeping Children Safe in Education
(2024).

Communication

¢ All governors receive regular communications via a range of channels to ensure they
are fully informed. These include:

¢« A Governor Portal providing secure 24/7 access to governance documentation specific
to their role;

¢« An online governor handbook, which is regularly updated with key information, advice
and guidance;

« Dedicated governor email accounts to ensure safe and secure transmission of data and
information;

¢ In person events where governors are able hear about and discuss with Directors the
current and future strategic development of the Trust and work of the Trust Board.

« Asummary of key actions by the Trust Board are communicated to all governors after
meetings to enhance the connection between the work of the Board and Academy
Board governors.

Review of value for money

As Accounting Officer, the Chief Executive Officer has responsibility for ensuring that the
Trust delivers good value for money in the use of public resources. The Accounting Officer
understands that value for money refers to the educational and wider societal outcomes, as
well as estates safety and management, achieved in return for the taxpayer resources
received.

The Accounting Officer considers how the Trust’s use of its resources has provided good
value for money during each academic year, and reports to the Directors where value for
money can be improved, including the use of benchmarking data where available. The
Accounting Officer has delivered improved value for money during the year by:

streamlining the senior management structure of some academies and the central trust
to maintain a balanced budget in a climate of funding pressures and to better align
leadership structures on desired outcomes for students.

Leigh Academies Trust 34

Governance statement 31 August 2024

Review of vaiue for money (continued)

@ continuing to enhance support services to academies across the Trust, including
finance, human resources, estates management and IT to assist educational
achievement in all academies. The centre delivers consistently high level educational
‘and support services to academies with valuable economies of scale.

The purpose of the system of internal control

The system of internal control is designed to manage risk to a reasonable level rather than
to eliminate all risk of failure to achieve policies, aims and objectives. It can, therefore, only
provide reasonable and not absolute assurance of effectiveness. The system of internal
control is based on an ongoing process to identify and prioritise the risks to achievement of
the Trust's policies, aims and objectives, to evaluate the likelihood of those risks being
realised and the impact should they be realised, and to manage them efficiently, effectively
and economically. The system of internal control has been in place for the period 1
September 2023 to 31 August 2024 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and
financial statements.

During the year there were no instances of fraud or loss.

Capacity to handle risk

The Directors have reviewed the key risks to which the Trust is exposed together with the
operating, financial and compliance controls implemented to mitigate those risks. The
Directors are of the view that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing
the Trust's significant risks has been in place for the period 1 September 2023 to 31 August
2024 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements. This
process is regularly reviewed by the Directors.

The risk and control framework

Internal financial control is based on a framework of regular management information and
administrative procedures including the segregation of duties and a system of delegation
and accountability. In particular, it includes:

@ Comprehensive budgeting and monitoring systems with an annual budget and periodic
financial reports reviewed and agreed by the board of directors.

@ Regular reviews by the Board and Resources Committee of financial performance
against forecasts, major purchase plans, capital works and expenditure programmes.

¢ Setting targets to measure financial and other performance.

« Clearly defined asset purchase and capital investment guidelines.

¢ Delegation of authority and segregation of duties.

@ Identification and management of risks and regular review of risks by the Audit

Committee.

Leigh Academies Trust 35

Governance statement 31 August 2024

The risk and control framework (continued)

The Directors have considered the need for a specific internal audit function and decided to
appoint Kreston Reeves LLP as internal auditor for the year. Upon receipt of their findings
and recommendations, management reports to the Directors on the operation of the
systems of control and on the discharge of the Board’s financial responsibilities.

Kreston Reeves delivered their schedule of work as planned. The work carried out was as
follows:

@ Business continuity - reviewing the procedures in place in respect of disaster recovery
planning to ensure that the Trust can continue to operrate in the event of a crisis

¢ Capital Project planning — reviewing the procedures and reporting regarding any capital
improvement funding received by the Trust.

« Estates management — reviewing the Trust’s health & safety practices and their
effectiveness

Their findings and recommendations have all been implemented and did not include any
material control issues.

Review of effectiveness

As Accounting Officer, the Chief Executive Officer has responsibility for reviewing the
effectiveness of the systems of internal control. During the year in question, the review has
been informed by:

@ — the work of the external auditor;
@ — the work of the internal auditor;
@ the financial management and governance self-assessment process;

@ the work of the Trust Executive Board which is responsible for the development and
maintenance of the internal control framework.

Conclusion

Based on the advice of the audit and risk committee and the accounting officer, the board of
directors is of the opinion that the academy trust has an adequate and effective framework
for governance, risk management and control.

Approved by order of the Board of Directors on 17 December 2024 and signed on their
behalf by:

S P Beamish
Chairman of Board Chief Executive Officer
and Accounting Officer

Leigh Academies Trust 36

Statement on regularity, propriety and compliance 31 August 2024

As Accounting Officer of LAT, | have considered my responsibility to notify the Trust Board
and the Education and Skills Funding Agency of material irregularity, impropriety and non-
compliance with terms and conditions of all funding, including for estates safety and
management, under the funding agreement between the Trust and the Secretary of State
for Education. As part of my consideration, | have had due regard to the requirements of
the Academy Trust Handbook 2023, including responsibilities for estates safety and
management.

| confirm that | and the Trust Board of Directors are able to identify any material irregular or
improper use of funds by the Trust, or material non-compliance with the terms and
conditions of funding under the Trust's funding agreements and the Academy Trust
Handbook 2023.

! confirm that no instances of material irregularity, impropriety or funding non-compliance
have been discovered to date. If any instances are identified after the date of this statement,
these will be notified to the Board of Directors and the ESFA.

S P Beamish
CEO and Accounting Officer Date: 17 December 2024

Leigh Academies Trust 37

Statement of directors’ responsibilities 31 August 2024

The Directors (who act as trustees of the Trust for the purposes of charity law) are
responsible for preparing the Directors’ report and the financial statements in accordance
with the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024 issued by the Education and Skills
Funding Agency, United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice) and applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Trust and of its
income and expenditure for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the
Directors are required to:

# select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

@ observe the methods and principles in the Charities SORP FRS 102 and the
Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024;

@ make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

@ state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards (FRS 102) have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial
statements; and

@ prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to
presume that the Trust will continue in operation.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to
show and explain the Trust's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any
time the financial position of the Trust and enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for
safeguarding the assets of the Trust and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The Directors are responsible for ensuring that in its conduct and operation the Trust applies
financial and other controls, which conform to the requirements both of propriety and of
good financial management. They are also responsible for ensuring grants received from
the ESFA have been applied for the purposes intended. The Directors are responsible for
the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the
Trust's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Approved by order of the members of the Board of Directors on 17 December 2024 and
signed on its behalf by:

AF X Green
Chairman of Board

Leigh Academies Trust 38

Independent auditor's report on the financial statements 31 August 2024

Independent auditor’s report on the financial statements to the Members of Leigh
Academies Trust

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Leigh Academies Trust (the ‘charitable parent
company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘group’) for the year ended 31 August 2024 which
comprise the group statement of financial activities, the group and charitable parent
company balance sheets, the group statement of cash flows, the principal accounting
policies and the notes to the financial statements. The financial reporting framework that has
been applied in their preparation is applicable law, United Kingdom Accounting Standards,
including Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in
the UK and Republic of Ireland’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice),
Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to
charities preparing their accounts in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) (the Charities SORP 2019) and the
Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024.

In our opinion, the financial statements:

¢ give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the charitable parent
company’s affairs as at 31 August 2024, and of the group’s income and expenditure for
the period then ended;

# have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice;

# have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006;
and

# have been prepared in accordance with the Charities SORP 2019 and Academies
Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs
(UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in
the ‘Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements’ section of our report.
We are independent of the group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are
relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical
Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going
concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Leigh Academies Trust 39

Independent auditor’s report on the financial statements 31 August 2024

Conclusions relating to going concern (continued)

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties
relating to events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on
the group or charitable parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period
of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Directors with respect to going concern
are described in the relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our
auditor's report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other
information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements, or our knowledge obtained in the audit or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or
apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material
misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement
of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard. —

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

¢ — the information given in the Directors’ report, which includes the strategic report, for the
financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the
financial statements; and

@ the Directors’ report, which includes the strategic report, has been prepared in
accordance with applicable legal requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the charitable parent
company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified
material misstatements in the Directors’ report including the strategic report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

# adequate accounting records have not been kept by the charitable parent company, or
returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us;
or

Leigh Academies Trust 40

Independent auditor’s report on the financial statements 31 August 2024

Matters on which we are required to report by exception (continued)

@ the charitable parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the
accounting records and returns; or

¢@ certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

# we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of Directors

As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement, the Directors are
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they
give a-true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the
group’s and the charitable parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern,
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern
basis of accounting unless Directors either intend to liquidate the group or the charitable
parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue
an auditor's report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of
assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or
error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations.
We design procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material
misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our
procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.

Our approach to identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in respect of
irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, was as follows:

@ the engagement partner ensured that the engagement team collectively had the
appropriate competence, capabilities and skills to identify or recognise non-compliance

with applicable laws and regulations;

«we identified the laws and regulations applicable to the group through discussions with
management and from our knowledge of the academy trust sector;

Leigh Academies Trust 41

Independent auditor’s report on the financial statements 31 August 2024

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements (continued)

o

the identified laws and regulations were communicated within the audit team regularly
and the team remained alert to instances of non-compliance throughout the audit;

we considered the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the group and
determined that the most significant are the Companies Act 2006, the Charities SORP
2019, the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024, the Academies Trust Handbook
2023, and the Trust’s funding agreement with the ESFA as well as legislation pertaining
to safeguarding in the UK;

we understood how the group is complying with those legal and regulatory frameworks
by making inquiries to management and those responsible for legal, compliance and
governance procedures. We corroborated our inquiries through our review of the
minutes of Directors’ meetings, minutes of meetings of the Audit Committee and the
subsidiary company directors’ meetings and papers provided to the Directors, and

we planned and carried out a separate limited assurance engagement in respect of
regularity, propriety and compliance in accordance with the Framework and Guide for
External Auditors and Reporting Accountants of Academy Trusts issued by the ESFA,
as set out in our separate independent reporting accountant’s assurance report on
regularity.

We assessed the susceptibility of the group’s financial statements to material misstatement,
including obtaining an understanding of how fraud might occur, by:

ca

making enquiries of management and those charged with governance as to where they
considered there was susceptibility to fraud, their knowledge of actual, suspected and
alleged fraud; and

considering the internal controls in place to mitigate risks of fraud and non-compliance
with laws and regulations.

To address the risk of fraud through management bias and override of controls, we:

o

performed analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships;
tested journal entries to identify unusual transactions;
tested the authorisation of expenditure as part of our substantive testing thereon;

assessed whether judgements and assumptions made in determining the accounting
estimates set out in the accounting policies were indicative of potential bias;

reviewed the findings of the internal auditors; and

used data analytics to identify any significant or unusual transactions and identify the
rationale for them.

Leigh Academies Trust 42

Independent auditor’s report on the financial statements 31 August 2024

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements (continued)
In response to the risk of irregularities and non-compliance with laws and regulations, we
designed procedures which included, but were not limited to:

agreeing financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation;

# reviewing the minutes of Directors’ meetings and subsidiary company directors’
meetings;

¢ enquiring of management and those charged with governance as to actual and
potential litigation and claims;

@ reviewing any available correspondence with Ofsted, ESFA and HMRC; and

@ the work undertaken in relation to the limited assurance engagement in respect of
regularity, propriety and compliance in accordance with the Framework and Guide for
External Auditors and Reporting Accountants of Academy Trusts issued by the ESFA,
as set out in our separate independent reporting accountant’s assurance report on
regularity.

There are inherent limitations in our audit procedures described above. The more removed
that laws and regulations are from financial transactions, the less likely it is that we would
become aware of non-compliance. International Standards on Auditing also limit the audit
procedures required to identify non-compliance with laws and regulations to enquiry of the
Directors and other management and the inspection of regulatory and legal
correspondence, if any.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located
on the Financial Reporting Council's website at www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This
description forms part of our auditor's report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the charitable company’s members, as a body, in accordance
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken
so that we might state to the charitable company’s members those matters we are required
to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
charitable company and the charitable company’s members as a body, for our audit work,
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Katharine Patel (Senior Statutory Auditor)

For and on behalf of Buzzacott LLP, Statutory Auditor
130 Wood Street

London

EC2V 6DL

18 December 2024

Leigh Academies Trust 43

Independent reporting accountant’s report on regularity 31 August 2024

Independent reporting accountant’s assurance report on regularity to Leigh
Academies Trust and the Education and Skills Funding Agency

In accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated 31 July 2023 and further to the
requirements of the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) as included in the
Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024, we have carried out an engagement to obtain
limited assurance about whether the expenditure disbursed and income received by Leigh
Academies Trust during the period from 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 have been
applied to the purposes identified by Parliament and the financial transactions conform to
the authorities which govern them.

This report is made solely to Leigh Academies Trust and the ESFA in accordance with the
terms of our engagement letter. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to
Leigh Academies Trust and the ESFA those matters we are required to state in a report and
for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than Leigh Academies Trust and the ESFA, for our work, for
this report, or for the conclusion we have formed.

Respective responsibilities of LAT’s Accounting Officer and the reporting accountant
The Accounting Officer is responsible, under the requirements of Leigh Academies Trust's
funding agreements with the Secretary of State for Education dated 1 February 2012 and 29
April 2013 and the Academies Trust Handbook, extant from 1 September 2023, for ensuring
that expenditure disbursed and income received is applied for the purposes intended by
Parliament and the financial transactions conform to the authorities which govern them.

Our responsibilities for this engagement are established in the United Kingdom by our
profession's ethical guidance and are to obtain limited assurance and report in accordance
with our engagement letter and the requirements of the Academies Accounts Direction 2023
to 2024. We report to you whether anything has come to our attention in carrying out our
work which suggests that in all material respects, expenditure disbursed and income
received during the period from 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 have not been
applied to purposes intended by Parliament or that the financial transactions do not conform
to the authorities which govern them.

Approach

We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Framework and Guide for External
Auditors and Reporting Accountant of Academy Trusts issued by ESFA. We performed a
limited assurance engagement as defined in our engagement letter.

The objective of a limited assurance engagement is to perform such procedures as to obtain
information and explanations in order to provide us with sufficient appropriate evidence to
express a negative conclusion on regularity.

A limited assurance engagement is more limited in scope than a reasonable assurance
engagement and consequently does not enable us to obtain assurance that we would
become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance
engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a positive opinion.

Leigh Academies Trust 44

Independent reporting accountant’s report on regularity 31 August 2024

Approach (continued)
Our engagement includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the regularity
and propriety of the Trust’s income and expenditure.

The work undertaken to draw to our conclusion includes:

« An assessment of the risk of material irregularity and impropriety across all of the
Trust's activities;

« Further testing and review of the areas identified through the risk assessment including
enquiry, identification of control processes and examination of supporting evidence
across all areas identified as well as additional verification work where considered
necessary; and

@ Consideration of evidence obtained through the work detailed above and the work
completed as part of our financial statements audit in order to support the regularity
conclusion. :

Conclusion

Nothing has come to our attention which suggests that in all material respects the
expenditure disbursed and income received during the period from 1 September 2023 to 31
August 2024 has not been applied to purposes intended by Parliament and the financial
transactions do not conform to the authorities which govern them.

Buzzacott LLP, Reporting Accountant
130 Wood Street

London

EC2V 6DL

18 December 2024

Leigh Academies Trust 45

Consolidated statement of financial activities

Income from:

Donations and capital grants

Transfer from local authority on conversion
Transfers of academies to the Trust

Charitable activities:

. Funding for the Trust's educational operations
. Teaching Schools

Other trading activities

Investments

Total income

Expenditure on:

Raising funds

Charitable activities:

. Trust's educational operations.
. Teaching Schools

Total expenditure

Net income before transfers

Transfers between funds
Net income (expenditure) for the year

Other recognised gains and losses
Actuarial (loss) gain on defined benefit pension
schemes

Net movement in funds

Balances brought forward at 1 September 2023
Balances carried forward at 31 August 2024

Notes

23
23

Onan

a

20

Year to 31 August 2024

Un-
restricted
funds

17,144
289
52,748

181,055
3,658
5,834

155,669
3,006
5,056

640

170,593
2,939

174,172

64,706

64,706

(1,764)

Restricted funds
Fixed
ESFA General assets
£'000 £'000 £'000
_ _ 16,649
_ 289 _-
— - 52,748
162,966 18,089 -
1,222 637 -
_ 4,851 -
164,188 23,866 69,397
161,043 20,534 11,457
1,222 637 _
162,265 21,171 11,457
1,923 2,695 57,940
_ _ 2,759
1,923 2,695 60,699
(1,764) - =
159 2,695 60,699
(1,501) 3,233 378,058
(1,342) 5,928 438,757

4,521

447,864

All of the Trust's activities derived from continuing operations during the above two financial periods.
There is no difference between the net movement in funds stated above and its historical cost equivalent.
The statement of financial activities analyses all the capital and income resources and expenditures of

the Trust during the year and reconciles the movements in funds.

The comparative statement of financial activities is given in note 8 to the financial statements.

Leigh Academies Trust 46

Balance sheet 31 August 2024

2024 2023
Leigh Leigh
Academies Academies
Group Trust Group Trust
Notes £'000 £'000 £'000 £:000
Fixed assets
Intangible fixed assets 13 _ _ _ _
Tangible fixed assets 14 440,507 440,507 379,808 379,808
440,507 440,507 379,808 379,808
Current assets
Debtors 17 12,115 13,018 9,065 10,267
Stock 10 10 26 26
Short term deposits 10,200 10,200 _ _
Cash at bank and in hand 12,515 11,854 21,406 20,443
34,840 35,082 30,497 30,736
Liabilities
Creditors: amounts falling due within .
one year 18 (26,071) (26,009) (23,688) (23,623)
Net current assets 8,769 9,073 6,809 7,413
Total assets less current liabilities 449,276 449,580 386,617 386,921
Creditors: amounts falling due after
more than one year 19 (70) (70) (194) (194)
Net assets excluding pension
scheme liability 449,206 449,510 386,423 386,727
Pension scheme liability 9 (1,342) (1,342) (1,501) (1,501)
Total net assets 447,864 448,168 384,922 385,226
Restricted funds.
Fixed asset fund 20 438,757 438,757 378,058 378,058
Restricted income funds 20 5,928 5,928 3,233 3,233
Pension reserve 20 (1,342) (1,342) (1,501) (1,501)
Total restricted funds 443,343 443,343 379,790 379,790
Unrestricted income funds
General fund 20 4,493 4,825 5,104 5,436
Funds retained with subsidiary 20 28 _ 28 _—
Total unrestricted income funds 4,521 4,825 5,132 5,436
Total funds 447,864 448,168 384,922 385,226

Approved by the Board on 17 December 2024 and signed on behalf of the Board of
Directors by: :

AF X Green
Chairman
Leigh Academies Trust — Companies Registration Number 02336587 (England and Wales)

Leigh Academies Trust 47

Consolidated statement of cash flows Year to 31 August 2024

2024 2023
£7000 £000
Net cash flows from operating activities
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities A 3,003 (3,095)
Cash flows used in investing activities B (11,571) (676)
Cash flows used in financing activities c (612) (633)
Cash flows from academies joining the Trust 23 289 1,915
Change in cash and cash equivalents in the year (8,891) (2,489)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 September 2023 21,406 23,895
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 August 2024 12,515 21,406
A_ Reconciliation of income to net cash flow from operating activities
2024 2023
£’000 £'000
Net income for the year (as per the statement of financial activities) 64,706 31,194
Adjusted for:
Depreciation charges (note 14) 11,457 11,666
Capital grants from DfE and other capital income (16,649) (6,672)
Loss on disposal of fixed assets (62) (4)
Fixed assets transferred from conversions/ academies (52,748) (33,419)
Cash inherited on conversion of existing academies (289) (1,915)
Interest receivable (note 4) (941) 723
Defined benefit pension scheme obligation inherited - 897
Defined benefit pension scheme cost less contributions payable (note 9) (1,629) 1,199
Defined benefit pension scheme finance (credit) cost (note 9) (294) 400
Donated fixed assets - 315
Decrease (increase) in stock 16 (15)
(increase) decrease in debtors (3,435) (2,256)
Increase (decrease) in creditors 2,871 (4,578)
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 3,003 (3,095)
B_ Cash flows from investing activities
2024 2023
£7000 £'000
Dividends, interest and rents from investments 941 723
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (18,961) (8,386)
Capital grants from DfE/ESFA 16,633 6,672
Capital funding received from sponsors and others 16 315
Cash placed on deposit (10,200) -
Net cash used in investing activities (11,571) (676)

Leigh Academies Trust 48

Consolidated statement of cash flows Year to 31 August 2024

C_ Cash flows from financing activities

Repayments of borrowing
Loan transferred from conversion/existing academies
Net cash used in financing activities

D_ Analysis of cash and cash equivalents

Cash at bank and in hand
Notice deposits (less than 3 months)
Total cash and cash equivalents

E Analysis of changes in net debt

Cash at bank

Notice deposits (less than 3 months)
Loans falling due within one year

Loans falling due after more than one year
Total

2024 2023

£'000 £'000
(612) (688)

_ 55
(612) (633)

2024 2023

£'000 £'000

11,015 20,406

1,500 1,000

12,515 21,406

Att At 31
September Cash August
2023 flows 2024
£000 £'000 £'000
20,406 (9,391) 11,015
1,000 500 1,500

(688) 488 (200)
(194) 124 (70)
20,524 (8,279) 12,245

Leigh Academies Trust 49

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Statement of accounting policies

A summary of the principal accounting policies adopted (which have been applied
consistently, except where noted), judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty,
is set out below.

Basis of preparation

The financial statements of the Trust, which is a public benefit entity under FRS 102, have
been prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with the Financial
Reporting Standard Applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102), the
Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice applicable
to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) (Charities SORP (FRS 102)), the
Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024 issued by ESFA, the Charities Act 2011 and
the Companies Act 2006.

These accounts have been prepared for the year to 31 August 2024 with comparative
figures provided in respect to the year to 31 August 2023. The accounts are presented in
sterling and are rounded to the nearest thousand pounds.

Leigh Academies Trust meets the definition of a public benefit entity under FRS 102.

Basis of consolidation

The consolidated statement of financial activities and group balance sheet include the
financial statements of the charitable company, its trading subsidiaries LAT Enterprises
C.I.C and LAT Apprenticeships C.1.C and its charitable subsidiary Hundred of Hoo Nursery
and Kids Club Limited made up to the balance sheet date.

No separate statement of financial activities has been presented for Leigh Academies
Trust alone, as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006. The charity only
surplus was £62,942,000

Going concern

The Directors assess whether the use of going concern is appropriate i.e. whether there
are any material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant
doubt on the ability of the company to continue as a gaing concern. The Directors make
this assessment in respect of a period of at least one year from the date of authorisation
for issue of the financial statements and have concluded that the Trust has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and there are no
material uncertainties about the Trust's ability to continue as a going concern, thus they
continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial
statements.

Income
All income is recognised when the Trust has entitlement to the funds, the receipt is
probable, and the amount can be measured reliably.

Leigh Academies Trust 50

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Income (continued)

Grants

Grants are included in the statement of financial activities on a receivable basis. The
balance of income received for specific purposes but not expended during the period is
shown in the relevant funds on the balance sheet. Where income is received in advance of
meeting any performance-related conditions there is not unconditional entitlement to the
income and its recognition is deferred and included in creditors as deferred income until
the performance-related conditions are met. Where entitlement occurs before income is
received, the income is accrued.

The General Annual Grant is recognised in full in the statement of financial activities in the
year for which it is receivable and any abatement in respect of the period is deducted from
income and recognised as a liability.

Capital grants are recognised when there is entitlement to the funds subject to any
conditions being met. Such conditions may include the Trust approving and contractually
committing to the project being funded; and sufficient funding being secured by the Trust
to fully fund the project. Capital grants are not deferred over the life of the asset on which
they are expended. Unspent amounts of capital grant are reflected in the balance in the
restricted fixed asset fund.

Donations
Donations are recognised on a receivable basis (where there are no performance-related
conditions) where the receipt is probable, and the amount can be reliably measured.

Other income
Other income, including the hire of facilities, is recognised in the period it is receivable and
to the extent the Trust has provided the goods or services.

Transfer on conversion

Where assets and liabilities are received by the Trust on schools joining the Trust, the
transferred assets are measured at fair value and recognised in the balance sheet at the
point when the risks and rewards of ownership pass to the Trust. An equal amount of
income is recognised as transfer on conversion within donations and capital grant income
to the net assets received.

Transfer of existing academies into the Trust

Where assets are received on the transfer of an existing academy into the Trust, the
transferred assets are measured at fair value and recognised in the balance sheet at the
point when the risks and rewards of ownership pass to the Trust, which is on signing of the
transfer agreement with the transferring Trust. An equal amount of income is recognised
for the transfer of an existing academy into the Trust within donations and capital grant
income.

Leigh Academies Trust 51

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Expenditure

Expenditure is recognised once there is a legal or constructive obligation to transfer
economic benefit to a third party, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be
required in settlement and the amount of the obligation can be measured reliably.
Expenditure is classified by activity. The costs of each activity are made up of the total of
direct costs and shared costs, including support costs involved in undertaking each
activity. Direct costs attributable to a single activity are allocated directly to that activity.
Shared costs which contribute to more than one activity and support costs which are not
attributable to a single activity are apportioned between those activities on a basis
consistent with the use of resources. Central staff costs are allocated on the basis of time
spent, and depreciation charges allocated on the portion of the asset's use.

Expenditure on raising funds
This includes all expenditure incurred by the Trust to raise funds for its charitable purposes
and includes costs of all fundraising activities events and non-charitable trading.

Charitable activities
These are costs incurred on the Trust’s educational operations, including support costs
and costs relating to the governance of the Trust apportioned to charitable activities.

All expenditure is stated net of recoverable VAT.

Intangible fixed assets

Intangible assets costing £5,000 or more are capitalised and recognised when future
economic benefits are probable, and the cost or value of the asset can be measured
reliably. Intangible assets are initially recognised at cost and are subsequently measured
at cost net of amortisation and any provision for impairment. Amortisation is provided on
intangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight-
line basis over its expected useful life, as follows:

« Purchased computer software 33% per annum

Tangible fixed assets

Tangible fixed assets acquired since the Trust was established are included in the
accounts at cost or deemed cost on the transfer in of property from a Local Authority
school and other academy trusts. Assets other than land and buildings inherited on
establishment of the Trust are assumed to be fully depreciated.

Where tangible fixed assets have been acquired with the aid of specific grants, either from
the government or from the private sector, they are included in the balance sheet at cost
and depreciated over their expected useful economic life. The related grants are credited
to restricted fixed asset funds in the statement of financial activities and carried forward in
the balance sheet when the associated assets are acquired.

Leigh Academies Trust 52

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Tangible fixed assets (continued)

Equipment, other than computer equipment and IT software, costing less than £5,000 per
individual item or groups of related items is written off in the year of acquisition. All other
equipment is capitalised. :

Tangible fixed assets are written off over their estimated useful lives on a straight-line
basis at the following annual rates:

« Freehold and leasehold properties 2-4%

¢ Furniture and equipment 15-20%
@ Computer equipment 33%
¢@ Motor vehicles 20%

A review for impairment of a fixed asset is carried out if events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the fixed asset may not be recoverable.
Shortfalls between the carrying value of fixed assets and their recoverable amounts are
recognised as impairments. Impairment losses are recognised in the statement of financial
activities.

Liabilities

Liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation at the balance sheet date as a result
of a past event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be required in
settlement, and the amount of the settlement can be estimated reliably. Liabilities are
recognised at the amount that the Trust anticipates it will pay to settle the debt or the
amount it has received as advanced payments for the goods or services it must provide.

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Trust has an obligation at the reporting date as a
result of a past event which it is probable will result in the transfer of economic benefits
and the obligation can be estimated reliably.

Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the amounts required to settle the
obligation. Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the provision is based
on the present value of those amounts, discounted at the pre-tax discount rate that reflects
the risks specific to the liability. The unwinding of the discount is recognised within interest
payable and similar charges.

Leased assets
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Leigh Academies Trust 53

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Financial instruments

The Academy Trust only holds basic financial instruments as defined in FRS 102. The
financial assets and financial liabilities of the Trust and their measurement basis are as
follows:

Financial assets — trade and other debtors are basic financial instruments and are debt
instruments measured at amortised cost as detailed in note 17. Prepayments are not
financial instruments. Amounts due from the Trust’s wholly owned subsidiary are held at
face value less any impairment.

Cash at bank — is classified as a basic financial instrument and is measured at face value.
Cash at bank and in hand represents such accounts and instruments that are available on
demand or have a maturity of less than three months from the date of acquisition.
Deposits for more than three months but less than one year have been disclosed as short
term deposits.

Financial liabilities — trade creditors, accruals and other creditors are financial instruments,
and are measured at amortised cost as detailed in notes 18 and 19. Taxation and social
security are not included in the financial instruments disclosure definition. Deferred income
is not deemed to be a financial liability, as the cash settlement has already taken place
and there is an obligation to deliver services rather than cash or another financial
instrument. Amounts due to the Trust’s wholly owned subsidiary are held at face value
less any impairment. .

Investments

The Trust's shareholding in the wholly owned subsidiary, LAT Enterprises C.I.C, is
included in the balance sheet at the cost of the share capital owned, less any impairment,
there is no readily available market value and the cost of valuation exceeds the benefit
derived.

Stock
Unsold uniforms and catering stocks are valued at the lower of cost or net realisable value.

Taxation

The Trust is considered to pass the tests set out in Paragraph 1 Schedule 6 of the Finance
Act 2010 and therefore it meets the definition of a charitable company for UK corporation
tax purposes. Accordingly, the Trust is potentially exempt from taxation in respect of
income or capital gains received within categories covered by Chapter 3 Part 11 of the
Corporation Tax Act 2010 or Section 256 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992, to
the extent that such income or gains are applied exclusively to charitable purposes.

Pensions benefits

Retirement benefits to employees of the Trust are provided by the Teachers’ Pension
Scheme (‘TPS’) and the Local Government Pension Scheme (‘LGPS’). These are defined
benefit schemes.

Leigh Academies Trust 54

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

1 General Annual Grant (GAG)
Under the funding agreements with the Secretary of State, none of the academies within the
Trust were subject to limits at 31 August 2024 on the amount of GAG that could be carried
forward from one year to the next.

2. Donations and capital grants

Restricted

fixed 2024 2023

Unrestricted Restricted assets Total Total

funds funds. funds funds funds

£'000 £7000 £'000 £000 £'000

Capital grants - - 16,633 16,633 6,672

Donated fixed assets _ _ _ - 315

Other donations 495 _ 16 511 262

495 _ 16,649 17,144 7,249

Restricted

fixed 2023

Unrestricted Restricted assets Total

funds funds funds funds

£000 £000 £000 £000

Capital grants _ ~ 6,672 6,672

Donated fixed assets (see nofe 14) —_ —_ 315 315

Other donations 262 _= = 262
——_ 262 i972

3 Other trading activities

2024 2023

Unrestricted Restricted Total Total

funds funds funds funds

£'000 £'000 £7000 £'000

Hire of facilities 131 — 131 95

Income from other charitable activities _ 1,862 1,862 1,866

Income from ancillary trading activities 111 2,574 2,685 1,988

LAT Enterprises C.I.C Income 735 - 735 712

LAT Apprenticeships C.I.C Income 6 416 421 395

983 4,851 5,834 5,056

2023

Unrestricted Restricted Total

funds — funds funds

£'000 £'000 £000

Hire of facilities 95 _ 95

Income from other charitable activities _ 1,866 1,866

Income from ancillary trading activities 266 1,722 1,988

LAT Enterprises C.1.C Income . 712 ~ 712

LAT Apprenticeships C.1.C Income 9 386 395

1,082 3,974 5,056

Leigh Academies Trust 57

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

4 Investments

2024 2023
Unrestricted Restricted Total Total
funds funds funds funds
£000 £'000 £000 £'000
Interest receivable - Academies 924 _ 924 714
Interest receivable - LAT Enterprises C.1.C 17 _ 17— 9
941 _— 941 723
2023
Unrestricted Restricted Total
funds funds funds
£°000 £'000 £'000
Interest receivable - Academies 714 _ 714
Interest receivable - LAT Enterprises C.1.C 9 = 9
723 2D
5 Funding for the Trust's educational operations
2024 2023
Unrestricted Restricted Total Total
funds furids funds funds
£000 £000 £'000 £'000
DfE/ESFA grants
General Annual Grant (GAG) (note 1) — 127,892 127,892 109,207
Other DfE/ESFA grants
. UIFSM _ 812 812 719
. Pupil Premium = 6,220 6,220 5,291
. Recovery and Catch up Premium —_ 1,595 1,595 1,341
. 16-19 Core Education Funding ~ 13,825 13,825 11,271
. Pupil Number Adjustment _ (287) (287) 29
. Insurance -_ 140 140 406
. PE and Sports Grant _ 336 336 215
. Teachers pay Additional Grant _ 2,197 2,197 731
. Teachers’ Pension Contribution Grant _ 1,770 1,770 —
. Mainstream Schools Additional Grant _ 4,181 4,181 2,386
. PFI Grants _ 1,984 1,984 1,598
. Others = 2,301 2,301 4,852
— 162,966 162,966 138,017
Other Government grants
Local authority grants = 18,089 18,089 17,652
=_ 18,089 18,089 17,652
Teaching school hub
DFE/ESFA grants _ 1,222 1,222 1,343
Other income 1,799 637 2,436 1,663
1,799 1,859 3,658 3,006
2024 total funds 1,799 182,914 184,713 158,675

Leigh Academies Trust 58

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

§ Funding for the Trust’s educational operations (continued)

2023
Unrestricted Restricted Total
funds funds funds
£000 £'000 £000
DfE/ESFA grants
General Annual Grant (GAG) (note 1) _ 109,207 109,207
Other DfE/ESFA grants
. UIFSM _ 719 719
. Pupil Premium — 5,291 5,291
. Recovery Premium _ 1,341 1,341
. 16-19 Core Education Funding _ 11,271 11,271
. Pupil Number Adjustment _ 29 29
. Insurance _ 406 406
. PE and Sports Grant _ 215 215
. Teachers pay Additional Grant _- 731 731
. Teachers’ Pension Contribution Grant _ — _
. Mainstream Schools Additional Grant _ 2,386 2,386
. PFI Grants — 1,598 1,598
. Others _ 4,852 4,852
_ 138,017 138,017
Other Govemment grants
Local authority grants = 17,652 17,652
= 17,652 17,652
Teaching school hub
DFE/ESFA grants _ 1,343 1,343
Other income 1,568 95 1,663
1,568 1,438 3,006

1,568 157,107 158,675

Leigh Academies Trust 59

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

6 Expenditure

Staff
costs Other Total Total
£000 ~— Premises costs 2024 2023
(Note 9) £'000 £'000 £'000 £000
Expenditure on raising funds
. Direct costs 309 — 80 389 468
. Allocated support costs - 4 79 80 172
309 4 159 469 640
Academy Trust's educational
operations
. Direct costs (note 7) 108,790 10,311 9,253 128,354 110,021
. Allocated support costs (note 7) 34,122 19,414 11,144 64,680 60,572
142,912 29,725 20,397 193,034 170,593
Teaching School
. Direct support costs 1,484 —_ 4 1,488 1,387
. Allocated support costs 413 1 1,558 1,972 1,552
1,897 1 1,562 3,460 2,939

145,118 29,727 22,118 196,963 174,172

Staff
costs Other Total
£000 ~—~ Premises costs 2023
(Note 9) £'000 £'000 £'000
Expenditure on raising funds
. Direct costs 429 _— 39 468
. Allocated support costs 6 15 151 172
435 15 190 640
Academy Trust's educational operations
. Direct costs (note 7) 91,418 10,777 7,826 110,021
. Allocated support costs (note 7). 32,843 16,646 11,083 60,572
124,261 27,423 18,909 170,593
Teaching School
. Direct support costs 1,088 _— 299 1,387
. Allocated support costs 283 1 1,268 1,552
1,371 1 1,567 2,939
126,067 27,439 20,666 174,172
2024 2023
The result for the year is stated after charging: £'000 £000
Operating lease rentais 6,280 3,320
Loss on disposal of fixed assets (62) (4)
Depreciation 11,457 11,666
Fees payable to auditor for:
. Audit 87 87
. Other services 8 2

Leigh Academies Trust 60

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Pensions benefits (continued)

The TPS is an unfunded scheme and contributions are calculated so as to spread the cost
of pensions over employees’ working lives with the Trust in such a way that the pension
cost is a substantially level percentage of current and future pensionable payroll. The
contributions are determined by the Government Actuary on the basis of quadrennial
valuations using a prospective unit credit method. As stated in note 9, the TPS is a multi-
employer scheme and there is insufficient information available to use defined benefit
accounting. The TPS is therefore treated as a defined contribution scheme for accounting
purposes and the contributions recognised in the period to which they relate.

The LGPS is a funded scheme and the assets are held separately from those of the Trust
in separate Trustee administered funds. Pension scheme assets are measured at fair
value and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit
method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return on a high quality
corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities. The actuarial valuations
are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date. The amounts
charged to operating surplus are the current service costs and the costs of scheme
introductions, benefit changes, settlements and curtailments. They are included as part of
staff costs as incurred. Net interest on the net defined benefit liability/asset is also
recognised in the statement of financial activities and comprises the interest cost on the
defined benefit obligation and interest income on the scheme assets, calculated by
multiplying the fair value of the scheme assets at the beginning of the period by the rate
used to discount the benefit obligations. The difference between the interest income on
the scheme assets and the actual return on the scheme assets is recognised in other
recognised gains and losses.

Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other recognised gains and
losses.

Fund accounting
Unrestricted funds represent those resources which may be used towards meeting any of
the charitable objects of the Trust at the discretion of the Directors.

Restricted fixed asset funds are resources which are to be applied to specific capital
purposes imposed by funders where the asset acquired or created is held for a specific
purpose.

Restricted general funds comprise all other restricted funds received with restrictions
imposed by the funder/donor and include grants from the Education and Skills Funding
Agency.

Critical accounting estimates and areas of judgement

Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical
experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to
be reasonable under the circumstances.

Leigh Academies Trust 55

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Critical accounting estimates and assumptions (continued)

The Trust makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting
accounting estimates and assumptions will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual
results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year
are discussed below.

The present value of the Local Government Pension Scheme defined benefit liability
depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a variety
of assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net cost for pensions include
the discount rate. Any changes in these assumptions, which are disclosed in note 9, will
impact the carrying amount of the pension liability. Furthermore a roll forward approach
which projects results from the latest full actuarial valuation performed at 31 March 2022
has been used by the actuary in valuing the pensions liability at 31 August 2024. Any
differences between the figures derived from the roll forward approach and a full actuarial
valuation would impact on the carrying amount of the pension liability.

Critical areas of judgement
There were no areas of judgement that had a significant effect on the amounts recognised
in the financial statements.

Agency arrangements

The Trust acts as an agent in distributing 16-19 bursary funds from the ESFA. Payments
received from the ESFA and subsequent disbursements to students are excluded from the
statement of financial activities as the Trust does not have control over the charitable
application of the funds. The funds received and paid and balances held are disclosed in
note 27.

Leigh Academies Trust 56

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

7 Charitable activities

2024 2023

Unrestricted Restricted Total Total

funds funds funds funds

£'000 £'000 £’000 £'000

Direct costs - educational operations — 128,354 128,354 110,021
Direct costs - teaching school hub - 1,488 1,488 1,387
Support costs - educational operations _— 64,680 64,680 60,572
Support costs - teaching school hub _ 1,972 1,972 1,552

— 196,494 196,494 173,532

Teaching 2024 2023
school Educational Total Total
Fundraising hub — operations funds funds
Analysis of support costs £000 £'000 £'000 £000 £'000
Support staff costs - 413 34,122 34,535 33,132
Recruitment and other staff costs 3 45 1,307 1,355, 1,246
Depreciation and amortisation _- _— 1,146 1,146 890
Technology costs 7 13 3,663 3,683 3,814
Premises costs 1 4 18,268 18,270 15,772
Legal costs — conversion _ -_ 42 42 15
Legal costs — other 2 _— 131 133 107
Other support costs 58 1,490 5,715 7,263 7,106
Governance costs (legal and professional
fees) 9 10 286 305 214
Total support costs 80 1,972 64,680 66,732 62,296

Support staff costs include the FRS 102 pension adjustment of £1,629,000 (2023
£1,199,000). See note 9.

Other support costs include FRS 102 pension finance credits of £294,000 (2023: costs of
£400,000).

Leigh Academies Trust 61

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

8 Comparative information
Analysis of income and expenditure in the year ended 31 August 2023 between restricted
and unrestricted funds:

Restricted funds
Un- 2023
restricted Fixed Total
funds ESFA General assets funds
Notes £000 £000 £000 £000 £'000
Income from:
Donations and capital grants 2 262 - - 6,987 7,249
Transfers on existing Academies joining the
Trust 23 _ —_ 244 33,419 33,663
Chantable activities:
. Funding for the Trust's educational
operations 5 — 138,017 17,652 —- 155,669
. Teaching Schools 5 1,568 1,343 95 _- 3,006
Other trading activities 3 1,082 - 3,974 - 5,056
Investments 4 723 = = = 723
Total income 3,635 139,360 21,965 40,406 205,366
Expenditure on:
Raising funds 6 640 - — - 640
Chanttable activities:
. Trust’s educational operations 6 - 139,616 19,317 11,666 170,593
. Teaching Schools 6 1,501 1,343 95 _— 2,939
Total expenditure 6 2,141 140,959 19,406 11,666 174,172
Net income (expenditure) before transfers 1,494 (1,599) 2,559 28,740 31,194
Transfers between funds 20 _- (897) (467) 1,364 _—
Net income (expenditure) for the year 1,494 (2,496) 2,092 30,104 31,194
Other recognised gains and losses
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension
schemes 9 = 12,727 - = 12,727
Net movement in funds 1,494 10,234 2,092 30,104 43,921
Balances brought forward at 1 September
2022 3,638 (11,732) 1,141 347,954 341,001
Balances carried forward at 31 August 2023 §,132 (1,501) 3,233 378,058 384,922

Leigh Academies Trust 62

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

9 Staff costs

(a) Staff costs and other employee benefits
Staff costs during the year were:

Total Total

2024 2023

£'000 £'000

Wages and salaries 108,444 93,216
Social security costs 11,049 9,374
Pension costs 22,924 20,951
Other employee benefits 77 56
Apprenticeship levy 533 452
143,027 424,046

Supply staff costs 1,841 1,722
Staff restructuring costs 250 299

145,118 126,067

2024 2023

Staff restructuring costs comprise £7000 £'000
Redundancy payments 108 122
Severance payments 142 177
250 299

(b) Severance payments
The Trust paid 10 severance payments in the year, disclosed in the following bands:

2024

. No.

£0 - £25,000 9
£25,001 - £50,000 1

(c) Staff restructuring costs
Included in staff restructuring costs are special severance payments totalling £142,086
(2023: £177,462).

Individually, the payments were: £2,000, £4,000, £5,286, £10,000, £10,644, £15,250,
£17,056, £22,850, £25,000 and £30,000.

(d) Staff numbers
The average numbers of persons (including senior management team) employed by the
Trust during the year was as follows:

2024 2023

No. No.

Teaching 1,424 1,315

Administration and support 2,008 1,854
Management __ 41 35

: 3,473 3,204

Leigh Academies Trust 63

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

9 Staff costs (continued)

{e) Higher paid staff
The number of employees whose employee benefits (excluding employer pension costs)
exceeded £60,000, was:

2024 2023

No. No.

£60,001 - £70,000 173 109
£70,001 - £80,000 73 44
£80,001 - £90,000 38 24
£90,001 - £100,000 14 9
£100,001 - £110,000 6 5
£110,001 - £120,000 2 5
£120,001 - £130,000 8 6
£130,001 - £140,000 3 1
£140,001 - £150,000 3 _
£150,001 - £160,000 - 2
£160,001 - £170,000 _ 1
£170,001 - £180,000 2 —
£180,001 - £190,000 1 2
£200,001 - £210,000 1 —
£300,001 - £310,000 - 1
£350,001 - £360,000 1 =
325 209

(f) Key management personnel
The key management personnel of the Academy Trust comprise the Executive Directors
and Academy Principals. The total amount of employee benefits (including employer
pension contributions) received by key management personnel for their services to the
Academy Trust was £6,559,967 (2023: £5,913, 168).

=

Pension and similar obligations

The Academy Trust’s employees belong to two principal pension schemes: the Teachers’
Pension Scheme England and Wales (TPS) for academic and related staff; and the Local
Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) for non-teaching staff. The Trust participates via
three local authorities Kent County Council, London Borough of Bexley and Royal Borough
of Greenwich. Both are multi-employer defined benefit schemes.

(9)

Prior to 31 August 2023, the latest actuarial valuation of the TPS related to the period ended
31 March 2016 and of the LGPS 31 March 2022. A further valuation of the TPS scheme,
relating to the period ended 31 March 2020 was published in October 2023.

Contributions amounting to £2,947,840 were payable to the schemes at 31 August 2024
(2023: £2,323,194) and are included within creditors.

Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Teachers' Pension Scheme (TPS) is a statutory, contributory, defined benefit scheme,
governed by the Teachers’ Pension Scheme Regulations 2014. Membership is automatic
for teachers in academies. All teachers have the option to opt-out of the TPS following
enrolment.

Leigh Academies Trust 64

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

9 Staff costs (continued)
(g) Pension and similar obligations (continued)

Teachers’ Pension Scheme (continued)

The TPS is an unfunded scheme to which both the member and employer makes
contributions, as a percentage of salary - these contributions are credited to the Exchequer.
Retirement and other pension benefits are paid by public funds provided by Parliament.

Valuation of the Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Government Actuary, using normal actuarial principles, conducts a formal actuarial
review of the TPS in accordance with the Public Service Pensions (Valuations and
Employer Cost Cap) Directions 2014 published by HM Treasury every 4 years. The aim of
the review is to specify the level of future contributions. Actuarial scheme valuations are
dependent on assumptions about the value of future costs, design of benefits and many
other factors The actuarial valuation of the TPS which applied during the year was carried
out as at 31 March 2020. The valuation report was published by the Department for
Education on 27 October 2023, with the SCAPE rate, set by HMT, applying a notional
investment return based on 1.7% above the rate of CPI. The key elements of the valuation
outcome are:

# employer contribution rates set at 28.68% of pensionable pay (including a 0.08%
administration levy). This is an increase of 5% in employer contributions and the cost
control result is such that no change in member benefits is needed;

# total scheme liabilities (pensions currently in payment and the estimated cost of future
benefits) for service to the effective date of £262,000 million and notional assets
(estimated future contributions together with the notional investments held at the
valuation date) of £222,200 million, giving a notional past service deficit of £39,800
million; and

# 22,200 million, giving a notional past service deficit of £39,800 million; and

The result of this valuation was implemented on 1 April 2024. The next valuation result is
due to be implemented from 1 April 2028.

The employer's pension costs paid to TPS in the period amounted to £18,822,000 (2023 —
£14,757,000).

A copy of the valuation report and supporting documentation is on the Teachers' Pension
Scheme website.

Under the definitions set out in FRS 102, the TPS is an unfunded multi-employer pension
scheme. The Academy Trust is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and
liabilities of the plan. Accordingly, the Academy Trust has taken advantage of the exemption
in FRS102 and accounted for its contributions to the scheme as if it were a defined
contribution scheme. The Academy Trust has set out above the information available on the
scheme.

Leigh Academies Trust 65

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

9 Staff costs (continued)
(g) Pension and similar obligations (continued)

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS)

The LGPS is a funded defined-benefit scheme, with the assets held in separate Trustee-
administered funds. The total contribution made for the year ended 31 August 2024 was
£9,443,000, of which employer's contributions totalled £7,411,000 (2023: £6,544,000) and
employees’ contributions totalled £2,032,000 (2023: £1,770,000). The employer's
contribution rates during the year for the Academy Trust's LGPS schemes ranged from
19.1% to 22.5%.

Parliament has agreed, at the request of the Secretary of State for Education, to a
guarantee that, in the event of an Academy Trust closure, outstanding Local Government
Pension Scheme liabilities would be met by the Department for Education. The guarantee
came into force on 18 July 2013 and on 21 July 2022 the Department of Education
reaffirmed its commitment to the guarantee, with a parliamentary minute published on

GOV.UK.
At 31 At 31
August August
Principal Actuarial Assumptions 2024 2023
Rate of increase in salaries 4.0% 41%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment / inflation 2.8% 2.9%
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.0% 5.4%
The current mortality assumptions include sufficient allowance for future improvements in
mortality rates. The assumed life expectations on retirement age 65 are:
At 31 At 31
August August
2024 2023
Retiring today
Males 20.7 20.7
Females 23.4 23.3
Retiring in 20 years
Males 21.8 21.9
Females 24.9 24.9
At 31 At 31
August August
2024 2023
Sensitivity analysis £000 £000
Discount rate +0.1% (2,202) (1,903)
Discount rate -0.1% 2,261 1,953
Mortality assumption — 1 year increase 3,383 2,933
Mortality assumption — 1 year decrease (3,290) (2,855)
CPI rate +0.1% 2,218 1,911
CPI rate -0.1% (2,162) (1,863)

Leigh Academies Trust 66

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

9 Staff costs (continued)
(g) Pension and similar obligations (continued)
Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) (continued)

The Academy Trust’s share of the assets and liabilities in the scheme were:
Fair value Fair value

at 31 at 31
August August
2024 2023
£'000 £000
Equities 67,343 62,323
Bonds 27,314 17,279
Property 11,232 11,145
Cash ; 2,781 1,431
Other 13,583 13,621
Total market value of assets 122,253 105,799
Present value of scheme liabilities
. Funded (118,302) (103,890)
Surplus 3,951 1,909
Adjustment to cap surplus scheme assets at nil (5,293) (3,410)
Scheme recognised in the financial statements (1,342) (1,501)
2024 2023
Amounts recognised in statement of financial activities £000 £7000
Current service (credit) cost (1,629) (1,199)
Net interest credit (cost) (294) (400)
Total amount recognised in the SOFA (1,923) (1,599)
Analysis of pension finance income/(costs)
Expected return on pension scheme assets 5,813 4,312
Interest on pension liabilities (5,519) (4,712)
Pension finance credit (costs) 294 (400)
Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations were 2024 2023
as follows: £7000 £'000
At 1 September 2023 103,890 100,060
Inherited on conversion 1,234 10,664
Current service cost 5,757 7,602
Interest cost 5,519 4,712
Employee contributions 2,032 1,770
Actuarial loss (gain) 3,163 (16,386)
Change in demographic assumptions (250) (2,813)
Benefits paid (3,060) (1,786)
Plan introductions, benefit changes, curtailments and settlements 17 67
At 31 August 2024 118,302 103,890

Leigh Academies Trust 67

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

9

Staff costs (continued)

(g) Pension and similar obligations (continued)

10

11

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) (continued)

Changes in the fair value of the Trust's share of scheme assets:

At 1 September 2023
Inherited on conversion
Interest income
Actuarial gain/(loss)
Employer contributions |
Employee contributions
Benefits paid
Administration expenses
At 31 August 2024

Directors’ remuneration and expenses

2024

£'000

105,799
1,330
5,813
3,032
7,411
2,032

(3,060)
(104)

122,253

2023

£'000

88,328
9,767
4,312

(3,062)
6,544
1,770

(1,786)

(74)

105,799

Staff Directors only receive remuneration in respect of the services they provide in
undertaking their role as an employee and not in respect of their services as a Director.
Other Directors did not receive any payments, other than expenses, from the Trust in
respect of their role as directors. The value of Staff Directors’ remuneration was as follows:

S P Beamish (CEO and Director)
. Remuneration
. Employer’s Pension contributions

Year to

31 August
2024
£000

350-360
70-75

Year to
31 August
2023

£'000

305-310
60-65

Directors of the Trust received payment for reimbursement of travel and subsistence
expenses incurred in the course of their duties in the year ended 31 August 2024 of Enil
(2023: Enil). No Director has any beneficial interest in any contract with the company.

Directors’, Governors’ and officers’ insurance

The Trust has opted into the Department for Education's risk protection arrangement (RPA),
an alternative to insurance where UK government funds cover losses that arise. This
scheme protects Directors and officers from claims arising from negligent acts, errors or
omissions occurring whilst on Academy Trust business, and provides cover up to
£10,000,000. It is not possible to quantify the Directors and officers indemnity element from

the overall cost of the RPA scheme

Leigh Academies Trust 68

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

12 Central services
The Trust has provided the following central services to its academies during the year:

¢ Curriculum Advisors
@ Safeguarding
« Attendance
«@ Administration
’@ Leadership & Governance
« Educational support services
¢ Legal Services

The Trust has charged for these services on a basis of an average charge of 1.9% (2023:
1.7%) of total income. The contributions made by academies charged during the year for
these services are set out below.

Budgets for support services including: operational staff based in academies, and IT and
estates service contracts previously included in academy budgets, were managed centrally.
This is cost-neutral for the academies and so does not represent a ‘central charge’ that
needs to be separately disclosed. Costs are included within the expenditure disclosed in
Notes 6, 7, and 9. The following support services were managed centrally: ‘

¢@ Financial services, including staff based in academies
@ People services
« IT services, including staff based in academies

« Estates services, including staff based in academies

Leigh Academies Trust 69

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

12

13,

Central services (continued) -

Ebbsfleet Academy

Leigh Academy Bearsted

Leigh Academy Bexley

Leigh Academy Blackheath

Leigh Academy Cherry Orchard
Leigh Academy Dartford

Leigh Academy Halley

Leigh Academy Hartley

Leigh Academy High Halstow
Leigh Academy Horsmonden
Leigh Academy Hugh Christie
Leigh Academy Langley Park
Leigh Academy Milestone

Leigh Academy Molehill

Leigh Academy Oaks :
Leigh Academy Paddock Wood
Leigh Academy Rainham

Leigh Academy Tonbridge

Leigh Stationers’ Academy

Leigh Stationers' Primary Academy (formerly Eastcote Primary Academy)
Longfield Academy

Marden Primary Academy
Mascalls Academy

Peninsula East Primary Academy
Sir Geoffrey Leigh Academy

Sir Joseph Williamson's Mathematical School
Snowfields Academy

Strood Academy

The Hundred of Hoo Academy
The Hundred of Hoo Nursery and Kids Club
The Leigh UTC

Tree Tops Primary Academy
Wilmington Academy

Intangible fixed assets

Group and Trust

Cost
At 1 September 2023 and 31 August 2024

Amortisation
At 1 September 2023 and 31 August 2024

Net book value
At 31 August 2024
At 31 August 2023

Central services

2024

£000

146
35
225
161
53
69
181
43
22
20
76
58
180
39
32
66
83
92
255
28
155
36
182
30
187
180
111
182
252
13
123
41
187

3,543

Computer
software

£'000

146

(148)

2023
£'000

173
23
59

129
24
43

142
38
36
15
25

136
28
30
39

114
97

204
22

130
29

136
28

158

137
66

137

147
13

122
27

137

2,644

Total
funds

£'000

146

(146)

Leigh Academies Trust 70

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

14 Tangible fixed assets

Group

Cost
At 1 September 2023

School buildings
transferred in

Additions
Transfers
Disposals
At 31 August 2024

Depreciation

At 1 September 2023
Charge for year
Disposals

At 31 August 2024

Net book values
At 31 August 2024

At 31 August 2023

Trust

Cost

At 1 September 2023
Donated fixed assets
Additions

Transfers

Disposals

At 31 August 2024

Depreciation

At 1 September 2023
Charge for year
Disposals

At 31 August 2024

Net book values
At 31 August 2024

At 31 August 2023

Motor
vehicles

Motor
vehicles

467,989

52,748
19,346

440,507

379,808

467,965
52,748
19,346

(25)

Computer
Freehold Furniture equipment
Assetunder = fandand —_ Leasehold and and
Construction —byildings ~—buildings + equipment software
£'000 £'000 £000 £'000 £'000
_ 155,767 274,343 16,489 21,191
_ - 52,748 _ —
7,403 5,211 4,801 497 1,434
(299) - 81 218 =
eC) eC)
7,104 160,978 331,948 17,204 22,625
- 19,257 38,359
— 2,277 §,296
9) LCi)
21,534 43,572
7,104 139,444 288,376 3,427 2,156
- 136,510 235,984 4,144 3,168
Computer
Freehold Furniture equipment
Asset under landand Leasehold and and
Construction —_ buildings buildings equipment software
£000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
_ 155,767 274,343 16,465 21,191
_ — 52,748 _ —
7,403 5,211 4,801 497 1,434
(299) —_ 81 218 —
a)
7,104 160,978 331,948 17,180 22,625
_- 19,257 38,359 12,321 18,023
_- 2,277 5,296 1,436 2,446
a) nN AL
_ 21,534 43,572 13,753 20,469
7,104 139,444 288,376 3,427 2,156
_ 136,510 235,984 4,144 3,168

379,808

Included within the additions to freehold buildings are in respect to buildings funded and
constructed by the ESFA at Leigh Academy Rainham (see note 2).

The land on which leasehold buildings are sited is leased at peppercorn rents. No value has
been placed on the land in the financial statements due to restrictive covenants in the

leases.

The School buildings of the Oasis Academy Isle of Sheppey were transferred to the Trust on
13 June 2024, following its closure and in advance of the opening of the new Leigh
Academy Minster on 1 September 2024. Details of the value of the building transferred to
Leigh Academies Trust are included in note 2.

Leigh Academies Trust 71

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

14 Tangible fixed assets (continued)

15

Stationers’ Crown Woods Academy joined the Trust on 1 September 2014, Ebbsfleet
Academy (formally part of the Brook Learning Trust) on 1 September 2021 and Leigh
Academy Hugh Christie on 1 April 2024. All three academies are subject to contracts under
the Private Finance Initiative (PFI) which commenced in 2012, 2001 and 2007 respectively.
Under these contracts the Academy premises are maintained and managed for a period of
25 years by the PFl-Contractor subject to contractual annual fees paid by the Academy.
Upon expiry of the PFI contract, the residual benefit of the premises passes to the Academy
as a result of a 125 year lease granted to the Academy. The ESFA issued guidance within
the Academies Accounts Direction which concurs with the treatment adopted by Leigh
Academies Trust.

Wholly owned trading subsidiaries

In October 2019, LAT Apprenticeships C.I.C was incorporated in England and is a 100%
owned subsidiary of the Trust. The principal activity of the subsidiary is to provide a
programme of apprenticeships. LAT Apprenticeships’ cumulatative deficit will be covered by
Leigh Academies Trust, via the profits generated from LAT Enterprises CIC. No public funds
have been used to cover this deficit.

A summary of the results for the year and position at the year end of LAT Apprenticeships
C.I.C, which have been included in the consolidated financial statements is shown below:

2024 2023

£'000 £'000

Turnover : 421 395
Cost of sales (342) (478)

Gross profit (loss) 7 (83)
Administrative expenses (78) (28)
Profit (loss) on ordinary activities “ 1 (4111)
Tax — —
Profit (loss) on ordinary activities after taxation 1 (111)
The assets and liabilities of the subsidiary were:

2024 2023

£'000 £000

Current assets 60 62
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (392) (394)
Total net liabilities (332) (332)

The Trust owns 100% of the issued ordinary shares of LAT Enterprises C.I.C, a community
interest company incorporated in England. The principal activities of the subsidiary are the
provision of commercial and community IT training as an extension of the facilities made
available to students and the letting of leisure and sports facilities to the community.

Leigh Academies Trust 72

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

15

16

Wholly owned trading subsidiaries (continued)
A summary of the results for the year and position at the year end of LAT Enterprises C.I.C,
which have been included in the consolidated financial statements is shown below:

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Turnover 735 712
Cost of sales (41) (121)
Gross profit 694 591
Administrative expenses (8) (15)
Operating profit 686 576
Interest receivable 17 9
Profit on ordinary activities before Gift Aid and taxation 703 585
Gift Aid donation to Leigh Academies Trust (703) (585)
Tax _ —
Retained earnings at 1 September 2023 27 27
Retained earnings at 31 August 2024 27 27
The assets and liabilities of the subsidiary were:
2024 2023
. £’000 £'000
Current assets 732 1,023
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (705) (996)

Total net (liabilities) assets 27 27

Other connected organisations

(a) Subsidiary charity

On 1 January 2019, the Trust acquired The Hundred of Hoo Nursery and Kids’ Club Limited,
a charitable company limited by guarantee. A summary of the results for the year and
position at the year end of The Hundred of Hoo Nursery and Kids’ Club which have been
included in the consolidated financial statements is shown below:

2024 2023

£'000 £'000

Income 728 581
Expenditure on charitable activities (644) (558)
Net income 84 23
Funds brought forward at 1 September 2023 121 98
Funds carried forward at 31 August 2024 205 121
ere . . 2024 2023
The assets and liabilities of the charity were: £000 £'000
Fixed assets 7 10
Current assets 285 224
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (87) (113)
Total net assets 205 121

Leigh Academies Trust 73

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

17

18

19

Debtors
Leigh Leigh
Academies Academies
Group Trust Group Trust
2024 2024 2023 2023
£’000 £7000 £'000 £'000
Trade debtors 2,565 2,511 1,716 1,669
VAT recoverable 2,203 2,206 1,502 1,498
Amount due from LAT Enterprises C.1.C _ 677 _ 955
Amount due from LAT Apprenticeships
CALC _ 354 — 369
Other debtors 95 88 525 524
Prepayments and accrued income 7,252 7,182 5,322 5,252

12,115 13,018 9,065 10,267

Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

Leigh Leigh

Academies Academies

Group Trust Group Trust

2024 2024 2023 2023

£'000 £7000 £'000 £000

Trade creditors 10,110 10,086 4,215 4,203
Taxation and social security 2,657 2,651 2,446 2,440
Loan (note 19) 200 200 688 688
Other creditors 4,786 4,775 4,060 4,056
Accruals and deferred income 8,318 8,297 12,279 12,236
26,071 26,009 23,688 23,623

Deferred income (included above)

Deferred income at 1 September 2023 8,111 8,111 10,027 9,997

Amounts released from previous years (4,218) (4,217) (7,460) (7,412)
Resources deferred in the year 529 527 5,544 5,526
Deferred income at 31 August 2024 4,422 4,421 8,111 8,111

At the balance sheet date the Trust was holding funds received in respect of capital grants,
development grants and other sources, which have been deferred to the financial year
ending 31 August 2024.

Creditors: amounts falling due more than one year

2024 2023
Group and Academy £'000 £'000
Loans from ESFA 70 194
Analysis of loans
Wholly repayable within five years 70 194
Less: included in current liabilities 200 688
Amounts included above 270 882
Loan maturity
Debt due in one year or less 200 688
In more than one year but not more than two years 67 140
In more than two years but not more than five years 3 54

Total 270 882

Leigh Academies Trust 74

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

19 Creditors: amounts falling due more than one year (continued)

Details of the loans outstanding are as below:

Repayment

due within

one year

£'000

Leigh Stationers' Academy 26
The Leigh UTC 100
Sir Geoffrey Leigh Academy 17
Marden Primary Academy 2
Leigh Academy Halley 43
Leigh Academy Bexley 12
200

Leigh Stationers' Academy
The Leigh UTC

Sir Geoffrey Leigh Academy
Marden Primary Academy
Leigh Academy Halley
Leigh Academy Bexley

Repayment
due in more
than 2024 2023
one year Total Total
£'000 £'000 £'000
_ 26 65
— 100 585
32 49 66
8 10 12
— 43 100
30 42 54
70 270 882
Repayment
Repayment due in more
due within than 2023
one year one year Total
£000 £'000 £'000
40 25 65
564 21 585
17 49 66
3 9 12
58 42 100
6 48 54
688 194 882

Leigh Academies Trust 75

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

20 Funds
Balance Balance
at1 Transfers, at 31
September gains & August
2023 Income Expenditure losses 2024
£'000 £’000 £000 £000 £'000
Restricted ESFA funds
General Annual Grant (GAG) _ 127,892 (127,892) — -
Pupil Premium _ 6,220 (6,220) - -
UIFSM _ 812 (812) - -
16-19 Core Education Funding = 13,825 (13,825) - -
Pupil Number Adjustment _ (287) 287 — _
Insurance - 140 (140) _ -
PE and Sports Grant — 336 {336) - -
Teachers Pay Additional Grant _ 2,197 (2,197) =_ _-
Teachers’ Pension Employers
Contribution Grant . _— 1,770 (1,770) — _
Recovery premium — 1,595 (1,595) _ _-
Teaching Schoo! Hub —- 1,222 (1,222) _ _
Other grants — 8,466 (8,466) - -
Pension reserve (1,501) _— 1,923 (1,764) (1,342)
(1,501) 164,188 (162,265) (1,764) (1,342)
Restricted general funds
Local authority grants —- 18,089 (18,089) 289 289
Transfer from local authority on
conversion _ 289 _ (289) _
Teaching School Hub _ 637 (637) - _
LAT Apprenticeships C.1.C (255) 415 (414) - (254)
Other restricted funds 3,488 4,436 (2,031) _ 5,893
3,233 23,866 (21,171) _— 5,928
Restricted fixed asset funds
Transfer on academies joining the
trust - 52,748 _ - 52,748
DfE/ESFA capital grants 378,058 16,649 (11,457) 2,759 386,009
378,058 69,397 (11,457) 2,759 438,757
Total restricted funds 379,790 257,451 (194,893) 995 443,343
Unrestricted funds
General funds 5,037 1,661 (414) (2,056) 4,228
Teaching School Hub 67 1,799 - (1,601) _ 265
LAT Apprenticeships C.1.C _ 6 (6) _ _
LAT Enterprises C.1.C 28 752 (49) (703) 28
Total unrestricted funds 5,132 4,218 (2,070) (2,759) 4,521
Total funds 384,922 261,669 (196,963) (1,764) 447,864

General Annual Grant (GAG)

General Annual Grant (GAG) must be used for the normal running costs of the Academy
including salaries and related costs, overheads, repairs and maintenance and insurance.
Under the funding agreements with the Secretary of State, none of the academies within the
Trust were subject to limits on the amount of GAG that it could carry forward at 31 August
2024.

Leigh Academies Trust 76

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

20 Funds (continued)

Analysis of pooled Academy fund balanced (including unrestricted funds)
All fund balances at 31 August 2024 were held centrally by the Trust.

2024 2023

£'000 £'000
Trust operational reserves 10,421 8,337
Total before fixed assets and pension reserve 10,421 8,337
Restricted fixed asset fund 438,757 378,058
Pension liability (1,342) (1,501)
Total for Trust 447,836 384,894
Subsidiary 28 28
Total for the Group 447,864 384,922

Leigh Academies Trust 77

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

20 Funds (continued)

Analysis of academies by cost
Expenditure incurred by each academy during the year was as follows:

Teaching
and
Educational Other
Support Support Other Costs.
Staff Staff | Educational (Excluding Total

costs costs Supplies Depreciation) 2024

£000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Ebbsfleet Academy 3,813 422 366 2,497 7,098
Leigh Academy Bearsted 1,042 . 431 48 161 1,682
Leigh Academy Bexley 5,448 1,095 545 1,012 8,100
Leigh Academy Blackheath 5,238 592 404 673 6,907
Leigh Academy Cherry Orchard 1,294 702 164 235 2,395
Leigh Academy Dartford 1,832 869 157 365 3,223
Leigh Academy Halley 5,518 1,031 480 668 7,697
Leigh Academy Hartley 1,200 483 142 181 2,006
Leigh Academy High Halstow 607 256 75 105 1,043
Leigh Academy Horsmonden 638 201 57 84 980
Leigh Academy Hugh Christie 1,878 347 159 932 3,316
Leigh Academy Langley Park 1,312 813 156 243 2,524
Leigh Academy Milestone 3,747 4,018 266 648 8,679
Leigh Academy Molehill 1,096 408 78 174 1,756
Leigh Academy Oaks 859 411 80 114 1,464
Leigh Academy Paddock Wood 1,744 714 162 302 2,922
Leigh Academy Rainham 2,524 498 285 359 3,666
Leigh Academy Tonbridge 2,932 338 312 456 4,038
Leigh Academy Tree Tops 1,146 348 94 199 1,787
Leigh Stationers’ Academy 8,556. 1,176 741 1,985 12,458
Leigh Stationers' Primary Academy 724 321 88 148 1,281
Longfield Academy 4,879 1,382 481 628 7,370
Marden Primary Academy 1,016 371 75 137 1,599
Mascails Academy 6,131 596 767 745 8,239
Peninsula East Primary Academy 768 319 56 124 1,267
Sir Geoffrey Leigh Academy 6,071 815 610 850 8,346
Sir Joseph Williamson's
Mathematical School 5,795 705 970 859 8,329
Snowfields Academy 2,460 1,472 350 436 4,718
Strood Academy 5,836 692 423 863 7,814
The Hundred of Hoo Academy 7,804 4,845 718 1,166 11,533
The Hundred of Hoo Nursery and
kids Club y 478 8 23 114 623
The Leigh UTC 4,073 337 333 477 5,220
Wilmington Academy 6,398 746 994 698 8,836
Kent and Medway Training 862 168 1 724 1,755
Medway Teacing School Alliance 13 84 6 714 817
Thames Gateway Teaching School
Hub 289 157 _- 534 980
LAT Apprenticeships C.1.C 215 96 92 16 419
LAT Enterprise C.1.C — — _ 49 49
Central services 3,082 10,456 206 8,826 22,570
Total net assets 109,318 35,723 10,964 29,501 185,506

Leigh Academies Trust 78

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

20 Funds (continued)

Analysis of academies by cost (continued)

Teaching
and
Educational Other
Support Support Other Costs
Staff Staff Educational (Excluding Total

costs costs Supplies Depreciation) 2023

£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Ebbsfleet Academy 3,297 408 361 2,132 6,192
Leigh Academy Bearsted 776 338 39 199 1,352
Leigh Academy Bexley 1,439 281 83 390 2,193
Leigh Academy Blackheath 4,019 665 559 690 5,933
Leigh Academy Cherry Orchard 1,226 662 166 213 2,267
Leigh Academy Dartford 1,701 748 122 306 2,877
Leigh Academy Halley 4,903 1,021 378 678 6,980
Leigh Academy Hartley 1,060 469 134 188 1,851
Leigh Academy High Halstow 556 255 70 112 993
Leigh Academy Horsmonden 533 162 56 90 841
Leigh Academy Langley Park 1,256 748 189 243 2,436
Leigh Academy Milestone 3,292 3,721 265 562 7,840
Leigh Academy Molehill 961 349 137 191 1,638
Leigh Academy Oaks 797 347 80 120 1,344
Leigh Academy Paddock Wood 1,651 627 136 352 2,766
Leigh Academy Rainham 1,567 284 127 269 2,241
Leigh Academy Tonbridge 2,498 319 221 502 3,540
Leigh Academy Tree Tops 1,059 348 90 192 1,689
Leigh Stationers' Academy 7,861 1,462 773 1,699 11,795
Leigh Stationers‘ Primary Academy 670 291 96 130 1,187
Longfield Academy 4,509 992 524 658 6,683
Marden Primary Academy 922 327 65 141 1,449
Mascalls Academy 5,646 455 685 701 7,487
Peninsula East Primary Academy 726 330 57 149 1,262
Sir Geoffrey Leigh Academy 5,672 720 626 767 7,785
Sir Joseph Williamson's
Mathematical School 5,468 742 895 905 8,070
Snowfields Academy 1,781 1,068 287 513 3,649
Strood Academy 5,069 937 439 704 7,143
The Hundred of Hoo Academy 7,063 1,818 699 1,034 10,614
The Hundred of Hoo Nursery and
Kids Club vy 411 10 16 98 535
The Leigh UTC 3,538 475 336 581 4,930
Wilmington Academy 5,742 800 487 596 7,625
Kent and Medway Training 849 123 _ 605 1,577
Medway Teaching School Alliance — 69 7 564 640
Thames Gateway Teaching School
Hub 240 90 8 383 721
LAT Apprenticeships C.1.C 217 201 49 39 506
LAT Enterprise C.1.C - 20 - 116 136
Central services 2,716 11,718 268 9,097 23,799
Total net assets 91,679 34,388 9,530 26,909 162,506

Leigh Academies Trust 79

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

20 Funds (continued)

Comparative information
Comparative information in respect of the preceding period is as follows:

Balance Balance
at? Transfers, at 31
September gains & August
2022 Income — Expenditure losses 2023
£'000 £000 £000 £000 £'000
Restricted ESFA funds
General Annual Grant (GAG) - 120,884 (120,884) - -
Pupil Premium - 719 (719) — _
UIFSM _ 5,291 (5,291) _ -
Catch-up premium . - 1,343 (1,343) - _
Teaching School Hub - 1,341 (1,341) - _
Other grants - 9,782 (9,782) - _
Pension reserve (11,732) _— (1,599) 11,830 (1,501)
(11,732) 139,360 (140,959) 11,830 (1,501)
Restricted general funds
Local authority grants - 17,652 (17,652) _ _
Transfer from local authority on
conversion _— 244 _- (244) _
Teaching Schoo! Hub - 95 (95) - _
LAT Apprenticeships C.1.C (135) 386 (506) - (255)
Other restricted funds 1,276 3,588 (1,153) (223) 3,488
1,141 21,965 (19,406) (467) 3,233
Restricted fixed asset funds
Transfer of schools _ 33,419 -_ (33,419) . —
DfE/ESFA capital grants 347,954 6,987 (11,666) 34,783 378,058
347,954 40,406 (11,666) 1,364. 378,058
Total restricted funds 337,363 201,731 (172,031) 12,727 379,790
Unrestricted funds
General funds 3,610 1,337 (495) 585 5,037
Teaching School Hub — 1,568 {1,501) ad 67
LAT Apprenticeships C.1.C _ 9 (9) ad _
LAT Enterprises C.1.C 28 724 (136) (585) 28
Total unrestricted funds 3,638 3,635 (2,141) _ 5,132
Total funds 341,001 205,366 (174,172) 12,727 384,922

Leigh Academies Trust 80

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

20 Funds (continued)

Analysis of net assets between funds

Restricted
Unrestricted Restricted _fixed asset
funds funds fund 2024
Group £'000 £'000 £'000 £000
Fund balances at 31 August 2024 are
represented by:
Tangible fixed assets _ _ 440,507 440,507
Current assets 4,521 32,069 (1,750) 34,840
Current liabilities _ (26,071) — (26,071)
Non-current liabilities - (70) _ (70)
Pension scheme liability _ (1,342) — (1,342)
Total net assets 4,521 4,586 438,757 447,864
Restricted
Unrestricted Restricted _ fixed asset
funds funds fund 2023
Group £'000 £000 £000 £000
Fund balances at 31 August 2023 are
represented by:
Tangible fixed assets _ _ 379,808 379,808
Current assets 5,132 27,115 (1,750) 30,497
Current liabilities — (23,688) _ (23,688)
Non-current liabilities _ (194) _ (194)
Pension scheme liability _ (1,501) _— (1,501)
Total net assets 5,132 1,732 378,058 384,922
Restricted
Unrestricted Restricted _ fixed asset
funds funds fund 2024
Trust £'000 £'000 £'000 £7000
Fund balances at 31 August 2024 are
represented by:
Tangible fixed assets _- ad 440,507 440,507
Current assets 4,493 32,339 (1,750) 35,082
Current liabilities — (26,009) _- (26,009)
Non-current liabilities _ (70) _ (70)
Pension scheme liability _ (1,342) _ (1,342)
Total net assets 4,493 4,918 438,757 448,168
Restricted
Unrestricted Restricted _ fixed asset
funds funds fund 2023
Trust £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Fund balances at 31 August 2023 are
represented by: '
Tangible fixed assets _ _— 379,808 379,808
Current assets 5,037 27,449 (1,750) 30,736
Current liabilities _ (23,623) _. (23,623)
Non-current liabilities _ (194) ~ (194)
Pension scheme liability — (1,501) - (1,501)
Total net assets 5,037 2,131 378,058 385,226

Leigh Academies Trust 81

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

21 Capital commitments

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Contracted for, but not provided in the financial statements 1,127 906

22 Commitments under operating leases
At 31 August 2024 LAT had future minimum commitments under non-cancellable operating

leases as follows:

Equipment 2024 2023
Payments falling due: £°000 £'000
Amounts due within one year 1,683 348
Amounts due between one and five years 1,811 620
3494 968
Buildings 2024 2023
Payments falling due: £'000 £'000
Amounts due within one year 4,597 2,972
Amounts due between two and five years 15,218 8,825
Amounts due after five years 17,658 9,618

37,473 21,415

23 Transfers of academies joining the Trust
On 1 September 2023 Hugh Christie School, a local authority school, joined the MAT.

The transfer has been accounted for using the acquisition method. The assets and liabilities
transferred were valued at their fair value and recognised in the balance sheet under the
appropriate headings with a corresponding net amount recognised as net incoming
resources in the Statement of Financial Activities as voluntary income.

The following table sets out the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities transferred
and an analysis of their recognition in the statement of financial activities.

Hugh Christie School

Restricted Restricted

Unrestricted general fixed asset
funds funds funds 2023
£'000 £'000 £'000 £000

LGPS pension deficit _ _
Cash at bank _— 289 _— 289
Net assets = 289 _— 289

Leigh Academies Trust 82

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

23 Transfers of academies joining the Trust (continued)

os

24

Leigh Academy Minster

The school buildings of the Oasis Academy Isle of Sheppey were transferred to the Trust on
13 June 2024, following its closure and in advance of the opening of the new Leigh
Academy Minster on 1 September 2024.

The transfer has been accounted for using the acquisition method. The school’s land and
buildings transferred were valued at their fair value, being £52,748,000 and recognised in
the balance sheet under leasehold land and buildings with a corresponding amount
recognised as incoming resources in the Statement of Financial Activities.

Transfer of academies joining the Trust (prior year)

King Henry School

On 1 June 2023 King Henry School joined the MAT from Odyssey Trust for Education.

The following table sets out the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities transferred
as at 1 June 2023:

Restricted Restricted

Unrestricted general _ fixed asset

funds funds funds 2023

£000 £000 £000 £’000
Tangible fixed assets
. Freehold land and buildings _ _— 33,340 33,340
. Other tangible fixed assets _ _ 79 79
LGPS pension deficit . — (897) _- (897)
Borrowing obligations _ (55) _- (55)
Cash at bank —_ 1,915 _ 1,915
Other identified assets and liabilities _ (719) _ (719)

Net assets — 244 33,419 33,663

Contingent liabilities

In the event of the sale or disposal of any asset for which a capital grant was received, the
Trust must, if it does not reinvest the proceeds, repay to the Secretary of State for Education
the same proportion of the proceeds of the sale or disposal as equates to the proportion of
the original cost met by the Secretary of State.

Upon termination of the Funding Agreements, the Trust must repay to the Secretary of State
sums determined by reference to:

(a) The value at the time of the academies’ sites and premises and other assets held
for the purpose of the Trust; and

(b) The extent to which expenditure incurred in providing those assets was met by
payments by the Secretary of State under the Funding Agreement.

Leigh Academies Trust 83

Notes to the accounts 31 August 2024

25

26

27

Related party transactions

Owing to the nature of the Trust's operations and the composition of the Board of Directors
being drawn from loca! public and private sector organisations, transactions may take place
with organisations in which the Trust has an interest. All transactions involving such
organisations are conducted at arm's length and in accordance with the Academy's financial
regulations and normal procurement procedures. There were no related party transactions
during the year. :

Post balance sheet events _
In September 2024, the Trust opened Leigh Academy Minster following the closure of Oasis
Academy isle of Sheppey Minster.

Agency arrangements

The Trust distributes 16-19 bursary funds to students as an agent for the ESFA. In the
accounting period ended 31 August 2024 the Trust received £2,281,011 (2023: £1,099,574)
and distributed £2,493,029 (2023: £1,015,823) from the fund. An amount of £167,558 (2023:
£379,576) is included in other creditors relating to undistributed funds that is repayable to
the ESFA if not used within 12 months.

Leigh Academies Trust 84

