SATURDAY

Lift
Schools

(Formerly Academies Enterprise Trust)

Annual Report and Financial
Statements

Year Ended 31 August 2024

Company Limited by Guarantee
Registration Number
06625091 (England and Wales)

aninuaat

03/05/2025 #119
COMPANIES HOUSE

Contents

Reports

Reference and administrative information

Chair of Trustees’ Statement

Chief Executive’s Statement

Trustees’ report

Governance statement

Statement on regularity, propriety and compliance
Statement of trustees’ responsibilities
Independent auditor's report

Independent reporting accountant’s report on regularity

Financial Statements

Consolidated statement of financial activities including income and expenditure account
Consolidated and Trust balance sheets

Consolidated statement of cash flows

Principal accounting policies

Notes to the financial statements

29

30

31

36

39

40

41

43

49

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust)

1

Reference and administrative details

Members

Trustees

Company registration number

Principal and registered office

Leadership Team

Chief Executive Officer

Chief Operating Officer

Chief Talent Officer

Director of Standards & Quality
Director of Education

Director of Education

Director of Network Advancement
Director of Strategy

Chief Financial Officer
Interim Chief Financial Officer
Chief Financial Officer
Director of Human Resources

External auditor

J Boyer (resigned 17 July 2024)

1 Chin

C Gregson

P A Beecroft (appointed 16 July 2024)

D Hall (Chair)

J Chin (Vice Chair, retired 19 October 2024)
R Boomer-Clark (Chief Executive)

A Mroz

N Perera

J Perry

J Ramsey

K Squillino

- AThraves

| Joshi (appointed 7 March 2024)

C P Wicks (appointed 7 March 2024)

N Weatherill (appointed 7 March 2024

N Lambros (appointed 20 October 2024)

06625091 (England & Wales)

163 Eversholt Street London
NW1 1BU

R Boomer-Clark

J Browning

J Guy

D Hatchett

C Heald (resigned 31 May 2024)

P Humphreys

U Jones

E Lewis (Also Acting CFO from 1 February 2024 to 30 April
2024)

J Lombardo (resigned 11 October 2023) :

C Warner (from 5 September 2023 until 31 January 2024)
S Newitt (from 1 May 2024)

K Parish

Bishop Fleming LLP
Chy Nyverow
Newham Road
Truro, TR1 2DP

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust)

2

Reference and administrative details

Bankers HSBC plc
60 Queen Victoria Street
London
EC4N 4TR

Solicitors Mills and Reeve LLP
Botanic House
100 Hills Road
Cambridge
CB2 1PH

Internal auditors RSM UK
25 Farringdon Street
London
EC4A 4AB

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 3

Chair of Trustees’ statement

The past year has continued to be one that has tested the education sector, but as one of the larger academy
trusts, we have been well-positioned to face these headwinds and build on the progress achieved in the year
before.

Academically, we continue to accelerate away from the covid years, showing strong levels of improvement
against 2019. In 2024, our primary schools achieved exceptional results, with phonics outcomes surpassing
previous years and the national average, rising from 86% in 2023 to 89%, 9 percentage points above the national
figure.

Our results for those leaving us at the end of primary school improved across all subjects, with 77% of pupils
meeting the expected standard in reading, writing, and maths - a 7-point increase over 2023 and 16 percentage
points above the national average. Lift Schools showed significant gains, significantly outperforming the
national average, which rose by only 1 percentage point in 2024.

Key Stage 4 results saw slower progress, but 97% of school leavers transitioned to education, employment, or
apprenticeships, an improvement from 94% in 2023. Sixth-form destinations were similarly positive, with 94% of
students continuing education or entering employment or apprenticeships, up from 91% the previous year. And
of those going to university, nearly 20% secured places at Russell Group institutions, almost doubling last year's
figures,

Against these indicators of success, the economic backdrop is unquestionably challenging. However, through a
combination of our scale and prudent management, Lift Schools continues to maintain a strong financial
position, allowing us to invest in the areas that we believe will make the biggest difference for our schools and
our communities.

Lift is a national network running local schools. Operationally, our new structure with five regions providing a
new level of professional support across our 57 schools is now embedded, and our academy council model is
now well established. Right across the network, we have a powerful field force of 481 volunteers on these local
bodies, bringing to life our commitment to localism, the importance of place and community within our trust,
and providing a critical link from our schools to our trustees, so that we really understand the “lived
experience” in each of our schools.

Turning to national governance, during the reporting year we welcomed three new trustees in Pippa Wicks,
Professor Nigel Weatherill and Dr Indra Joshi. At the end of this academic year, my tenure as chair will come to a
close, and the recruitment process for my successor has begun.

Our central team continues to excel in the support it provides to our schools - there are so many examples of
this from school improvement and curriculum through to talent management and finance - but | am particularly
proud of the support that has been provided to our two schools affected by RAAC, ensuring that disruption was
minimised and new capital works progressed at pace.

Two years into our 10-year plan, the time was also right to revisit our name. “AET” no longer served us as an
organisation and simply did not reflect who we are or what we aim to achieve. And so, at the tail end of the
reporting year and as we marked the start of 2024/2025, we unveiled our new name: Lift Schools. It is a simple,
but powerful statement about our future, where every child benefits from an excellent education in every
classroom every day.

Finally, under the exceptional leadership of Becks Boomer-Clark, | want to recognise the efforts of the entire Lift
Schools team; | continue to be impressed by their commitment, energy and resilience, and their determination
to always put our 34,000 students front and centre. On behalf of the board, | would like to express our thanks
for everything they do, day in day out.

Neus S, Malt

David Hall, Chair of Trustees

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 4

Chief Executive’s statement

Never has there been a greater need for the sector to show both resilience and creativity in how we face down
systemic issues. Whether it’s attendance and behaviour, mental health and SEND, or the talent pipeline and
funding - the vastness of the challenges facing the education sector could all too easily become overwhelming.

And yet, it is in times such as these, that we show our courage, our collective grit and our ability to “go again”; to
challenge ourselves to think differently and never let the ambition we hold for our young people be diminished.

Amidst all of the change and challenge of the year, our commitment to “Lift490” has served us well, acting as
our north star, guiding us and helping us keep focused. In short, 490 represents our belief in an excellent
education, for every child, every day and in every classroom. With ambitious goats of 90 percent of children
achieving four key educational measures ~ something that has never been achieved ever before - in phonics,
SATS, reading ability and GCSEs, we know we have no time to lose.

As David alludes to, in our primary schools, we continue to see strong, confident steps towards these goals: 89%
of our children are now passing the phonics check, knocking on the door of 90% well ahead of our ambition of
achieving this by 2028. This represents an increase of 3 percentage points compared to last year, and sees us
well ahead of the national result of 80%.

At key stage 2, we leapt forward by 7 percentage points, taking us to 77% of children achieving expected levels at
the end of Year 6. Again, this sees us performing 16 percentage points ahead of the national position.

In our secondaries, we know that sustained improvement and seeing this flow through to results takes a little
longer. And whist our results are still significantly above the level of 2019, there is more work to be done to
accelerate towards our goals.

Having the right leadership in place is key to success, and we are proud that in 93% of our schools the
leadership and management is rated good or outstanding by Ofsted. The pace of improvement during the year
is recognised more broadly by Ofsted in the 23 inspections that took place. Of these, 13 were graded inspections.
We closed the reporting year with 91% of our 57 schools rated as good or outstanding, up from 80% in the
previous year.

We fundamentally believe that talent drives performance, and we work hard to attract dynamic people. In
return, we back them to reimagine what's possible. In addition to our work to bring new talent into the sector
through our ITT programme, we continued to invest in our people through our bespoke instructional excellence
programme, which supported 26 schools across the network.

This year‘also saw us launch our individual Development Accounts (IDA), giving every leader in our schools
access to £100,000 to spend on their own professionat development over a five-year period. Our goal is for
leaders to have up to 100 hours of training every year, matching what happens in some of the highest
performing countries in the world, including high-performing nations like Singapore.

And so whilst 2023/24 has been another year of challenge, it has also been a year characterised by great energy
and innovation too. We are determined to build on this over the coming period as we continue to drive for
ambitious levels of academic performance, but we also know that is a necessary but not sufficient ends to a rich
education. We know that we must also ensure that our schools are places where children and young people feel
known and noticed, where they want to be and feel a part of, and where staff feel supported and appreciated.

Finally, | want to thank everyone at Lift for their complete commitment and belief in 490, for being “all in’, and
for their resilience and good humour in the chatlenges we face together.

Rebecca Boomer-Clark, Chief Executive

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 5

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

TRUSTEES’ REPORT

The trustees present their annual report, which includes the strategic report, together with the financial
statements and auditor's report of the charitable company for the year from 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024.
The annual report serves the purpose of both a trustees’ report, and a directors’ report under company law.

The financial statements of the Trust, have been prepared in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard
Applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102), the Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of
Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with the Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) (Charities SORP (FRS 102)), the
Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024 issued by ESFA, the Charities Act 2011 and the Companies Act 2006.

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT

Constitution

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) is a company limited by guarantee and an exempt charity. The
trust's articles are the primary governing documents of the trust. The trustees of the trust are also the Directors -
of the charitable company for the purposes of company law. During 2023/24 the trust had one connected
company: AET Solutions Limited (which is dormant, please see below).

Details of the trustees who served during the year are included in the Reference and Administrative Details on
page 1.

Members’ liability

Each member of the charitable company undertakes to contribute to the assets of the charitable company in the
event of it being wound up while they are a member, or within one year after they cease to be a member, such
amount as may be required, not exceeding £10, for the debts and liabilities contracted before they ceased to be a
member.

Trustees’ indemnities
There are no qualifying third-party indemnity provisions in place in respect of trustees, other than trustees’
insurance, which is in place.

Method of recruitment and appointment or election of trustees

It is the chair’s responsibility to consider the range and balance of skills required on the board of trustees. Senior
educationalists and experts in key functional areas are especially important. All new trustee candidates are
interviewed and shortlisted by a designated subset of trustees on the Nomination Committee, who then make
recommendations on appointments to the board. The trustees are then appointed in accordance with the
provisions set out in the Articles.

Trustees’ term of office

In accordance with the articles of association adopted on 25 October 2017, the initial term of office for trustees is
three years and they shall be deemed to retire (but may stand to be re-elected) at the Annual General Meeting
following that initial term. Any trustee re-elected shall be deemed to retire (but again may stand to be re-elected)
at each subsequent Annual General Meeting, subject to only one third of the trustees being required to retire at
any Annual General Meeting.

Policies and procedures adopted for the induction and training of trustees

Collectively, the trustees offer a wide range of skills and experience essential to the effective governance of the
trust. Each trustee undertakes a comprehensive induction programme that includes a review of Lift Schools’
unique governance model and scheme of delegation, meetings with the Chief Executive Officer and members of
the executive team, and which sets out clear expectations and responsibilities for the trustee.

Organisational structure
During the reporting year, the trust had a clear structure in place to control the way in which it is run. The

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 6

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

structure consists of four levels:

Members;

Trustees;

Executive team; and
Academy councils.

e@eoe

The trust has agreed a scheme of delegation that sets out the matters reserved to the members and trustees.
Matters not reserved to members or trustees are delegated to the trust’s committees or to the Chief Executive.

The matters reserved to the members include:

e Changes to the Articles;
e¢ Appointment of trustees; and
© Appointment of external auditors.

The matters reserved to trustees include:

Oversight of performance;
Strategy;

Policy;

Corporate structure;
Membership of committees;

The scheme of delegation;
Financial reporting and controls;
Approving budgets and forecasts;
Remuneration;

Acquisition of assets; and
Material contracts.

The trustees have established the following committees with appropriate terms of reference: Audit & Risk,
Education, Finance, Nomination, Remuneration, and Wellbeing & Safeguarding. The Chief Executive Officer
exercises their delegated authority through the Leadership Team, which has standing groups responsible for
negotiation and consultation with trade unions through the Joint Consultative and Negotiating Committee (JCNC).

During the past year, the executive team has operated as follows:

e The Leadership Team, set out on page 1, has led the day-to-day management of the trust in support of
the Chief Executive and overseen by the Board of Trustees and committees.
e The Directors of Education have led our education work, supported by:
eo Regional Education Directors, accountable to the Directors of Education; and
© Regional Executive Principals (covering more than one school) and Principals within each
school, accountable to the Regional Education Directors.

Schools are supported by our central team, which consists of a number of operational areas:
e Acomprehensive front line IT support service for schools as well as innovative EdTech support;
e HR business partnering support and all aspects of HR transactional work including payroll;
e Strategic financial support for school leaders as well as a comprehensive transactional service for
all finance activities;
Legal and insurance support;
Facilities and estates management provision for all building aspects and maintenance;
PR and marketing support; and
Procurement of trust-wide contracts including the management information software and all
other core systems as well as all other significant supplies required by schools.

Without consolidation of these services, schools would need to arrange these aspects of work themselves and

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 7

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

would not benefit from the trust's economies of scale. The cost of this work is set out in Note 11 to the Financial
Statements.

Academy Councils provide a local forum for parents, staff and the community, and play a critical role in helping us
stay connected to the local communities our schools serve by forging deep and lasting relationships that will
help ensure we are delivering an entitlement for excellence for all children in Lift Schools.

AET Solutions Ltd (company number 07003257) is a subsidiary of the trust. The trust is a person with significant
control, with more than 75% ownership of shares and voting rights, the right to appoint and remove directors and
significant influence and control over the trustee. The nature of its business is educational support services. The
company is currently dormant.

Pay policy for key management personnel

The key management personnel refers to the trustees and Leadership Team as documented on page 1. The salary
arrangements for key management personnel within the Group are reviewed and agreed by the Board of Trustees
annually through the Remuneration Committee. We operate a spot salary scheme that is overseen by the
Remuneration Committee of the board. Pay progression is linked to performance in line with the relevant Pay
Policy and is reviewed annually through a robust appraisal process. 7 :

Relevant trade union (TU) officials

Number of TU reps

FTE number of TU reps

Number of TU representatives that spent 0% working hours

Number of TU representatives that spent 1-50% working hours
Number of TU representatives that spent 51-99% working hours

Number of TU representatives that spent 100% working hours

Total pay bill :
Total cost of facitity time .

| Percentage of pay spent on facility time . - . : Le oe
Percentage of total hours spent on paid trade union activities

Related parties and other connected charities and organisations
Lift Schools has connections with the following organisations:

¢ AET Solutions Limited, a subsidiary company which is currently dormant;

e The Vice Chair of Trustees, Jude Chin, who stepped down after the year end, and remains amember of .
Lift Schools, is a director and shareholder in SSAT (the Schools Network) Limited;

¢ Andrew Thraves, a trustee, became a director of CST Professional Development Ltd in May 2022, became
Chair of Trustees at Big Education Trust in February 2024, and is the Chair of Trustee at Yes Futures.

e The CEO of Lift Schools, Rebecca Boomer-Clark, is a trustee of Jamie's Farm, Ambition Institute, and a
Council Member of University of Exeter (from August 2024).

e Natalie Perera, a trustee, is the CEO of Education Policy Institute (EPI).

@ Anne Mroz, a trustee, is a trustee of The Reach Foundation

e Claire Heald, a member of the Leadership Team until 31 May 2024, is a Trustee of The Difference

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 68

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

Education Ltd.

Any transactions with these connected organisations were reported to the ESFA where they met the definition of a
related party.

Engagement with employees (including disabled persons)

Lift Schools has engaged meaningfully with employees by empowering and supporting our principals to cascade
information and provide feedback. The regional education structure and operating model are critical to this
approach as it facilitates engagement within the regions with a shared understanding of the educational and
operational priorities, whilst at the same time ensuring a higher level of collaboration across our service
functions.

Alongside the regional education structure, a number of networking opportunities exist which give staff the
opportunity to influence and develop the approach of the trust from an educational perspective in various
aspects and, at the same time, network with other like-minded teaching colleagues from all over the country.

We receive feedback from employees through the annual staff survey, and we use the results of the survey ata
National, regional and local level to assess how well’ we are communicating. We review our practice based on
employee feedback. The 2024 outcomes showed a positive year on year increase for the communication module,
whilst also showing that we perform significantly better than the external benchmark provided by the survey
provider. :

In addition, we continue to communicate with principals on a fortnightly basis through the Headlines bulletin
who cascade relevant information to their school based teams, and we have a similar mechanism for central and
regional employees.

We also engage proactively with our recognised trade unions who represent a significant proportion of our
workforce. We have regular consultative meetings and value their input through the sharing of their members'
views.

We embrace diversity and promote equality of opportunity across our workforce. Job share, part-time and flexible
working opportunities are always considered, and we are a Disability Confident Employer with a guaranteed
interview scheme for candidates with disabilities who meet the minimum selection criteria.

Engagement with suppliers and other business relationships

Lift Schools has a procurement policy which defines the processes that the organisation must follow to tender for
new or existing contracts. These lay out the general principles of transparency, non-discrimination, probity,
accountability and value for money that Lift Schools should adhere to. For any purchases of over £5,000 a
minimum of three quotes must be obtained, and at over £15,000 five quotes should be obtained via a formal
tendering process. Where the value exceeds £177,897 “Find a Tender” advertising is also required.

Decision making follows the scheme of delegation, which is overseen by the Board. We follow the guidelines in
the Academy Trust Handbook, including ensuring that all trustees and other relevant persons disclose any
business interests. These interests are published on our website where relevant.

OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES

Objects and aims
Lift Schools’ charitable objects are set out in its Articles. In summary, the trust's purposes are to:
e Advance for the public benefit, education in the United Kingdom, in particular by being the proprietor of
academies. :
© Promote for the benefit of local communities, provision of facilities for recreation or other leisure time
pursuits.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 9

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

Our vision
Lift Schools believes an excellent education is an entitlement for every child, and we do everything in our power
to ensure that our schools are making that a reality for every pupil in our care.

Our mission
We will provide an excellent education to every child, in every classroom, every day.

With excellent leadership and teaching in every school, we will help children go on to lead successful and happy
lives.

We will work with others beyond our network to create capacity in the sector to benefit more children and
communities.

Our values and what we believe in
Be unusually brave - We're not afraid to make the right call, and we challenge wrongs, even when it's difficult to
do so.

Discover what's possible - We create ‘eureka moments’ for our students, helping them discover new possibilities
and opportunities.

Push the limits - We don’t settle for less than excellence and we won't allow our students to either.

Be big-hearted - We choose to treat each other with kindness, warmth and care, believing that everybody matters
equally. ,

We believe that:
¢ Education changes lives. Lift schools exist to unlock success for every child.
e Talent drives performance. We attract dynamic people and we back them to reimagine what's possible.
e = Trusts are a force for good. We work with others beyond our own schools to make generational change.

Public benefit
The trustees confirm that they have complied with the duty set out in Section 4 of the Charities Act 2011 to have
due regard to the Charity Commission's general guidance on public benefit.

The trustees have referred to the guidance set out in the Charity Commission’s general guidance on Public Benefit
when reviewing the trust's aims and objectives and in planning future activities. In particular, the trustees have
considered how planned activities contribute to the aims and objectives they have set.

The trustees consider that the trust’s aims and objectives are demonstrably to the public benefit. The trust
provides education and recreational facilities for the benefit of the community situated around each academy. In
addition, community-based projects and fundraising are undertaken during the year by both students and staff.

STRATEGIC REPORT

The past reporting year has been the third year in a 10-year strategic horizon which is seeing Lift Schools move
from being in turnaround mode to embedding sustainable excellence across our 57 schools. The change of name
from Academies Enterprise Trust at the end of the 2023/24 year was one visible element of this, but the
underlying educational change is even more fundamental. The core pillars of this strategy are illustrated below.

Lift Schools (formerty Academies Enterprise Trust) 10

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

Achieve ambitious academic
Academic outcomes for all

Teaching

Develop strong sense of
identity and ability to thrive

Provide excellent teaching
in every classroom

Pathways

Enable agency, choice

Amplify our impact within i
and opportunity

the system

We set out our ambitions for educational performance with the launch of Lift490. There are four elements to our
490 goal, which build on one another. By 2028, we want 90% of our pupils:

e@ to be secure readers for their age;

¢ to reach the expected standard in the key stage 1 phonics check;

e to meet the expected standard in reading, writing and maths; and

e to achieve grade 4 or above in English and maths GCSE.

It is a significant ambition: 59% of GCSE pupils achieved the same level in 2024. It is also significant in another
sense: it demonstrates our uncompromising desire to raise achievement for every single student.

490 represents our pledge to end educational disparity. It is our promise that all our pupils witl receive the
education that they deserve - one that sets them up for a successful life.

Achieving these goals was never going to happen overnight, especially given that the targets are unashamedly
ambitious. However, 2023/24 was a year in which we further built on our solid foundations across all areas, and
showed significant progress in our primary schools, as set out in the following section.

Our schools’ performance

Whilst some challenges persist at our secondary schools and in post-16 results, the 2023/24 attainment data for
our primary schools shows another significant step forward. The KS2 results are particularly outstanding,
especially for our disadvantaged pupils.

Early years good level of development (GLD), phonics, Key Stage 2 (KS2), and Key Stage 5 (KS5) outcomes all
showed improvements, often exceeding national averages and closing performance gaps for disadvantaged
pupils:

© In the early years foundation stage (EYFS) there has been a one percentage point increase, with 74% of

‘pupils achieving a good level of development (GLD).

e In phonics, there has been a three percentage point increase, with 89% of pupils achieving the expected
outcome. This exceeded the national average by nine percentage points.

e In KS2, the combined proportion of pupils meeting the expected standard in reading, writing, and maths
has risen to 77%, which is a seven percentage point improvement from 2023. On average, pupils in the
trust exceeded the national average (61%) at the expected standard by sixteen percentage points, with
this national average increased by one percentage point. In 2024, nationally, 45% of disadvantaged

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 11

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

pupils reached the expected standard in reading, writing, and maths, compared to 67% of
non-disadvantaged pupils. However, at Lift schools, for the first time disadvantaged pupils
outperformed the national average for non-disadvantaged pupils by achieving a 70% success rate, three
percentage points higher.

For KS4, there has been a two percentage point decrease in the proportion of pupils achieving grade 4+
(standard pass) in both English and maths, reaching 59%.

In KS5, the percentage of entries graded A*-C at A level stands at 68%, representing a five percentage
point increase compared to the 63% recorded in 2023.

Attainment Attainment Attainment Change from
2018/19 2022/23 2023/24 2022/23

“KS5 A level entries A*-C

The percentage of schools rated as Good or Outstanding within the trust as at the end of August 2024 is 90%,
which equates to 51 out of 57 schools. This represents a positive increase of seven percentage points compared
to the previous year.53 schools (93%) have achieved a good or outstanding rating in the Leadership and
Management sub judgement category.

Of the 40 schools that initially joined the trust with a rating of Requires Improvement or Inadequate, 90% (36
schools) have now achieved the status of Good or Outstanding.

As at 31/08/2024

Outstanding Good Requires Inadequate
improvement

1

)
grade on
j Maiag Requires 4(1% 16 (28%) 4 (7%)
Schools improvement
i a

)

Our financial performance
Further detail is provided in the financial review below, but the financial KPIs continue to show that a strong level
of financial performance and position is being maintained:

The results for the year show an operational surplus of £1.5m (2023: £4.3m)

Reserves (excluding fixed asset and pension funds) of £25.6m (2023: £21.2m)

Unrestricted general funds as a percentage of total income: 8.5% (2023: 7.9%)

Cash and investments held at the year-end was £42.9m (2023: £47.4m)

Net debt (cash and investments less loans outstanding) was £37.7m (2023: £41.3m, including a balance
owed to Dfe included in accruals)

Percentage of total income (excluding transfer of buildings or leases income) received from the DfE was
85.1% (2023: 86.7%).

The reserves held remain slightly above the range planned in the reserves policy. However, the balances held

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 12

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

include £1.4m designated for future replacement of 3G pitches, and the 2024/25 budget was set with a modest
deficit and allowed for investment in some one-off costs (the new name and our move to EdCity) and some
longer-term strategies including funding an individual development account for each principal.

Going concern

As at 31 August 2024, Lift Schools had £24.8m of unrestricted funds and restricted general funds of £0.8m. The
trust's aim is to maintain its reserves in line with its policy (see below), and the current level of funds is within
the expected range. The trust reported an operational surplus (for the underlying operations within schools and
the central team) of £1.5m for 2023/24 and also reported a surplus in 2022/23. The strong reserves position
allowed for a modest deficit budget to be set for 2024/25, although the impact of funding decisions since the
budget was set has allowed for a greater level of budget headroom. The improved in-year position has been
supported by the grant associated with the teachers’ pay award, as well as continued improvements to energy
costs, and will allow continued investment in the Lift Schools strategy.

The Board of Trustees is of the opinion that the trust has adequate resources to continue its activities for the
foreseeable future. For this reason, it continues to adopt the going concern basis in the financial statements. The
trustees make this assessment in respect of a period of at least one year from the date of authorisation for issue
of the financial statements. .

Reserves policy

The trust’s reserves policy is that it should build and maintain a sufficient level of funds in order to create
stability and sustainability, and to serve every school’s short and long term plans, including future capital
expenditure.

The trust aims to maintain revenue reserves, excluding fixed assets and pension funds but including loan funding,
of between 5% and 8% of total annual income. At 31 August 2024, the trust held funds, excluding fixed assets and
pension funds, of £25.6m, with unrestricted general funds being 8.5% of total income. Excluding £1.4m of funds
designated for the replacement of 3g pitches the balance held is in line with the upper end of the trust's policy.
Further details of reserves are covered in the financial review below.

Investment policy :
The trustees take account of the requirements of the Academy Trust Handbook when investing funds and the
need to not place capital at risk. The trustees generate income from surplus cash by investing in short term cash
deposits, some of which are disclosed as investments being on deposit for periods between three and twelve
months. The trust does not hold any other investments.

Principal risks and uncertainties

The trustees assess, monitor and manage risks through the Audit and Risk Committee, its internal control
framework and internal audit. The trust's approach to risk management has evolved significantly over the last two
years with an embedded Risk Management Policy supported by a risk register and risk appetite statements. The
risk register is reviewed by the leadership team and any new risks or movement in risk is reported to the board
and the relevant committees on a termly basis. The board reviews the overarching risk register annually to ensure
all key risks are captured, including emerging risks. Risk ownership is aligned with strategy, executive
responsibilities and annual performance objectives, with key risks including:

Safeguarding

The safety of students and staff is of utmost importance to the trust. Robust safeguarding and child protection
policies and procedures, which are available online, support schools to ensure that students are safe and feel
supported, and that everyone working in the trust knows when and how to raise any concerns that they may have
about safeguarding. Implementation and effectiveness of these policies, which conform to the latest Dfeé
guidance, are monitored regularly.

The. trust continues to have a designated safeguarding trustee, Karen Squillino, whose work at the NSPCC gives
her first-hand knowledge and experience of the best safeguarding practices in the nation. A Safeguarding
Assurance Framework has been implemented and is being embedded as part of the trust’s overall safeguarding
strategy. Safeguarding is also carefully tracked as a risk on our risk register, with actions and mitigations routinely

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 13

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

examined to ensure continuing appropriateness and effectiveness.

Governance

The board and committees have a wide-ranging skill set that will equip them to provide support and scrutiny and
move the trust into its next phase. The committees have developed a sharper focus within their areas of
responsibility. Cross-committee collaboration and decision-making continues to improve through termly All
Chairs’ meetings.

The board is committed to its own growth and development in order to serve the needs of the trust. To ensure it
is strategically focused on supporting and challenging the executive in achieving its 490 ambition, the board
commissioned an external review of board effectiveness in December 2023. As well as evaluating the collective
board, the external reviewer worked with the chair over a period of time to both evaluate their individual
performance and identify areas for further improvement. The results of this board effectiveness review were fed
back to the board in summer 2024, with resulting recommendations and actions being tracked by the collective
board.

Regional education directors and central teams provide professionalised governance, directly monitoring
educational and financial performance and compliance at school level and holding principals to account.

Academy councils, the trust's tocal layer of governance, have a remit centred around localism. 2023-24 was their
second year of operation working within this remit. These councils hold primary responsibility for engaging with
and elevating the voice of pupils, parents, staff and the tocal community, providing assurance and accountability
at a locat level.

People

With excellent leadership and teaching in every school, we will help children go on to tead successful and happy
lives. Our people strategy to acquire, develop, empower and retain the talent we need underpins our
organisational performance and helps us to positively differentiate us in a challenging skills market. :

We continue to invest at all levels meaningfully demonstrating our serious commitment to our people through a
core set of ‘talent rocks’ that are driving school improvement, as well as talent development and retention.

© We offer a full suite of Initial Teacher Training (where we have trained 200+ new teachers and 300+
mentors across the network), early career and NPQ programmes, expertly facilitated and tailored to our
network and local contexts. Our centralised professional development offer now includes coaching for
our senior leaders and other targeted roles.

‘“e Our approach to teaching and educational excellence is marked by our continued drive for instructional
excellence, delivered through an exciting and pioneering partnership with a leading international
provider.

e We believe that strong leaders in strong trusts deliver exceptional schools. That's why we have
established our leadership development programme and individual development accounts with up to
£100,000 over five years for every principat.

e We are maximising the value of apprenticeships to provide initial teacher assistant training allowing
them to provide the optimal support to students so that they can achieve their full potential by fully
accessing the curriculum, participating in learning, and experiencing a sense of achievement.

Finance

The sector continues to face uncertainty over the level of funding in the short and medium term. Whilst funding
decisions since the new government took office in July 2024 have been positive, there remains a risk that funding
proves to be insufficient to cover the costs of the annual pay awards for teachers and support staff and general
inflation increases, especially energy costs.

The trust continues to evaluate its expenditure to manage budgets and the trust’s schools operate multi-year
Integrated Curriculum and Finance Plans (ICFPs) to ensure that they are both educationally and financially viable.

Steps are also being taken to diversify income from non-core grant sources, in order to ensure that the maximum
funds are available to support educational activities.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 14

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

Estates

The trust's estate comprises buildings of varying ages, some of which, before becoming part of the trust, were not
adequately looked after. The cost of repairs and ongoing maintenance of the estate is considerable. That
expenditure is partly funded through a capital grant received from the Df. If this grant were to be reduced, or to
disappear, the trust would have to reduce the amount of resources that it could invest in the pupils’ education.
From the perspective of general condition, the capital grant is prioritised and allocated with consideration given
to:

¢ Our condition surveys, which are carried out every five years. These are prepared by professional
surveyors who look at all aspects of the school buildings and infrastructure. Each item is graded from A
to D (D being the worst) and prioritised from 1 to 4 (1 being the most urgent). The condition surveys are
supported by further inspections as may be required by law or to determine the extent of work that may
be required.

e Visits and observations by our estates team and our school principals.

e Routine audits and statutory inspections, such as health and safety audits and fixed wiring inspections.

The opportunity cost associated with deferring some works or projects over others.

- Whilst our plans for the coming five years are in place, we build contingency into our plans to enable us to
respond to unexpected occurrences, for example boiler breakdowns.

The trust was affected by guidance for buildings with (RAAC). Two of the trust's schools were confirmed as having
reinforced autoclaved aerated concrete (RAAC) in 2023/24. Hockley Primary, which was closed in June 2023, is now
operating from a purpose built temporary building, with the original school building due to be demolished and
rebuilt with funding from the Df€ as part of the Priority School Building Programme. The complete project is
expected to take three years, and will be project-managed by the DfE with Lift Schools taking the role of ‘client’.
Tendring Technology College, which had a partial site closure from September 2023, now has temporary modular
buildings whilst work continues to remove the RAAC, replace the roof, and update the M&E within the building.
This work is expected to be completed by late February 2025.

In January 2024 it was confirmed that Hall Road Primary would also be rebuilt as part of the Dfe’s Priority School -
Building Programme. The project was initiated in August 2024, and the overall build is expected to take three
years.

Promoting the success of the organisation
As noted, the trust's charitable objectives are:

e Advance for the public benefit, education in the United Kingdom, in particular by being the proprietor of
schools.

e Promote for the benefit of locat communities, provision of facilities for recreation or other leisure time
pursuits.

These are the sole aims of the trust's business plan. To be successful the trust has to engage with employees and
suppliers as set out above. By meeting its charitable objectives, the trust has a positive impact on the
communities around each school as it provides an excellent education and facilities to its beneficiaries.

The trust has embraced the need to be a sustainable organisation. Substantial resources have been invested to
reduce the amount of energy consumed each year.

In delivering its business plan the trust expects all of its employees, suppliers, beneficiaries and trustees to
exhibit high standards of business conduct in line with the Seven Principles of Public life:

Selflessness
Integrity
Objectivity
Accountability
Openness

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 15

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

e Honesty
e Leadership

Fundraising
Our schools fundraise through specific activities, including non-uniform days and particular fundraising events
and pupils and staff choose third party charities to donate to.

The trust has not historically undertaken fundraising on its own
behalf and therefore, does not employ professional fundraisers.
Any complaints relating to fundraising are dealt with in the first
instance by the relevant school which follows the trust's
complaints procedure. There were no complaints received in the
year.

Key financial information
2023/24
£'000

Operational outturn

Reported outturn before 4,62
. actuarial gains

The 2023/34 finan

The 2023/24 financial year was one which saw a gradual return L@@r end cash and investmen

to a more stable financial operating environment, as the
impacts of the pandemic and of very high inflation began to dissipate. However, whilst the operating conditions
were more stable, the underlying financial challenges facing Lift Schools and the wider sector remained, with
there being:
e Increasing levels of educational demand, not least to support SEND students and to mitigate the
longer-term impacts of educational debt from the pandemic;
« Acontinuing gap between the costs of inflation and the funding from government for increased pay and
non-pay costs; and
e  Longer-term financial demands to support capital investment in both IT and in our schools’ estates,
over and above the level of capital funding provided.

Financial review

Financial outturn
The trust's operational result for the year was a surplus of £1.5m (2023: £4.3m). This operational surplus excludes
a number of non-operational items and, once these items are included, the net income for the year is £4.6m. The
trust monitors the operational surplus since this gives a clearer in-year picture of the trust’s performance,
especially in its schools, and also provides for a comparison between years. The operating surplus excludes the
following:
e “Pensions costs, which are actuarially calculated and which have no cash impact on the trust's
operations;
¢ Depreciation, which is a non-cash cost and therefore (whilst a real cost, indicative of the longer-term
need for continued investment in assets) is separated out from the operating budget; and
e The net spend against the restricted fixed asset reserve, since this is a separable income stream with
expenditure which crosses between years which can therefore distort the comparison between years.
The prior year figures in the fixed asset reserve were restated in this year's accounts to separate out the
depreciation charge on land and buildings. This has no impact on the operational performance, and is
disclosed in note 1 to the financial statements.

2023/24 2022/23

Operati

£'000 £'000
a
[bonatonsreeeved «dC
a

ional result

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 16

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

Total operational income: 258,438
@

Operational surplus forthe year) | 1,526] 4,255

oC
LiPo

Reconciliation to reported result Restated]

2023/24 2022/23
£'000 £'000

Net movement in funds as per Statement of 7,979 39,438
Financial Activities

Add: LGPS actuarial loss/(gain) (36,123)

Net income’/, (expenditure)) 327}
Exclude fixed asset fund movements (246)

Exclude pension fund movements (3,754)

Total operational surplus 1,524 4,255

Overall, the trust’s financial performance continues to be strong, with the operational surplus allowing the
maintenance of a strong financial position. The financial performance and position are set out in more detail
below.

Income

The majority of trust's income comes from the Df, ESFA, and local authorities, in the form of grants the use of
which is restricted to the trust's charitable objectives. The grants received during the year ended 31 August 2024
and the associated expenditure are reported as restricted funds in the Statement of Financial Activities (“SOFA”).

The SOFA reports total income for the year of £290.7m (2023: £266.3m). Our grant funding was supplemented by
£2.1m from trading income and £2.5m from investment income. These income streams, whilst a small percentage
of the total trust income, are important in diversifying the income sources. One of the challenges for future years
will be to drive additional diversified income in order to reduce the level of reliance on grant funding.

Expenditure

Total expenditure for the year was £286.1m with £200.6m of this relating to staff expenditure, an increase of 8.6%
from 2023. Staff costs, including pensions, were 70.1% of expenditure (2023: 70.2%). As the trust's largest cost there
is a resultant strong focus on how these are controlled. Each school has an Integrated Curriculum and Finance
Plan (ICFP) which is used to monitor the financial and educational impact of staffing decisions, both in the
current year and over a rolling three-year period.

Other gains for the year were £3.4m which related to actuarial gains on the trust’s LGPS pension funds. This
follows the £36.1m actuarial gain in 2023/24, further strengthening the overall reserves position, but also
iltustrating the extent to which the pension fund liabilities are now offset by an increasingly strong funding
position.

Balance sheet and reserves

The balance sheet remains strong, with net assets (before the inclusion of the pensions liability) of £429.7m. Total
cash and short-term investment balances at 31 August 2024 were £42.9m (2023: £47.4). These cash and investment
balances are offset by loans repayable to the Df€ of £5.2m, with £1.3m repaid during 2023/24. This leaves a
positive net debt position of £37.7m compared to £41.3m in 2023 (including an amount payable to DfE in 2023
which was included in accruals).

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 17

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

The majority of school buildings are leased from local authorities for a peppercorn rent. In accordance with the
Accounts Direction and the Charity SORP, the buildings on long term leases (typically 125 years) from local
authorities have been recognised as tangible fixed assets in the Financial Statements and the value of the
buildings has been treated as voluntary income in the Financial Statements, in the year of transfer to the Group.
The value is subsequently treated as deemed cost. The restricted fixed asset fund balance is reduced by
depreciation charges over the expected useful life of the assets concerned.

A prior year adjustment has been made to appropriately allocate the value of freehold and leasehold land within
land and buildings to be consistent with industry practice and the Academy Trust Handbook. This allocation has
led to an adjustment to accumulated depreciation. This change has no impact on the trust’s reported results
other than for the restricted fixed asset fund, and has no cash impact. The details are stated in note 1 of the
financial statements.

The buildings of four schools are leased under Private Finance Initiative (“PFI”) contracts. The commitments under
PFI contracts are disclosed as operating leases in note 21 and as such no valuation is included within fixed assets
on the Balance Sheet for these buildings.

The fixed assets, primarily land and buildings, are included on the balance sheet at £404.0m, showing the
significant value of the trust’s asset base. However, this hides that the estate is of mixed quality and is ageing,
and therefore needs a significant ongoing level of investment to keep it fit for purpose.

Whilst the reserves position at the year end is strong, with total funds of £428.7m, the fact that £404.0m of this
relates to fixed assets is indicative of the challenge of maintaining investment in the estate. This leaves £24.8m of
unrestricted general and designated funds, and £0.8m of restricted general funds, which are required to support
future investment (in the strategy as well as the estate), and to mitigate risks.

The net liability in the LGPS pension funds is recognised on the balance sheet in accordance with the provisions
of FRS102. The total reported deficit in the scheme at 31 August 2024 was £1.0m (2023: £8.1m), although a number
of the constituent funds within which Lift Schools has members aré now in surplus based on the actuarial
assessments; where a fund was a surplus this has been capped at Enil for the purposes of the accounts.
Movements in the pension fund are reported in note 20 to the Financial Statements, but the shift to the scheme
being almost fully funded is expected to result in a positive actuarial valuation (and therefore potentially lower
contribution rates) at the next valuation date of 31 March 2025.

Financial outlook and going concern

Whilst the education sector remains a challenging sector in which to operate,-the immediate outlook for Lift
Schools remains positive. The trust will move into new premises in EdCity in January 2025, marking another key
point in the transition from turnaround to a trust with significant ambitions for each child it educates.

The 2024/25 annual budget was set with a slight deficit, based on prudent assumptions around pay awards and
the funding for these. Since then, with funding for the teachers pay award for 2024/25 being more positive than
feared, an underlying surplus is expected in 2024/25 once the one-off costs of the rebrand and move to EdCity are
excluded. The surplus position is after an expected investment, over and above that in the original budget, in
tutoring and other interventions to support secondary outcomes; an investment which reflects the strong starting
position for the year financially.

The outlook beyond 2024/25 is less certain, with government funding only secure for a limited period.
Nonetheless, with a strong reserves position and a strong in-year performance expected the trust is well placed
for the future.

Streamlined energy and carbon reporting

As a large company (as defined by the Companies Act 2006), Lift Schools is required to include the following
information regarding its energy use and associated greenhouse emissions in accordance with the Companies
(Directors' Report) and Limited Liability Partnerships (Energy and Carbon Report) Regulations 2018.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 18

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

UK Greenhouse gas emissions and energy use data for the period 1 September 2023 1 September 2022
to 31 August 2024 to 31 August 2023

Energy consumption used to calculate emissions (kWh) 44,672,765 42,917,627

Energy consumption breakdown
gas (kwh) 29,460,486 27,624,642
electricity (kwh) 12,666,785 13,317,580
transport fuel - Trust vehicles (miles) 148,216 208,632
transport fuel - private//hire vehicles (miles) 450,459 442,570
Biomass (kwh) 328,699 600,407
Oil (litres) 55,533 67,155

Scope 1 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e
Gas consumption

Oil

Biomass

Owned transport - mini-buses

Total scope 1

Scope 2 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e
Purchased electricity

Scope 3 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e

Business travel in employee owned vehicles . 76.66
Business travel in hire vehicles ; 48.75
Business travel in aeroplanes . 6.67
Train not recorded

Total gross emissions in metric tonnes CO2e 5,778.09 5,349.90
. .

Tonnes CO2e per pupil including Train Travel 0.17008 0.16203
Tonnes CO2e per pupil excluding Train Travel 0.16928 not recorded

Quantification and Reporting Methodology

We have followed the 2019 HM Government Environmental Reporting Guidelines. We have also used the GHG Reporting
Protocol - Corporate Standard and have used the 2023 UK Government's Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
Intensity measurement

The chosen intensity measurement ratio is total gross emissions in metric tonnes CO2e per pupil, the recommended ratio
for the sector.

Progress during 2023/24

The trust has replaced flat roofs and increased insulation levels at Aylward Academy, Tendring Technology
College, Shafton Primary, Broadlands Academy, Firth Park Academy, New Forest Academy and Richmond Park
Academy. Old inefficient boilers have been replaced at Anglesey Primary, Broadlands Academy, Firth Park
Academy and Tamworth Enterprise College.

We have also completed the installation of solar panels in our schools from the capital funding bid from 2022. 51
schools now have solar panels, with a total of 3.1mwh in generation, meaning all suitable school sites are now
covered,

Seven schools have obtained funded support to allow them to access the Energy Sparks Programme which is a
unique school-specific energy management tool and education programme. Using electricity, gas and solar data,
Energy Sparks shows pupils and staff how much energy the school is using each day. The online tool presents
bespoke analysis of the energy data with suggestions of potential actions to save energy and reduce the school’s
carbon emissions.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 19

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

Eleven schools have successfully joined the Government's Net Zero Accelerator pathfinder programme. This
initiative links to the Government's overall commitment to sustainability and achieving net zero emissions. The
pathfinder programme is limited to a total of 50 schools across the entire school system. This means that during
2024/25 we will receive support to reduce our carbon footprint and enhance energy efficiency. Specific priorities
include:

e Developing a detailed decarbonisation plan.
Optimising building controls for more efficient energy use.
Implementing a programme of behavioural change to encourage energy-saving practices.
Supporting the delivery of project-based learning, teaching initiatives and community engagement.
Evaluating energy procurement with a focus on sustainable options.
Collecting and analysing building and energy data across our estate.

We continue to utilise video conferencing wherever possible to reduce the need to travel on trust business, and
have successfully completed the removal of on-premises servers across 22 schools, transitioning data and
functionality to a cloud-based infrastructure. This shift to the cloud eliminates the need for multiple physical
servers, which previously required constant power for operation, cooling, and maintenance.

The adoption of power-efficient Chromebooks (which use up to 46% less energy than comparable operating
systems) and Chromeboxes across our schools has played a key role in reducing overall energy consumption.
Unlike traditional desktop computers, these devices are designed to be lightweight and use minimat power,
operating effectively on a fraction of the energy required by standard machines. Chromebooks and Chromeboxes
consume less power due to their streamlined operating systems and reliance on cloud-based applications,
reducing the need for energy-intensive local processing.

Finally, implementing ChromeOS Flex has enabled us to repurpose older devices across schools, reducing the
need for new hardware and conserving energy. By installing this lightweight operating system, we've extended the
life of existing devices, which now run efficiently with minimal power requirements.

PLANS FOR THE FUTURE

2024/25 sees the trust move into its next two-year strategy cycle, which will focus on insights-driven improvement
and innovation. Our objectives are guided by ten top trust goals:

Academic and teaching -
1. Pupils achieve the fundamentals of an excellent education (Lift490)
2. Disadvantaged pupils perform in line with non-disadvantaged pupils in England
3. Pupils with special educational needs or disabilities receive an excellent education in all settings
4, Every school in our network enables pupils to make positive progress
5. Every school in our network is rated good or outstanding

Self and pathways
6. Pupils are in school and learning every day
7, Pupils are safe, well, and build strong relationships with their teachers
8. Students progress to, and sustain, their next destination
9. Parents would recommend their child’s school to another parent

10. Teachers are strongly committed to teaching in their school

Many of the plans for 2023/24 will continue to play a key role in the future. The Lift 490 strategy remains at the
heart of our plans to deliver for every child in every classroom and, during 2024/25, this will be supported by a
new approach to school structures and to resource allocation, helping to ensure that we prioritise funding to the
areas of greatest need. We will continue to invest in our recruitment pipeline through our ‘talent rocks’, ensuring
we are bringing new talent into the profession at the start of their careers, for example through our ITT
Programme, as well as being an employer of choice for those throughout their careers.

2024/25 will also be the year in which we see the benefit and impact of our new name Lift Schools. This is not just

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) “20

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

a cosmetic change; it reflects our confidence that we can truly transform the life of every child and allow them to
achieve their full potential. The year will see a particular focus on outcomes in our secondaries which is, as
expected, providing the most challenging area in which to achieve improvements.

Alongside our education plans, we will continue to invest in our support services and in our estate and IT:

© In early 2025 we will move our head office to EdCity, joining ARK Schools at a purpose built location
which will provide a major opportunity for system collaboration and learning.

© We continue to embed the regional support structures put in place in 2023/24, which will also help bring
our commitment to locatism to life through the Academy Councils for each school.

e Work continues to invest in the physical infrastructure of our estate. Challenges such as RAAC typify an
ageing estates, but our focus goes beyond remedial works and reflects that we take seriously the
responsibility for ensuring that the spaces in which our children and young people learn are not just
safe, but places that can inspire.

The Academy and the Trustees do not act as the Custodian Trustees of any other Charity.

AUDITORS ;
Each of the persons who are trustees at the time when this trustees’ report is approved has confirmed that:

e So far as the trustees are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the charitable group’s
auditors are unaware. ,

e That the trustees have taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as trustees in order to be aware
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the charitable group’s auditors are aware of that
information.

This report, incorporating a strategic report, was approved by order of the Board of Trustees on 12 December 2024
and signed on its behalf by:

Vue S Mal

0 Hall R Boomer-Clark
Chair Chief Executive and Accounting Officer
Date: 12 December 2024 Date: 12 December 2024

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 21

Governance Statement
GOVERNANCE STATEMENT

Scope of responsibility

As trustees, we acknowledge we have overall responsibility for ensuring that the trust has an-effective and
appropriate system of control, financial and otherwise. However, such a system is designed to manage rather than
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss. The trust's revised Risk Management Policy has been fully
embedded which brings a greater alignment of strategy, risk and executive responsibilities and targets. As
trustees, we have reviewed and taken account of the guidance in Df—’s Academy Trust Governance Guidance.

The board of trustees has delegated the day-to-day responsibility to the Chief Executive, as Accounting Officer, for
ensuring financial controls conform with the requirements of both propriety and good financial management and
are in accordance with the requirements and responsibilities assigned to it in the funding agreement between the
trust and the Secretary of State for Education. They are also responsible for reporting to the board of trustees any
material weaknesses or breakdowns in internal control. The trust's Scheme of Delegation is regularly reviewed
and updated, where appropriate, and is published on the trust website.

Governance

The information on governance included here #iRemnets Number of Out ofa
supplements that described in the trustees’ report meetings possible
and in the statement of trustees’ responsibilities. The attended

Board of Trustees met four times during the year and
has maintained effective oversight in the interim

D Hall (Chair)

through regular and detailed meetings with relevant | J Chin (Vice Chair)

subcommittees. Attendance during the year at
meetings of the board was as set out in the table. R Boomer-Clark (Chief Executive)

Conflicts of interest
Each year, -all staff, academy councils members and

trustees undertake an affirmation of the Code of -

Conduct, which includes declaring any conflicts of
interest. In addition, at each meeting throughout the

year trustees and academy council members declare | KSquilino
any new conflicts of interest. The register of interest
for trustees is published on the trust’s main website.

Review of governance ,
The board continues to review and strengthen the

breadth of trustee skills and expertise. Our trustees | _NWeatherit =
bring with them extensive in-school and education

policy experience, as well as experience in audit, finance, safeguarding, health & safety, technology (including Al)
and estates management. Board effectiveness remains a focus and trustees engaged in the 2023/24 board
effectiveness review, as described above. The outputs from that review are being incorporated into the Board’s
plan for the 2024/25 academic year.

At the trust's local layer of governance, academy councils now serve as the single local body squarely focused on
providing insight into the experiences of pupils, parents, staff and the wider community. Composed of parents,
community members, staff, local authority representatives, school leaders and a trust link member, they serve as
a source of validation and (where necessary) modification of the trust's understanding of the school's success in
meeting the needs of its pupils and community. They also serve as ambassadors of the school and the trust to
the parents and community. , .

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 22

Governance Statement

Audit and Risk Committee

The Audit and Risk Committee is a sub-committee of the main
board of trustees. Its purpose is to review the financial
statements and accounting policies, receive and review the

Number of Out of a
meetings possible
attended

Trustee

internal and external auditors’ reports and assist the Board in | J Chin (Chair)

fulfilling its oversight responsibilities with regard to the risk R Boomer Clark
management of Lift. In attendance only

Attendance at meetings in the year was as set out in the pHa

table. J Perry

CP Wicks

Finance Committee Number of Out ofa
The Finance Committee is a sub-committee of the main [imma meetings possible
board of trustees. Its purpose is to assist the board in attended

fulfilling its oversight responsibilities with regard to the J Perry (Chair)

financial management of Lift. It does this through the review

of financial projections and management accounts making | R Boomer Clark
recommendations to the main board meeting.

Attendance at meetings in the year was as set out in the ovat

table. A Thraves

N Weatherill

Other committees

The trust has-four other committees. The Wellbeing and Safeguarding Committee serves to address the myriad of
wellbeing and safeguarding issues that impacted staff and pupils this past few years as a result of the pandemic.
Attendance at meetings in the year was as follows:

Education Committee Number of Outofa Nomination Committee Number of Out of a
Trustees and committee members meetings possible meetings possible

attended attended
D Carter . O Hall
(Chair, Advisory education expert) (Chair)

R Boomer-Ciark

a
B Francis
(Advisory education expert)

es ee

C Heald
(resigned 31 May 2024)

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 23

_ Governance Statement

P Humphreys

Remuneration Committee Number of Out of a Wellbeing & Safeguarding Number of Out ofa
meetings possible Committee meetings possible
attended attended

D Hall (Chair) K Squillino (Chair)

R Boomer-Clark R Boomer-Clark

C Heald 1
(resigned 31 May 2024)
rs er

Review of Value for Money

As Accounting Officer, the Chief Executive Officer has responsibility for ensuring that the trust delivers good value
in the use of public resources. Value for Money (VfM) relates to the economy, efficiency and effectiveness with
which resources are used, and extends beyond the simple achievement of the best price for goods. It therefore
reflects on how resources are used to the benefit of our schools and pupils, to achieve educational and wider
societal outcomes both in the short term and into the future, and to ensure that all our pupils study in schools
which are not just fit for the basic requirements but which promote an environment which supports their whole
learning.

Each academic year, the Accounting Officer reports to the Board of Trustees where VfM can be improved. The
following improvements have been delivered this year:

© Ongoing, and significant, improvements to educational outcomes as set out in the review of the year,
showing the benefit of time and resources being focused on delivering our strategy.

© The continued consolidation of procurement and supplier spend across the trust, leveraging the buying
power of the trust.

e The completion of a programme to reduce energy consumption through the installation of solar panels
across more of our estate and through monitoring of electricity usage to reduce waste.

e Improving procurement practice, resulting in identified contract life savings of £1.34m during the year of
which £0.57m was in-year savings across a range of areas including ICT hardware, catering, utilities
curriculum materials, telephone line rental and call costs and catering equipment. This has included
improving prices from key suppliers, achieving more favourable terms than individual schools have
been able to secure in the past, freeing up funds for other purposes. Further contract savings for
2024/25 of £0.58m have been achieved with further significant savings projected for utilities in 2024/25.

e A focus on a number of priority schools, which has included ensuring that the physical estate is not just
compliant with health and safety requirements but provides a positive fit-for-purpose learning
environment. In addition, an estates asset refresh fund is in place to ensure an ongoing focus on
maintaining the estate.

e New contract management processes have been introduced over the year and these will be rolled out in
the next year to a number of contract areas.

e There has been an enhanced focus on agency staffing spend to ensure that this important, but at times
costly, means of support for schools is managed in the most effective way. This has secured improved
pricing from suppliers, and it is anticipated it will result in a greater level of control over the quality of
staff in the future.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 24

Governance Statement

The purpose of the system of internal control

The system of internal control is designed to manage risk to a reasonable level rather than to eliminate all risk of
failure to achieve policies, aims and objectives; it can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute
assurance of effectiveness.

The system of internal control is based on an ongoing process designed to:

e identify and prioritise the risks to the achievement of the company policies, aims and objectives;
e evaluate the likelihood and impact of those risks being realised; and
@ manage risks efficiently, effectively and economically.

The system of internal control has been in place in the trust for the year 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 and
up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.

Capacity to handle risk

The Board of Trustees routinely reviews the key risks to which the trust is exposed, together with the operating,
financial and compliance controls that have been implemented to mitigate those risks. There is a formal ongoing
process for identifying, evaluating and managing the company’s significant risks that has been in place for the
year 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial
statements. This process is regularly reviewed by the Board of Trustees.

The risk and control framework

The trust’s system of internal control is based on a framework of regular management information and
administrative procedures including the segregation of duties and a system of delegation and accountability. In
particular, it includes:

e Comprehensive budgeting and monitoring systems with an annual budget review and monthly financial
reports which are reviewed and agreed by the Board of Trustees.

e Regular reviews by the Finance Committee of reports which highlight financial performance against the

forecasts and of major purchase plans, capital works and expenditure programmes.

Setting targets to measure financial and other performance.

Clearly defined purchasing (asset purchase or capital investment) guidelines.

Delegation of authority and segregation of duties.

Identification and management of risks.

The Board of Trustees has considered the need for a specific internal audit function and RSM continues to serve
as the trust's internal auditor focusing on organisational wide reviews. At the same time a programme of reviews
by school support service staff ensures that financial and operational policies and procedures are being followed
by everyone within the organisation.

The internal auditor's role includes giving advice on financial matters and performing a range of checks on the
trust's financial systems. In this year the checks carried out by RSM included;

Single Central Record Deep Dive

General Ledger and Debtors

Cyber Essentials Follow-Up

Finance Team's Regional and School Audits
Contract and Supplier Management
Regional Model Implementation

e@eeoeve

The internal auditor reports to the Board of Trustees, through the Audit and Risk Committee, on the operation of
the systems of control and on the discharge of the Board of Trustees’ financial responsibilities.

All findings and actions from the internal audit work performed during the year are being actioned and tracked
by the Audit and Risk Committee.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 25

Governance Statement

Review of effectiveness
As Accounting Officer, the Chief Executive has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of
internal control. During the year in question, the review has been informed by:

The work of the internal auditor.

The work of the external auditor.

The financial management and governance self-assessment process.

The work of the executive team within the trust who have responsibility for the development and
maintenance of the internal control framework.

The Accounting Officer has been advised of the implications of the result of their review of the system of internal
control by the Audit and Risk, and Finance Committees, A plan to address weaknesses and ensure continuous
improvement of the system is in place.

Conclusion :

Based on the advice of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Accounting Officer, the Board of Trustees is of
the opinion that the academy trust has an adequate and effective framework for governance, risk
management and control. , . ,

Approved by order of the Board of Trustees on and signed on its behalf by:

Ve) 5, all

D Hall, Chair R Boomer-Clark, Accounting Officer
Date: 12 December 2024 Date: 12 December 2024

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 26

Statement of regularity, propriety and compliance

As Accounting Officer of Lift Schools, | have considered my responsibility to notify the Academy Trust Board of
Trustees and the ESFA of material irregularity, impropriety and non-compliance with ESFA terms and conditions of
funding, including for estates safety and management, under the funding agreement in place between the
Academy Trust and the Secretary of State for Education. As part of my consideration, | have had due regard to the
requirements of the Academy Trust Handbook 2023 including responsibilities for estates safety and management.

| confirm that | and the Academy Trust Board of Trustees are able to identify any material irregular or improper
use of funds by the Academy Trust, or material non-compliance with the terms and conditions of funding under
the Academy Trust's funding agreement and the Academy Trust Handbook 2023.

| confirm that no instances of material irregularity, impropriety or funding non-compliance have been discovered

to date. If any instances are identified after the date of this statement, these will be notified to the Board of
Trustees and ESFA.

R Boomer-Clark

Chief Executive and Accounting Officer
Date: 12 December 2024

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 27

Statement of trustees’ responsibilities

The trustees (who are also the Directors of the charitable company for the purposes of company law) are
responsible for preparing the trustees’ report and the financial statements in accordance with the Annual
Accounts Direction issued by the Education and Skills Funding Agency, United Kingdom Accounting Standards
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) and applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the trustees to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under company law the
trustees must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of
the state of affairs of the charitable company and of its income and expenditure for that period. In preparing
these financial statements, the trustees are required to:

e Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.

@ Observe the methods and principles of the Charities SORP 2019 and the Academies Accounts Direction
2023 to 2024.

e Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent.

e State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.

e Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that ©
the charitable company will continue in business.

The trustees are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
charitable company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
charitable company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the charitable company and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The trustees are responsible for ensuring that in its conduct and operation the charitable company applies
financial and other controls, which conform with the requirements both of propriety and of good financial
management. They are also responsible for ensuring grants received from the ESFA/DfE have been applied for the
purposes intended.

The trustees are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information
included on the charitable company's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Approved by order of the members of the Board of Trustees on 12 December 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

Vendy 5, Wall

D Hall
Chair
Date 12 December 2024

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 28

Independent auditor’s report on the financial statements

Independent auditor's report on the financial statements to the members of Lift
Schools

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Lift Schools (the "parent trust") and its subsidiary (the "Group") for
the year ended 31 August 2024 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Financial Activities, the
Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Trust Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the related
notes, including a summary of significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has been
applied in their preparation is applicable law, United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice), including Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland’, the Charities SORP 2019 and the Academies Accounts Direction 2023
to 2024 issued by the Education and Skills Funding Agency.

In our opinion the financial statements:
e give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's and the parent Trust's affairs as at 31 August 2024
- and of the Group’s incoming resources and application of resources, including its income and
expenditure for the year then ended;
e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and *
e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the Charities SORP
2019 and the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024 issued by the Education and Skills Funding
Agency.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors' responsibilities for the
audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the United Kingdom, including
the Financial Reporting Council's Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the trustees' use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group's ability to continue as a
going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the trustees with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report other than the financial
statements and our Auditors' Report thereon. The trustees are responsible for the other information contained
within the annual report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and,
except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion
thereon. Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other
information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of
the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or
apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material
misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 29

Independent auditor's report on the financial statements
We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
e the information given in the trustees’ report including the strategic report for the financial year for
which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
e the trustees’ report and the strategic report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of our knowledge and understanding of the Group and its parent Trust and its environment obtained
in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the trustees’ report including the
strategic report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006
requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: : :
e adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
e certain disclosures of trustees' remuneration specified by law are not made; or
© we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of trustees

As explained more fully in the trustees’ Responsibilities Statement, the trustees (who are also the directors of the
Academy Trust for the purposes of company ‘aw) are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the trustees determine
is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error.

in preparing the financial statements, the trustees are responsible for assessing the Academy Trust's ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the trustees either intend to liquidate the Group or to cease operations, or
have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors' Report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected
to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures
in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities,
including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is
detailed below.

In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non
compliance with laws and regulations, we considered the following:

e the nature of the Academy sector, control environment and the Academy Trust's performance;

e results of our enquiries of management and the trustee board, including the committees charged with
governance over the Academy Trust's finance and control, about their own identification and
assessment of the risks of irregularities; .

© any matters we identified having obtained and reviewed the Academy Trust's documentation of their
policies and procedures relating to: identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 30

Independent auditor's report on the financial statements

whether they were aware of any instances of non compliance; detecting and responding to the risks of
fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud; the internal controls
established to mitigate risks of fraud or noncompliance with laws and regulations

e how the Academy Trust ensured it met its obligations arising from it being financed by the ESFA and
other funders, and as such material compliance with these obligations is required to ensure the
Academy Trust will continue to receive its public funding and be authorised to operate, including
around ensuring there is no material unauthorised use of funds and expenditure;

e@ how the Academy Trust ensured it met its obligations to its principal regulator, the Secretary of State for
Education; and

© the matters were discussed among the audit engagement team who also considered any potential
indicators of fraud.

As a result of these procedures, we considered the opportunities and incentives that may exist within the
organisation for fraud, which included incorrect recognition of income, management override of controls using
manual journal entries, procurement and payroll. We identified the greatest potential for fraud as incorrect
recognition of income and management override using manual journal entries.

In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also required to perform specific procedures to respond to the
risk of management override. We also obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the
Academy Trust operates in, focusing on provisions of those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the
determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The key laws and regulations we
considered in this context included the Academies Accounts Direction, Academy Trust Handbook, Charity Law,
Charity Statement of Recommended Practice, UK Companies Act and tax legislation.

In addition, we considered provisions of other laws and regulations that do not have a direct effect on the
financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental to the Academy Trust's ability to operate or
to avoid a material penalty. These included safeguarding regulations, data protection regulations, occupational
health and safety regulations, education and inspections legislation, building legislation and employment
legislation.

Our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following:

e reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess
compliance

e with provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct effect on the financial
statements;

e reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess the
recognition of revenue;

enquiring of trustees and management and those charged with governance concerning actual and
potential litigation and claims;

e performing procedures to confirm material compliance with the requirements of its regulators;

e performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate
risks of material misstatement due to fraud;

e reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance and reviewing internal control reports;
and

e in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of
journal entries and other adjustments; and assessing whether the judgements made in making
accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias.

We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team
members, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non compliance with laws and regulations throughout
the audit.

Our audit procedures were designed to respond to risks of material misstatement in the financial statements,
recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not
detecting one resulting from an error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery,
misrepresentations or through collusion. There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures performed and
the further removed non compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 31

Independent auditor's report on the financial statements
the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial
Reporting Council's website at: www-frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our
Auditors! Report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the Academy Trust's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of
the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Academy Trust's
members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors’ Report and for no other purpose. To the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Academy
Trust and its members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Kevin Connor FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor)

for and on behalf of
Bishop Fleming LLP
Chartered Accountants
Statutory Auditors

Chy Nyverow

Newham Road

Truro, TR1 2D0P

Date: 18 December 2024

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 32

Independent auditor's report on the financial statements

Independent reporting accountant’s assurance report on regularity to Lift
Schools and the Education and Skills Funding Agency

In accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated 21 May 2024 and further to the requirements of the
Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) as included in the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024, we
have carried out an engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the expenditure disbursed and
income received by Lift Schools during the year 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 have been applied to the
purposes identified by Parliament and the financial transactions conform to the authorities which govern them.

This report is made solely to Lift Schools and ESFA in accordance with the terms of our engagement letter. Our
work has been undertaken so that we might state to Lift Schools and ESFA those matters we are required to state
in a report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than Lift Schools and ESFA, for our work, for this report, or for the conclusion we
have formed.

Respective responsibilities of Lift Schools’ Accounting Officer and the reporting accountant

The accounting officer is responsible, under the requirements of Lift Schools’ funding agreement with the
Secretary of State for Education dated 21 January 2014 and the Academy Trust Handbook, extant from 1
September 2023, for ensuring that expenditure disbursed and income received is applied for the purposes
intended by Parliament and the financial transactions conform to the authorities which govern them.

Our responsibilities for this engagement are established in the United Kingdom by our profession's ethical
guidance and are to obtain limited assurance and report in accordance with our engagement letter and the
requirements of the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024. We report to you whether anything has come to
our attention in carrying out our work which suggests that in all material respects, expenditure disbursed and
income received during the year 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 have not been applied to purposes intended
by Parliament or that the financial transactions do not conform to the authorities which govern them.

Approach

We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Framework and Guide for External Auditors and Reporting
Accountant of Academy Trusts issued by ESFA. We performed a limited assurance engagement as defined in our
engagement letter.

The objective of a limited assurance engagement is to perform such procedures as to obtain information and
explanations in order to provide us with sufficient appropriate evidence to express a negative conciusion on
regularity.

A limited assurance engagement is more limited in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement and
consequently does not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that
might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a positive opinion.

Our engagement includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the regularity and propriety of the
Academy Trust's income and expenditure.

The work undertaken to draw our conclusion includes:

 Anassessment of the risk of material irregularity and impropriety across all of the Trust's activities;

e Further testing and review of the areas identified through the risk assessment including enquiry,
identification of controls processes and examination of supporting evidence across all areas identified
as well as additional verification work where considered necessary; and

e Consideration of evidence obtained through the work detailed above and the work completed as part of
our audit of the financial statements in order to support the regularity conclusion.

In line with the Framework and guide for external auditors and reporting accountants of academy trusts issued
March 2024, we have not performed any additional procedures regarding the Trust's compliance with
safeguarding, health and safety and estates management.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 33

Independent auditor's report on the financial statements

Conclusion

In the course of our work, nothing has come to our attention which suggests in all material respects the
expenditure disbursed and income received during the year 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 has not been
applied to purposes intended by Parliament and the financial transactions do not conform to the authorities
which govern them.

Bishop Fleming LLP
Chartered Accountants
Statutory Auditors
Chy Nyverow

Newham Road

Truro, TR1 2DP

Date: 18 December 2024

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 34

Financial statements

Consolidated statement of financial activities for the year ended 31 August 2024
(Including Income and Expenditure Account)

Unrestricted Restricted = Restricted — Restricted Total Restated
funds funds fixed asset pension funds total
fund fund funds
‘ 2024 2024 2024 2024 2024 2023
Notes £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Income from:
Donations and capital grants 2 563 - 6,877 - 7,440 8,221
Charitable activities:
oneness for the Trust's educational 5 7581 271,086 - - 278,667 254,337
Other trading activities 3 2,063 © - 2,063 “1,904
Investments 4 2,544 - - - 2,544 1,814
12,751 271,086 6,877 id 290,714 266,276
Expenditure on:
Raising funds 6 92 - - : 52 30
Charitable activities:
Academy trust educational operations 7 8,266 273,995 7,528 (3,754) 286,035 262,934
Total expenditure 8,318 273,995 7,528 (3,754) 286,087 262,964
Net income (expenditure) for the year 4,433 (2,909) (651) 3,754 4,627 3,312
Transfers between funds 18 (633) 3,565 (2,932) - - -
Aewuarial gains on defined benefit pension 20 . . . 25,71 25471 44,829
Derecognition of defined benefit pension 4 - - - (24,819) (21,819) (8,703)
Net movement on defined benefit pension . . . 3,352 3,352 36,126
Net movement in funds 3,800 656 (3,583) 7,106 7,979 39,438
Reconciliation of funds
fonnard at tgeptember ne brought 18 21,018 153 407,622 (8,056) 420,737 381,299
Total fund balances carried forward at 31
August 2024 24,818 809 404,039 (950) 428,716 420,737

All of the trust’s activities derived from continuing operations during the above two financial periods. All
recognised gains and losses are included in the Statement of Financial Activities.

The prior year comparatives are restated due to a prior period adjustment detailed in Note 1. The adjustment
relates solely to depreciation charged on land and buildings in the restricted fixed asset fund and does not
impact the trust's operational results or have any cash impact.

35

Financial statements

Balance sheets as at 31 August 2024

Notes
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets B

Investments

Current assets

Stock 4
Debtors 15
Investments between 91 days and one year

Cash at bank and in hand

Liabitities

Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 16

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one
year

7

Net assets excluding pension scheme liabilities

Defined benefit pension scheme liabilities 20
Toalnetassets

Funds of the academy trust:

Restricted funds

Restricted fixed asset funds 18
* Restricted general funds ane - ee . 18

Pension reserve 18

Total restricted funds

Unrestricted funds

Designated funds 18

General funds 18

Total unrestricted funds
Total funds

Restated Restated

2024 2024 2023 2023
Group Trust Group Trust
£'000 £'000 £'000 £000
404,146 404,146 406,594 406,594
- 5 - 15
404,146 404,161 406,594 406,609
28 28 35 35
13,727 13,727 9,429 9,429
19,333 19,333 - -
23,583 23,568 47,416 47,401
56,672 56,657 56,880 56,865
(28,050) (28,050) (31,547) (31,547)
28,622 28,607 25,333 25,318
432,768 432,768 431,927 431,927
(3,102) (3,102) (3,134) (3,134)
429,666 429,666 428,793 428,793
(950) (950) (8,056) (8,056)
428,716 428,716 420,737 420,737
404,039 404,039 407,622 407,622
_ 809 | 809 153 153
(950) (950) (8,056) (8,056)
403,898 403,898 399,719 399,719
1,439 1,439 4,382 4,382
23,379 23,379 19,636 19,636
24,818 24,818 21,018 21,018
428,716 428,716 420,737 420,737

The financial statements on pages 39 to 72 were approved by the Board of Trustees of Lift Schools (Company
Registration Number 06625091) and signed on its behalf by:

Vac, Wall

D Hall Chair RBoomer-Clark Chief Executive and Accounting Officer
Date: 12 December 2024 Date: 12 December 2024

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 36

Financial statements

Statement of cash flows for the year ended 31 August 2024

Net cash flows from operating activities

Net cash provided by operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities

Change in cash and cash equivalents in the year
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds:

Cash and cash equivatents at 1 September 2023

Cash and cash equivalents at 31 August 2024

A Reconciliation of net expenditure net cash flow from operating activities

Net income (expenditure) for the year

Adjusted for:

Depreciation charges

Capital grants from DfE/ESFA and other capital income

Loss on disposal of fixed assets

(Increase) in stocks

Interest receivable

Defined benefit pension scheme cost less contributions payable
Defined benefit pension scheme finance cost

(Increase) decrease in debtors

Increase (decrease) in creditors

Net cash provided by operating acti

B Cash flows from investing activities

Dividends, interest and rents from investments
Proceeds from disposal of tangible fixed asset
Purchase of tangible fixed assets

Capital grants from DfE/ESFA

Purchase of investments maturing in 3 - 12 months

Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust)

Prd

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
(7,640) 4,928
(14,909) 2,070
(1,284) (234)
(23,833) 3,764
47,416 43,652
23,583 47416
Restated
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
4,627 3,312
7,528 7,592
(6,877) (7,838)
(31). 72
7 (1)
(2,544) (1,814)
(4,158) (672)
405 1,861
(4,298) (1,581)
(2,249) 997
(7,640) 1,928
2024 2023
£'000 £000
2,544 1,814
215 -
(5,212) (7,582)
6,877 7,838
(19,333) -

(14,909) 2,070 .
37

.

Financial statements

C Cash flows from financing activities coon coos

Repayments of borrowing (1,284) (234)

Net cash used in financing activities c (1,284) (236)

————— SS ey
D Analysis of cash and cash equivalents coon foun

Cash at bank and in hand 23,583 47,416
Total cash and cash equivalents i 23,583 47,416
At 1 September Cash flows - Other non-cash At 31 August

E Analysis of changes in net debt 2023 changes 2024
£'000 £000 £'000 £7000

Cash at bank 47,416 (23,832) - 23,584
ESFA Loan (4,694) 1,050 (1,507) (5,151)
Salix Loan . (344) 237 - (107)
Total E 42,379 (22,548) (1,507) 18,326

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust)

38

Notes to the financial statements
Principal accounting policies

Lift Schools is a company limited by guarantee, incorporated in England. The address of the registered office and
principal place of operation are detailed on page 1. The nature of the trust’s operations and principal activity are
detailed in the Trustees’ Report.

Statement of accounting policies
A summary of the principal accounting policies adopted (which have been applied consistently, except where
noted), judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty, is set out below.

Basis of preparation

The financial statements of the trust have been prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with
the Financial Reporting Standard Applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102), the Accounting and
Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in
accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) (Charities
SORP (FRS 102)), the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024 issued by ESFA, the Charities Act 2011 and the
Companies Act 2006.

The trust meets the definition of a public benefit entity under FRS 102. These financial statements are presented
_ in sterling and rounded to the nearest thousand pounds. :

The Trust has taken advantage of the exemption allowed under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not
presented its own Statement of Financial Activities in these financial statements.

Going concern .

The Trustees assess whether the use of going concern is appropriate, i.e. whether there are any material
uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the trust to continue
as a going concern. The Trustees make this assessment in respect of a period of at least one year from the date of
authorisation for issue of the financial statements and have concluded that the trust has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and there are no material uncertainties about the
trust's ability to continue as a going concern, thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in
preparing the financial statements. .

Income
All income is recognised once the trust has entitlement to the income, it is probable that the income will be
received, and the amount of income receivable can be measured reliably.

Grants are included in the Statement of Financial Activities on a receivable basis. The balance of income received
for specific purposes but not expended during the period is shown in the relevant funds on the Balance Sheet.
Where income is received in advance of entitlement of receipt, its recognition is deferred and included in creditors
as deferred income. Where entitlement occurs before income is received, the income is accrued.

General Annual Grant is recognised in full in the statement of financial activities in the year for which it is receivable
and any abatement in respect of the period is deducted from income and recognised as a liability.

Capital grants are recognised in full when there is an unconditional entitlement to the grant. Unspent amounts of
capital grants are reflected in the balance sheet in the restricted fixed asset fund. Capital grants are recognised
when there is entitlement and are not deferred over the life of the asset on which they are expended.

Sponsorship income provided to the trust which amounts to a donation is recognised in the statement of financial
activities in the period in which it is receivable, where receipt is probable, and it is measurable.

Donations are recognised on a receivable basis where receipt is probable, and the amount can be reliably
measured.

Other income, including the hire of facilities, is recognised in the period in which it is at receivable and to the
extent the goods have been provided or on completion of the service.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 39

re)

Notes to the financial statements
Principal accounting policies (continued)

Where assets are received by the trust on the conversion of a Local Authority maintained school to an academy,
the transferred assets are measured at fair value and recognised in the Balance Sheet at the point when the risk
and rewards of ownership pass to the trust. An equal amount of income is recognised as a transfer on conversion
within income from donations and capital grants.

Expenditure

Expenditure is recognised once there is a legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic benefit to a third
party, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required in settlement and the amount of the
obligation can be measured reliably. All expenditure is stated net of irrecoverable VAT.

Expenditure is classified by activity. The costs of each activity are made up of the total of direct costs and shared
costs, including support costs involved in undertaking each activity. Direct costs attributable to a single activity
are allocated directly to that activity. Shared costs which contribute to more than one activity and support costs
which are not attributable to a single activity are apportioned between those activities on a basis consistent with
the use of resources.

Expenditure on raising funds includes all expenditure incurred by the trust to raise funds for its charitable
purposes and includes costs of all fundraising activities and non-charitable trading.

Expenditure on charitable activities are costs incurred on the trust's educational operations, including support
costs and those costs relating to the governance of the trust appointed to charitable activities.

Termination benefits are recognised at the leaving date of the member of staff and measured at the best estimate
of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the reporting date.

Fund accounting
Unrestricted income funds represent those resources which may be used towards meeting any of the charitable
objects of the trust at the discretion of the Trustees.

Designated funds represent those resources which have been set aside at the discretion of the Board of Trustees
for specific purposes. The purposes and uses of these funds are set out in the notes to the financial statements.

Restricted fixed asset funds are resources which are to be applied to specific capital purposes imposed by the
Education and Skills Funding Agency where the asset acquired or created is held for a specific purpose.

Restricted general funds comprise all other restricted funds received with restrictions imposed by the funder and
include grants from the Education and Skills Funding Agency.

Tangible fixed assets
All assets costing more than £5,000 are capitalised and are carried at cost, net of depreciation and any provision
for impairment.

Where tangible fixed assets have been acquired with the aid of specific grants, either from the government or
from the private sector, they are included in the balance sheet at cost and depreciated over their expected useful
economic life. Where there are specific conditions attached to the funding requiring the continued use of the
asset, the related grants are credited to a restricted fixed asset fund in the statement of financial activities and
carried forward in the balance sheet.

A prior year adjustment has been made to appropriately allocate the value of freehold and leasehold land within
land and buildings to be consistent with industry practice and the Academy Trust Handbook. This allocation has
led to a release of accumulated depreciation of £8.2m on the transfer value attributed to freehold land (£35.8m)
and a reduction to accumulated depreciation of £26.0m on the transfer value attributed to leasehold land
(£207.7m), to depreciate the attributed transfer value of land over the 125 year term of the lease.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 40

Notes to the financial statements

Depreciation on the relevant assets is charged directly to the restricted fixed asset funds in the statement of
financial activities. Where tangible fixed assets have been acquired with unrestricted funds, depreciation on such
assets is charged to the unrestricted fund. Any fixed assets which are donated are recognised at fair value on the
date of donation.

Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets other than freehold land, at rates calculated to write off the
cost of these assets, less their estimated residual value, over their expected useful lives on the following bases:

« Freehold buildings 2%
*° Leasehold buildings 2%
e Leasehold land 0.8% (the value is depreciated over the lease term)
Motor vehicles 33.3%
e Furniture and equipment 33.3%
« Computer equipment 33.3%

Assets in the course of construction are included at cost. Depreciation on these assets is not charged until they
are brought into use. : : :

A review for impairment of a fixed asset is carried out if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying value of any fixed asset may not be recoverable. Shortfalls between the carrying value of fixed assets and ©
their recoverable amounts are recognised as impairments, if they are material. Impairment losses are recognised
in the Statement of Financial Activities.

Investments

The academy trust's shareholding in the wholly owned subsidiary, AET Solutions Ltd, is included in the balance
sheet at the cost of the share capital owned less any impairment. There is no readily available market value
and the cost of valuation exceeds the benefit derived.

Stocks
Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance for obsolete and
slow-moving stocks.

Taxation

The trust is considered to pass the tests set out in Paragraph 1 Schedule 6 of the Finance Act 2010 and therefore it
meets the definition of a charitable company for UK corporation tax purposes. Accordingly, the trust is potentially
exempt from taxation in respect of income or capital gains received within categories covered by Chapter 3 Part 11
of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 or Section 256 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992, to the extent that
such income or gains are applied exclusively to charitable purposes.

Cash at Bank and in hand
Cash at bank and in hand includes cash and short term highly liquid investments with a short maturity of three
months or less from the date of acquisition or opening of the deposit or similar account.

Liabilities and provisions

Liabilities and provisions are recognised when there is an obligation at the balance sheet date as a result of a
past event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be required in settlement, and the amount of
the settlement can be estimated reliably. Liabilities are recognised at the amount that the trust anticipates it will
pay to settle the debt or the amount it has received as advance payments for the goods or services it must
provide.

Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the amounts required to settle the obligation. Where the effect of
the time value of money is material, the provision is based on the present value of those amounts, discounted at
the pre-tax discount rate that reflects the risks specific to the tiability. The unwinding of the discount is
recognised within interest payable and similar charges.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 4

Notes to the financial statements

Operating leases
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the statement of financial activities on a straight-line basis over
the lease term. :

Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are recognised on a straight-line basis
over the period until the date the rent is expected to be adjusted to the prevailing market rate.

The trust has 4 academies where the buildings are subject to a contract under the Private Finance Initiative (PFI).
Under each contract the school premises are maintained and managed for a period of up to 25 years by the PFI
contractor subject to contractual annual fees payable by the academy. Upon expiry of the PFI contract the
residuat benefit of the premises passes to the academy.

This transaction is accounted for as a leasing transaction. As the academy only enjoys the benefit of the premises
subject to the restrictions under the PFI agreement, in the opinion of the Board, the academy does not hold
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the premises and the property is therefore accounted for
as an operating lease. The premises are therefore not recognised as assets in the financial statements of Lift. The
annual charges under the PFI agreement are subject to a fixed formula but will vary over time, therefore the
annual charges are expensed to the profit and loss account in the year they relate to as this treatment is
considered to be more appropriate than recognition on a strict straight-line basis.

Financial instruments :
The trust only holds basic financial instruments as defined in FRS 102. The financial assets and financial liabilities
of the trust and their measurement basis are as follows:

Financial assets - trade and other debtors are basic financial instruments and are debt instruments measured at
amortised cost. Prepayments are not financial instruments. Cash at bank is classified as a basic financial
instrument and is measured at face value.

Financial liabilities - trade creditors, accruals and other creditors are financial instruments, and are measured at
amortised cost. Taxation and social security are not included in the financial instruments disclosure definition,
Deferred income is not deemed to be a financial liability, as the cash settlement has already taken place and
there is an obligation to deliver services rather than cash or other financial instruments.

Pensions benefits
Retirement benefits to employees of the trust are provided by the Teachers’ Pension Scheme ("TPS") and the
Local Governments Pension Scheme ("LGPS"). These are defined benefit schemes.

The TPS is an unfunded scheme and contributions are calculated so as to spread the cost of pensions over
employees' working lives with the trust in such a way that the pension cost is a substantially level percentage of
current and future pensionable payroll. The contributions are determined by the Government Actuary on the
basis of quadrennial valuations using a prospective unit credit method. As stated in note 19, the TPS is a multi-
employer scheme and there is insufficient information available to use defined benefit accounting. The TPS is
therefore treated as a defined contribution scheme for accounting purposes and the contributions recognised in
the period to which they relate.

The LGPS is a funded scheme, and the assets are held separately from those of the trust in separate Trustee
administered funds. Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on an
actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of
return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities. The actuarial
valuations are obtained at feast triennially and are updated at each Balance Sheet date. The amounts charged to
operating surplus are the current service costs and the costs of scheme introductions, benefit changes,
settlements and curtailments. They are included as part of staff costs as incurred. Net interest on the net defined
benefit liability is also recognised in the Statement of Financial Activities incorporating income and expenditure
account and comprises the interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and interest income on the scheme
assets, calculated by multiplying the fair value of the scheme assets at the beginning of the period by the rate

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 42

Notes to the financial statements
used to discount the benefit obligations. The difference between the interest income on the scheme assets and
the actual return on the scheme assets is recognised in other recognised gains and losses.

Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other recognised gains and losses.

Critical accounting estimates and and areas of judgement
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors,
including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.

Critical accounting estimates and assumptions relate to the present value of the Local Government Pension
Scheme defined benefit liability depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using
a variety of assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net cost (income) for pensions include the
discount rate. Any changes in these assumptions, which are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements,
will impact the carrying amount of the pension liability. Furthermore, a roll forward approach which projects
results from the latest full actuarial valuation performed at 31 March 2022 has been used by the actuary in valuing
the pensions liability at 31 August 2024. Any differences between the figures derived from the roll forward
approach and a full actuarial valuation would impact on the carrying amount of the pension liability.

Critical Judgements have been made in the preparation of these financial statements in two areas:

e@ FRS 102 section 28.22 states a pension plan surplus can be recognised only to the extent an entity is
able to recover the surplus, either through reduced contributions in the future, or through refunds from
the scheme. Given that there is uncertainty around whether LGPS surpluses can be recovered, those
LGPS funds in which Lift Schools has members which have an actuarially calculated surplus have been
capped at £nil (those funds which have an actuarially calculated deficit have been included at the
deficit amount).

¢  Incalculating the prior year adjustment (note 1), judgement has been used to calculate the value of the
proportion of freehold and leasehold land and buildings. In doing so, management has used the known
footprint of land and applied a multiplier to estimate the proportion of land value to building value.

General Annual Grant (GAG)
Under the funding agreement with the Secretary of State, no academies within the Lift group were subject to
limits at 31 August 2024 on the amount of GAG that could be carried forward from one year to the next.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 43

Notes to the financial statements
1. Prior Period Adjustment

A prior year adjustment has been made to appropriately allocate the value of freehold and leasehold land
within land and buildings to be consistent with industry practice and the Academy Trust Handbook. This
allocation has led to a release of accumulated depreciation of £8.2m on the transfer value attributed to
freehold land (£35.8m) and a reduction to accumulated depreciation of £26.0m on the transfer value
attributed to leasehold land (£207.7m), to depreciate the attributed transfer value of land over the 125 year
term of the lease. The prior period adjustment has no impact on cash flow or operating results, and the
impact on these financial statements on the prior year comparatives is summarised as follows:

£'000
Statement of Financial Activities jower annual depreciation charge reduces costs and increases net 3,210
Balance Sheet lower accumulated depreciation and higher fixed asset reserve 34,229
Cash flow statement higher net income and lower annual depreciation charge; nil net 3,210
impact
Fixed asset note lower accumulated depreciation 34,229
Funds note higher fixed asset reserve 34,229
2. Donations and capital grants
Restricted 2024 2023
Unrestricted Restricted fixed asset Total Total
funds funds funds funds funds
2024 £000 £000 £000 £'000 £'000
Capital grants - - 6,877 6,877 7,838
Donations 563 - - 563 383
563 : 6,877 7,440 8,221
Restricted 2023
Unrestricted Restricted fixed asset Total
funds funds funds funds
2023 £'000 £'000 £'000 £000
Capital grants - - 7,838 7,838
Donations 383 _ - 383
383 - 7,838 8,221
———
Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 44

Notes to the financial statements
3. Other trading activities

2024

Hire of facilities

Miscellaneous income

2023

Hire of facilities
Misceltaneous income

4. Investment income .

2024

Interest receivable

2023

Interest receivable

2024
Unrestricted Restricted Total
funds funds funds
£'000 £000 £000
1,893 _ 1,893
170 - 170
2,063 _- 2,063
2023
Unrestricted Restricted Total
funds funds funds
£'000 £000 £000
1,762 - 1,762
142 - 142
1,904 - 1,904
2024
Unrestricted Restricted Total
funds funds funds
£000 £'000 £'000
2,544 - 2,544
2,544 - 2,544
. 2023
Unrestricted Restricted Total
funds funds “funds
£000 £'000 £'000
1,814 - 1,814
1,814 - 1,814
Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 45

Notes to the financial statements
5. Funding for the trust’s educational operations

2024

DfE/ESFA grants

General Annual Grants (GAG) - under 16
General Annual Grants (GAG) - 16 to 19
Other DfE/ESFA grants:

- UIFSM

- Pupil Premium

- Maintained Schoot Additional Grant

- Supplementary Grant :

- Other

Other government grants
Local authority SEN grants
Other local authority grants

Other income from the academy trust’s educational operations
Trip Income
Catering Income

Other funding for the Trust's educational operations

COVID-19 additional funding (DfE/ESFA)

Recovery / catch-up premium

2024 total funds

Restated

2024 2023

Unrestricted Restricted Total Total
funds funds funds funds
£000 £000 £'000 £'000
- 202,516 202,516 186,338

- 10,137 10,137 9,571

- 1,270 © 1,270 1,161

- 14,197 14,197 13,594

- 6,762 6,762 -

- _— - 5,399

- 971 971 11,705

- 244,593 244,593 227,768

- 16,627 16,627 14,859

- 6,904 6,904 2,427

- 23,531 23,531 17,286
2,188 - 2,188 1,682
3,847 - 3,847 3,229
1,546 - 1,546 4,473
7,581 - 7,581 6,384
- 2,962 2,962 2,899
7,581 271,086 278,667 254,337

The trust received £2,962,000 of funding for Recovery Premium and costs incurred in respect of this funding totalled £2,962,000.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust)

46

Notes to the financial statements

5. Funding for the Academy trust's educational operations (continued)
Unrestricted Restricted 2023
funds funds Total funds
2023 - £000 “£'000 £'000
DfE/ESFA grants
General Annual Grants (GAG) - under 16 - 186,338 186,338
Generat Annual Grants (GAG) - 16 to 19 - 9,571 9,571
Other DfE/ESFA grants:
- UIFSM - 1,161 1,161
- Pupil Premium - 13,594 13,594
- Supplementary Grant - 5,399 5,399
- Other - 11,705 11,705
= 227,768 227,768
Other government grants:
- Local authority SEN grants - 14,859 14,859
- Other local authority grants - 2,427 2,427
- 17,286 17,286
Other income from the academy trust's educational operations
Trip income 1,682 - 1,682
Catering Income 3,229 - 3,229
Other funding for the trust's educational operations 1,473 - 1,473
6,384 - 6,384
COVID-19 additional funding (DfE/ESFA)
+ Catch-up premium - 2,899 2,899
2023 total funds 6,384 247,953 254,337

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 47

Notes to the financial statements
6. Expenditure

2024

Expenditure on raising funds
Direct costs
Allocated support costs

Trust's educational operations (note 7)
Direct costs
Allocated support costs

2024 total funds

Restated 2023
Expenditure on raising funds
Direct costs

Allocated support costs

Trust's educational operations (note 7)
Direct costs
Allocated support costs

2023 total funds

Net expenditure for the year includes:

Operating lease rentals
(Profit) / loss on disposal of fixed assets
Depreciation ,
Fees payable to auditor for
- Audit
- Other services

'

Non pay expenditure
Staff costs 2024
(note 8) Premises Other costs Total funds
£000 £'000 £7000 £7000
- 36 - 36
6 5 5 16
6 4a 5 52
167,234 10,653 21,975, 199,862
33,318 29,975 22,880 86,173
200,552 40,628 44,855 286,035
200,558 40,669 44,860 286,087
Non pay expenditure
Staff costs 2023
(note 8) Premises Other costs Total funds
£000 £000 £'000 £'000
- 21 - 21
4 2 3 9
4 23 3 30
150,726 7,596 19,571 177,893
33,979 21,301 29,761 85,041
184,705 28,897 49,332 262,934
_ 184,709 28,920 49,335 262,964
2024 Restated
£000 2023
£'000
7,066 6,487
(81) 2
7,528 7,591
80 93
: 15

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 48

Notes to the financial statements
7. Expenditure on educational operations

2024
Direct costs - educational operations

Support costs - educational operations

Restated 2023
Direct costs - educational operations
Support costs - educational operations

Analysis of support costs

Support staff costs
Technology costs
Premises costs

Legal costs - other
Other support costs
PFI management fees
Catering costs
Governance costs

Total support costs

Unrestricted Restricted , 2024
funds funds Total funds
£7000 £000 £000
8,204 191,658 199,862

62 86,111 86,173
8,266 277,769 286,035

Unrestricted Restricted 2023
funds funds Total funds
£000. . £000 £'000

5,721 172,172 177,893

44 84,997 85,041

5,765 257,169 262,934
2024 Restated
Total 2023
funds Total funds
£000 £000
33,318 33,979
2,233 2,579
23,061 21,307
203 404
9,530 10,510
6914 6,279
10,754 9,835
160 154
86,173 85,041

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust)

49

Notes to the financial statements

8. Staff costs
Staff costs during the year were:

2024 2023
Total Total
funds funds
£'000 £'000
Wages and salaries 147,794 135,164
Social security costs 15,610 14125
Pension costs (FRS102 adjustment CY -£4.2m, PY -£13.4m) 29,937 29,034
193,341 178,323
Supply staff costs . 6,897 5,869
Staff restructuring costs 319 517
200,557 184,709
——
. 2024 2023
Staff restructuring costs comprise £7000 £000
Redundancy payments 122 382
Severance payments 141 46
Other restructuring costs 56 89
319 517

a. Severance payments
The academy trust paid 23 severance payments in the year (2023: 5), disclosed in the following band:

2024 2023

No. No.
£0 - £25,000 . 19 5
£25,001 - £50,000 2 -

b. Special staff severance payments
Included in staff restructuring costs are special severance payments totalling £25,120 (2023: £46,125).

Individually the payments were £1,100, £1,500, £2,520, £10,000 and £10,000.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust)

50

Notes to the financial statements

8.
c

Staff costs (continued)

Staff numbers

The number of persons (including the senior management team) employed by the charitable company
during the year ended 31 August 2024 expressed as average headcount was as follows:

2024 2023

No. No.

Teachers 2,028 1,957
Administration and support 2,586 2,713
Management : 68 67
4,682 4,737

The calculation for the average annual employee headcount has been amended for 2024 in respect of employees
who work on an ad hoc basis (e.g. exam invigilators). Previously these staff were counted based on months they
remained on the payroll; for 2024 they were counted based on months worked, resulting in a small headcount
reduction. ,

Higher paid staff
The number of employees whose emoluments fell within the following bands was:

2024 * 2023

No. No.
£60,001 - £70,000 19% 132
£70,001 - £80,000 69 42
£80,001 - £90,000 43 30
£90,001 - £100,000 8 8
£100,001 - £110,000 5 8
£110,001 - £120,000 4 6
£120,001 - £130,000 5 6
£130,001 - £140,000 5 3
£140,001 - £150,000 5 2
£150,001 - £160,000 - 3
£160,001 - £170,000 4 3
£170,001 - £180,000 2 -
£190,001 - £200,001 1 -
£220,001 - £230,000 - 1

£240,001 - £250,000 1 -

The above employees participated in both the Teachers’ Pension Scheme and the Local Government
Pension Scheme.

The key management personnel of the trust comprises the trustees and the senior leadership team as
listed on page 1. The total amount of key management personnel benefits (including employer pension

. contributions and employer's national insurance contributions) received by key management personnel for

their services to the trust was £2,254,000 (2023: £2,246,000)

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 51

Notes to the financial statements

9.

10.

11.

Trustees’ remuneration and expenses

The individuals in the role of CEO during the year have been paid remuneration from their employment
with the Trust but only receive remuneration in respect of services they provide in their role as Trust CEO
under a contract of employment.

The remuneration and other benefits receivable by these individuals were as follows:

2024 2023
£'000 £000

R Boomer-Clark, CEO
Remuneration 245 - 250 220 - 225
Employer's pension contributions 60-65 50-55

During the year ended 31 August 2024, travel and subsistence expenses totalling £4,044 were reimbursed or
paid directly to 6 Trustees (2023: £3,867 to 5 Trustees).

Trustees’ and Officers’ insurance

In accordance with normal commercial practice, the trust has purchased insurance to protect Trustees and
officers from claims arising from negligent acts, errors or omissions occurring whilst on academy business.
The insurance provides cover up to £10,000,000 on any one claim and the cost for the year ended 31 August
2024 is not separately identifiable from total insurance costs for the current or previous year.

Central services
The Group has provided the following central services to its academies during the year:
a. Human resources; ,
b. Financial services;
c. Legal services;
d. Educational support services;
e. Marketing services;
f. IT services; and
Estates and facilities services.
The trust charges individual academies for these services at 8.5% (2023: 8.5%) of the schools’ GAG and MSAG
funding allocation.

The actual amounts charged for the year were as follows:

2024 2023

£000 £000

Anglesey Primary Academy 239 227
Ashingdon Primary Academy . 82 79
Aylward Academy 894 843
Barton Hill Academy 270 an
Beacon Academy 148 13T
Bexleyheath Academy 885 686
Broadlands Academy 287 304
Brockworth Primary Academy 142 126
Caldicotes Primary Academy 106 100

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 52

Notes to the financial statements
11. Central Services (cont'd)

Charles Warren Academy 99 92
Clacton Coastal Academy 967 875
Columbus School and College 234 232
Cottingley Primary Academy 127 122
Feversham Primary Academy 181 170
Firth Park Academy 721 650
Four Dwellings Academy . 392 353
Four Dwellings Primary Academy 159 160
Greensward Academy 781 737
Greenwood Academy . 610 575
Hall Road Academy 158 137
Hamford Primary Academy . 157° 1235
Hazelwood Academy 91 90
Hockley Primary Academy 130 a7
Kingsley Academy 580 528
Kingswood Academy 905 829
Lea Forest Primary Academy 248 236
Mattings Academy 478 454
Meadstead Primary Academy 93 91
Montgomery Primary Academy 212 219
New Forest Academy 328 299
New Rickstones Academy 590 502
Newington Academy 167 149
Newlands Academy 62 %
Noel Park Primary School 269 255
North Ormesby Primary Academy 131 107
North Thoresby Primary Academy 50 44
Offa's Mead Academy 65 56
Percy Shurmer Academy 198 189
Plumberow Primary Academy 240 228
Richmond Park Academy 582 5S
Ryde Academy 821 735
Shafton Primary Academy 105 104
Sir Herbert Leon Academy 397 332
St Helen’s Primary Academy 90 85
St James the Great Academy 83 81
Tamworth Enterprise College 352 324

Tendring Technology College 985 964

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 53

Notes to the financial statements
11. Central Services (cont’d}

The Green Way Academy 198 187
The Pioneer School 143 142
The Rawlett School 581 540
The Ridge Academy 7 7
Trinity Primary Academy 223 216
Unity City Academy 678 590
Utterby Primary Academy 4a 38
Westerings Primary Academy 165 158
Winton Community Academy 532 453
Wishmore Cross Academy 72 a

18,581 17,075

In addition, a number of direct school operational areas have been centralised;
e front line IT support;
day to day HR work and support;
day to day finance processing work;
caretaking and day to day management of the building; and
procurement of trust-wide contracts including the management information software and
recruitment.

If these areas of work had not been consolidated the schools would have needed to arrange these aspects
of work themselves. Grouping the work together enables our schools to benefit from the trust's economies
of scale, The cost of the direct school services in the year is set out below:

2024 2023
£000 £'000

(IT Support 3,326 2,850
HR, Finance & Procurement 3,009 2,829
Caretaking 3,130 4,012
Building maintenance and repairs 3,610 2,076
Initial Teacher Training (ITT) recharge "2,655 1,000

15,730 12,767

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 54

Notes to the financial statements
12. Restated comparative information:

Analysis of restated income and expenditure in the year ended 31 August 2023 between restricted and

unrestricted funds:

Notes

Income from:

Donations and capital grants:

Charitable activities

- Funding for the Trust's educational operations
Other trading activities

Investments

Total income

Expenditure on:

Raising funds

Charitable activities

- Trust's educational operations

Total expenditure
Net income (expenditure) for the year

Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension
scheme

Derecognition of defined benefit pension scheme
assets

Net movement in funds

Reconciliation of funds

Total fund balances brought forward at 1
September 2022

Total fund balances carried forward at 31 August
2023

20

20

18

Unrestricted Restricted fred osset ension funds Total funds

funds 2023 funds 2023 pm 2023

£'000 goog — ‘Fund 2023 2023 £'000
£'000 £'000

383 - 7,838 - 8,221

6,384 247,953 - - 254,337

1,904 - - - 7,904

1,814 - - - 1,814

10,485 247,953 7,838 - "266,276

30 - - - 30

5,765 248,388 7,591 1190 262,934

5,795 248,388 7,591 1,190 262,964

4,690 (435) 247 (1,190) 3,312

- - = 44,829 44,829

- - - (8,703) (8,703)

4,690 (435) + 267 34,936 39,438

16,328 588 407,375 (42,992) 381,299

21,018 153 407,622 (8,056) 420,737

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 55

Notes to the financial statements
13. Tangible Fixed Assets

Furniture
Freehold Leasehold Freehold Leasehold Assets under and Computer Motor
land land buildings buildings construction equipment equipment vehicles Total

£'000 "000 £'000 £7000 £7000 £'000 £7000 £7000 £7000
Cost
Restated at 1
September 2023 35,838 207,735 29,230 193,814 174 8,205 18,383 915 494,295
Additions - - 622 3,184 - 437 713 256 5,212
Reclassifications - - - 174 (174) - - - -
Disposals - - (182) - - (56) (38) (181) (457)
At 31 August 2024 35,838 207,735 29,670 197,172 - 8,586 19,058 © 990 499,050
Depreciation
Restated at 1 :
September 2023 - 17,366 5,831 38,204 - 7,702 17,913 683 87,699
Charge in year - 1,662 593 3,906 - 537 608 222 7,528
Reclassifications - - - - - - ye - -
Disposals - - (48) - - (56) (38) (181) (323)
At 31 August 2024 - 19,028 6,376 42,110 - 8,183 18,483 724 94,904
Net book value
Restated at 31 August
2023 35,838 190,369 23,399 155,610 174 503 470 232 «= 406,594
At 31 August 2024 35,838 188,707 23,294 155,062 - 403 575 266 404,146

As explained in accounts note 1, fixed asset opening balances have been restated to indicate land values of £190,369,000
attributed to 46 leasehold Lift schools and £35,838,000 attributed to 8 freehold Lift schools.

{t has been calculated that in previous accounting periods, fixed assets were over-depreciated by £3,210,000 per annum
in relation to this freehold and leasehold land, and over time, this resulted in accumulated depreciation being
over-stated by £34,229,000. A prior period adjustment has corrected the opening balance of accumulated depreciation.

During the year, a freehold school caretaker’s cottage with a net book value of £134,000 was sold with the consent of the
Department for Education. The proceeds were designated for re-investment in 3G sports pitches at the same school.

14, Stock
Group Trust Group Trust
2024 2024 2023 2023
£'000 £7000 £000 £'000
Finished goods and goods for resale 28 28 35 35

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 56

Notes to the financial statements

15. Debtors
Group Trust
2024 2024
£7000 £'000
Trade debtors 205 205
VAT recoverable 6,395 6,395
Other debtors 31 31
Prepayments and accrued income 7,096 7,096
13,727 13,727
16. Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year
Group Trust
2024 2024
£'000 £000
Trade creditors 8,410 8,410
Taxation and social security 3,504 3,504
Other creditors 4,761 4,761
Turnaround funding loan 2,050 2,050
Accruals and deferred income 9,325 9,325
28,050 28,050
Deferred income {included above)
Deferred income at 1 September 2023 1,906 1,906
Released during the year ——: (1,906) (1,906)
Resources deferred in the year 2,439 2,439
Deferred income at 31 August 2024 2,439 2,439

Deferred income above includes amounts relating to Universal Infant Free School Meals for the 2024/25
year, in addition to Trip income collected in advance, and some local authority grants received in advance.
Other creditors include a loan of £107,000 from the ESFA in agreement with Salix Finance Ltd for a Salix
energy efficiency fund which is repaid in equal instalments biannually over a seven-year period and will be

fully repaid during 2024/25.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust)

Group Trust
2023 2023
£'000 £000
253 253
3,963 3,963
33 33
5,180 5,180
9,429 9,429
Group Trust
2023 2023
£000 £'000
10,413 10,413
3,307 3,307
6,189 6,189
1,900 1,900
9,738 9,738
31,547 31,547
1,561 1,561
(1,561) (1,561)
1,906 1,906
1,906 1,906

57

Notes to the financial statements

17.

Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year

2024 2023

Group and Trust £7000 £7000
Loans 3,102 3,134
3,102 3,134

An interest free loan of £5,151,433 is due to the ESFA, of which £3,101,638 falls due after more than one year.
This loan comprises a turnaround element and an overpayment element (resulting from historic double
funding). The total is repayable to the ESFA based on a proportion of the trust's unrestricted reserves
above 5% of total trust income. It is calculated that £2,049,795 will be repaid in 2024/5, as shown above in
accounts note 16. Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 58

Notes to the financial statements
18. Funds

Restricted general funds

General Annual Grant (GAG): under 16
General Annual Grant (GAG): 16 to 19
Other DfE/ESFA grants:

-UIFSM

- Pupil Premium

- Maintained school additional grant
- Other grants and donations

- Covid-19 funding / recovery / catch up premium
Local authority (LA) grants - SEN

U grants - Other

Restricted general funds

Pension reserve

Total restricted general funds

Salix loan
Donated fixed assets

DfE/ESFA capital grants

Restricted fixed asset funds
Unrestricted funds
- General funds

- Designated funds

Total unrestricted funds

Total funds

Restricted funds

3

Restated
Balance at Balance at
1 September Income Expenditure Gains, losses 31 August
2023 £000 £000 and transfers 2024
£000 £'000 £'000
88 202,516 (205,362) 3,565 809
- 10,137 (10,137) - -
- 1,270 (1,270) - -
- 14,197 (14,197) - -
- 6,762 (6,762) - -
9711 (9,711) : - -
65 2,962 (3,027) - -
- 16,627 (16,627) - -
- 6,904 (6,904) - -
153 271,086 (273,995) 3,565 809
(8,056) - 3,754 3,352 (950)
(7,903) 271,086 (270,241) 6,917 (141)
- - - (107) (107)
6,716 - (136) (172) 6,408
400,906 6,877 (7,392) (2,653) 397,738
407,622 6,877 (7,528) (2,932) 404,039
19,636 12,676 (8,300) (633) 23,379
1,382 75 (18) - 1,439
21,018 12,751 (8,318) (633) 24,818
420,737 290,714 (286,087) 3,352 428,716

Restricted funds represent the balance of funds available from revenue grants received from local/central
government and other donors, the application of which is limited to the conditions imposed by the
grantor/donor. The principal funding receivable from the government is the General Annual Grant (GAG)
provided by the Education and Skills Funding Agency. Under the funding agreement with the Secretary of
State, no academies in the trust were subject to a limit on the amount of GAG that they could carry forward
at 31 August 2024. Restricted funds also include the pension reserve which identifies the pension deficit
inherited from the Local Authority upon conversion to academy status, and through which the pension

scheme movements are recognised.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 59

Notes to the financial statements

18.

Funds (continued)

General annual grant - Income from the ESFA which is to be used for the normal running costs of the Trust,
including education and support costs.

UIFSM - The Trust has recognised income to the extent that expenditure incurred during the year in order to
meet obligations to provide free school meals to all its pupils in receipt, year 1 and year 2.

Pupil Premium - Pupil premium represents funding received from the ESFA for children that qualify for free
school meals to enable the Academy to address the current underlying inequalities between those children
and their wealthier peers.

Maintained school additional grant — additional funding from the ESFA which is to be used for the normal
running costs of the Trust, including education and support costs.

Other grants and donations - other grants received from the ESFA and donations received from other
sources.

Covid-19 funding / recovery/ catch up premium - Funding to support pupils whose education was impacted
by COVID-19.

Local authority (LA) grants - SEN - Funding received by the Local Authority to fund further support for
students with additional needs

LA grants - Other — other funding received from the Local Authority.

Restricted fixed asset funds

This fund equates to the net book value of the trust's tangible fixed assets, as donated by the local
authorities or financed by capitat funding received from central/local government and other donors, or
from loan finance, less the outstanding balance on the Salix loan (as spent on energy efficient lighting).
When capital funding is used to complete capital projects or undertake maintenance works on existing
tangible fixed assets, a transfer from fixed asset fund to restricted general fund is made.

The fund balance includes the carrying value of school buildings (and other tangible fixed assets) inherited
by the trust where a school has converted or joined from another academy trust, and the carrying value of
all other assets donated to the trust.

Unrestricted funds
The unrestricted general funds represent monies which may be applied for any purpose within Lift Schools’
charitable objects.

Designated funds

The designated fund has been created to cover the replacement cost of 3G pitches in those schools that
have them. The fund wilt be ongoing and allow for contributions and deductions when surfaces need
replacing.

Transfers were made in the year to show the contributions from the restricted fixed asset fund which were
allocated against revenue expenditure.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 60

Notes to the financial statements
48. Funds (continued)

.

Restated Comparative information for the year to 31 August 2023:

Restricted general funds
General Annual Grant (GAG)
Other DfE/ESFA grants:

~ UIFSM

- Pupil Premium

- Other DfE/ESFA Covid-19 funding
- Other DfE/ ESFA

Pension reserve

Total restricted general funds
Other restricted funds

Local authority grants

Total restricted funds; general and other

Restricted fixed asset funds
Donated fixed assets
DfE/ESFA capital grants

Total fixed asset funds

Unrestricted funds
General funds
Designated funds

Total unrestricted funds

Total funds

Balance at Balance at
1 September Gains, losses 31 August
2022 Income Expenditure and transfers 2023
£000 £'000 £000 £000 £'000

523 196,148 (196,583) - 88

- 1,161 (1,161) - -

- 13,594 (13,594) - -

65 - - - 65

- 19,764 (19,764) - : -

(42,992) - (1,190) 36,126 (8,056)
(42,404) 230,667 (232,292) 36,126 (7,903)
- 17,286 (17,286) - -
(42,404) 247,953 (249,578) 36,126 (7,903)
6,716 - - - 6,716
400,659 7,838 (7,591) - 400,906

. 407,375 7,838 (7,591) - 407,622
15,149 10,282 (5,795) - 19,636
1,179 203 - - 1,382
16,328 10,485 (5,795) - 21,018
381,299 266,276 (262,964) 36,126 420,737

=

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 6

Notes to the financial statements
18. Funds (continued)

Total funds analysis by academy

In accordance with group ethos, funds are pooled for mainstream schools, but not for special schools

due to their specific DfE funding agreements.

Columbus School and College

Newlands Academy

The Pioneer School

The Ridge Academy

Wishmore Cross Academy

Pooled funds

Lift Designated fund

Total before fixed asset and pension reserve
Restricted fixed asset funds

Pension reserve

Total funds

Analysis of net assets between funds

Fund balances at August 2024 are represented by:
Tangible fixed assets
—-—-- ——- -—-- -Currentassets -- -—  --—
Current liabilities
Non-current liabilities

Pension scheme liability

Total net assets

Total Restated Total
2024 2023
£000 £000
1,095 1,480
879 843
1,621 1,635

8 143

_ 658 792
19,927 14,896
1,439 1,382
25,677 21,171
404,039 407,622
(950) (8,056)
428,716 420,737

ed

Restricted
Unrestricted Restricted general fixed asset Total funds
funds funds funds 2024
£000 £'000 £7000 £000
- - 404,146 404,146
- -— —~ 24,818 ++ 31,654. ~ oT -56,672.. -—
- (27,943) (107) (28,050)
- (3,102) - (3,102)
- (950) - (950)
24,818 (141) 404,039 428,716

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 62

Notes to the financial statements
18. Funds (continued)

Restated analysis of net assets between funds at 31 August 2023:

Fund balances at August 2023 are
represented by:

Tangible fixed assets
Current assets

Current liabilities
Non-current liabilities
Pension scheme liability

Total net assets

Restricted fixed

Unrestricted Restricted general asset Restated Total
funds funds funds funds 2023

£'000 £000 £'000 £'000

- - 406,594 406,594

21,018 34,834 1,028 56,880

- (31,547) - (31,547)

- (3,134) - (3,134)

- (8,056) - (8,056)

21,018 (7,903) 407,622 420,737

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 63

Notes to the financial statements

18. Funds (continued)

Analysis of expenditure by academy

Expenditure incurred by each academy during the year excluding loss on disposals and transfers out

was as follows:

Teaching
and
educational Other Costs
support staff Other support Educational (excluding

costs staff costs supplies dep’n) Total 2024 Total 2023

£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £000 £'000

Anglesey Primary Academy 2,05 383 410 257 3,155 3,014
Ashingdon Primary Academy 715 98 154 60 1,087 1,065
Aylward Academy 6,234 734 2,220 870 10,058 8,802
Beacon Academy 1,897 306 370 243 2,816 2,548
Bexleyheath Academy 5,307 825 3,368 873 10,373 8,298
Brockworth Primary Academy 1,455 206 221 16 1,998 1,842
Broadlands Academy 2,219 675 524 333 3,751 3,763
Barton Hill Academy 3,156 281 415 192 4,064 4,066
Caldicotes Primary Academy 1,162 107 207 108 1,584 1,644
Clacton Coastal Academy 7,024 1,031 3,425 965 12,445, 10,854
Cottingley Primary Academy 1,222 161 258 155 1,796 1,725
Columbus School and College 3,842 1,341 1,302 131 6,616 5,844
Charles Warren Academy 960 167 126 no 1,363 1,345
Four Owellings Academy 2,864 544 815 410 4,633 4,262
Four Owellings Primary Academy 1,268 . 377 354 240 2,239 2,236
Firth Park Academy 5,516 4,178 1,016 750 8,460 7,784
Feversham Primary Academy 1,796 168 321 189 2,474 2,401
Greenwood Academy 4,880 992 1,098 996 7,966 7,159
Greensward Academy 6,271 715 1,361 S12 8,919 7,939
Hockley Primary Academy 1,274 170 214 108 1,766 1,664
Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 64

Notes to the financial statements

Analysis of expenditure by academy (continued)

Teaching
and educational Other Other Costs
support staff support Educational (excluding

costs staff costs supplies dep’n) Total 2024 Totat 2023

£000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Hamford Primary Academy 1,656 118 284 132 2,190 2,024
Hall Road Academy 1,440 258 278 168 parry 2,143
Hazelwood Academy 955 185 139 85 1,364 1,330
Kingsley Academy 4,497 797 811 757 6,862 6,235
Kingswood Academy 6,031 608 3,076 1,345, 11,060 9,687
Lea Forest Primary Academy 2,448 257 457 277 3,439 3,201
Meadstead Primary Academy . 1,290 . 13 163 . 56 1,622 - 1,683
Montgomery Primary Academy 1,648 339 504 218 2,709 2,804
Maltings Academy 3,453 75S 1,100 S50 5,858 5,186
New Forest Academy 2,539 476 556 453 4,024 3,488
Newlands Academy 1,614 167 370 369 2,520 2,385
North Ormesby Primary Academy 1,075 230 270 16 1,691 1,580
Noel Park Primary School 2,419 461 484 351 3,715 3,453
New Rickstones Academy 4,393 724 1,395 ; 617 7,129 6,268
North Thoresby Primary Academy 608 (68) 98 31 669 618
Newington Academy 1,589 184 346 197 2,316 2,085
Offa's Mead Academy 616 96 n0 47 869 876
The Pioneer School 2,836 514 363 130 . 3,843 3,404
Plumberow Primary Academy 2,219 192 390 126 2,927 2,773
Percy Shurmer Academy 2,051 335, 365 290 3,041 2,882
The Ridge Academy 1,098 252 217 383 1,950 2,008
Richmond Park Academy 4,706 552 1,059 574 6,891 6,182
The Rawlett School 4,319 632 1,222 506. 6,679 6,061
Ryde Academy 6,858 501 1,365 781 9,505 7,866
Shafton Primary Academy 940 125. 190 89 1,344 1,280
Sir Herbert Leon Academy 3,049 743 985 845 5,322 4,338
St James the Great Academy 859 172 159 83 1,273 1,209
St Helen's Primary Academy 813 157 181 69 4,220 1,234
Tamworth Enterprise College 2,821 a 759 490 4,486 3,916
The Green Way Academy 1,966 219 455 151 2,791 2,610
Trinity Primary Academy 1,850 423 386 365 3,024 2,913
Tendring Technology College 8,275 127 4,771 873 12,046 11,169
Unity City Academy 5,088 860 1,246 1,137 8,331 7,183
Utterby Primary Academy 328 149 48 30 555 540
Wishmore Cross Academy 1,209 382 374 216 2,181 2,325
Winton Community Academy 3,13 792 , 1,024 824 6,553 5,304
Westerings Primary Academy 1,447 158 303 124 2,032 1,937

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 65

Notes to the financial statements

Analysis of expenditure by academy (continued)

Teaching
and
educational Other Costs
support staff Other support Educational (excluding
costs staff costs supplies dep'n) Total 2024 Total 2023
£°000 £'000 £'000 “  £'000 £'000 £'000
Total Academy Costs (analysed above) 156,144 24,919 41,483, 21,174 243,720 220,435
Central Costs 4191 15,305 14,548 795 34,839 34,938
Total expenditure 160,335 40,224 56,031 21,969 278,559 255,373
19. Capital Commitments ; ;
At 31 August 2024, the Academy and trust had capital commitments as follows:
2024 2023
£'000 £000
Contracted for, but not provided in the financial statements 736 1,001
736 1,001

20. Pension commitments

The trust's employees belong to two principal pension schemes: the Teacher's Pension Scheme for England
and Wales (TPS) for academic and related staff; and various Local Government Pension Schemes (LGPS) for

non-teaching staff, which are managed by 25 different Local Authorities:

Avon Pension Fund

Buckinghamshire County Council Pension Fund
Devon County Council Pension Fund

East Riding Pension Fund

Essex County Council Pension Fund
Gloucestershire County Council Pension Fund
Hampshire County Council Pension Fund
Isle of Wight County Council Pension Fund
Kent County Council Pension Fund
Leicestershire County Council Pension Fund
Lincolnshire Pension Fund

London Borough of Bexley Pension Fund
London Borough of Enfield Pension Fund
London Borough of Haringey Pension Fund
London Borough of Hounslow Pension Fund
London Borough of Southwark Pension Fund
South Yorkshire Pension Fund

Staffordshire County Council Pension Fund
Suffotk County Council Pension Fund

Surrey Pension Fund

Teesside Pension Fund

West Midlands Council Pension Fund

West Yorkshire Pension Fund

Wiltshire Pension Fund

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust)

66

Dy

Notes to the financial statements

20.

The TPS and the various LGPS funds are all multi-employer defined benefit pension schemes.

The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS related to the period ended 31 March 2020 and of the LGPS to the
period ended 31 March 2022.

Contributions amounting to £3,940,000 were payable to the schemes at 31 August 2024 (2023: £3,324,000)
and are included within creditors.

Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS) is a statutory, contributory, defined benefit scheme, governed by the
Teachers’ Pension Scheme Regulations 2014. Membership is automatic for teachers in academy trusts. All
teachers have the option to opt-out of the TPS following enrolment. The TPS is an unfunded scheme to
which both the member and employer makes contributions, as a percentage of salary - these contributions
are credited to the Exchequer. Retirement and other pension benefits are paid by public funds provided by
Parliament. :

Pension commitments (co ntinued) ;

Valuation of the Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Government Actuary, using normal actuarial principles, conducts a formal actuarial review of the TPS in
accordance with the Public Service Pensions (Valuations and Employer Cost Cap) Directions 2014 published
by HM Treasury every 4 years. The aim of the review is to ensure scheme costs are recognised and managed
appropriately and the review specifies the level of future contributions.

Actuarial scheme valuations are dependent on assumptions about the value of future costs, design of
benefits and many other factors. The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS was carried out as at 31 March
2020. The valuation report was published by the Department for Education on 27 October 2023, with the
SCAPE rate, set by HMT, applying a notional investment return based on

1.7% above the rate of CPI. The key elements of the valuation outcome are:

e Employer contribution rates set at 28.68% of pensionable pay (including a 0.08% administration
levy). This is an increase of 5% in employer contributions and the cost control result is such that
no change in member benefits is needed.

« Total scheme liabilities (pensions currently in payment and the estimated cost of future
benefits) for service to the effective date of £262,000 million and notional assets (estimated
future contributions together with the notional investments held at the valuation date) of
£222,200 million, giving a notional past service deficit of £39,800 million

The result of this valuation has been implemented from 1 April 2024. The next valuation result is due to be
implemented from 1 April 2028.

The employer's pension costs paid to TPS in the year amounted to £22,633,000 (2023: £18,893,000).

A copy of the valuation report and supporting documentation is on the Jeachers' Pension Scheme website,

Under the definitions set out in FRS 102, the TPS is an unfunded multi-employer pension scheme. The
academy trust is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the plan. Accordingly,
the academy trust has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 102 and has accounted for its contributions
to the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme. The academy trust has set out above the
information available on the scheme.

Local Government Pension Scheme
The LGPS is a funded defined benefit scheme, with assets held in separate trustee- administered funds. The
total contribution made for the year ended 31 August 2024 was £15,330,000 (2023: £13,543,000), of which

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 67

Dy

Notes to the financial statements

employer's contributions totalled £12,111,000 (2023: £10,680,000) and employees’ contributions totalled
£3,219,000 (2023: £2,863,000). The agreed contribution rates for future years are variable based on pay.

Parliament has agreed, at the request of the Secretary of State for Education, to a guarantee that, in the
event of an academy trust closure, outstanding Local Government Pension Scheme liabilities would be met
by the Department for Education. The guarantee came into force on 18 July 2013 and on 21 July 2022, the
Department for Education reaffirmed its commitment to the guarantee, with a parliamentary minute
published on GOV.UK.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 68

Notes to the financial statements
20. Pension commitments (continued)

The academy trust's share of the assets and liabilities in the scheme were:

Fair value Fair value
at31 at 31
August August
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Equities 124,877 107,225
Bonds 64,828 20,539
Property 17,391 14,752
Cash 7,877 §,201
Other 6,284 29,806
Total market value of assets. 221,257 17,525.
The actuat return on scheme assets was a gain of £31,064,000 (2023: loss of £1,846,000).
2024 2023
Amounts recognised in Statement of Financial Activities £'000 £000
Current service cost (net of employee contributions) (7,858) (9,576)
Past service cost (95) (433)
Interest income 9,193 7,203
Interest cost {9,308) (8,815)
Admin expenses {290) (249)
Total operating charge (8,358) (11,870)
2024 2023
Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations £'000 £'000
Scheme obligations as at 1 September 2023 176,878 207,667
Current service cost 7,858 9,576
Interest cost 9,308 8,815
Employee contributions 3,219 2,863
Actuarial (gains) / losses (3,301) (50,187)
Benefits paid (2,373) (2,289)
Past service costs 95 433
At 31 August 2024 191,684 176,878

20. Pension commitments (continued)

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust)

»

69

Notes to the financial statements

Local Government Pension Scheme (continued)

Changes in the fair value in the trust's share of scheme assets

Fair value of scheme assets at 1 September 2023
interest income

Actuarial gain (toss)

Employer contributions

Employee contributions

Benefits paid

Administration costs

At 31 August 2024

2024
£'000

: 177,525
993

21,871

12,111

3,219

(2,372)

(290)

221,257

2023
£'000
164,675
7,203
(5,357)
10,680
2,863
(2,289)
(249)
177,525

The academy trust has an unrecognised surplus of £30,523,000 (2023: £8,703,000) in respect of its defined benefit
pension scheme as it does not expect to recover the plan surplus either through reduced contributions in the

future or through refunds from the plan.

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust)

70

Notes to the financial statements

21,

22.

Operating lease commitments
At 31 August 2024 the total of the trust's future minimum lease payments under non- cancellable operating
leases were as follows: :

2024 2023

£'000 £'000

Amounts due within one year 6,915 6,487
Amounts due between one and five years 26,226 25,074
Amounts due after five years 33,666 35,610
66,807 en LOLAR

The majority of the trust's future minimum lease payments relate to PFI contracts for the four schools at
the trust which operate their buildings under such agreements.

Related party transactions

Owing to the nature of the trust's operations and the composition of the Board of Trustees being drawn
from local public and private sector organisations, transactions may take place with organisations in which
the trust has an interest. All transactions involving such organisations are conducted at arm's length and in
accordance with the trust's financial regulations and normal procurement procedures. .

The related party transactions entered into by the trust during the year are set out below. The Academy
Trust ensures that it conducts related party transactions in accordance with the requirements of the
Academies Financial Handbook, including notifying the ESFA of all transactions made on or after 1 April
2019 and obtaining their approval where required, and with its own financial regulations and procurement
procedures. In addition, for goods or services exceeding £2,500 cumulatively in the year, the Academy Trust
receives confirmation that the element above £2,500 has been provided at no more than cost.

For the following transactions, the Academy Trust notified the ESFA: Jude Chin (Vice Chair of Trustees) is a
director and shareholder in SSAT (The Schools’ Network) which provides services to Lift Schools. During the
year, Lift Schools purchased services from SSAT totalling £3,720 (2023: £8,909). The creditor balance at the
balance sheet date was Enil (2023: Enil).

Rebecca Boomer-Clark (CEQ) is a Trustee of Jamie's Farm which provides services to Lift Schools. During the
year, Lift Schools purchased services from Jamie's Farm totalling £3,750 (2023: £7,833). The creditor balance
at the balance sheet date was Enil (2023: Enil).

Natalie Perera (Trustee) is the CEO of Education Policy Institute (EP!) which provides services to Lift Schools.
During the year, Lift purchased services from EPI totalling nil (2023: £14,000). The creditor balance at the
balance sheet date was Enil (2023: £nil).

Claire Heald (Director of Education), who resigned 31/5/24, is a Trustee of The Difference Education Ltd.
During the year, Lift Schools purchased services from The Difference Education Ltd totalling £12,300 (2023: .
£7,950). The creditor balance at the balance sheet date was Enil (2023: £7,950).

Andrew Thraves (Trustee) was also a trustee of Yes Futures which provides services to Lift Schools. During
the year, Lift academies purchased services from Yes Futures totalling £3,370 (2023: £nil). The creditor
balance at the balance sheet date was nil (2023: £nil).

Anne Mroz (Trustee) was also a trustee of Reach Foundation which provides services to Lift Schools. During

the year, Lift academies purchased services from Reach Academies totalling £767 (2023: £nil). The creditor
balance at the balance sheet date was Enil (2023: Enil).

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust) 71

Notes to the financial statements

21.

Principal Subsidiaries

AET Solutions Limited

Company registration number:

Total assets as at 31 August 2024:

Total liabilities as at 31 August 2024:

Total equity as at 31 August 2024:

Turnover for the year ended 31 August 2024:

Expenditure for the year ended 31 August 2024:

Result for the year ended 31 August 2024:

07003257
£15,017
Enil
£15,017
Enil

Enil

Enil

Lift Schools (formerly Academies Enterprise Trust)

72

