DD

SATURDAY


‘ 4
BI W9}E} Dueuly pue Vodo# eguuy Misseattin adou oud

f ~ a i


Liverpool Hope University

Financial Statements

for the year ending 31 July 2024

Contents

Welcome
Strategic Report
Directors’ Report

Section 172 Statement

Statement of Council responsibilities in
respect of the Strategic Report, the Directors

Statement of Corporate Governance

Statement of Internal Control

Independent auditor's report to the University Council of Liverpool Hope University
Statement of Principal Accounting Policies

Statement of Comprehensive Income

Statement of Changes in Reserves

Statement of Financial Position

Statement of Cash Flows

Notes to Financial Statements

24

28
35

39
43
45
51
58
59
60
61
62

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023 - 2024

Chair of Council’s

Welcome

It is my pleasure to
introduce Liverpool Hope
University’s Annual Report
and Financial Statements
for 2023-24.

This has been an important year for the
University, not least with the publication of
Vice-Chancellor Professor Claire Ozanne’s
Strategic Plan. This sets out Liverpool
Hope’s aspirations and objectives to

2028 and outlines how it will build on

its history of being the only ecumenical
higher education institution in Europe,
championing social justice to realise a
more equitable society and following the
mission “to educate the whole person in
mind, body and spirit”.

The Strategic Plan supports the University’s
ambition to be an anchor organisation in
the Liverpool City Region, contributing

to solutions for both local and global
challenges and developing skilled, confident
and future-ready graduates.

Knowledge transfer and research remains
a core part of University activity and
there has been a new series of research
collaborative events with the public and
third sectors to explore how best the
University can help bring solutions to key
societal issues and concerns.

Another significant development over the
last year has been the restructure of the

University into four faculties. This not only
creates economies of scale and promotes

consistency of processes but also creates
better opportunities for collaboration,
communication and sharing good practice.

In line with the University's strategic
objectives, a number of important reviews
have taken place over the last 12 months.
These include a governance review and

a digital review, the result of which will
inform the development of a five-year
digital plan. This will set out the objectives
for our digital infrastructure to enhance
learning and research opportunities and
ensure that the University is aligned with
the region's drive to be a world leader in
digital development and connectivity. As
part of the University’s commitment to
regional development, Hope is a partner
in a Liverpool City Region Connecting
Capabilities Funding Bid valued at £10
million. The newly opened i3 Building at
our Hope Park campus takes full advantage
of digital technology and is a wonderful
space for students to collaborate

and learn.

Other achievements include the signing
of the People and Planet Fossil Free
Declaration, reinforcing the University’s
commitment to environmental
sustainability and the launch of a new
social impact report developed in
partnership with Purpose Coalition.
Chaired by former Education Secretary
Rt Hon Justine Greening, the Purpose
Coalition is a collective of organisations
striving to break down barriers to
opportunity. The report highlighted
Liverpool Hope’s continued efforts to
increase social mobility, recognising the

financial and wellbeing support it provides
for underrepresented groups and its strong
tradition of community engagement.

Staff, along with students, continue to be
the University's greatest asset and so the
introduction of a new People Strategy was
another milestone moment. The strategy
outlines the University’s ambitions to
develop its culture, people and processes
to ensure Liverpool Hope and its students
continue to succeed.

Liverpool Hope University has always

been proud of the way that it knows and
supports students as individuals. From
small class sizes, to excellent academic and
pastoral support, the University strives to
give students the best possible experience.
It is rewarding to see this reflected in
another year of great results in the 2024
National Student Survey (NSS), with Hope
being top in the North West and top ten
in the UK in six of the themes. Liverpool
Hope University was ranked fifth in the UK
for student satisfaction following analysis
by Times Higher Education (THE).

It is important that we use this report
to celebrate some of the institutional
and individual successes of the last year.
Among many accolades was the naming
of Professor Frank Cottrell-Boyce as the
Children’s Laureate. Dr Taras Khomych
was awarded the Josephine Butler Trust
Volunteer of the Year award, recognising
his work with the Ukrainian community
and musical theatre course leader, Sharon
Byatt, starred in an award-winning film.
Colleagues continue to publish and edit
significant work with Professor David
Bolt being appointed as Editor-in-Chief
of the Oxford Research Encyclopaedia in
Disability Studies.

Hope students continue to inspire all of
those who work with them and it has been
wonderful to see how they have succeeded
in other arenas over the last academic
year. From being selected to work at

the Paralympics to being commissioned

to create Liverpool Cathedral’s nativity
scene, our students are sought after by

prestigious organisations. There have been
national awards and prizes for students

in the fields of social history and robotics
and the University’s reputation for Gaelic
football continues by winning the British
University Championships.

In terms of finances, it is well documented
that the higher education sector is facing
enormous challenges. Here at Hope,

we are committed to ensuring that this
does not affect the academic or pastoral
experience that our students get. As a
community we are confident that we can
meet the economic challenges and the
last year has seen a review of the portfolio
and changes to the student recruitment
process. Academic and professional staff
made positive contributions by working
together to look at new opportunities for
future sustainability and growth. We know
that the year ahead will be difficult for the
sector but the University is in good shape
to continue to rise to these challenges.

| am honoured to have been appointed as
Chair of University Council and to present
you with this Annual Report.

Nth Antex /

Mrs Jane Beever
Chair of University Council
20 November 2024

pZ0z - ETOZ | SJUBWAzeYS jeIDUeUIY pue Oday jeNuUy | Ayjsudajup adoy joodusary

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financiat Statements | 2023 - 2024

Strategic

Report

Liverpool Hope is a superb University rooted in a
vibrant and exciting city. The University is proud of its
past, confident in its present and ambitious for

its future.

With a history extending more than 175
years, Liverpool Hope has developed a
distinctive ethos that brings together
scholarship, research and teaching, with an
educational philosophy based on the triune
quest for Truth, Beauty and Goodness.

The institution is deeply committed to

a culture of research and knowledge
exchange and to preparing graduates to
serve the common good.

The challenges within the sector will
require the University to adapt and
evolve. However, the longstanding
missions and values of the University will
continue to underpin plans for the future.
Liverpool Hope is a University where the
individual and individuality matter; where
ambitious people are able to grow and
staff contributions and achievements are
valued and recognised. Liverpool Hope is
committed to supporting and promoting
equality and diversity to create an inclusive
learning and working environment that
recognises and respects difference.

As Vice-Chancellor | am privileged to lead
the institution into the next phase of its
evolution. The Strategic Plan, launched in
May 2024 builds on the strong foundations
and ethos embedded at the core of Hope

and is based around five pillars, supported
by a number of enabling strategies.

The five pillars are:

e Ethos and Community

e Education

e Research, Scholarship and KE
(Knowledge Enhancement)

e Partnership and Voice

e Sustainable and Future Ready

The plan sets out ambitions to take the
University to the next level, increasing its
national and international reputation,
while students and community remain at
the heart of what Liverpool Hope stands
for.

ECOS &
Community

yoar, the Universtiy ealairetad)
cho ith yo of serine
Praga ei cb
oF ween in acadkemtte and)
srsGastioned goles bo Ghinit @
or datas teadiare by dlowatopting ah stlls

thay require, Over the fist b Ae yan 72
and swecsssiuly

fomato ste have onrefiad!
completedithelprogrammey

The University fb premd te be part of
the Otsetiliy Canficlent Scirama, anc! iS
fcommittedhto)

RPperting chveriiy and)
equally, Tho Olebiity Confident Schram
feeusss en challenging atifinclas towercs
isa bilityAiicreasinagunderstanding|
fofidisabilitygandfremoving|bangiersito)

Supa of et and Sone

Oepartmant of Werk end Reactions saree

based ti tho URL Ie ils oxgaafscitoms
Go kins ciorandly eboes Chetty bo

reletion to emptoymant. retention, walang

‘ en eoraar dtovelepmnent, Vio University
pe Kevell by

‘The University b delighted to cngagS
Bwithithessupported|internshipyschemey
coordinate) by Lverpacl City Goumelll,
Suppertad inkemuhiies are a seructurcd,
Worle basedistudygologam melon cato)
Ahparcks with SEND. Whis invelves a
evistential work clacament facitansd oy
the apport of a wetied fel coach, The

University fies wert? with Unerpes) Gly
Council, Childvall Atiosy anc) Sanchicts)
Rave Scholls Over Go lest Gyo

seven plsaamante he ac foetIGebed ef
dhe Universtiy wit Catartag Chepietiney,

Gxteiies Uireny Santen, Paspls Santee
snd ape Perk Sports, tse fintenoswhavey
commenced placsmant this year. The
Univarstay be § ison easepplsad bay Oxo Giay
Gauael 68 em Move end Bayon? Revie,
Gite eBoed Che previews years

oc Wanting Carononittp Portier,

Rope fies ageantly achiaree Aspiring Lave)
Cf the Fair Gaploymant Charice, The

Charter wes coueRIBNSO By.
Mayer Stave Rotherham ter dhe Livarsecl
Cty Region, eaicivating Gir onploymantt
fppacticesy tie Ghertice, the

Cuilting © elnealthyy
Unarpoel Gity Region.

Tho Ostenas Gupleyer Rezegaittten
ahaa I Dalia Dledcentoy
Gromete bang evans forcesziriendivathaty
denen ae PadvocatestsupDOmato)

farmeditorces!

freaked teil, The University hes cigned
Up to the first level of the scheme and fs
werltng towards brome mombarhia

Mistertesilly (re universtiay (hes pat tino
Voluntary] and) centiinsd &®
do 59 i FOB,

YOO? > 620k | QUSONIS (AUSNY GUS Mesay (SREY | AasusKyNA aden) joeeary


Education

Liverpool Hope University is committed
to providing an excellent education that
transforms lives.

Learning and Teaching
Assessment

The University provides a learning
experience which is both personalised

and community-orientated achieved
through a clear awareness of the Liverpool
Hope student profile, and a commitment
to understanding students’ different
characteristics and needs. This experience
equips students to be active participants in
their learning and prepares them, through
the development of skills and knowledge,
to make a difference for good in the

world as future leaders in a wide range

of contexts. This commitment is set out

in the University’s Learning Teaching and
Assessment Strategy. This strategy is based
on two fundamental concepts, firstly the
attributes which every Hope graduate
should have and secondly the underpinning
principles of Learning, Teaching and
Assessment at Hope.

The University applied for a TEF award

and gained silver recognition in both
Student Experience and Student
Outcomes categories. The University’s
Communities of Practice (COP) scheme

for staff development continued, with

new COPs being introduced in Supervising
Dissertations, Student Reading and
Literary Early Career Teacher and
Teaching Socially Relevant Topics. The
structure of the University Virtual Learning
Environment was substantially updated

in response to student feedback. A new
peer enhancement policy was developed
and implemented; this structures the
opportunity for colleagues to observe good
practice in the classroom.

Introduction of faculties

During 2023/4, the University undertook a
major project to focus academic leadership
in four new faculties rather than the
existing ten schools. This development

is intended to improve administrative
efficiency, facilitate academic collaboration
and to allow a more coordinated approach
to future developments. The change

has provided opportunities for career
progression for a number of colleagues,
including the introduction of Associate
Dean posts for specific focus on student
experience, research and knowledge
exchange and external engagement in
each faculty.

As part of the introduction of a faculty
structure, the University revised its course
offering to ensure a strong portfolio of
degrees. The University developed and
recruited students for a new course in
Sport and Exercise Nutrition, introduced
a number of new postgraduate taught
programmes and has also refined its offer
of combined honours degrees to make
the university portfolio more navigable.

In order to support the QA of the
ongoing development of the portfolio, the
University has appointed a new Senior
Quality Officer.

Degree Apprenticeships

The University received confirmation post
year end from the Office for Students via
Wave 3 funding competition to become a
new Department for Education approved
Apprenticeship Training Provider. The
funding will allow the University to offer
Level 6 degree apprenticeships for the
first time, with the aim of increasing

the equality of opportunity across the
Liverpool City Region. Partners across
the Community have provided letters

of support with many declaring an ‘in

PZOZ - ETOT | Sjuawazeys jelnueuly pue yoday jenuuy | Alsudaiuy odoy jooduaaly

- 2024

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023

10

kind’ contribution to the apprenticeship
programme. Four sectors will be supported
by the University’s degree apprenticeships
providing courses in, teaching,
physiotherapy, youth work and social work.

National Student Survey
2024

Liverpool Hope University has been ranked
fifth in the UK for student satisfaction
following analysis by Times Higher
Education (THE) of the 2024 National
Student Survey (NSS) results. The annual
National Student Survey (NSS) is a census
of all final year undergraduate students

in the UK, offering a chance to provide
feedback on their student experience

at Hope. In 2024, just under 346,000
(72.3% overall response rate) final year
undergraduate students from 130 higher
education institutions participated in the
survey, which asks them to share their
thoughts on a range of topics relating

to their university experience. Liverpool
Hope has achieved a strong set of results
across the board, rising up the rankings in
every category. In addition to finishing first
in the North West in six categories, the
University also ranked second in the region
for teaching, organisation and management
and for its Students’ Union.

The University continues to develop and
augment its support for students. -

e An enhanced provision using Studiosity
was introduced for English Language
support for international students.

e The online system using QR codes was
introduced to facilitate more effective
recording of student attendance. This
has enabled teams to manage support
for students with low attendance,
regular and accurate data means that
students can be contacted early and
offered support.

¢ The availability of the student
support fund was widened to provide
opportunities for a greater proportion
of the full cohort to apply has been
specifically beneficial for PGCE students.

e Pastoral support was teams have been
aligned to give a consistent and wrap
around service for students. Student
Life is established as the first point of
contact, a service that offers support to
all students.

« Student Engagement Officers offer a
signposting and referral service. They
proactively contact students and
manage events a part of the wider
wellbeing team.

Organised by the Students’ Union the
annual ceremony is an opportunity for
the student body to recognise those
who go the extra mile to make Hope a
better place. This year’s event generated
more interest than ever before, with 620
nominations received representing a 46%
increase on previous year.

Insight to Business Awards

Outside the curriculum students continued
to embrace a wide range of opportunities
made available to them. In 2023/24 the
eighth annual Insight to Business Awards
saw Hope's Business School joining

forces with some of the region’s most
influential organisations to offer short-
term placements to both undergraduates
and recent graduates. Everton in the
Community, Liverpool Chamber of
Commerce, Lloyds Bank and The Brain
Charity were among the 13 companies to
offer opportunities as part of this year’s
event which saw 51 students shortlisted for
an award, 18 of whom were recognised as
winners. .

Wild Hope Records

The Liverpool Hope Music Team launched
a record label, Wild Hope Records, offering
opportunities for undergraduate and
postgraduate students to release their own
compositions. In 2024, the first student

to release an album on the University’s
record label is a 10-track record inspired
by Sudanese music linking melodies with
classical pop and modern jazz.

Plas Caerdeon

The University offers students the
opportunity to spend time at its campus
in North Wales. The new 2023/24
student engagement programme at

Plas Caerdeon had a more inclusive
approach than previous years. Bespoke
courses to academic tutors from the
University’s schools had a significant
impact in engagement, with a 57% increase
in student attendees. As part of the
experience, students were able to obtain
certificates in Paddle Sport (42 British -
Canoeing Start and Discover Awards
issued), Navigation (32 Mountain Training
Hill Skills certificates issued) and First Aid
(49 certificates issued), supporting team
working and other transferable skills.

Partners in the City

There is also encouragement to work with
partners in the city. Staff at Liverpool
Hope’s Creative Campus are working

in close partnership with Citizens

UK Liverpool to win change in local
communities like Everton. The University
fosters positive working relationships
between communities, elected power-
holders and businesses to collaborate.on
finding solutions to shared challenges and
influence change to achieve shared goals.

~
a
cy
g
3
9
2
x
fo)
3G
®
fod
3
2
e
s
4
e
2
>
3
a
Ss
on
a
o
9
fe)
5
Ps
o
2
a
a
3
a
Ey
2.
2
al
rd
o
bs
®
3
®
a
=
a
°
nN
o
1
iN}
fay
iN}
&


Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023 - 2024

Research &
Knowledge
Exchange

Liverpool Hope University is a vibrant academic
community with high scholarly standards.

In order to underpin the new Strategic
Plan, the research, scholarship, and
knowledge exchange (KE) strategy is being
refined to support engagement in excellent
research and knowledge exchange
activities which have impact on societal
challenges and underpin our learning and
teaching.

The University submitted over 96% of

its active research staff (colleagues with
Significant Responsibility for Research)

in thirteen Units of Assessment for REF
2021. All 13 subject units were assessed
as having aspects of their work in
Internationally Excellent (3*) or world-
leading (4*) categories. The subjects
submitted were English Language and
Literature; Theology and Religious Studies;
Psychology; History; Computer Science and
Informatics; Nutrition; Sport and Exercise
Sciences; Geography and Environmental
Studies; Politics and International

Studies; Education; Music, Drama, Dance,
Performing Arts; Social Work and Social
Policy; Art and Design.

The University is continually developing

its research profile and has an ambitious
agenda for the future to build on the REF
2021 results. Objectives include fostering
interdisciplinary approaches to knowledge
creation and exchange, scaling-up external
funding for research and supporting
innovation to increase capacity to seek
solutions to the challenges facing society.
Liverpool Hope’s REF 2021 submission is
an indicator of the inclusive and broad-
based research culture in the university,
which provides a strong foundation for the
enhancement of Hope’s academic standing
and the impact of its work.

Liverpool Hope University engages in a
wide range of impactful research across
disciplines such as Humanities, Social
Sciences, Business, Education, Performing
Arts and Design, Psychology, Geography
and Environmental Science, Health
Sciences, Law, and Computing Science
and Engineering. These research initiatives
exemplify the University’s commitment
to producing work that delivers real-
world benefits. For instance, research

on terrorism and political violence

has provided crucial insights into the
psychological processes behind politically
motivated violence, influencing global
policymakers, security services, NGOs, and
“the public to enhance counter-terrorism
strategies. A study on age-related changes
in colour vision reformed clinical diagnosis
and treatment, particularly benefiting
older adults, while research into exercise
and nutrition for muscle strength in older
populations demonstrated the value
of resistance exercises and a protein-
rich diet for improving mobility and
quality of life, shaping health promotion
practices worldwide. The University’s
contributions extend further to areas such
as educational practices, environmental
conservation, agricultural innovations,
mental health interventions, renewable
energy advancements, cultural studies,
biomedical research, social policy, welfare
- systems, and innovations in engineering
and design.

Colleagues working on drone technology
and algorithms have made significant
strides in the High-Altitude Platform
Stations (HAPS) Alliance and the
Commonwealth Telecommunication
Organisation, further establishing the
Liverpool Hope University Space Society
(LHUSS) to cultivate future leaders in

sustainable space solutions. Professor
Frank Cottrell-Boyce, a leading figure at
the University, has been named the new
Children’s Laureate. -

Other notable work includes: the launch of
a book on Media Language on Islam and
Muslims: Terminologies and Their Effects

at a panel discussion in Portcullis House
and the appointment of a senior lecturer
in psychology as Scholar in Residence

at Christ University, India, to foster
collaborations and provide consultancy on
teaching practices..A recent conference
commemorating the 75th anniversary of
Ireland becoming a republic, sponsored by
Ireland’s Department of Foreign Affairs and
Trade, attracting a distinguished gathering
of academics, diplomats, and politicians.
These wide-ranging research efforts

reflect Liverpool Hope University’s ongoing
commitment to advancing academic
knowledge and making a tangible impact
on society, health, education, technology,
and the environment.

8
8
os
Gg
Q
=x
a
moi
o
<
3
z
eo
8
ry
a
2
>
3
3
FS
2
a
o
UD
fe]
g
BS
»
3
a
2
S
o
3
a
o
ms
e
g
=
o
3
oO
3
2
g
nN
oO
nN
&
a
ia
oO
ns
DS


i
ha
;
|

- Nationa a

coy

-(nternationa
Partnerships

During 2023/24 the
University fas
to build) fs
beth nationally ancl
intemationallly ancl to

its relationships
with external partners.
Partnerships

The University entiarsa) tne a Hares year

contact (in June 2023 witie Annisiitten
Oietfinte te velldete fis PEGE fier tts HT

euams, Email acces to Tumaitin
and marting and fsadback Ambition
iidiiiuie bs © nefttons! ccluacition Greriky
and) the largest erevidisr of teacher
ecucsttion fn Englend.

On foitiing the Creutin Fletiterm, estefslisned)
boy the Uverpan! Gly Region Lecel)
Gnterprbe Rartnerniia, the University

hes engaged with key actwerts end
Stalccholelars ih the Gly Region, end)
Gontinuss to egieres muimelly senciicel
eolieretive eppertunitiss thet will
dsepan fis cantribution to the eustainette
commmnfiics.

During the year, Hope digned partncrchip
egrssnents with Ealiment Cellage tin

. Londen to deliver Budinces Mamagencntt

_ ve Weeden yor eng sree ad
fladiale daivery modi) thet wil induce” ~
ie day pas ac

| tank gerard et etetes iy

Souths (oven Go eupaent cadens aaabilay:
end Tab watt

til ng bones end eemeraunliis to
Gur ctucionts end stat? which we sack tr
Gentine developing aver the coming year.


Liverpdel Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023 - 2024

Outreach and
Widening Access
and Participation

The University aspires to strengthen delivery on its
Life-Long Learning mission, including widening access and
participation and ensuring good outcomes for graduates.

We have an approved Access and
Participation Plan (APP) in place. Through
commitment to the APP we have an
ambitious set of strategic aims that
support attainment raising in schools

and which seek to improve outcomes for
students who may otherwise be less likely
to access higher education and succeed
once there. The University seeks to ensure
equality for everyone that applies or
registers with us regardless of ethnicity,
background or financial hardship.

Furthermore, the University is committed
to the Outreach and Widening Access
and Participation agenda more generally
through its outreach work. This includes
through its partnership with Holy Cross
Bury (the Network of Hope) where higher
education courses are delivered locally for
those who might otherwise have limited
access to provision.

The University fulfils its ambitions in
relation to Access and Participation by
offering support for students through a
series of scholarships, and through on
course funds for those who are struggling
financially. The Learning Support Fund

is available to students from the groups

identified in the Plan; with the aim of
ensuring that discontinuation of studies

is avoided. Details of the expenditure on
Access and Participation is included in the
financial statements (see note 10) and has
formed part of the work covered by the
external auditors.

The University continued to invest in a
range of facilities and services to support
disabled students, ensuring they are

able to fully participate in the life of the
University. In 2023/24, 28.03% of Liverpool
Hope students had a declared disability.
This is significantly higher than the sector
average, and reflects the mission and
values of the institution.

The expenditure on Access and
Participation is included in the financial
statements (see note 10) and has formed
part of the work covered by the external
auditors.

The total expenditure in the four
categories was £1,410,431. This represents
a similar figure compared to 2022/23
£1,492,981.

Capital
Developments

Underpinned by the desire to deliver an excellent
education and student experience and a commitment to

reducing environmental impact, the University continues to

develop its estate.

A major refurbishment of the grade

2 listed, 3 Islington Square building at

the Creative Campus was completed in
April 2024. The building provides flexible
teaching and office accommodation,
bringing back into use a dilapidated
building and demonstrating the
University’s commitment to the continued
regeneration of a deprived area of
Liverpool.

In May 2024, the University completed
construction work on the i3 (formally IQ)

Building project at the Hope Park Campus.

This is a flagship Learning and Teaching
building which has a budget of £13.5
million. The new facilities improve the
student experience by providing access to
a range of different learning and teaching

environments, including the use of new
technologies, such as the use of immersive
virtual reality within the Simulation Suite.

Other capital work currently being
undertaken include the refurbishment

of one of of the University’s student
residential halls, Angela Hall, which is partly
funded by a PSDS Salix grant. A further
PSDS Salix grant was obtained to part
finance the refurbishment of Gerard Manly
Hopkins Hall with works being planned for
summer 2025.

All capital developments have been fully
paid for from cash reserves and have
been designed in a way to minimise the
University’s dependence on fossil fuels, as
part of a move towards net zero.

yZ0Z - EZOT | SJUsWaze}S JeIDUeUIY pue yioday jenuUy | AlisusAlUN adoH joodssaly

vZOZ - €Z0Z | SpUSWAzLYS [EIDUeULY PUR Jaday jenuUyY | ArsiaAIUA SdoH JoodiaAi]

18

Financial
Performance

The University takes
financial performance
seriously and has robust
financial processes and
procedures in place to
ensure the financial
sustainability of the
University is always
protected.

While Liverpool Hope has always had

a strong financial foundation, this year,
we have experienced the challenges
felt throughout the sector. In July 2023,
University Council formally approved a
deficit budget of £2,031,702 (3.6%). The
intention was that this deficit would be
for one year only to enable the University
to reposition, recognise the need for
investment in new initiatives and to
diversity income.

The University reacted quickly in
September 2023 to the decline in the
financial position. Project 2028 was
launched to identify new income streams
and cost savings to be delivered through

a number of focused areas, a target of
£1.625 million was set for 2023/24, this KPI
was achieved and the project delivered
£2.297 million, £0.67 million in excess of the
target. Project 2028 is a key part of the
operational planning that will underpin the
Strategic Plan and ensure delivery of the
strategic objectives.

Through careful management of the
resources, additional income generating
activities, the two in year reforecast
exercises and strong financial controls, the
final result was a deficit of £624,074 (1.1%).
A deficit indicator should not, on its own,
be used to judge longer-term sustainability.
Accounting treatments can often distort
movements in surplus and deficit levels
between years, meaning that there are
risks in using surplus levels alone to assess
underlying financial performance. It should
be noted, the reduction in the forecast
deficit was only achieved due to the

major reduction in the FRS 102 Pension
adjustment.

vZ0Z ~ EZOT | SJUSWajze}s jeldueUiy pue Joday jenuuy | ArszaaiLA ado joodssaly

ike

Liverpocl Hope University | Annual Report and Financia! Statements | 2623 - 2024

Financial Performance Indicators are summarised below.

2023/24 2022/23

£000 £000

Operating (defcit)/surplus (624) 2,309
Staff as a percentage of income 64% 63%
Net cash (outflow)/inflow (26) 4,565
Net cash (ouflow)/inflow as a percentage of income (0.05%) 784%
Liquidity days 148 . 207

Report by the OfS: Financial Sustainability
of higher education providers in England:
2024 predicts that the financial outlook

in the sector is weakening in 2023-24 with
40% of HE providers forecasting a deficit
and over 60% with weaker results compared
to the previous year. The trend predicts
providers expect operating cash flow to

fall. The University results follow these OfS
predictions.

Cash reserves at year end £21.6m (2022/23
£29.1m). Net cash inflow during the year was
£26,342 compared with 2022/23 cash inflow
of £4,565,327.

The Statement of Comprehensive Income
for the year is set out on page 58. Using

this data the chart below demonstrates the
impact of fixed home fees on the University
over the last four years. Annual surpluses are
declining due to static income and rapidly
rising staff and non-staff costs.

Financial Year
sume Staff Costs sme Non Staff Costs om: (Deficit)/Surplus

ome Total income «am, Tuition Fee Income

As the majority of our students are Home UG
students, the reduction in student numbers
and the decision to freeze the tuition fee at
£9,250 (since 2017 and in real-terms is less),
has meant that fee income is decreasing
while the cost base increases. Project

Student Numbers

As at 31st July 2024 the University had 5,047
students (31st July 2023: 5,459 students).

2028 will address this gap. Links have been
established to the five-year strategic plan
with KPI targets to ensure future financial
sustainability and delivery of the Strategic
Plan KPIs.

Full Time Part-Time

Students Students
Undergraduate . . 3,858 . . 79
Postgraduate (taught) 343 258
vostaradvate esearch) en nnctnnnnnnennnnetnnnnn ; ol
— oneness oF
Other 119 -
Total 4,620 427

Treasury Management
Policy

The University had gradually increased

the level of cash reserves so that it could
undertake its extensive capital programme
without needing to resort to external
finance.

In July 2024 Cash and Cash equivalents and
Investments, had reduced by £7445,872 to
£21,654,694 compared to July 2023. This was
not unexpected due to payments of £4.9
million during the year for the i3 building and
£1.2 for Islington Square.

All investments are made in line with the
University Treasury Management Policy,
ensuring that investments are ethical and risk
averse.

The outstanding value of the one remaining
University bank loan had reduced to
£2,845,387 at the year-end (2023 -
£3,198,050), and no new loans were taken
out in 2023/24. All borrowing is undertaken
in the name of the University and conforms
to OfS requirements. The Treasury
Management policy is updated annually and
was revised in October 2024.

pZOZ - ETOT | SUawaze7s [eloUeUly pue Jioday jenuuy | AlisuaAlUN adoH jooduaAry

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023 - 2024

Risk

~Management

The University takes the management of risk seriously.
Where a risk is seen as a threat, mitigations are identified
and put in place. However, risks can also be seen as
opportunities and the University takes proportionate and
planned risk where appropriate to help achieve its strategic

objectives.

The University has carried out a
restructure of its academic departments
and the risk management responsibility
has altered to align to the new structure.
Each School, Faculty and Department
has their own Risk Register. The Faculty
registers are prepared following
consideration of the School registers. A
new Risk Management Oversight Group
(RMOG) has been established to review
risk across the university and then make
recommendations for the University
Executive Board to consider; the group
members include senior staff, reflecting all
areas of the University.

The University’s overarching risk register
has developed to include more information
and a new guidance document has been
issued to aid the understanding of risk and
the risk register. The University risk register
is overseen by the Audit Committee on
behalf of University Council. The University
has a comprehensive internal control
system to manage risk. This includes a
program of work by the internal auditors
which directly addresses risks identified

in the risk register. In June 2024 Risk

Management training was delivered by an
external company to Council members, ©
the University Executive Board and Senior
Management Team.

The Risk Register is a dynamic document,
updated as required to reflect changing
circumstances with formal review
scheduled three times per year plus a
fourth general review at the start of the
academic year, that will formally consider
emerging risks that have arisen over the
summer period. The University continues
to scan the policy environment and is fully
engaged with sector bodies and local,
regional and national partners to inform
the identification and mitigation of risk.

The risk register captures the key risks to
the institution, the top three risks currently
are (1) cyber security breach (2) financial
sustainability (3) decline in student
recruitment, which are risks common to
the sector. While not complacent, all of
the financial modelling undertaken to date
provides reassurance of the University’s
long-term financial sustainability.

.

The University enters the next phase of its
development with a clear strategic vision
as outlined in the new Strategic Plan and
is confident that it can adapt to, manage

and minimize the risks faced. Co Nawle at PB Ozone .

This vision is endorsed by the University - Professor Claire Ozanne ~
Governance structure and ownership is Vice Chancellor & Rector :
embedded across all senior management. 20% November 2024 © : oa

ZOZ - ETOT | SJuauazeyS JeloUeUIy pue Jioday jenuuY | AYsuEAIU BdOH JoodsaAy


Directors

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023 - 2024

Report

Legal status

Liverpool Hope University was re-
constituted in 2005 by order of the

Privy Council under Section 129B of the
Education Reform Act 1988, as a single,
joint Anglican-Roman Catholic ecumenical
University. It is registered in England and
Wales as a Company Limited by Guarantee
(3285547) and registered as a Charity
(1060579).

In 2002 taught degree awarding powers
were secured and the title Liverpool Hope
University College officially bestowed. In
July 2005 the granting of full University
status led to the adoption of the title
Liverpool Hope University and in August
2009, the Privy Council granted the
University the power to award research
degrees.

In the academic and financial year
2023/2024 there were 5,047 students
and 642 members of staff, with a range
of degrees at undergraduate and
postgraduate levels.

Members of the University
Council

(A list of directors can be found on page 34)

All the members of the University Council
are directors of the Company. No director
had any interest in any contract made by
the University during the financial year,
other than a contract of employment as a
member of staff and that described in note
20 to the accounts.

Mission Statement

The Mission Statement reflects both the
University's traditions and its intention to
develop and maintain a distinctive and
forward-looking programme relevant to
local, regional, national and international
needs.

Liverpool Hope University is an ecumenical,
Christian foundation which strives: ,

e to provide opportunities for the well-
rounded personal development of all
students;

e to educate the whole person in mind,
body and spirit, irrespective of age,
social or ethnic origins or physical
capacity, including in particular those
with promise who might otherwise
not have had an opportunity to enter
higher education;

* to be a provider of high quality
educational programmes responsive to
the needs of students in the UK and
abroad;

* to sustain an academic community,
enriched by Christian values and
culture, which supports teaching and
learning, scholarship and research,
encourages the understanding of
other faiths and beliefs, and promotes
religious and social harmony;

e to be globally credible while
contributing to the educational,
religious, cultural, social and economic
life of Liverpool, Merseyside, North-
West England and beyond.

Equality and Diversity

The University is cognisant of its obligations
under the Equality Act 2010 and has due
regard to equality and diversity in its policy
making processes. Its Equality and Diversity
Policy and other related information can
be found at:

www.hope.ac.uk/gateway/
staff/peopleservices/
equalitydiversityandinclusion

The University has an Equality & Diversity
Steering Committee which reports to
Senior Management Team, Senate and the
Staffing Committee of University Council.
The Steering Committee takes an overview
of the University’s equality objectives and
analyses data reports to ensure that any
issues relating to groups with protected
characteristics are identified and then
tackled. The University has participated in
the Aurora programme to support women
into management and leadership positions
and is planning to apply for Athena Swann
membership.

Employee Involvement

The University places considerable value on
the involvement of its employees and on
good communication with them. Staff are
encouraged to participate in formal and
informal consultation at University, School
and department level, sometimes through
membership of formal Committees. The
Vice-Chancellor addresses all staff at the
start of the academic year. The Vice-
Chancellor, meets all Academic Leaders
and Operational Leaders with the senior
team at least twice a term but more
regularly if required.

There is a system of cascading information
from those meetings to all staff and
departments and service areas are
expected to hold regular staff meetings to
enhance two-way communication.

The University established the Hope Forum
to ensure that colleagues’ voices are heard
and that staff at all levels are able to
contribute to decision-making with the aim
to support a positive, collaborative and fair
culture that supports success.

The University's People 2024 Strategy has
a strategic strand to enhance engagement
with and of staff. The Joint Consultative
and Negotiating Committee JCNC) is

a forum for management and Trades
Unions’ representatives which meets
regularly. The Hope Bulletin is a weekly
electronic newsletter sent to the inbox of
all members of staff every Wednesday to
keep them up to date with University news,
events and achievements.

Section 13 of the Trade Union Act 2016
introduced a new requirement to publish
data on trade union facility time reporting.
For Financial Year ending 31st July 2024
there were 21 trade union representatives
equating to 20.54 FTEs at a cost of
£23,555. In terms of percentage of working
hours spent on facility time, there were

13 employees working less than 0% and 8
employees working between 1% to 50% of
their working hours. _

Supplier Involvement

When engaging suppliers, the University
utilises a number of routes to market
including third party collaborative
framework agreements, such as from the
North Western Universities Purchasing
Consortium (NWUPC), together with other
consortia as well as awarding our own
contracts through competitive tender and
quotation activity.

Areas of Public Benefit
provided by Liverpool Hope
University

In shaping its objectives and planning its
activities the University has considered the
Charity Commission guidance on public
benefit. The University through oversight of
its activities at University Council meetings
is confident that it fully satisfies the

Public Benefit requirements of the Charity
Commission as there is a direct benefit to
students from its activities and an indirect
benefit to the public at large.

The Public Benefit requirement requires
two principles to be met.

7202 - EZOZ | SJUawazeyS jeloUeUly pue Joday ;eNuUY | AtsUaAIUN doy locdssay

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023 - 2024

26

1. There must be an identifiable benefit or
benefits.

The objects of the University are:

e the higher education of men and
women including the education and
training of persons intending to enter,
or engaged in, the teaching profession;

e the furtherance of the Roman Catholic
Church and the Church of England,
of Christian education, of ecumenical
ideals, and of understanding between
Christian Churches in the promotion of
the Gospel;

e the advancement of knowledge by
research and scholarship and teaching
and learning;

This is a clearly identifiable benefit.

2. The benefit must be to the public
or a section of the public. This area is
expanded below.

As well as the students themselves, the
University provides benefits for the general
public. This includes a range of events such
as concerts, lectures and the Angel Field
Festival that are either free or accessible
for a minimal charge.

Health and well-being initiatives are also
run at the University which the public is _
able to attend. The University’s Service and
Leadership award encourages students to
undertake a range of voluntary activities
across the local community and overseas
and is recognised by a formal award at

the end of their degree. The University

is a partner of Contact the Elderly and
participates in Childwall in Bloom.

Environment and
Sustainability

Liverpool Hope University has a moral
and ethical approach to stewardship

of the Earth and a responsibility to
create a better quality of life for present

Directors Report

and future generations and strives to
manage its operations in ways that are
environmentally sustainable, economically
feasible and socially responsible. The
University recognises the negative and
positive impacts that it has on the
environment, economy and society

both locally, nationally and globally. The
University, however, is well placed to
make an exceptional contribution — well
positioned through its teaching and
research; influence on students, staff and
communities; and through its business and
campus operations.

‘Sustainability is central to the University’s

mission and values and forms one of the
five pillars of the University’s Strategic

Plan and our decisions and actions reflect
the concern that our community has for
our environment. Hope's Sustainability
Policy commits the University to increasing
its positive contribution and reducing

its negative impact on the environment

in six key impact areas: awareness and
engagement, utility consumption, travel
and transport, waste, estates development
and procurement; all of which contribute
to the University’s carbon emissions.

The University has committed to achieving
net zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2040
and net zero Scope 3 emissions by 2050 at
the latest.

The University’s Scope 1 and 2 carbon
emissions during 2023-2024 (August to July)
were 2,464 tonnes CO2e (equivalent to
0.03 tonnes CO2e per m2 GIA) and have
been calculated using the Government
conversion factors for company reporting
of greenhouse gas emissions (see below).
The University’s total Scope 1 and 2
emissions have decreased by 52.8%

since 2005-2006, but increased by 0.6%
compared to last year (2022-2023).

This is despite growth in the size of the
University’s estate during the same period.

Emissions
~Sources~~ ~

Consumption
(2023-2024)~

6,889,164

}-between

Directors Report

Work is continuing to collate and analyse
the University’s relevant Scope 3 emissions:

% difference Consumption
per Studen
| (headcount -

| July)

% difference
~betwee
2005-2006 2022-2023
and 2023- and

2024 2023-2024
(consumption)}~(consumption

i

i

/ kWh ,

cee a — ee ee

Fugitive 31.5 keg 4226 + 0.006
Emissions | i i /

7 7 ’
Fuel used © | | i
inowned 1. 4,073L 10.0 | -35.1 | +4.2 08
vehicles | / :
Electricity 2 DATL724 1 4 433 “15.9 43.5 1,086

kWh

Scope 1&2

emissions i as above
Water

(supply& = 3 49,814 m3 16.9 -21.0 | +3.4 99
treatment) | . |

Carbon reduction projects have continued
to contribute to the decrease in carbon
emissions with the continued installation
of LED lighting and controls; fine-tuning
the Building Management System; catering
equipment upgrades, including an electric
pizza oven; and decarbonisation of one

of the University’s halls of residence (as
below). The University has generated over
117k kWh from its on-site solar panels; and
is aiming to increase its generation over
the coming years.

The University’s Estates team has been
successful with four separate grant
funding bids to the Government Public
Sector Decarbonisation Scheme since
2020 enabling the University to access

over £1.4m grant funding: St Julies halls

of residence works completed in 2021-
2022 (Salix Public Sector Decarbonisation
Scheme Phase 2) included replacing the
gas fired heating system with electric panel
heaters (removing over 80% of the gas
consumption), replacing the original steel
framed single glazed windows with double
glazing, installing internal wall insulation
and solar PV; the Trinity project completed
in 2022-23 (Salix PSDS Phase 3a) replaced
the gas heating system with an Air Source
Heat Pump (removing 100% of the gas
consumption), installing double glazing,
solar PV and a Building Management
System; and Angela Halls of Residence
completed in 2023-2024 (Salix PSDS Phase
3b) replaced the gas fired heating system

vZOZ - EZOT | SU@WazeyS je!sueUIy pue Yoday jenuuy | AysuaaiuN SdoH joodsaary

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023 - 2024

28

with electric panels heaters, replaced the
gas fired domestic hot water with an ASHP
(removing 100% of the gas consumption)
and installed internal wall insulation on
the outer facing walls. The University has
also successfully applied for Salix PSDS
Phase 3c funding for the Gerard Manly
Hopkins Hall. The funding will be used

to replace the gas fired heating and hot
water generation with electric panel
heaters and an ASHP removing nearly
100% of the gas consumption (outstanding
consumption is to supply the laundrette
facility); this project will reduce the
University’s gas consumption by a further
8%. This decarbonisation of buildings

as part of the PSDS scheme, plus an
additional two fully electric buildings, has
increased the electrical consumption of
the University, but dramatically decreased
gas consumption.

Going concern

The financial position of the University,

its cash flow, liquidity and borrowings are
described in the Financial Statements

and accompanying Notes. The University
currently has one remaining loan of £2.8
million of loans outstanding with bankers,
secured by a fixed and floating charge

on University assets. The University’s
forecasts and financial projections indicate
that it will be able to meet the financial
commitments in relation to this loan for
the foreseeable future, after consideration
of reasonably expected changes in
performance.

The University’s activities, together with
the factors likely to affect its future
development, performance and position,
are set out in the Strategic Report which
forms part of the Council’s Report. The
Council's Report also describes the
financial position of the Institution, its
cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing
facilities. ,

The financial statements have been
prepared on a going concern basis which
the Council considers to be appropriate
for the following reasons.

The University has prepared a financial
model and cash flow forecasts for a period

Directors Report

up to July 2026 which takes account

of severe but plausible scenarios. After
reviewing the assumptions underpinning
these forecasts, the Council is of the
opinion that the University will have
sufficient funds to meet their liabilities as
they fall due, over the period of 12 months
from the date of approval of the financial
statements (the going concern assessment
period).

The financial planning model has used a
series of pessimistic but not unrealistic
assumptions to demonstrate going
concern, reduction in recruitment,
inflationary increases in relation to staffing
and general inflation, Utility costs. Even

on this basis, liquidity levels are forecast
to remain strong despite funding the
committed capital programme from cash
reserves,

Consequently, the Council is confident
that the University will have sufficient
funds to continue to meet their liabilities
as they fall due for at least 12 months
from the date of approval of the financial
statements and therefore have prepared
the financial statements on a going
concern basis.

Disclosure of information
to auditor

The directors who held office at the date
of approval of this directors’ report confirm |
that, so far as they are each aware, there
is no relevant audit information of which
the Company’s.auditor is unaware; and
each director has taken all the steps that
s/he ought to have taken as a director to
make herself/himself aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that
the Company’s auditor is aware of that
information.

Section 172 Statement

The members of the University Council
are Trustees of the University and
directors of the Company. In line with
their duties under s172 of the Companies
Act 2006, directors act in a way they
consider, in good faith, would be most
likely to promote the success of the

Company for the benefit of its members

_ as a whole. As part of the decision-
making process, matters that are of
strategic importance to the Company, the
Board and its Committees consider the
potential impact of decisions on relevant
stakeholders. Whilst also having regard
to a number of broader factors, including
the impact of the Company's operations
on the community and environment,
responsible business practices and the
likely consequences of decisions in the long
term.

Students

Liverpool Hope takes pride in providing
its students with a distinctive learning
experience in this stage of their learning
journey. Liverpool Hope offers the

best possible student transformational
experience enabling staff to get to know
students one by one. This is delivered
through high quality teaching and pastoral
support, learning resources that underpin
teaching and learning and a variety of
learning spaces. This learning environment
challenges and develops the students to
enable them to progress on their journey
into the workplace or further study.

The University considers it extremely
important that effective ways are found
to hear the whole students’ voice in order
to respond to their concerns and build

a supportive learning community. A well-
functioning Students’ Union is a vital part
of to this endeavour and the University
ensures that the Student Union attends all
of its major decision-making bodies so that
the student voice is heard.

https://www.hope.ac.uk/gateway/
students/studentvoice/

Employees

Each year the University frameworks

in place to support staff and ensure
compliance with our ethical, legal and
employment obligations are reviewed to
confirm their alignment with the external
legal and compliance environment

and our internal values and mission.
These include formal staff policies and

Directors Report

procedures which cover all aspects of the
employment relationship: performance,
reward, well-being, health and safety,
personal development and training, and
underpinning recruitment, selection and
promotion procedures. During this year the
People Strategy was fully reviewed to align
with the new University strategy. As part
of this work there was also an extensive
review of performance management and
performance review processes, with a
similar review of promotions processes
planned for the forthcoming academic
year.

In the last year, there has been significant
emphasis on work to support staff well-
being and engagement. This included a
Health and Safety Executive Survey and

a specific well-being survey focused on
staff well-being. A number of key findings
from these surveys were shared through
different media like the Hope Bulletin and
communication from the Vice Chancellor
through the Senior Leadership team
through to Faculty, School, Department
and Team to maxmimise engagement with
staff and stakeholders.

A range of media are in place to enable
feedback from staff back to managers so
any areas of concern can be dealt with
early and effectively. Transparent and
regular management communication
channels are used to support our strategic
and operational objectives. The University
was able to demonstrate some key
improvements in staff well-being from
these survey results.

The University continues to develop its
offering to staff via attractive terms and
conditions, leave, well-being and flexible
working, health-supporting initiatives
and considers equality and diversity at
every stage of its work. For example, for
the year 2023-2024 a number of Well-
Being Foundation hour discussions were
built into the university timetable to
allow all staff to have the opportunity
to have time away from their work to
consider well-being issues such as Meet
the Well Being Champions, Neurodiversity
Awareness in the Workplace, the Money
Charity - Financial Wellbeing, Wellbeing

PZOZ - ETOT | SJUaWazeYZg Je!DUeUIY PU JIOday jenuUY | AzsJOAIUN BdOH [oedsaAr]

ty | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023 - 2024

sh

Liverpool Hope Uniy

30

and Good Practice in Communication. The
University is also now a Disability Confident
Committed Employer (level one status).
The University also signed the Defence
Recognition programme.

This progress was against a backdrop of
extensive Faculty re-structure work which
welcomed consultation from a wide-
range of colleagues and stakeholders on
the best way to align our structures to
support delivery of our new Strategies
around Ethos and Community, Education,
Research, Scholarship and Knowledge
Exchange, Partnership and Voice and
Sustainability and the Future. This has
been completed and the new structures
are currently being embedded.

The People Strategy has been developed
around these key drivers of university
strategy both to support the strategic

_ objectives of the University and to

continue to attract a diverse range

of suitably skilled and highly qualified

staff across all areas of its operation.

For example, the Supported Internship
Award is beginning soon for a third year
building on the success of the two previous
cohorts, Well-Being Champions are now

in place throughout the University and

we led in the regional university sector

by providing three paid days of Carer’s
Leave out of the five statutory required
days of unpaid leave available. This will

be reviewed after twelve-months; in 2024
we have reviewed other sector-wide
initiatives which were implemented in
2023, such as the Professional Boundaries
Guidelines for Staff and Students and

the reporting of Staff and Student Sexual
Harassment Policies. These measures
ensure we are implementing sector-wide
requirements for staff and student safety
and well-being in an open, transparent and
stakeholder-informed way. To reflect the
new approach the Personnel Team has now
been renamed as People Services which
more accurately highlights its position and
purpose within the University.

We continue to ensure our colleagues are
protected by appropriate risk assessments
and access to health supporting initiatives
like free flu jabs and occupational health

Directors Report

as well as free confidential counselling for
all colleagues who request it. We continue
to offer a wide range of compulsory and
optional training programmes to colleagues
with programmes as varied as Mental
Health First Aider, Neurodiversity training
and Dealing with Sexual Misconduct.

Suppliers

Procurement within the University is
carried out in accordance with legal
requirements, the University Financial
Regulations and Procurement Policy. A
carefully managed University that works
efficiently and effectively delivering value-
for-money is central to the University’s
Strategic Plan and our procurement
activity supports that goal. Liverpool Hope
University recognises that in order to
achieve its ambitious strategic objectives,
we need our suppliers to be on board.

When engaging suppliers, we utilise a
number of routes to market including third
party collaborative framework agreements,
such as from the North Western
Universities Purchasing Consortium
(NWUPC), together with other consortia

as weil as awarding our own contracts
through competitive tender and quotation
activity.

Liverpool Hope University has a moral,
ethical and social responsibility to consider
the impacts of its activities on students,
employees, wider stakeholder groups, as
well as on the environment. In order for
this to happen, ail of our suppliers are
given the opportunity to complete an
on-line assessment tool to improve their
environmental performance and ensure
they are making a positive impact on
society.

The University has enjoyed a number of
successes including; working with our
travel management company to promote
sustainable and value for money travel
options and our waste management
company to increase staff and student
engagement. We also work closely with our
Estates suppliers to look at energy saving
projects and initiatives.

Community Engagement

During 2023 - 24 the Community
Engagement team has built on the
previous years’ work through the growth
of projects and the expansion of the offer
across the year. The primary goal for the
CET seeks to make connections between
people, creating opportunities to connect,
share skills, find friendships and offer
support. The CET is driven by a University-
wide committee made up of colleagues
from across faculties and professional
services. — . . ‘

ci
s
vd
oO
2
xr
a
uu
co}
c
a
E
a
>
2
3
2
2
wD
om
Uv
°
g
a
o
3
oo
z
‘3
FA
J
a.
a
oe
2
e
ES
a
3
a
J
>
a
Ny
oO
Ny
he
;
nN
oO
nN
»

1. Thematic working groups

The development of thematic working
groups has been implemented through the
CET Committee to drive forward specific
university agendas, particularly in relation
to issues of inclusion and social justice.

One of the key focus areas for the working
groups is social justice issues across the
University. Recognising the contribution -
made by Professional and Campus

Services teams to student and community
engagement supports the People and

_ Planet League Table status for Liverpool

Hope University.


> 2024

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements {| 2023

In 2024, colleagues published an academic
paper based on research that originated
within the CET exploring the cost of

living crisis for students. This is a positive
development and aligns with the goals

for the CET over the next year, to engage
further with participatory and community-
based research.

2. Community events and activities

During 2023 — 24 the CET was engaged in
the regular events that form part of the
annual calendar, including;

Supporting Childwall Community Choir

at various University events, supporting
the open garden event with Childwall

in Bloom, Working with Childwali Abbey
School and Liverpool City Council’s SPLICE
project to run creative summer camps

for young people; hosting a number of
community conversations and consultation
events; working with community members
to ‘Dance in Your Pants’, fundraising for
ovarian cancer, welcoming 80 people to
the October Harvest Festival and Ceilidh;
Christmas markets on campus; and
community Christmas panto and choir
concerts.

Directors Report

3. Partnerships

Strengthening links with partners not
only supports our community driven

goals, but has been an opportunity

to showcase University facilities that

can serve organisations in the region.

Key partnerships include ChildwALL
Together, Liverpool City Council through
a Neighbourhood Manager, as well as
links with local councillors, strategic leads,
targeted youth support service, Voluntary,
Community and Statutory Partnerships
across Merseyside — Schools, Colleges,
Museums, Arts and Cultural Organisations.

Members 3 of tine University Council

The flowing parsons saved) a8 cs gevmer ung oye ated By SBD
carats en ob AD Novena 28 wha iien tana emt apET
Gace ct discs cho Basan op aoe Oo Bo Counts Cea ee Oa cee
datestare(snowny

Tio goon ev ganar chido pt soya Bad yar aye 0
Lesistefotiinterests gal University ane)
Ghraders cf the Company

ithepeouncilfarce nusteestomthe)

Revd Canan P Win (Resigned) Bick Iufly 2024 Ghat
Mis J Baewer Vies-Ghat/Ghatr fram ict, August 2028
0 aay are . Vies-Ghelh firenn Jet August 2024
Mr Nichols Dawe Getinad 2x8 Nelly ZOLA)

Or Gdwtn Ofetetey

Revd soi? Rakem

‘The Very Revered Or Sue Jones

Gr, MeGay —

Mr J Nextuny

Ms Belsereh Shackicten

Mrs M Suitson

Mp Anes too Cento
Meee Pages it gs 088)
Revd Canon C Ratan Qasigned) Sick ully ZB)

OA Neve . Resigned 2itin Septemiver 2028)
(Mr U Russel Resigned ist August 2028)

(is Jemma Seven Catnsd Bra July 202%)
teed ecg maken ee .

Or Careline Walt

Protisser C Ozanne Visa Ghenaaller end Recker

Mr © Dylans coo Csripany Seater and GaktoComa .

CGN © E252 | taD; IE se Owe JEdER ROSY | BANA adepy aden)


j

- Vile ‘Cnancellior .

) Committee .

Mr J Nerbuny
Mr $ Towallsy

~ Band Cano PW

Mr J Nertuny

» OG SVewaley

Rofecior€ Creme
exce Dig fomaiscussionomhemowntsalany)}
Finance & General
;

fC MeGey
Ms Seem Gils Gs iiielo
Ds 1D Shereldtetior

Nl 00 Reis’ = ees eats’
Grefissser € Ozanne - oes treat

ciraulgiakaaal
| iL naaNN

ie S Sacoperch exes a

on Revd Gmem P Winn (Che)

professometezanney
Os J Gsaver

Otrectors Report

PING LLP
4 Se Retar's Sewene
Manchester

‘

MoydsyBanky
Merchants Court
patalordistreet
Wiveipoo))

iver pool

Barclaysyplg
268) & SO Lend Susck
“n>

FO Box 1968,

liverpool]

eae

RSM Rk Aewmemes Senvtess LLP

: $68) lose, 20 Chapel Sweet

ivenoorl


Statement of Council
responsibilities in respect
of the Strategic Report, the
Directors’ Report and the
Financial Statements

The Council is responsible for preparing
the Strategic Report, Directors’ Report,
Statement of Corporate Governance

and Statement of Internal Control and
the financial statements in accordance
with the requirements of the Office for
Students’ Terms and Conditions of Funding
for Higher Education Institutions and
Research England’s Terms and Conditions
of Research England Grant and applicable
law and regulations.

Company law requires the Council (the
members of which are the Directors of
the University company for the purposes
of company law) to prepare financial
statements for each financial year.

Under that law it has elected to prepare
the University financial statements in
accordance with UK accounting standards
and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice), including FRS

102 The Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of
Ireland.

The Terms and Conditions of Funding
further require the financial statements
to be prepared in accordance with the
requirements of the Accounts Direction
dated 25 October 2019 issued by the
Office for Students (‘the Accounts
Direction’) and the 2019 Statement of
Recommended Practice — Accounting for
Further and Higher Education.

Under company law the Council must not
approve the financial statements unless it
is satisfied that they give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the University
and of their income and expenditure,

gains and losses and changes in reserves,
and of the University’s cash flows for that
period. In preparing the University financial
statements, the Council is required to:

Directors Report

e select suitable accounting policies and
then apply them consistently;

« make judgements and estimates that
are reasonable and prudent;

e« state whether applicable UK
accounting standards and the 2019
Statement of Recommended Practice
— Accounting for Further and Higher
Education have been followed,
subject to any materia! departures
disclosed and explained in the financial
statements;

e assess the University’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing,
as applicable, matters related to going
concern; and

* use the going concern basis of
accounting unless it either intends
to liquidate the University or to
cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.

The Council is responsible for keeping
adequate accounting records that

are sufficient to show and explain the
University's transactions and disclose
with reasonable accuracy at any time
the financial position of the University
and enable it to ensure that its financial
statements comply with the Companies
Act 2006.

It is responsible for such internal control
as it determines is necessary to enable
the preparation of financial statements
that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and has
general responsibility for taking such
steps as are reasonably open to them to
safeguard the assets of the University and
to prevent and detect fraud and other
irregularities.

The Council is also responsible for ensuring
that:

e funds from whatever source
administered by the University for
specific purposes have been properly
applied to those purposes and
managed in accordance with relevant
legislation;

¥ZOZ - EZOT | SuUSwAazEIs jefsueUly pue ioday jenuUUY | AzsuaAiUN edoH joadsaaly

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023 - 2024

« funds provided by the Office for
Students, UK Research and Innovation
(including Research England) and the
Education and Skills Funding Agency
and the Department for Education
have been applied in accordance with
the terms and conditions attached to
them;

« ensuring that there are appropriate
financial and management controls in
place to safeguard public funds and
funds from other sources; and

« securing the economical, efficient
and effective management of the
university's resources and expenditure.

The Council is responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the
corporate and financial information
included on the University’s website.
Legislation in the UK governing the
preparation and dissemination of financial
statements may differ from legislation in
other jurisdictions.

While the following is not a specific
recreation of the constitutional provisions
within the Articles of Government, the
principal responsibilities of Council,
adopted in December 2005 and amended
in May 2023, may be summarised as being:

1. To approve the educational character, —

mission and strategic vision of
Liverpool Hope University, long-term
academic and business plans and key
performance indicators, and to ensure
that these meet the interests of
stakeholders.

2. To delegate authority to the head of
the institution, as Vice-Chancellor &
Rector, for the academic, corporate,
financial, estate and personnel
management of the institution, and
other responsibilities as detailed in
the constitution, and keeping those
functions under regular review.

11.

Directors Report

To ensure the establishment and
monitoring of systems of control and
accountability, including financial
and operational controls and risk
assessment and procedures for
handling internal grievances and for
managing conflicts of interest.

To ensure processes are in place to
monitor and evaluate the performance
and effectiveness of the institution
against the plans and approved key
performance indicators, which should
be, where possible and appropriate,
benchmarked against other
comparable institutions.

To establish processes to monitor
and evaluate the performance and
effectiveness of Council itself.

To conduct its business in accordance
with best practice in higher education
corporate governance and with the
principles of public life drawn up by the
Committee on Standards in Public Life.

To safeguard the good name and values
of Liverpool Hope University.

To appoint the head of the institution
as Vice-Chancellor & Rector, and to
put in place suitable arrangements for
monitoring his/her performance.

To appoint a secretary to Council and
to ensure that, if the person appointed
has managerial responsibilities in the
institution, there is an appropriate
separation in the lines of accountability.

To be the employing authority for
all staff in the institution and to be
responsible for establishing a human
resources strategy.

To be the principal financial and
business authority of Liverpool Hope
University, to ensure that proper books
of account are kept and resources used

12.

13.

properly, effectively and efficiently,
and to approve the annual budget and
financial statements and have overall

responsibility for the University’s assets,

property and estate.

To be the institution’s legal authority
and, as such, to ensure that systems
are in place for meeting all of the
institution’s legal obligations, including
those arising from contracts and other
legal commitments made in Liverpool
Hope University’s name.

To make such provision as it thinks fit
for the general welfare of students, in
consultation with senate, and for the

operation of the Students’ Union under

a constitution approved by council.

Directors Report

14. To act as trustee for any property,
legacy, endowment, bequest or gift in
support of the work and welfare of

. Liverpool Hope University.

15. To ensure that Liverpool Hope
University's constitution is followed at
all times and that appropriate advice is
available to enable this to happen.

Mrs Jane Beever

Director and Chair of Council
20th November 2024

rc
<
@
5
Go
9
2
x
fa)
oO
®
c
@
=
a
%
<
Pal
3
3
Cc
2
2»
io
U
o
5
o
o
2
a
z
a
o
3
2
2
wn
u
w
o-
®
3
©
3
a
a
a
fey
NS
o
:
nN
°
N
ad


Statement of
Corporate
Governance

This statement of corporate governance explicitly relates
to the period ist August 2023 — 31st July 2024, up to
and including the date when the financial statements are

approved.

The institution endeavours to conduct
its business in accordance with the seven
principles identified by the Committee
on Standards in Public Life (selflessness,
integrity, objectivity, accountability,
openness, honesty and leadership), and
with the guidance to institutions of
higher education from the Committee of
University Chairs in its Guide for Members
of HE Governing Bodies in the UK. The
University is committed to best practice
in all aspects of corporate governance
and conducts its business in line with the
Office for Students (OfS) general ongoing
conditions of registration. The University,
through its arrangements for governance,
is committed in a demonstrable way to
the principles of academic freedom and
equality of opportunity.

Liverpool Hope University is an
incorporated body whose legal status is
that of a company limited by guarantee,
a registered charity and a University with
taught and research awarding powers.
Its objects, powers and framework of
governance are set out in the articles
of association which were approved by
the Privy Council in 1996. The current
version of the articles was approved by
the Privy Council with effect from 20th

April 2005 and amended in 2023. The
articles require Liverpool Hope University
to have a governing body and a Senate,
each with clearly defined functions and
responsibilities to oversee and manage its
activities.

The University Council is the executive
governing body, responsible for matters
including the finance, property and staffing
of the institution. It is specifically required
to determine the educational character
and mission of the institution and to set its
general strategic direction. The governing
body has a majority of independent
members and the chair is elected from
among the independent members. There

is also provision for the appointment of
co-opted members, and representatives of
the academic staff and the student body.
No members of University Council receive
any reimbursement for the work they do
for that body.

Subject to the overall responsibility of the
governing body, Senate has oversight of
the academic affairs of Liverpool Hope
University and draws its membership
entirely from the staff and the students
of the institution, save for 1 Network of
Hope College Principal. It is particularly

PZOZ - ETOT | SJUBWazeIS |elDUeUIY pue Joday jenuuy | AjsuaAiuQ adoH joodsealy

isa.

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023 - 2024

40

concerned with general issues relating to
the learning and teaching and research
work of Liverpool Hope University.

The Chief Executive Officer (Vice
Chancellor and Rector) is the head of
Liverpool Hope University and has a
general responsibility to the governing
body for the organisation, direction and
management of the institution. As Chief
Executive, the head of the institution
exercises considerable influence upon
the development of institutional strategy,
the identification and planning of new
developments, and shaping of the
institutional ethos. The University Senior
Executive Team all contribute in various
ways to these aspects of the work,
working in close collaboration with the
Vice Chancellor and University Council,
which has ultimate responsibility for the
University’s strategic direction, education
character and use of resources.

Members of University Council make

an annual declaration of interests and
further declare any interests in relation
to matters under discussion at meetings.
The University also makes an annual
declaration on matters that confirm that
they are “fit and proper” as defined under

the Framework for the Office for Students.

University Council has adopted a
Statement of Primary responsibilities
reflecting sector guidance. This statement
reflects the University Council's
understanding of its responsibilities in
relation to governance and internal
control. In accordance with the articles of
association, a secretary to the governing
body has been appointed. The Company
Secretary and Clerk to Council and

the Solicitor & Senior Officer for Legal
Services, Governance and Risk, provide
independent advice on matters of
governance to all members of University
Council. Although the governing body
meets four times per year, much of its
detailed work is handled by committees,
including Finance and General Purposes
Committee, Audit Committee, Staffing
Committee, Health and Safety Standing
Committee, Nominations Committee and
a Remuneration Committee. The decisions
of the Committees are formally reported

Statement of Corporate Governance

to the full University Council by the
respective chairs.

Regularity and propriety in the use

of public funding is delivered through

the overarching governance structure
described above. Public funding of research
has an additional layer of governance
provided through the Research Committee
which reports to Senate. The research
Committee considers research strategy,
policy, funding and scholarly activity. The
University governance structure described
above facilitates a transparent, adequate
and effective system of governance. The
structures, policies and processes can

be viewed at: https://www.hope.ac.uk/
aboutus/governance/#: :text=The%20
governing%20body%200f%20
Liverpool,company%20directors%20
and%20charity%2Otrustees.

Audit Committee

The Audit Committee meets four times
per year, with the University’s External

and Internal Auditors in attendance. The
Committee considers detailed reports
including recommendations, for the
improvement of the University’s systems of
internal control, management responses
and implementation plans. It also reviews
and tracks the University’s progress against
these plans and monitors the risk register.
Whilst senior executives attend meetings
of the Audit Committee as necessary, they
are not members of the Committee. The
Committee is empowered to meet the
External and Internal Auditors on their
own for independent discussions.

The overall opinion within the Internal
Audit Annual Report for 2023/24 is that
the University has an ‘adequate and
effective framework for risk management,
governance, internal control and

economy efficiency and effectiveness’.
However, audit work has identified further
enhancements to the framework of risk
management, governance, internal control
and economy, efficiency and effectiveness
to ensure that it remains adequate and
effective. The Audit Committee noted
that three audits resulted in substantial
assurance, one resulted in partial assurance
— for project procurement framework and

reasonable insurance for implementation.
The internal audit of project management
of the i3 building resulted in reasonable
assurance.

Finance and General
Purposes

The Finance and General Purposes
Committee meet three times per year and
maintains an oversight of the University’s
financial and capital development
strategies and the financial policy
framework.

Staffing Committee

The Staffing Committee is responsible
for supporting the strategic direction,
performance measurement and service
development of the human resource
function within the University. It also has
an oversight of compliance with equal
opportunities and other employment law
matters.

Council Standing
Committee on Health and
Safety

The Committee develops and monitors the
implementation of the University’s Health
and Safety Policy, Safety Management
System and the associated procedures and
codes of practice. It keeps under review
the University’s compliance with health
and safety legislation and monitors trends
in accidents and dangerous occurrences.

Remuneration Committee
for University Senior
Executive Team and
Remuneration Committee
for Vice Chancellor

The purpose is to determine and review
the salaries, terms and conditions of the
Head of the institution and such other
members of staff as Council deems

appropriate. These two Committees report
annually to Council.

Statement of Corporate Governance

The Remuneration Committees aim to
balance the safeguarding of public funds
and the need to remain competitive by
reference to the Committee of University
Chairs HE Senior Staff Remuneration
Code. Remuneration decisions are linked
to the context in which the University
operates and are made with reference to
similar institutions, the level of complexity
of the role regardless of size, and the
responsibilities of the post holder in
comparison to the size of the senior team,
and the number of years a senior post
holder has successfully served in that role.

Performance objectives are agreed with
all senior staff by their line manager. The
Remuneration Committees base their
decisions on the annual performance

of the senior staff, taking into account
external benchmarks and the particular
financial circumstances of the University.

The Remuneration Committee for the
University Senior Executive Team comprises
the Pro-Chancellor, the Chair of Audit
Committee, the Chair of the Finance and
General Purposes Committee, the Deputy
Chair of University Council and the Vice
Chancellor. The Committee meets annually
to set the salaries of the members of the
senior team.

The remuneration package of the Vice
Chancellor is set by the Remuneration
Committee for the Vice-Chancellor, which
comprises the Pro-Chancellor, the Chair
of Audit Committee and the Chair of the
Finance and General Purposes Committee.
The Vice Chancellor does not attend this
meeting. The performance of the Vice
Chancellor is monitored and assessed by
regular meetings with the Pro-Chancellor
and progress against a range of key
performance indicators by which Council
monitors the overall performance of the
University.

Nominations Committee

The purpose is to seek out and recommend
new lay/independent co-opted members
to the appointing body, taking account of
the current skills mix of Council and the
diversity of the current membership.

~ €ZOT | SJuawazeys jelsueuly pue yioday jenuuy j AyssoatuN adoy joadsaary

202

44

oe

rae


Statement of
Internal Contro

This statement of internal control explicitly relates to the
period 1%* August 2023 - 31% July 2024, up to and including
the date when the financial statements are approved.

The key elements of the University’s system
of internal financial control, which is
designed to discharge the responsibilities
set out above, include the following:

¢ Clear definitions of the responsibilities
of, and the authority delegated to,
members of the University Senior
Executive Team and other senior
managers;

¢ Acomprehensive medium and short-
term planning process, supplemented
by detailed annual income,
expenditure, capital and cash flow
budgets;

e Regular reviews of academic
performance and monthly reviews
of financial performance involving
variance reporting and updates of
forecast outturns;

University Council has the responsibility for
reviewing the effectiveness of the system
of internal control. Consistent with the
Risk Management Strategy approved, the
following processes have been established:

e University Council meets four times a
year to consider the plans and strategic
direction of the institution.

e Periodic reports from the chairman
of the Audit Committee concerning

internal control are received together

with regular reports from managers on
the steps they are taking to manage
risks in their areas of responsibility,
including progress reports on key
projects.

e Areport on discussions of risk at the
University Executive Board is delivered
to Audit Committee who provides
oversight on risk.

The Audit Committee receives regular
reports from the internal auditor, which
include the internal auditor’s independent
opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness
of the institution’s system of internal
control, together with recommendations
for improvement.

¢ Both local and an organisation-wide
risk register is operational.

« Reports are received from budget
holders and project managers on
internal control activities.

e Policies such as the Code of Practice
on Whistleblowing, Declarations
of Interest, Financial and other
Irregularities, including Fraud Policy
and an Anti-Bribery Policy have been
periodically reviewed and revised.

PZO% - ETOT | SJU@WazeyS jeloueUly pue Jroday jenuuy | AlisiaAlUN aday joodiaaly

Liverpoc! Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023 - 2024

Control Weaknesses
Identified

The annual review of the Internal Auditors
indicated that the organisation has an
adequate and effective framework for risk
management, governance and internal
control and economy, efficiency and
effectiveness. Weakness in the project and
procurement framework is being actively
addressed.

Role of the External
Auditor

The University external auditors perform
an interim audit mid-year to review
control procedures prior to year-end
substantive testing. Throughout the year,
communication between the University
and external auditors is key critical

to obtain reasonable assurance the
University’s financial information is free
from material misstatement, fraud and
errors.

Statement of Internal Control

Role of the Internal Auditor

The University’s internal auditors continue
to monitor the systems of internal
control, risk management controls and
governance processes in accordance with
an agreed plan of input and report their
findings to management and the Audit
Committee. Management is responsible
for the implementation of agreed audit —
recommendations, and internal audit
undertakes periodic follow-up reviews to
ensure such recommendations have been
implemented. Both Internal and External
auditors in attendance at the Audit
Committee, they have to present their
detailed plan for the forthcoming year.
These plans are prepared in accordance
with University requirements, regulatory
requirements, accounting standards and
direction of funding bodies.

Independent Auditor’s
Report to the Council
of Liverpool Hope

University

Report on the Audit
of the Financial
Statements

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements
of Liverpool Hope University (“the
University”) for the year ended 31 July
2024 which comprise the Statement of
Comprehensive Income, the Statement

of Changes in Reserves, the Statement of
Financial Position, the Statement of Cash
Flows and related notes, including the
Statement of Principal Accounting Policies.

In our opinion the financial statements:

* give a true and fair view of the state
of the University’s affairs as at 31 July
2024, and of the University’s income
and expenditure, gains and losses
and changes in reserves, and of the
University’s cash flows, for the year
then ended;

e« have been properly prepared in
accordance with UK accounting
standards, including FRS 102 The
Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of
Ireland; and

e have been prepared in accordance with
the requirements of the Companies
Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance
with International Standards on Auditing
(UK) (“ISAs (UK)’) and applicable law. Our
responsibilities are described below. We
have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities
under, and are independent of the
University in accordance with, UK ethical
requirements including the FRC Ethical
Standard. We believe that the audit
evidence we have obtained is a sufficient
and appropriate basis for our opinion.

Going concern

The Council has prepared the financial
statements on the going concern basis as it
does not intend to liquidate the University
or to cease their operations, and as it has
concluded that the University’s financial
position means that this is realistic. It

has also concluded that there are no
material uncertainties that could have
cast significant doubt over their ability to
continue as a going concern for at least

a year from the date of approval of the
financial statements (“the going concern
period”).

In our evaluation of the Council's
conclusions, we considered the inherent
risks to the University’s business model and
analysed how those risks might affect the
University’s financial resources or ability

to continue operations over the going
concern period.

Ln
<
3
5
a
9
Q
=x
so)
U
cs)
c
a
2
o
s
a
4
<
>
3
3
e
2
zp
®
UD
°
5
o
»
2
a
a
S
a
3
a
2
un
o
o
>
o
3
®
3
o
a
iN)
oO
n
o

,
NY
3
IN)
&


Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023 - 2024

46

Our conclusions based on this work:

* we consider that the Council’s use of
the going concern basis of accounting
in the preparation of the financial
statements is appropriate;

e we have not identified, and concur with
the Council's assessment that there is
not, a material uncertainty related to
events or conditions that, individually
or collectively, may cast significant
doubt on the University’s ability to
continue as a going concern for the
going concern period.

However, as we cannot predict all future
events or conditions and as subsequent
events may result in outcomes that are
inconsistent with judgements that were

* reasonable at the time they were made,

the above conclusions are not a guarantee
that the University will continue in
operation.

Fraud and breaches of laws
and regulations — ability to
detect

Identifying and responding to risks of
material misstatement due to fraud

To identify risks of material misstatement
due to fraud (“fraud risks”) we assessed
events or conditions that could indicate an
incentive or pressure to commit fraud or
provide an opportunity to commit fraud.
Our risk assessment procedures included:

e« Enquiring of the Council, the Audit
Committee and inspection of policy
documentation as to the University’s
high-level policies and procedures to
prevent and detect fraud, including
the internal audit function, and the
University's channel for “whistleblowing’,
as well as whether they have
knowledge of any actual, suspected or
alleged fraud.

« Reading Council, Audit Committee
and Finance and General Purposes
Committee minutes.

Independent Auditors Report

We communicated identified fraud

risks throughout the audit team and
remained alert to any indications of fraud
throughout the audit.

As required by auditing standards, we
perform procedures to address the risk

of management override of controls, in
particular the risk that management may
be in a position to make inappropriate
accounting entries. On this audit we do
not believe there is a fraud risk related

to revenue recognition because tuition
fees are generally based on standard fee
rates and are non-variable in nature. We
do not believe there to be an incentive

or pressure to manipulate this or other
income streams that are material as
amounts received either typically relate to
a single specific financial year or the source
transactions are non-complex, involving
little judgement.

We did not identify any additional fraud
risks.

We performed procedures including:

e Identifying journal entries and, where
relevant, other adjustments to test
based on risk criteria and comparing
the identified entries to supporting
documentation. These included those
posted to cash with unexpected or
unusual entries.

e Assessing whether the judgements
made in making accounting estimates
are indicative of a potential bias.

Identifying and responding to risks
of material misstatement related to
compliance with laws and regulations

We identified areas of laws and regulations
that could reasonably be expected to
have a material effect on the financial
statements from our general commercial
and sector experience, through discussion
with the Council and other management
(as required by auditing standards), and
discussed with the Council and other
management the policies and procedures
regarding compliance with laws and
regulations.

We communicated identified laws and
regulations throughout our team and
remained alert to any indications of non-
compliance throughout the audit.

The potential effect of these laws and
regulations on the financial statements
varies considerably.

Firstly, the University is subject to laws
and regulations that directly affect the
financial statements including financial
reporting legislation (including related
companies and related higher education
legislation), taxation legislation and
pensions legislation, and we assessed the
extent of compliance with these laws and
regulations as part of our procedures on
the related financial statement items.

Secondly, the University is subject to many
other laws and regulations where the
consequences of non-compliance could
have a material effect on amounts or
disclosures in the financial statements, for
instance through the imposition of fines or
litigation. We identified the following areas

as those most likely to have such an effect:

compliance with regulatory requirements
of the Office for Students, recognising

the nature of the University’s activities.
Auditing standards limit the required audit
procedures to identify non-compliance
with these laws and regulations to enquiry
of the Council and other management
and inspection of regulatory and legal
correspondence, if any. Therefore, if a
breach of operational regulations is not
disclosed to us or evident from relevant
correspondence, an audit will not detect
that breach.

We have reported separately on the
University’s use of funds in the section of
our audit report dealing with other legal
and regulatory requirements.

Context of the ability of the audit to
detect fraud or breaches of law or
regulation

Owing to the inherent limitations of an
audit, there is an unavoidable risk that
we may not have detected some material
misstatements in the financial statements,
even though we have properly planned

Independent Auditors Report

and performed our audit in accordance
with auditing standards. For example, the
further removed non-compliance with
laws and regulations is from the events
and transactions reflected in the financial
statements, the less likely the inherently
limited procedures required by auditing
standards would identify it.

In addition, as with any audit, there
remained a higher risk of non-

detection of fraud, as fraud may involve
collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of
internal controls. Our audit procedures are
designed to detect material misstatement.
We are not responsible for preventing
non-compliance or fraud and cannot be
expected to detect non-compliance with
all laws and regulations.

Other information

The Council is responsible for the other
information, which comprises the Strategic
Report, Directors’ Report, Statement of
Corporate Governance and Statement

of Internal Control. Our opinion on the
financial statements does not cover the
other information and, accordingly, we do
not express an audit opinion or, except

as explicitly stated below, any form of
assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider
whether, based on our financial statements
audit work, the information therein is
materially misstated or inconsistent with
the financial statements or our audit
knowledge.

Based solely on that work:

*« we have not identified material
misstatements in the other information;

* in our opinion the information given in
Strategic Report and Directors’ Report,
which together constitute the strategic
report and the directors’ report for the
financial year, is consistent with the
financial statements; and

PZOZ - ETO | SJUaWAzeZS Je!QUeUIy PUe JOday jenuUY | AzisJaAlUN ado joodsaaly

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements { 2023 - 2024.

e in our opinion those reports have
been prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006.

Matters on which we are
required to report by
exception

Under the Companies Act 2006, we are
required to report to you if, in our opinion:

e adequate accounting records have not
been kept by the University, or returns
adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by
us; or

e the University’s financial statements are
not in agreement with the accounting
records and returns; or

* certain disclosures of directors’
remuneration specified by law are not
made; or

« we have not received all the
information and explanations we
require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in these
respects.

Council responsibilities

As explained more fully in its statement set
out on page 35, the Council (the members
of which are the Directors of the
University for the purposes of company
law) is responsible for: the preparation of
the financial statements and for being
satisfied that they give a true and fair view;
such internal control as it determines is
necessary to enable the preparation of
financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error; assessing the University’s
ability to continue as a going concern,
disclosing, as applicable, matters related to
going concern; and using the going concern
basis of accounting unless it either intends
to liquidate the University or to cease
operations, or has no realistic alternative
but to do so.

Independent Auditors Report

Auditor's responsibilities

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial
statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error, and to issue our opinion in
an auditor’s report. Reasonable assurance
is a high level of assurance, but does not
guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always
detect a material misstatement when it
exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud
or error and are considered material if,
individually or in aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the
basis of the financial statements.

A fuller description of our responsibilities is
provided on the FRC’'s website at
www.fre.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities.

Report on other
legal and regulatory
requirements

We are required to report on the following
matters by the Accounts Direction dated
25 October 2019 issued by the Office for
Students (‘the Accounts Direction’).

In our opinion, in all material respects:

e funds from whatever source
administered by the University for
specific purposes have been properly
applied to those purposes and
managed in accordance with relevant
legislation;

e funds provided by the Office for
Students, UK Research and Innovation
(including Research England), the
Education and Skills Funding Agency
and the Department for Education
have been applied in accordance with
the relevant terms and conditions; and

e the financial statements meet
the requirements of the Accounts
Direction.

Matters on which we are
required to report by
exception

We are required by the Accounts Direction
to report to you where the University has
an access and participation plan that has
been approved by the Office for Students’
director of fair access and participation
and the results of our audit work indicate
that the University’s expenditure on access
and participation activities for the financial
year disclosed in Note 10 has been
materially misstated.

We are also required by the Accounts
Direction to report to you where the
results of our audit work indicate that

the University’s grant and fee income,

as disclosed in note 6 to the financial
statements, has been materially misstated.

We have nothing to report in these
respects.

The purpose of our audit
work and to whom we
owe our responsibilities

This report is made solely to the Council,
in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part
16 of the Companies Act 2006 and

Independent Auditors Report

paragraph 13(2) of the University’s Articles
of Government and section 124B of the
Education Reform Act 1988. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we
might state to the Council those matters
we are required to state to them in an
auditor's report and for no other purpose.

To the fullest extent permitted by law, we
do not accept or assume responsibility to
anyone other than the University and the
Council for our audit work, for this report,
or for the opinions we have formed.

James Boyle (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP,
Statutory Auditor

Chartered Accountants

1 St Peter’s Square, Manchester, M2 3AE

25 November 2024

OZ ~ EZOT | SJuawAazeyS je!oUeUlY pue Jioday jenuuy | ATsIBAIUA adoOH joadsaaly

iS)
aN


Statement
of Principal
Accounting Policies

1. Basis of preparation

The University is a company limited by
guarantee, and was incorporated on 26
November 1996. Under the terms of the
Memorandum and Articles of Association,
the members of the University Governing
Council have each undertaken to
contribute a maximum of £1 in the event
of winding up of the company.

These financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with United
Kingdom Accounting Standards, including
Financial Reporting Standard 102 (FRS
102), the Statement of Recommended
Practice (SORP): Accounting in Further
and Higher Education (2019 edition), the
Charities SORP (2019) and the Companies
Act where appropriate. They have also
been prepared in accordance with the
‘carried forward’ powers and duties of
previous legislation (Further and Higher
Education Act 1992 and the Higher
Education Act 2004) and the new powers
of the Higher Education and Research

Act 2017 during the transition period

to 31 July 2019, the Accounts Direction
issued by the Office for Students (OfS), the
Terms and conditions of funding for higher
education institutions issued by the Office
for Students and the Terms and conditions
of Research England Grant. The University
is a public benefit entity and therefore
has applied the relevant public benefit
requirement of the applicable UK laws and
accounting standards.

The fixed assets were valued at 31st July
2014, the University chose to freeze the
valuation at that date and use the deemed
cost going forward in accordance with FRS
102. Capital grants are accounted for using
the performance model as opposed to the
accruals model. A requirement for holiday
pay involves an accrual for unused annual
leave as an expense. Pension fund changes
relate to interest computations and the
inclusion of the USS scheme.

2. Going Concern

The University’s activities, together with
the factors likely to affect its future
development, performance and position,
are set out in the Strategic Report which
forms part of the Council’s Report. The
Council’s Report also describes the
financial position of the Institution, its
cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing
facilities.

The financial statements have been
prepared on a going concern basis which
the Council consider to be appropriate for
the following reasons.

The University have prepared a cash flow
forecast for a period up to July 2026. After
reviewing these forecasts, the Council is of
the opinion that, taking account of severe
but plausible downsides, the University

will have sufficient funds to meet their
liabilities as they fall due over the period

vZOZ ~ EZOT | SJU@wazeYs jeloueUly pue Joday jenuuy | AryssaaiuN adoy joodsaaly

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements [| 2023 - 2024

52

of 12 months from the date of approval
of the financial statements (the going
concern assessment period).

The University has prepared a financial
model and cash flow forecasts for a period
up to July 2026 which takes account of
severe but plausible scenarios. After
reviewing the assumptions underpinning
these forecasts, the Council is of the
opinion that the University will have
sufficient funds to meet their liabilities as
they fall due, over the period of 12 months
from the date of approval of the financial
statements (the going concern assessment
period).

The financial planning model has used a
series of pessimistic but not unrealistic
assumptions to demonstrate going
concern, reduction in recruitment,
inflationary increases in relation to staffing
and general inflation and Utility costs.
Even on this basis, liquidity levels are
forecast to remain strong despite funding
the committed capital programme from
cash reserves.

Consequently, the Council is confident

_that the University will have sufficient

funds to continue to meet their liabilities
as they fall due for at least 12 months
from the date of approval of the financial
statements and therefore have prepared
the financial statements on a going
concern basis.

3. Basis of accounting

The financial statements have been
prepared under the historical cost
convention as modified by the deemed
cost of certain fixed assets.

4. Basis of consolidation

The financial statements include the
University only as there are no trading
subsidiaries in existence.

The financial statements do not include
those of Liverpool Hope Students’ Union
as it is a separate organisation in which

Principal Accounting Policies

the University has no control or significant
influence over policy decisions.

5. Format of the accounts

The directors have taken advantage of the
Companies Act 2006 to adapt the format
of the accounts to reflect the special
nature of the Company's business.

6. Recognition of income

The recurrent grants from the Office

for Students (OfS) and Engineering and
Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC)
represent the funding allocation which is
attributable to the current financial year
and is credited direct to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income.

Grants intended to support the acquisition
of tangible fixed assets are credited to

the statement of comprehensive income
when the University becomes entitled to
them, subject to any performance related
conditions being met.

Tuition fees represent student fees
received and receivable attributable to the
current accounting period.

Income to which the University is

entitled from research grants and
contracts is released to the statement of
comprehensive income in proportion to
the degree of completion of the associated
activity, with reference to expenditure.

The University uses the accruals method

of accounting for research grants and
contracts.

The University acts as an agent in the
payment of training bursaries from the
Department of Education. Related
payments received and subsequent
disbursements to students are excluded
from the Statement of Comprehensive
Income and are shown separately in note
19.

7. Retirement benefits

The University operates a defined benefit
scheme for staff, the Enhanced Pension
Provision (EPP). The scheme is a defined
benefit scheme which is externally funded
and contracted out of the State Second
Pension (S2P).

Defined Contribution Plan

A defined contribution plan is a post-
employment benefit plan under which
the company pays fixed contributions into
a separate entity and will have no legal
or constructive obligation to pay further
amounts. Obligations for contributions to
defined contribution pension plans are
recognised as an expense in the Statement
of Comprehensive Income in the periods
during which services are rendered by
employees.

Defined Benefit Plan

A defined benefit plan is a post-
employment benefit plan other than a
defined contribution plan. The University’s
net obligation in respect of defined benefit
pension plans and other post-employment
benefits is calculated separately for each
plan by estimating the amount of future
benefit that employees have earned in
return for their service in the current and
prior periods; that benefit is discounted

to determine its present value, and the
fair value of any plan assets (at bid price}
and any unrecognised past service costs
are dedicated. The liability discount rate

is the yield at the balance sheet date

on AA credit rated bonds denominated

in the currency of, and have maturity
dates approximating to the terms of

the University obligations. When the
calculation results in a benefit to the
University, the recognised asset is limited
to the total of any unrecognised past
services costs and the present value of
benefits available in the form of any future
refunds from the plan, reductions in future
contributions to the plan or on settlement
of the plan and takes account of the
adverse effect of any minimum funding
requirements. :

Principal Accounting Policies

The USS is a multi-employer scheme for
which it is not possible to identify the
assets and liabilities to the University
members due to the nature of the scheme
and therefore this scheme is accounted
for as a defined contribution retirement
benefit scheme. A liability is recorded
within provisions for liabilities and charges
for any contractual commitment to fund
past deficits within the USS scheme (Note
23).

Retirement benefits for employees of
the University are provided by defined
benefit schemes, which are funded by
contributions from the University and its
employees.

The principal schemes for the University’s
staff are the Teacher’s Pension Scheme
(TPS) for academic and related staff, the
Greater Manchester Pension Fund (GMPF)
and the Merseyside Pension (MPF) for non-
academic staff. These are defined benefit
schemes which are externally funded

and contracted out of the State Earnings
Related Pension Scheme.

Contributions to the scheme are charged
to the Statement of Comprehensive
Income so as to spread the cost of
pensions over employee’s working lives
with the University in such a way that

the pension cost is a substantially

level percentage of present and future
pensionable payroll. Variations from
regular costs are spread over the expected
average remaining lifetime of members of
the schemes after making allowances for
further withdrawals. The contributions are
determined by qualified actuaries.

IFRIC 14: limit on Defined Benefit Asset

The standard limits the measurement of
the defined benefit asset to the present
value of economic benefits available in
the form of refunds from the plan or a
reduction in future contributions to the
plan.

For both LGPS schemes the University has
set a limit of 50 employees to determine
the long-term viability of the scheme. If
the scheme falls below 50 members we

PZOZ - ETOT | SJU@WAazeYS JelDUeU]y pue Joday jenuuy | AqsuaaiUN ado joadsaary

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements

34

recognise a ‘short term’ approach and
calculate the present value of future
projected service costs over the term
determined by the difference between
the average employee age and the
normal retirement age. If the scheme
remains above 50 members we recognise
a ‘perpetuity’ approach and calculate the
projected service costs in perpetuity.

Merseyside Pension Fund

There are 5 members in the pension
scheme with an average age of 59.
Although the scheme is ‘open’ the
University does not necessarily encourage
new employees to opt into MPF as the
preferred pension fund. Three of the
members to MPF have been transferred in
rather than opted to join. For calculation
purposes we have assumed the employees
will retire at the age of 67 and therefore
calculations this year are based on 8
years (average age (59) to retirement age
(67)). Given the low membership of the
scheme, and therefore uncertain future
membership, MPF has been treated as a
closed scheme

Greater Manchester Pension Fund

GMPF is the preferred pension fund for
Professional Services staff, new employees
joining the University pension fund are
automatically included within GMPF.

The actuary report confirms the active
members in the fund is 350 (at 31st March
2022), the University calculates 349 active
members at the end of July 2024 which
demonstrates continuing membership. For
calculation purposes we have assumed this
fund will continue in perpetuity.

8. Employment benefits

Short term employment benefits such as
salaries and compensated absences are
recognised as an expense during the year
in which the employees render service to
the organisation. Any unused benefit is
accrued and measured as the additional
amount the University expects to pay as a
result of the unused entitlement.

Principal Accounting Policies

9, Maintenance of premises

The cost of routine corrective
maintenance is charged to the Statement
of Comprehensive Income as incurred.

10. Operating Leases

Costs in respect of operating leases

are charged to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income as incurred on a
straight-line basis over the lease term.

11. Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the
University has a present legal or
constructive obligation as a result of a
past event, it is probable that a transfer of
economic benefit will be required to settle
the obligation and a reliable estimate can
be made of the amount of the obligation.

The calculation of the cost of early
retirement provisions charged to the
statement of comprehensive income in
the year of retirement is based on the
total capital cost of providing enhanced
pensions with allowance for future
investment returns at 2.5% in excess of
price inflation.

An amount is included in provisions for
liabilities and charges representing the
extent to which the capital cost charged
exceeds actual payments made. The
provision will be released against the cost
to the University of enhanced pension
entitlements over the estimated life
expectancy of each relevant employee.
(See note 23).

12. Fixed assets

In 1980 the two former colleges, St.
Katharine’s and Christ’s and Notre Dame,
entered into a Deed of Adherence with
the Liverpool Institute of Higher Education
under which they provided their respective
properties to the Institute. These were
superseded in 1998 by similar Deeds

of Arrangement of Membership with
Liverpool Hope.

St. Katharine’s College (Warrington Training
College Incorporated), was granted a 99
year lease in 1963 from the Central Board
of Finance of the Church of England for
the properties provided to the Institute
under the Deed of Adherence. The lease is
renewable upon request for a second and
final 99 years from 2062.

Christ’s and Notre Dame College property
is owned by the Trustees of Christ’s and
Notre Dame College. Under the Deed of
Adherence, the property of the College
was made available for the use of the
Institute. These buildings have been
included on the Statement of Financial
Position since 2004/05 to reflect the fact
that the University carries the majority of
the benefits and liabilities of the buildings.

Under the terms of the Deed of
Adherence, neither College shall withdraw
from Liverpool Hope without the
agreement of the remaining College and
the consent of the Secretary of State for
Education.

Subject to the appropriate agreements,
written notice must be given at least five
years prior to any withdrawal and, in the
first instance, may only be given to expire
no earlier than 31st August 2024.

Within the Trust Deed and the Deeds of
Adherence between the Colleges and the
Institute, those elements of the tangible
fixed assets which are additions and/or
improvements to buildings also become
the property of the respective College
Trustees.

Fixed assets land and buildings were
subject to a full revaluation as at 31st
July 2014 under a policy of periodic
reappraisal at least every five years. The
revaluation was undertaken by Eddisons,
a firm of chartered surveyors and the
basis of valuation has varied depending
upon the nature of the property. The
majority of properties were valued on a
depreciated replacement cost basis, others
such as St Michaels & St Julies at Aigburth
and Gerard Manley Hopkins at Everton

at market value. The accounting policy
hitherto had been to revalue all land and

Principal Accounting Policies

buildings within a class of revalued assets.

The revaluation carried out as at 31st July
2014 will serve henceforth as deemed
cost in accordance with the SORP and no
further revaluations will be taking place.

Where buildings are acquired with the aid
of specific grants the assets are capitalised
and depreciated on the basis shown
below. The related grants are treated as
income and released to the statement of
comprehensive income within the year in
which the grant is received.

Finance costs which are directly
attributable to the construction of land
and buildings are not capitalised as part of
the cost of those assets.

A review for impairment of a fixed asset

is carried out if events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of the fixed asset may not be
recoverable. During the year demolition

of the Security Lodge is considered

an indication of impairment and an
accelerated depreciation charge will be
included. An annual impairment review is
also carried out annually across the Estate.

Buildings under construction are
accounted for at cost, based on the value
of architects’ certificates and other direct
costs incurred to 31st July. They are not
depreciated until they are brought into
use.

Building refurbishment works are
capitalised subject to a minimum
threshold of £20,000 per refurbishment
project. Such costs are not depreciated
until the works are completed. Costs of
refurbishment projects costing less than
£20,000 are written off to the Statement
of Comprehensive Income in the period in
which they are incurred.

Equipment costing less than £10,000 per
individual item or group of related items
constituting a single suite of equipment
is written off to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income in the period

of acquisition. All other equipment is
capitalised at cost.

PZOZ - EZOT | SJuawazeys jelsueUly pue yoday jenuuy | AysdAi adoOH joodsaary

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023 - 2024

All assets are depreciated over their useful
economic lives as follows, and a full year’s
depreciation is charged in the year of
acquisition or transfer:

Land & Buildings

Buildings existing at 31st July 2014
(As estimated)*

New buildings 50 years
Building refurbishments

(greater than £20,000) 10-30 years
Vehicles

Motor vehicles 5 years
Equipment

Computer equipment 5 years
Furniture & fittings 10 years

*As part of the revaluation carried out on
31st July 2014, the estimated useful lives
of the existing buildings were reassessed

in consultation with the firm of chartered
surveyors who had carried out the
revaluation. Estimates varied from building
to building, ranging from a minimum of 10
years to a maximum of 60 years.

13. Taxation Status

The University is considered to pass the
tests set out in Paragraph 1 Schedule 6
Finance Act 2010 and therefore it meets
the definition of a charitable company for
UK corporation tax purposes. Accordingly,
the University is potentially exempt from
taxation in respect of income or capital
gains received within categories covered
by Chapter 3 Part 11 Corporation Tax

Act 2010 or Section 256 of the Taxation
of Chargeable Gains Act 1992, to the
extent that such income or gains are
applied exclusively for charitable purposes.
Subsidiary companies are liable for
corporation tax for charitable purposes.

The University is partially exempt in
respect of Value Added Tax, so that it
can only recover a minor element of VAT

Principal Accounting Policies

charged as inputs. Irrecoverable VAT on
inputs is included in the costs of such
inputs and added to the cost of tangible
fixed assets as appropriate, where the
inputs themselves are tangible fixed assets
by nature.

14. Bursaries and
Scholarships

The University provides bursaries and
scholarships to students from its own
revenue funds. These bursaries and
scholarships are shown in the Statement
of Comprehensive Income, as expenditure,
and not deducted from income.

The University also distributes bursaries on
behalf of the Department of Education in
relation to Teacher Training. The University
only acts as agent and has no interest in
these funds. As such, these transactions
are not recognised in the Statement of
Comprehensive Income.

15. Cash Flows, Cash and
Cash Equivalents

Cash flows comprise increases or
decreases in cash. Cash includes cash in
hand, deposits repayable on demand and
overdrafts. Deposits are repayable on
demand if they are in practice available
within 24 hours without penalty. Cash
Equivalents are short term highly liquid
investments that are readily convertible to
known amounts of cash with insignificant
risk of change in value. They include term
deposits, government securities and loan
stock held as part of the University’s
Treasury Management activities and
policies.

16. Finance Leases

Fixed assets held under hire purchase
agreements and the related hire purchase
obligations are recorded in the balance
sheet and these assets are depreciated
over their useful life. As at 31st July 2024
the University held no such assets.

17. Accounting Estimates
and Judgements

Preparation of financial statements
requires management to make estimates,
judgement and assumptions that affect
the application of accounting policies and
reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
income and expenses. These estimates and
judgements are continually evaluated and
are based on professional advice, historical
experience and other factors, including
expectations of future events that are
believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances.

Management consider the areas set

out below to be those where critical
accounting judgements have been
applied and the resulting estimates and
assumptions may lead to adjustments to
the future carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities:

Impairments: Management make
judgements as to whether any indicators
of impairment are present for any of the
University’s assets.

Recoverability of Debtors: The provision
for bad debts is based on our estimate

on the expected recovery of the debt.
Assumptions are made based on the level
of debtors who have defaulted historically.

Pensions: The University operates 3
defined benefit pension schemes, the
Teacher’s Pension Scheme (TPS), the
Greater Manchester Pension Fund (GMPF)
and the Merseyside Pension (MPF). The
present value of the University obligations
is dependent on a number of factors
including life expectancy, salary increases,
asset valuations, liability periods and
discount rates on corporate bonds. A
qualified actuary estimates these values
sO management can determine net
pension obligations in the balance sheet.
This does not include an obligation to
make contributions to fund past deficit
payments.

Principal Accounting Policies

18. Financial Instruments

The University’s principal financial
instruments are cash, investments

and loans. The core objective of these
instruments is to meet the financing
needs of the University’s operations. The
fair value of each category of University’s
financial instruments are the same as their
carrying value in the statement of financial
position. The University has adopted to
apply the provisions of both Section 11
and Section 12 of FRS102 in full.

- £ZOZ | SJuawazeys jelnueUly pue yioday jenuuy | AysiaajuN adoH joadsaary

Z0Z

Ne


Statement of Comprehensive Income
Year ended 31% July 2024

Note 2024 2023
£ £
Income
x Funding council grants 1 3,834,004 3,766,741
coy .
. Tuition fees and short course fees 2 43,618,052 46,673,547
2 :
a Research grants and contracts °3 195,221 202,846
2 Other operating income 4 7,447,256 6,640,797
Ee
2 Investment income 5 1,854,155 959,492
a
3 ——— —__
5 Total Income 56,948,688 58,243,423
&
2
® Expenditure
a Staff costs , 7. 36,468,544 © 36,452,253
8 Other operating expenses . 8 15,893,559 14,229,394
Cc
€ Depreciation ; 12 5,033,384 4,490,251
> .
e Interest and other finance costs . 9 177,274 762,323
2 : ee an
2
x Total expenditure : 11 57,572,761 55,934,221,
£
3 Operating (deficit)/surplus : (624,073) 2,309,202
g .
Actuarial gain in respect of pension scheme a 5,091,294 13,230,452
Total comprehensive income for the year 4,467,221 15,539,654
Represented by: . ;
Restricted comprehensive income for the year 4,467,221 15,539,654

Unrestricted comprehensive income for the year


Statement of Changes in Reserves
Year ended 31% July 2024

Unrestricted

Reserve

c:

Balance at 1 August 2023 136,406,938

Operating deficit . (624,073)
Actuarial gain in respect

of pension scheme 5,091,294

Transfers 883,360

Balance at 314 July 2024 141,757,519

Revaluation
Reserve

£

29,563,739

(883,360)

28,680,379

Statement of Changes in Reserves
Year ended 31% July 2023

Unrestricted

Reserve

£

Balance at 1 August 2022 119,939,885

Operating surplus 2,309,202
Actuarial gain in respect

of pension scheme 13,230,452

Transfers 927,398

Balance at 31 July 2023 136,406,938

Revaluation
Reserve

£

30,491,136

(927,398)

29,563,739

165,970,677

(624,073)
5,091,294

170,437,897

Total

£
150,431,021

2,309,202

13,230,452

165,970,677

- €ZOZ | Sjuawazeys jeIDUeUly pue yoday jenuUY | ArssaAiUA OdOH joodssaly

ny
oO
iS)
BN


Statement of Financial Position
Year ended 31% July 2024

Note 2024 2023
£ £
Non-current assets :
Tangible assets 12 137,147,225 133,719,104
Pension asset . . . 24 19,643,000 15,112,000
156,790,225 148,831,104
aq
&
: Current assets :
a Debtors 13 2,066,062 2,064,731
NX. .
=z Cash at bank and in hand Investments 12,154,694 19,100,566
= 14 9,500,000 10,000,000
§
3 23,720,755 31,165,297
3 —— ———
8 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 15 (7,543,572) (10,073,649)
s Net current assets 16,177,183 21,091,648
8
wo ,
« Total assets less current liabilities 172,967,408 169,922,752
3 .
i=
<
2 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year 16 (2,472,711) (2,845,389)
8 Provisions for liabilities and charges 23 (56,800) (1,106,686)
5 —— —_
a Total net assets 170,437,897 165,970,677
z :
8
o. Unrestricted Reserves:
&
& Income and expenditure reserve 141,757,519 136,406,938
Revaluation reserve 28,680,378 29,563,739
Total funds ‘ 170,437,897 165,970,677

The financial statements on pages 58 to 86 were approved by the University Council on 20th
November 2024, and signed on its behalf by:

(an Ni Aetrex / > tae RP gous

Mr J Norbury Mrs J Beever Professor C Ozanne
Chair of Finance & General Chair of University Council Rector & Vice Chancellor
Purposes Committee .


Statement of Cash Flows
Year ended 31% July 2024.

2024 2023

£ £
Cash flow from operating activities
(Deficit)/Surplus for the year (624,073) 2,309,202
Adjustment for non-cash items
Depreciation — 5,033,384 4,490,251 &
Investment income (1,854,155) (959,492) 8
Interest payable "177,274 762,323 8
(Increase)/Decrease in Debtors (1,331) (146,639) 3
Increase/(Decrease) in Creditors (2,550,092) (2,616,400) c
Increase/(Decrease) in Provisions (11,597) (11,316) z
Pension costs 298,000 973,000 E
>
Adjustment for investing or financing activities 2
Capital grants utilised in year (441,068) (235,602) £
Net cash inflow from operating activities 26,342 4,565,327 3
Cash flows from investing activities 2
Capital grants received 441,068 235,602 a
Payments to acquire fixed assets (8,461,505) (14,550,849) - *
(Gain) / Loss on tangible fixed assets - (51,432) 3
Proceeds from sale of tangible fixed assets - 92,475 ie
Withdrawal/ (New) Deposits 500,000 12,750,000 8
(7,520,437) (1,524,204) 8
‘Cash flows from financing activities
Other interest received . 1,075,287 844,492
Interest paid (174,401) (722,586)
Repayments of borrowed amounts (352,662) (331,697)
548,224 (209,791)

(Decrease)/Increase in cash (6,945,873) 2,831,332


~ 2024.

{ Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023

sity

Liverpool Hope Univ

Notes (forming part of the financial statements)

1. Funding council grants

Recurrent Grant ~ OfS

Specific

Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council - EPSRC
Higher Education Innovation Fund

OfS Hardship Fund

EPSRC Special initiatives

ITT Accreditation

Capital Grants

2. Tuition fees and short course fees

Full-time students

Full-time students charged overseas fees

Part-time students

Total fees paid by or on behalf of individual students

Short course fees

Total

2024
£

1,500,210

1,447,246
499,485

322,349
32,514
32,200

3,834,004

2024
£

38,860,684
2,389,852
546,349
41,796,885

1,821,168

43,618,052

2023
£

1,517,775

1,553,111
466,414
58,839
120,000

50,602

3,766,741

2023
£

41,293,537
2,898,577
672,723
44,864,837

1,808,710

46,673,547

3. Research grants and contracts

Research councils
Research charities

Industry and commerce
Other

Total

14,468
63,909

34,744
82,100

195,221

10,359

103,851
88,636

202,846

Notes

4, Other operating income

2024 2023

£ £

Residences, catering and conferences 6,164,868 6,164,872
Other income 735,704 390,925
Capital Grants — (Salix) 546,684 85,000
7,447,256 6,640,797

Note: Salix grants: 2023/24 £441,068 Capital, £106,616 Revenue. 2022/23 £85,000 Capital.

5. Investment income 3
2024 2023 =

£ £ 8

Cc

2

Interest receivable 1,854,155 959,492 é
E

>

ESSERE EEE ESSE SSSSESOEOTESSSSOSSETSSE SLOSS TSOCIOS SLOSS SESECSSICOLSOSSNSIOSSTOESESE SESS 3
a

6. Grant and fee income 2
U

2024 2023 g

£ £ 3

Grant income from the OfS 1,500,210 1,517,775 a
oO

Grant income from other bodies 2,333,794 2,248,966 a
Fee income for taught awards (exclusive of VAT) 42,029,775 45,300,694 2
. z

Fee income for research awards (exclusive of VAT) 298,877 207,908 3
Total : 46,162,656 49,275,343 8
8

Note: excludes research grants and contracts as they are shown separately in Note 3 RX

7. Staff costs (including directors’ emoluments)

2024 2023

£ £

Wages and salaries 27,729,629 27,547,817
Social security costs 2,840,898 2,750,423
Other pension costs 5,751,325 5,320,725
FRS102 staff pension adjustments 146,692 833,288

Total ; 36,468,544 36,452,253


<
a
°
Ot
m
N
ra)
N
“
2
<7
o
i=
@
3
«
3s
a
2
3
e
a
bod
ir
2
Cc
o
”
if
3
a
@
io
o
2
é
Cc
a?
>
2
a
fa
g
'€
5
®
3
2
x
O°
8
a
fay
2
3

Notes

The average numbers of staff employed by the University (FTE)

Academic
Administrative and technical
Manual and ancillary

Total

Emoluments of the Vice-chancellor & Rector

23/24

Prof Claire

Ozanne

£

Salary 250,000

Benefits -
(Company Car)

Pension 63,367

Total 313,367

From 1 March

The emoluments of the Vice-chancellor

& Rector are shown on the same basis as
for higher paid staff (excluding employer's
social security contributions). The
University’s pension contributions to the
Teachers’ Pension Scheme are paid on
behalf of the Vice-Chancellor & Rector at
the same rate as for other academic staff
(23.68%).

Historically, the Remuneration Committee
has an established policy of placing

the Vice Chancellor's salary within the
top decile of heads of institutions that
were granted University status in 2005

2024 2023
Number FTE Number FTE

309 314

231 228

102 _ 102

642 644

22/23 22/23 22/23
Prof Claire Dr Penny Prof Gerald
Ozanne Haughan Pillay
£ £ £
104,167 28,775 152,330
- - 2,773

19,733 3,053 36,072
123,900 31,827 191,175
*Interim VC To 31st

2023 1-28 February January 2023

dependent on satisfactory performance.
This recognises the experience of Professor
Pillay as one of the longest serving Vice
Chancellor's in the sector and his pivotal
role in both the creation of the strategic
vision for the University and driving
forward its implementation.

The median salary has been calculated in
accordance with the guidance provided
by the Of, determining the full-year, full-
time equivalent for each worker employed
during the year and ranking them from
high to low. In the absence of specific
guidance for determining the mid-point

value within this list, the University has
chosen to do so by making a cumulative
total of the full-time equivalent fraction
(FTE) for each worker and then finding

the midpoint of that cumulative total,
thus taking full account of the relative
statistical significance of individual workers
according to their FTEs.

All payments to Directors are in respect
of services as members of staff and relate
to the period of office. Where appropriate
these emoluments are also included in the
bands for higher paid staff.

Doctor Penny Haughan

Basic Salary Ratio 2024: not applicable
(2023: £38,974: 8.86 times)

Total Remuneration Ratio 2024: not
applicable (2023: £47,701: 8.11 times)

£100,000 - £104,999
£105,000 - £109,999
£110,000 - £114,999
£135,000 - £139,999
£150,000 - £154,999
£155,000 - £159,999
£170,000 - £174,999
£250,000 - £254,999

Key Management Personnel

Notes

Professor Claire Ozanne

Basic Salary Ratio (Based on a median pay
rate of £39,347): 6.35 times (2023: £38,974:
6.36 times)

Total Remuneration Ratio (Based on a
median pay rate of £49,320): 6.35 times
2023: £47,071:6.27 times)

Professor Gerald Pillay

Basic Salary Ratio 2024: not applicable
(2023: £38,974; 7.82 times)

Total Remuneration Ratio 2024: not
applicable (2023: £47,071: 8.12 times)

The number of the staff, including senior
post-holders and the Vice Chancellor

& Rector, who received remuneration
excluding employer pension contributions
in the following ranges was:

2024 2023

Number Number

3 2

1

2 1

1 1

4 -

- 1

- 1

1 -

8 7

2024 2023
Number Number
1,071,838 1,157,817

a

a
co
g
3G
98
Q
x
fo)
UG
®
c
2
z
6
s
a
o
<
>
3
5
i
2
r
D
bj
°
5
a
o
2
a
a]
3
a
3
Q
a
Ww
o
Py
~
a
3
a
3
2
a
nN
°
i
rm)
:
nN
°
N
s


Notes

While administration of the University is Senior Executive Team excluding
controlled and managed by the University employer's pension and national insurance
Council, the day to day operations are contributions.

conducted by the University Senior

Executive Team, the Academic Leadership Severance Payments - Payments were
Team and the Operational Leadership made to 14 individual members of staff
Team. The figure disclosed comprises equating to £402,247.

total gross salaries of the University

8. Other operating expenses

2024 2023
£ £

gy .
s Residences, catering and conference operating expenses 710,251 714,206
8 Teaching departments 2,566,356 2,371,184
= Books and periodicals 582,702 574,099
5 Heat, light, water and power 2,900,495 2,003,723
FH Repairs and general maintenance 1,743,975 1,961,164
3 Grants to Liverpool Hope Students’ Union 273,000 260,000
Fi External auditors’ remuneration 157,760 111,718
a Other support services . 596,688 650,951
5 Administration and central services 4,393,558 3,585,318
a Other income generating activities , 340,097 535,622
- Other operating expenses 1,628,595 1,460,576
g Reimbursement of Trustees ‘expenses 82 833
2
g 15,893,559 14,229,394
°
=
8 In 2023/24 the Trustees’ expenses related to travel amounted to £82 (2022/23 - £833).
$

2024 2023

£ £

External auditor’s remuneration in respect of audit services 120,000 103,968
Audit related assurance services 37,760 9,000
157,760 111,718

rower}

9. Interest and other finance costs

Interest payable on bank loans not wholly repayable within five

years
Pension fund interest payable

Interest payable on finance lease

10. Access and Participation

Access Investment
Financial Support
Disability Support

Research and Evaluation

As a small institution, the access and
participation activities are embedded within
the operations of the University and cannot
be easily identified as stand-alone costs for
the target student population. For some

of the categories of expenditure these are
subjective in nature. Therefore, the total
costs are used and then a percentage of

these costs shown as countable expenditure:

61% for Access Investment as this is the
average percentage of our students who fall
into the APP countable category, Financial
Support includes 65% of Learning Support

Notes

2024 2023

£ £
174,401 195,366
2,873 39,736

- 527,221
177,274 762,323
2024 2023

£ £
559,227 460,217
216,283 400,217
634,921 632,547
1,410,431 1,492,981

Fund plus an uplift of 25% on staff costs for
overheads, Disability Support cost is uplifted
by 25% for overheads.

£869,157 of these costs relates to staff

costs and have already been included in the
overall staff expenditure figure in note 7.

https://www.hope.ac.uk/media/
aboutus/governancedocuments/
LiverpoolHopeUniversity_APP_2020-21_
V1_10003956%20submitted%2002-02-21.
pdf

oa
bot
5
a)
G
2
x
2
a
®
com
2
<
@
a
Ga
<
>
3
3
e
o
zp
®
ao]
°
5
ea
»
2
a
2
3
»
3
2
2
uw
=
»
~
®
3
®
3
>
is
N
ry
nw
xs
,
N
oO
iN)
x


~ 2024

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023

11. Analysis of expenditure

Other
operating
expenses

£

2,566,356

1,680,441

869,688

Notes

Total

25,772,229

3,744,768

2,512,145

5,122,373

340,097

15,893,559

8,392,946

733,718

5,033,384
177,274

146,692

57,572,761

Staff costs Depreciation Interest
payable
£ £ £
Academic 23,205,873 - -
departments
Academic support 2,064,327 - -
services
Other support 1,642,458 - -
services
Administration and 4,473,427 - -
central services
* General education - - -
expenditure
Premises 3,270,573 - -
Other income 393,621 - -
generating
activities
Residences, 1,271,573 - -
catering and
conferences
Depreciation - 5,033,384 -
Interest payable - - 177,274
FRS 102 pension 146,692 - -
costs adjustment
Total per
statement of 36,468,544 5,033,384 177,274
comprehensive ~n ——— ——
income

Notes

12. Fixed Assets

Assets in the Land and Equipment Vehicles Total
course of Buildings
construction
£ £ £ £ £
Deemed cost
At 1 August 2023 10,586,618 150,179,352 13,364,428 124,250 174,254,648
Additions at cost 6,008,417 1,415,375 978,792 58,920 8,461,504
Disposals at cost -
Transfers (14,799,683) 14,799,683 - - - 5
3
2
xr
At 31 July 2024 1,795,352 166,394,410 14,343,220 183,170 182,716,152 3
. com
3
j
Depreciation s
At 1 August 2023 - 30,717,426 9,720,689 97,429 40,535,544 B
2
Eliminated on - - - - - z
disposals 8
Charge for the year - 4,145,282 867,377 20,725 5,033,384 3
x
2
At 31 July 2024 - 34,862,707 10,588,067 118,154 45,568,928 a
3
3
$
Net book value =
3
At 31 July 2023 10,586,618 119,461,926 3,643,739 26,821 133,719,104 o
>
At 31 July 2024 1,795,352 131,531,703 3,755,153 65,017 137,147,225
Included in the 2023 net book value of buildings. The net premium consisted
land and buildings was £7,543,437 which of £9,000,000 less the outstanding hire
related to Gerard Manley Hopkins Hall, purchase creditor.
formerly held under a hire purchase
agreement. This included a net premium of Fixed assets include £8,921,000 in relation
£2,673,097 paid in July 2023 to acquire the to land. The land has not been depreciated
unencumbered freehold. This net premium in the accounts.

was treated as an addition to land and


=
a
Q
a
ry
a
Qo
a
4
2
©
o
E
@
”
0
2
a
8
re)
<
«
c
iz
2
c
©
z
9
a
a
aw
o
3
€
¢
ft
2
‘Bb
2
G
2
3
®
2
i)
x
o
9
a
S
6
a

13. Debtors

Amounts falling due within one year
Trade debtors

Sundry debtors

Prepayments and accrued income

2024

1,123,273
35,728
907,060

2,066,061

Notes

2023

943,116
29,056
1,092,559

2,064,731

14. Investments

Deposits maturing in one year or less

2024
£

9,500,000

Two fixed term deposits with Santander for £5,000,000 and £4,500,000.

15. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

Loans

Trade creditors

Social security and other taxation payable
Accruals and deferred income

2024
£

372,676
1,236,058
1,387,461

4,547,377

7,543,572

2023
£

10,000,000

2023
£

352,661
2,659,119
1,401,051

5,660,818

10,073,649


Notes

16. Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year

2024 2023
£ £
Loans secured on residential and other property repayable by 2,472,711 2,845,389
2030 .
2,472,711 2,845,389
Analysis of secured and unsecured loans: 2024 2023
. £ £
Due within one year or on demand (Note 15) 372,676 352,661 a
ae]
Due between one and two years 394,378 372,676 3
Due between two and five years 1,325,729 1,252,592 3
Due in five years or more 752,604 1,220,121 c
EI
Fs
Debt due after more than one year 2,472,711 2,845,389 s
z
Total secured and unsecured loans 2,845,387 3,198,050 a
8
8
2
2
a
Leen NEEL EELS UE AECL EE RE EE LEER TEES BEEN ELAS DAR EE AL ELLER EERE DDLS EERE ELLIE ERLE LDLLEA EER L ELIE ESSE EE EDLR EOS EE SE SERRE R EEE erE See ten 7
Interest/terms on loans: 2
Original Value | Interest rate Basis : Number of z
£ | % | years remaining Fi
Student 8,300,000 5.72 | £7mFixed 7 =
accommodation i : 1.10 £1.3m Variable : 8
8
Na

The loan relates to student accommodation and is secured on the relevant asset of the
University. The loan will be repaid by instalments over the period of the loan.

17. Reconciliation of cash flow to Statement of Financial Position
2023 Cash flows 2024
£ £ £

Cash at bank 19,100,566 (6,945,873) 12,154,694


Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023 - 2024

18. Capital and other commitments

Notes

Provision has not been made for the following capital commitments at 31 July

Capital commitments

19. Training bursary payments

Grant paid by Department of Education (DfE)

Payments to trainees

Grant due to/(from) DfE at end of year

During the year the University administered
the Training Bursary Scheme for PGCE
students. The University acts only as paying

20. Related party disclosures

Due to the nature of the University’s
operations and the composition of the
University Council (being drawn from local
public and private sector organisations), it is
inevitable that transactions will take place
with organisations in which a Member of the
Board may have an interest. All transactions
involving organisations in which a member
of the board of governors may have an

Rev Peter Winn

2024 2023
£ £
1,104,725 6,288,983
2024 2023
£ £
2,150,600 967,500
(2,136,600) (991,400)
14,000 (23,900)

agent. The grants and related disbursements
are therefore excluded from the statement
of comprehensive income.

interest are conducted at arm’s length and
in accordance with the University’s financial
regulations and normal procurement
procedures. Council members declare their
interests and the University updates the
register of interests annually.

Included in the financial statements are the
following transactions with related parties:

Chair of Governing Body, St Margaret’s C of E Primary School

Fr Christopher McCoy
Governor, Holy Spirit Primary School

Dr Penny Haughan

Chair of Governors, Locking Stumps Community Primary School

Ms Lesley Martin-Wright

Income Expenditure
; £ £
- 300

1,386 -
15,096 -
- 7,200

Company Secretary, Knowsley Chamber of Industry & Commerce

The nature of expenditure transactions

relates to payments to schools on behalf of
students all payments with the exception of
£7,200 to Knowsley Chamber of Commerce,

Notes

were made during the financial year 2023/24
and there were no debtors or creditors at
the year end.

21. Connected Charitable Institutions

The University is connected to one charitable
institution, Liverpool Hope Carter Preston
Foundation which was set up in its current
state in April 2012. The University appoints
two of the trustees. The Foundation has
minimal income and expenditure related

to its investments and administration.

The net book value of Heritage assets on
the Statement of Financial Position were
£305,270 and the Foundation had £31,005
in its current account as at 31 July 2024.

22. Provisions for liabilities and charges

Obligation to fund Pension enhancement

deficit on USS

pension

£

At 1st August 2023 1,049,224
Movement in year (38,553)
Interest cost 24,132
Actuarial gain (1,034,803)

The obligation to fund the past deficit on the
Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS)
arises from the contractual obligation with
the USS to deficit payments in accordance
with the deficit recovery plan that was put

in place as part of the 2020 valuation. As

set out in Note 20, no deficit recovery plan
was required under the 2023 valuation

23. Pension and similar obligations

The University’s employees belong to three
principal pension schemes, the Teachers’
Pension Scheme England and Wales (TPS)
for academic and related staff, the Greater

Total pension

on termination provision
£ £

57,462 1,106,686

(11,597) (50,150)

2,873 27,005

8,062 (1,026,741)

56,800 56,800

because the scheme was in a surplus on a
technical provisions basis. The institution

is no longer required to make deficit
recovery contributions from 1 January 2024
and accordingly released the outstanding
provision to the statement of comprehensive
income.

Manchester Pension Fund (GMPF) and the
Merseyside Pension Fund (MPF) for non-
academic staff. The total pension cost for the
period was £5,751,325 (2023: £5,332,486).

5
@
5
G
6
Q
x
2
a
®
com
<
6
3
an
ao
<
b
3
3
e
2
rs)
@
ao]
9
5
a
»
3
a
z
S
a
3
2
e
na
oe
2
o
®
3
a
3
a
a
iN)
oO
iN
a
’
N
cs)
©
&


S
mN
°
MN
2
NN
°
Sg
4
2
=
o
E
®
&
©
3s
a
&
vv
2
2
c
E
vU
2
5
~
if
3
a
a
a
o
$
e
€
t
>
2
‘*
6
2
€
3
®
&
°
=
me)
8
a
fey
$
3

As at 1 August
(Decrease)/Increase in liability

As at 31st July

The University’s pension (asset)/ liability is
analysed as follows:

Greater Manchester Pension Fund
Merseyside Pension Fund

Accounting Surplus

LGPS surplus can only be recognised to the
limit of the present value of the projected
future service rates. The GMPF surplus of
£19,281k can be fully recognised as the
present value of projected services costs is
greater than the surplus, the fund is open
to new members and is therefore valued

in perpetuity. The MPF actuary, Mercer,
provided a valuation of the schemes present
value of future accounting service costs in
the case of both closed and open schemes.
Given the low membership of the scheme,
and therefore uncertain future membership,
MPF has been treated as a closed scheme
and the accounting surplus has been limited
to £362k as per the Mercer report.

Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS)

The Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS) is a
statutory, contributory, defined benefit
scheme, governed by the Teachers’ Pensions
Regulations 2010, and, from 1 April

2014, by the Teachers’ Pension Scheme
Regulations 2014. These regulations apply to
teachers in schools and other educational
establishments, including academies, in
England and Wales that are maintained

by local authorities. In addition, teachers

in many independent and voluntary-aided
schools and teachers and lecturers in

some establishments of further and higher
education may be eligible for membership.

Notes

2024 2023

£ £
(15,112,000) (2,862,000)
(4,531,000) (12,250,000)
(19,643,000) (15,112,000)
£ £
(19,281,000) (14,781,000)
(362,000) (331,000)
(19,643,000) (15,112,000)

Membership is automatic for full-time
teachers and lecturers and, from 1 January
2007, automatic too for teachers and
lecturers in part-time employment following
appointment or a change of contract.
Teachers and lecturers are able to opt out of
the TPS.

The Teachers’ Pension Budgeting and
Valuation Account

Although members may be employed by
various bodies, their retirement and other
pension benefits are set out in regulations
made under the Superannuation Act 1972
and are paid by public funds provided by
Parliament. The TPS is an unfunded scheme
and members contribute on a ‘pay as you go’
basis — these contributions, along with those
made by employers, are credited to the
Exchequer under arrangements governed by
the above Act.

The Teachers’ Pensions Regulations 2010
require an annual account, the Teacher's
Pension Budgeting and Valuation Account,
to be kept of receipts and expenditure
(including the cost of pension increases).
From 1 April 2001, the Account has been
credited with a real rate of return, which
is equivalent to assuming that the balance
in the Account is invested in notional
investments that produce that real rate of
return.

Valuation of the Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The latest actuarial review of the TPS

was carried out as at 31 March 2020 and

in accordance with The Public Service
Pensions (Valuations and Employer Cost Cap)
Directions 2014. The valuation report was
published by the Department for Education
(the Department) on 26 October 2023. The
key results of the valuation are:

¢ employer contribution rates were set at
28.6% of pensionable pay;

« total scheme liabilities for service to
the effective date of £262.0 billion, and
notional assets of £222.0 billion, giving
a notional past service deficit of £39.8
billion

« an employer cost cap of 10.9% of
pensionable pay.

The employer contribution rate for the TPS
was implemented in April 2024.

A full copy of the valuation report and
supporting documentation can be found on
the Teachers’ Pension Scheme website at the
following location:

TPS 31 March 2020 Actuarial Valuation
Report

Scheme Changes

Following the Hutton report in March 2011
and the subsequent consultations with trade
unions and other representative bodies on
reform of the TPS, the Department published
a Proposed Final Agreement, setting out the
design for a reformed TPS to be implemented
from 1 April 2024.

The key provisions of the reformed scheme
include: a pension based on career average
earnings; an accrual rate of 1/57th; and a
Normal Pension Age equal to State Pension
Age, but with options to enable members
to retire earlier or later than their Normal
Pension Age. Importantly, pension benefits
built up before 1 April 2015 will be fully
protected.

In addition, the Proposed Final Agreement
includes a Government commitment that
those within 10 years of Normal Pension Age
on 1 April 2012 will see no change to the age
at which they can retire, and no decrease

in the amount of pension they receive

Notes

when they retire. There will also be further
transitional protection, tapered over a three
and a half year period, for people who would
fall up to three and a half years outside of
the 10 year protection.

Regulations giving effect to a reformed
Teachers’ Pension Scheme came into force
on 1 April 2014 and the reformed scheme
commenced on 1 April 2024.

The pension costs paid to TPS in the year
amounted to £3,506,527 (2023: £3,109,001).

Greater Manchester Pension Fund (GMPF)

The GMPF is a funded defined benefit
scheme, with the assets held in a separate
trustee administered fund.

The total contribution made for the year
ended 31 July 2024 was £2,665,000 of which
employer’s contributions totalled £1,986,000
and employee’s contributions totalled
£679,000. The agreed contribution rates for
future years are 19.1% for employers and
ranges between 5.5% to 12.5% for employees,
dependent on salary.

The CPI assumption has been adjusted to |
recognise the impact of the 2024 Pl Order
and its medium and long term effects

on discount rates and inflation. The CPI
assumption has been updated to make
allowance for inflation experience since
October 2023 being higher than assumed.
This adjustment has resulted in the CPI
assumption being 0.5% p.a. lower at short
durations (less than 17 years), and no change
at medium durations (between 17 and 23
years) and at long durations (more than

23 years), compared to the assumption
that would have been derived using the
methodology adopted at 31 July 2022.

The following information is based upon a full
actuarial valuation of the fund as 31 March
2022 updated to 31 July 2024 by a qualified
independent actuary..

pZ0Z ~ ETOT | SJUawayeys jelouUeUly pue yoday jenuuy | AISJOAIL adOH JOadiaaly

Notes

2024 —C«; 2023 2022

Rate of increase in salaries 3.55% 3.80% 3.45%

Rate of increase in pensions in payment/inflation 2.75% 3.00% 2.70%

Discount rate for liabilities 5.00% 5.05% 3.50%

Commutation of pension to lump sums 50.00% 50.00% 55,00%
The mortality assumptions as at 31 July (CMI) The assumed life expectancies are
2024 include sufficient allowance for future based on age 45 for future pensioners and
improvements in mortality rates in line with’ aged 65 for current pensioners as per the
the latest Continuous Mortality Investigation latest triennial valuation.

At 3i July At31July At 3i July

2024 2023 2022
Retiring today
Males , 20.20 “20.20 20.30
Females 23.70 23.70 23.20
Retiring in 20 years
Males 21.10 21.20 21.60
Females , 24.70 24.70 25.10

The sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme obligations are:

x
N
°
a
‘
o
s
2
ro]
4
Bs)
c
@
€
g
Be}
s
S
a
8
iv]
c
«
=
ire
ao]
c
«
wv
=
9
a
io
“4
®
3
¢
<
<t
>
2
g
Zz
2
@
a
9
-
o
9
a.
oS
2
a

Change in assumptions at 31 July 2024 Approximate% Approximate
Increase to DBO monetary amount

£000

0.1% decrease in Real Discount Rate , 2% 1,241
1 year increase in member life expectancy 4% 2,404
0.1% increase in the Salary Increase Rate 0% 71

0.1% increase in the Pension Increase Rate (CPI) 2% 1,194


Notes

The University’s share of assets in the scheme return (are based on actual returns to 30th
(which is estimated at less than 1% of total June 2024 and adjusted to calculate the
scheme assets) and the estimated rates of estimated returns as at 31st July 2024) were:
Value at Value at Value at
31 July 24 31 July 23 31 July 22
£000 £000 £000
Equities 54,777 50,886 48,152 oad
Bonds 11,908 10,034 10,622
Property : 6,351 5,734 6,373
Cash 6,351 5,017 5,665
Share of total market value of assets 79,387 71,671 70,812

z
a
G
5
Ey
x
rs]
vu
a
c
EI
<
oD
8
a
<
Qb
Ey
3
Cc
o
Dp
aD
uv
fe}
9
4
o
gs
a
z
a
FA
3
a
a
wn
g
Fy
2
oO
3
a
g
2
Fs
ww
oO
nN
8
;
nN
Oo
N
>

Present value of scheme liabilities

- Funded (60,085) (56,868) (68,268)
- Unfunded (24) (22) (24)
Surplus/(Deficit) in the scheme 19,281 14,781 2,520

Analysis of the amount charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income

2024 2023 2022
£000 £000 £000
Current service cost (1,847) (2,807) (4,975)
Past service cost {including curtailments) (394) (12) (50)

Total service cost , (2,241) (2,819) (5,025)


Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023 - 2024

Notes

Analysis of pension finance income

Interest income on plan assets

Interest cost on defined benefit obligation
Total net interest

Total defined benefit recognised in the
statement of comprehensive income

2024 2023
£000 £000
3,641 2,495
(2,901) (2,423)

740 72

(1,501) (2,747)

2022
£000
1,042

(1,567)

(525)

(5,550)

Movement in deficit during year

Surplus/(Deficit) in scheme

Movement in year:

Current service charge

Past service charge (including curtailments)
Net interest / return on assets
Contributions

Remeasurements recognised in the Statement of
Comprehensive income

Surplus/(Deficit) in scheme at end of year

2024
£'000

14,781

(1,847)
(394)
740
1,986
4,015

19,281

2023
£'000

2,520

(2,807)
(12)
72
1,911
13,097

14,781

Notes

History of experience gains or losses

2024 2023 2022 2021 2020
£ £ £ £ £
Return on assets excluding
amounts included in net 3,204 (2,699) 4,134 9,903 (3,826)
interest
Value of Assets 79,387 71,671 70,812 64,700 53,058
% of scheme assets 4.04% (3.77%) 5.84% 15.31% (7.21%) o
z
8
o
2
Experience gains and losses (8114) (15,796) (33,430) 9,266 4,925 =
on scheme liabilities . 8
lone
2
Total present value of (60,106) (56,890) (68,292) (95,888) (81,975) <
liabilities 3
&
% of Total present value of 1.35% 27.77% >
scheme liabilities 48.95% (9.66%) (6.01%) 2
Actuarial gain/(loss) 3
recognised in statement of 4,015 13,097 37,564 637 (8,751) g
comprehensive income (6.68%) (23.02%) (55.00%) (0.66%) 10.68% 2
% of the present value of .
liabilities 2
a
FE EES ESET SSS E ESSE SES TECCSEE ESSE SESE SESS SEO SSOSSIOSSISOSOSSONSEIOSSNOSSISEIOEEIN 2
Merseyside Pension Fund (MPF) The agreed contribution rates for future 3
9
The MPF is a funded defined benefit scheme, years are 64.1% for employers and ranges zt
. . between 5.5% to 12.5% for employees, _
with the assets held in separate trustee dependent on sala x
administered funds. The total contribution P "v. 8
made for the year ended 31 July 2024 was an _ '
~ , ene The following information is based upon a x
£170,000 of which employer's contributions full actuarial valuation of the fund as at 31 R

totalled £153,000, £151,000 of this was
offset by deficit contributions credits and
employees’ contributions totalled £17,000.

March 2022 updated to 31 July 2024 by a
qualified independent actuary.

2024 2023 2022
Rate of increase in salaries 4.20% 4.20% 4.20%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment/inflation 2.80% 2.80% 2.80%
Discount rate for liabilities 4.90% 5.30% 3.40%

Commutation of pension to lump sum 50.00% 50.00% 50.00%


> 2024

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023

The mortality assumptions as at 31 July
2024 include sufficient allowance for future
improvements in mortality rates but does
not include the potential effects of Covid-19
this is mainly because there remains
uncertainty of the Covid-19 impact on long
term mortality rates for pension scheme

Retiring today
Males —

Females

Retiring in 20 years
Males

Females

The University’s share of assets in the scheme
(which is estimated at 0.2% of total scheme
assets) and the estimated rates of return (are

Equities
Bonds — government

Bonds — other

. Property

Cash & other

IFRIC14 surplus adjustment

Total market value of assets
Present value of scheme liabilities
- Funded

- Unfunded

Notes

members. This will be monitored in future
periods and will be updated as appropriate.
The assumed life expectancies are based on ©
age 45 for future pensioners and aged 65 for
current pensioners as per the latest triennial
valuation.

At31iJuly At3iJuly At 34 July
2024 2023 2022
20.80 20.80 20.90
23.40 23.30 24.00
22.00 22.10 22.40
25.10 25.10 25.90

based on actual returns to 30th June 2024
and adjusted to calculate the estimated
returns as at 31st July 2024) were:

Value at Value at Value at
31 July 24 31 July 23 31 July 22
£000 £000 £000
2,713 2,980 3,020
1,155 865 1,772
396 269 661

574 688 670
1,762 1,749 2,042
(745) (859) (896)
5,855 5,692 7,269
(5,490) (5,356) (6,923)
(3) (5) (4)

362 331 342


Notes

Analysis of the amount charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income

2024 2023 2022
£000 £000 £000
Employer service cost (net of employee (44) (66) (62)
contributions)
Past service cost 0 0 0
Total operating credit/(charge) (44) (66) (62)
Piece e eee ADS R EE Cee ULE E EES EELLA EEC EDLLDEEE SECS EE LEEDLR EEC EE ECE EECEVEDEED CES ULEL SEE teeEEAe/ Fed DneE Ede code caeeader eee svaeeaeeteeenes i
Analysis of pension finance income/(costs) 8
x=
2024 2023 2022 a
a
£000 £000 £000 =
a
Interest on plan assets 337 273. 127 z
Interest on pension scheme liabilities (274) (230) (128) A
s
Pension finance costs 63 43 (1) 3
wo
a
2024 2023 2022 3
3
£000 £000" £000 a
wn
3
Actual return on plan assets 87 (1,647) 244 2
Experience gains and losses arising on the 26 190 (465) &
scheme liabilities 8
Change in financial and demographic wy
assumptions underlying the scheme liabilities (216) 1,401 1,691 Rg
IFRIC14 surplus adjustment (745) (859) (896)
Total remeasurement included within statement (848) (885) 574

of comprehensive income


+ 2024

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023

Notes

Movement in deficit during year

2024 2023 2022

£000 £000 £000
Deficit in scheme at beginning of year 331 342 (170)
Movement in year:
Current service charge (44) (66) (62)
Contributions 2 _ 2 2
Past service costs 0 0 . 0
Administration costs (1) (1) (4)
Settlements and Curtailments - - -
Net interest/return on assets 63 43 (1)
Actuarial gain {103) (26) 1,470
IFRIC14 surplus adjustment 114 37 (896)
Surplus/(Deficit) in scheme at end of year 362 331 342

History of experience gains or losses

2024 2023 2022 2021 2020
£ £ £ £ £
Return on assets excluding 87 (1,617) 244 914 (82)
amounts included in net interest
Value of assets 5,855 5,692 7,269 8,060 7,331
% of scheme assets 1.49% (28.41%) 3.36% 11.34% (1.12%)
Experience gains and losses on 190 (1,591) (1,226) 55 (342)
scheme liabilities
Total present value of liabilities (5,493) (5,361) (6,927) (8,230) (8,302)
% of Total present value of (3.46%) 29.7% 17.7% (0.67%) 4.12%
scheme liabilities
Actuarial gain/(loss) recognised (848) (885) 574 859 260
in statement of comprehensive 15.44% 16.51% (8.29%) (10.44%) (3.13%)

income % of the present value
of liabilities


Actuarial Gain in respect of pension scheme

GMP
MPF
USS

Recent changes in global and UK economic
pressures and tightening of monetary
policy have had a significant impact on
asset markets and corporate bonds yields,
which are key to the FRS102 assessment
of the net pension asset or liability. In
particular, AA corporate bond yields, used
to set the FRS102 discount rate have
increased significantly since 31 July 2023,
with corresponding falls in asset values. The
markets have been exceptionally volatile and
therefore while both gross defined benefit
obligations and assets will have fallen, it is
difficult to estimate the impact of these
changes on the net balance sheet position.

In June 2023, the High Court handed down a
decision in the case of Virgin Media Limited
v NTL Pension Trustees II Limited and others
relating to the validity of certain historical
pension changes due to the lack of actuarial
confirmation required by law. In July 2024,
the Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal
brought by Virgin Media Ltd against aspects
of the June 2023 decision. The conclusions

Notes

2024 2023

£ £
4,015,000 13,097,000
11,000 11,000
1,073,356 112,732
(8,062) 9,720
5,091,294 13,230,452

reached by the court in this case may have
implications for other UK defined benefit
plans. Liverpool Hope University, Hymans
and Mercers are monitoring developments
in terms of whether there is expected to be
any impact on LGPS Funds and will consider
if there are any implications for the MPF and
GMPF. As a result, Liverpool Hope University
does not consider it necessary to make any
allowance for the potential impact of the
Virgin Media case in its financial statements.

PZ0Z ~ EZOZ | sJuswazeys jelnueUly pue YOday jenuuy | ArisiaAlU adoH joodiaaly

Liverpool Hope University | Annual Report and Financial Statements | 2023 - 2024

24. Financial Instruments

The University operates a treasury
management function which is responsible
for managing the credit, liquidity and interest
risk. These financial risks are managed

within the parameters specified in the
approved Treasury Management Policy. The
Treasury Management Policy adopts the

key recommendations of the Chartered
Institute of Public Practice (CIPFA)’'S ‘Treasury
Management in the Public Services: Code of
Practice.

The University’s principal financial instruments
are cash, investments and loans. The core
objective of these financial instruments is to
meet the financing needs of the University’s
operations. The University also has other
financial assets and liabilities arising directly
from its operations such as trade debtors and
creditors.

Credit risk arises from bank balances,
investments, student debtor and commercial
customers. Student and commercial debtors

Financial Assets

Investments
Trade & Other Receivables
Cash & Cash Equivalents

Financial Liabilities

Loans
Trade & Other Payables

Notes

are reviewed on an ongoing basis and a

bad debt provision is made if recovery
becomes uncertain, or written off if deemed
irrecoverable.

Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the
University will not be able to meet its
financial obligations as they fall due. Daily,
weekly and monthly monitoring of cash
position and regular cashflow forecasts are
part of the control environment and planning
throughout the year. The University policy is
to maintain a balance of no more than £10m
with any single banking organisation.

Interest rate risk refers to the likelinood
that changes in interest rates will result in
fluctuations in the value of balance sheet
items.

The fair values of each category of the
University’s financial instruments are
the same as their carrying value on the
statement of financial position.

2024 2023

£ £
9,500,000 10,000,000
1,159,001 972,174
12,154,694 19,100,566
22,813,695 30,072,737
2024 2023

£ £
2,845,387 3,198,050
1,236,058 2,659,119
4,081,445 . 5,857,169

25. Reconciliation of Net Debt

2024 2023
£ £
Net Debt at i August (15,902,516) (6,517,144)
Movement in Cash & Cash Equivalents (6,945,872) 2,831,332
Other non-cash changes 13,539,081 (12,216,704)
Net Debt at 31 July (9,309,307) (15,902,516) =
3
. g
Change in Net Debt 6,593,209 (9,385,372) z
oO
e
csccssseasvasavenseeneseessnasesinyvnntiennvenvernsseasieassesssenasetsianitistisinanensseasieiieuiisiuiininienieneevee 3
$
Analysis of Net Debt cs
a
2024 2023 8
£ £ ¢
5
a
n
Fy
Cash & Cash Equivalents less: 12,154,694 19,100,566 a,
Borrowings: amounts falling due within 1 year , 2
Secured Loans 372,676 352,661 3
5
Borrowings: amounts falling due after 1 year 8
3
Secured loans 2,472,711 2,845,389 8
: Iw
bh

Net Debt (9,309,307) (15,902,516)


gistered Compa

A company limited by guarantee,
without share capital, registered i

Registered Charity umbe :


