Company Registration No. 06591591 (England and Wales)

Made Tech Limited

Annual Report and Audited Financial Statements for the year ended 31 May 2024

FRIDAY

7 a ~ a
*ADYBSK8I1* :
Ads 14/03/2025 #67——

COMPANIES HOUSE

MADE TECH LIMITED

CONTENTS

Company Information

Strategic Report

Directors’ report

Directors’ responsibilities statement
Independent Auditor’s report

Statement of comprehensive income/ (loss)
Balance sheet

Statement of changes in equity

Notes to the financial statements

MADE TECH LIMITED

COMPANY INFORMATION

Directors

Company number

Registered office

Independent Auditors

Legal Advisers

R P MacDonald

CJ Blackburn

D Lovegrove (resigned 1 February 2024)
N Elton (appointed 1 February 2024)

06591591

4 O'Meara Street
London
SE1 1TE

Crowe U.K LLP
55 Ludgate Hill

London
EC4M 7JW

Fieldfisher
No1 Spinningfields

1 Hardman Square
Manchester
M3 3EB

MADE TECH LIMITED

STRATEGIC REPORT
For the year ended 31 May 2024

The Directors present their annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2024.

Made Tech Limited (the “Company”) is the trading company of the Made Tech PLC group of companies (the “Made Tech
Group”) in the United Kingdom.

Business Review

The principal activity of Made Tech Limited is a provider of digital, data and technology services to the UK public sector.
Service offerings include digital service delivery, embedded capabilities, data infrastructure and insights and legacy
application transformation.

The Company was a wholly owned subsidiary of Made Tech Group PLC for the year ended 31 May 2024.
Financial Results
The Company recorded revenue in the year of £38.6m (2023: £40.2m).

Gross margin increased from 35.8% to 38.8% primarily as a result of improved capacity management. Adjusted EBITDA
(operating profit before depreciation, amortisation, impairment and exceptional items) increased from £1.5m in FY23 to
£2.9m in FY24.

A loss after tax of £1.7m (2023: profit of £0.6m) is stated after an exceptional impairment charge of £4.3m related to
historic investments in the development of software products and an apprenticeship academy.

Financial key performance indicators (KPIs)

The Company’s Directors set and monitor business targets. The Company’s Directors are of the opinion that additional
analysis using KPls is not necessary for an understanding of the performance or position of the Company on a standalone
basis.

A number of KPls are tracked at group level to identify trends in trading performance and to benchmark progress of key
objectives, such as staff well-being and satisfaction. Further information is contained in the consolidated financial
statements of Made Tech Group PLC. ~

Principal risks and uncertainties

There are a number of current risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on our operations, financial
results, reputation or the value and liquidity of our securities and could cause our actual results to differ materially from
historical and forecast results.

Governance and risk management framework

The Board is responsible for the Company’s risk management and for ensuring that robust processes are in place to
identify, manage and report risks that threaten the business objectives of the Company. These include Financial,
Operational and Regulatory Compliance risks. The principal features of the Company’s risk management regime are a
strong control environment, which is founded on an appropriate organisational structure for planning, executing,
controlling and monitoring business operations. it includes clearly defined responsibilities and accountabilities.

Control procedures

These include: budgetary systems and management controls to manage financial risk, timely and accurate management
information in respect of key performance measures and procedures to ensure complete and accurate accounting, which
are regularly reviewed by the Board.

Risk management process
The Board uses a_ Risk register as its principal tool for monitoring and _ reporting risk.

MADE TECH LIMITED
STRATEGIC REPORT (Continued)

The Risk Register describes each risk, the potential impact of each risk, the likelihood of that risk occurring and the
mitigating controls. The preparation of the register is coordinated at senior management level, and input is obtained from
all areas of the business in the preparation process. An appropriate senior person is assigned as the owner of each risk to
ensure the correct level of focus is applied to managing the risk and its potential impact. Management regularly reviews
and updates the Risk Register. The Group’s Audit & Risk Committee formally reviews the Risk Register at least once a year.

When significant changes to risks occur, they are reported to the Board at Group Board meetings, and the Board receives
an update from the Audit & Risk Committee after each formal review of the Risk Register. The Board considers our risk

assessment processes to be comprehensive and appropriate.

The principal risks and uncertainties are:

Attracting and retaining talented staff Change to risk — decreased

Description Potential impact Mitigation

We may be unable to Our most important asset is | We routinely benchmark ourselves against our peers and adapt best
recruit or retain our talented staff. We practices to ensure success in recruiting, hiring and maintaining a
employees with suitable recognise that the future highly competent and engaged workforce. To manage hiring for
skills at all required success of our business is specialist roles we have activated several successful strategies to
levels. dependent on attracting, source top talent, including expansion of our presence on hiring

developing, motivating and platforms and investment in our in-house talent acquisition and mobility
retaining our people. Made team. We continue to focus on appointing high quality candidates to
Tech strives to be an employer replace leavers or fill new roles, and continuously focus on employee
with outstanding development development through training and other employee engagement
opportunities, competitive total measures.
rewards and a culture of
creativity and inclusivity.
Failure to attract and retain key
talent could negatively impact
the Group’s ability to innovate We offer competitive compensation packages that are reviewed
i and grow and could lead to regularly, and we routinely survey our employees to monitor employee
decreased productivity, or engagement levels and identify opportunities for further improvement.
undermine customer
relationships. The market
remains competitive for top
talent. Made Tech's diverse
product and service solutions
often require niche skill sets
and experiences to meet
customer expectations and
performance obligations. This
could impact our ability to
provide contracted solutions
and services, negatively
impacting revenue, profit and
cash flow in the short term and
causing damage to our
reputation, customer
relationships and staff morale.

The Group puts culture and purpose at the forefront of what we do and
strives to become an employer of choice. Our goal i is to have a diverse
V workforce that replicates the diversity of where we operate.

Attrition rates are monitored monthly to enable mitigating actions to be
taken quickly if necessary.

Legal, Regulatory & Compliance requirements Change to risk — no change

Description Potential impact Mitigation

We need to comply with Non-compliance could expose We review the impact of new and updated information security,
legal, regulatory and us to liability and fines (for data protection and privacy regulations and legislation in advance, to
contractual information example under GDPR), reduce understand how these will affect both us and our clients. The output of

security, data protection profit and cash flow in the these reviews will influence the delivery of our internal controls and
and privacy, and related short term, cause reputational processes and the design of products, solutions and working practices.
requirements. damage and harm customer

___ relationships and credibility We make staff aware of the potential impact of changing regulations
We have to comply with in the market and provide targeted training within business divisions, and through the
laws and regulations ” delivery of focused training initiatives.

applicable to us and If we infringe a third party's
design our products and IP rights it could expose us to
services to meet laws __ liability, negatively impact profit

We enter into non-disclosure agreements with employees, independent
contractors and third parties in the ordinary course of our business to
provide a degree of protection.

and regulations and cash flow in the short term
applicable to our and cause reputational All staff are made aware of client confidentiality requirements. Where
customers. damage. practical, focused patent searches are undertaken to identify areas in

which new products or services under development may conflict with
third-party IP. We constantly monitor the use of third-party software in
our product offerings.

Our intellectual property If a third party infringes our
(“IP”) is centred around IP rights, it could expose us to

the software and competitive disadvantage, loss

services we develop for of revenues or increased The choice of third-party components is subject to technical review and
customers. We have to security risks. assessment at design stage. Our ‘employment and consultancy
manage the risk of contracts have clauses to protect IP. Background checks and security
infringing a third party's clearances are performed on employees.

IP rights in its

Our finance, compliance and legal teams review draft and current

development of software regulatory and legislative requirements, including, for example, GDPR
. (UK Data Protection Act 2018), and provide an impact assessment for

the products and services that we deliver to customers.
In relation to bribery and corruption, we have an established
Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) Policy.

Cybersecurity and risk to privacy Change to risk — increased

Description Potential Impact Mitigation

We maintain the IT security breaches, computer We regularly review and improve our systems and processes in order to

confidentiality, integrity malware and other mitigate the risk of an IT security breach and cybersecurity event. The

and availability of data, cyber-attacks causing loss of Group implements a robust testing process on systems and software
and ensure the secure customer data could result in athat includes external penetration testing by software consultants.

operation of our IT loss of business to the Group, Disaster recovery plans have been developed to respond to such
systems, both internally limit our operations, expose us incidents to ensure the business is able to recover with limited
and as part of our to fines (for example under interruption should an incident arise.

service offerings to GDPR) and/or contractuat

The Group has crisis management procedures in place to help us

Cybersecurity events areprott end cash tow. cause to promptly deal with any security incident efficiently.

occurring more reputational damage, and We have mandatory CyberSecurity training in place for alt staff. The
frequently, and are of | damage customer Group holds an appropriate level of cyber-insurance.

greater scale relationships and credibility in

and sophistication. The the market.
move to remote working

has brought a fresh

aspect to this risk.

Quality of service delivery Change to risk — no change

Description Potential impact Mitigation

The success of the Any malfunctioning of The Group's private network provides greater performance reliability,
Group is largely the Group's technology and — security and capability benefits compared to the public internet. The
dependent on systems or those of key Group's technology infrastructure is built with resilience and redundancy

its technical capabilities third-party suppliers could

and it relies toa result in a lack of confidence inas key: components and: is hosted in multiple data centre locations
significant degree on the the Group's products, witha operated by internationally recognised data centre providers.

efficient and consequential adverse effect
uninterrupted operation on the Group’s business and
of its software, computer financial results.

and communications
systems and those of its
third-party suppliers,

The Group monitors its software and systems on a 24/7 basis to ensure
that in the event of any interruption (irrespective of the cause) it is able
to respond quickly to issues that affect the performance of its products.
This could expose us to liability
and negatively impact profit
and cash flow in the short

We design our systems, client solutions and infrastructure to provide
both resilience and service availability. We maintain awareness of

ns me Security of term, cause reputational vendor/supplier product roadmaps and support capabilities.
. damage and harm our client The Group is ISO 9001 and ISO 27001 certified and operates rigorous
Software bugs or lack _ relationships and credibility in change control and software development processes to ensure that any
of availability or support the market. work undertaken on its software and technology infrastructure
for hosted or supported minimises the impact on its clients.
serene could rect Critical incident and problem management processes are in place and
our customer service. are audited as part of our ISO 9001 certification.
Professional indemnity insurance is in place.
Our software development life cycle includes following coding practices,
quality assurance and testing and is periodically audited as part of
our 1SO 9001 and ISO 27001 certifications.
Visibility of revenue and quality of earnings Change to risk — no change
Description Potential impact Mitigation
The majority of the In addition to the risk that thereOur leadership team and client partners maintain regular contact with

. Group's client contracts is a limited contracted forward key clients to maintain and build relationships and maximise forward
are for one-off projects _ visibility of revenue, the ability visibility of opportunities and workload.
or call-off contracts. Theof the Company to flex its
time between bid, award staffing, and ensure an
and the commencement appropriate mix of specialist
of work can be short and skills may result in margins

The Group's strategy is to expand its client base within the territories it
currently operates, to diversify the capabilities that the Company offers,
and to leverage its current relationships.

clients can usually give being impacted through The Company is also looking to pursue longer term agreements such
limited notice to cease overcapacity or, not being able as managed service contracts, and to develop software solutions for
work. In addition, clientsto service revenue due to specific client needs.

may choose to diversify under capacity.
or change how, or from
whom, they source the

Management focuses on staff utilisation and the appropriateness of the
skills mix within the business, and where necessary use contractors to
fulfil periods of peak demand.

services currently

provided by the Group.

Competitor activity Change to risk — Increased

Description Potential impact Mitigation

Some of the Group’s Competitors to the market may The Directors believe that significant barriers to entry exist in the
competitors include impact our ability to win and = markets in which the Group operates, including, for example, placement
significantly larger retain clients, and could result on government frameworks, maintaining appropriate certifications, and -~

enterprises with greater in a reduction in our rate card, the technical skills and expertise required to develop its services.

financial and marketing negatively impacting our profit

resources than the and cash flow.

Group. There may also

be new entrants to the

market which could

become competitors to The Directors are nevertheless aware of the need to ensure that the

the Group. Group’s services are at the leading edge of technology offerings to its
clients and it invests in new capabilities to ensure that a service offering
meets its clients’ requirements.

The Group’s continued success in winning new clients and renewing
existing contracts demonstrates the robustness of the Group's service
offering, and the Group is focused on delivering first class services to
deliver successful projects in a timely manner.

We continue to monitor the bid-to-win ratios to identify potential risks.

Investment decisions

Description Potential impact

Our Investment Failure to manage investment

decisions may not be decisions could negatively

satisfactory. impact medium and long term
value creation for
shareholders.

Contractual risk

Description Potential Impact

The Group offers a wide Where the Group fails to meet
variety of products and contractual undertakings, such
services with different as_delivering to a certain

risk profiles to a variety specification, deadline,

of customers, oftenin response time undertaking, or
highly regulated markets other commitment there is a
and/or performing criticalrisk that payment milestones
public services. Clients will be delayed, revenue

will often seek to reduced, or the business may
contract under their own need to apply extra resources
terms and conditions, to meeting the delivery

and often will require requirements, impacting on
audits with respect to _ profit margins. There is also
assurance around the risk of reputational

quality and compliance. damage.

Change to risk — no change

Mitigation

We undertake regular strategic reviews to ensure that the business
applies an appropriate capital allocation process. Considerations
include the prioritisation and timing of investment in business
development activities such as sales, marketing, service delivery
propositions, staff training, product developments and M&A. These
decisions are informed by customer and market intelligence.

Change to risk — Increased

Mitigation

Most contracts undertaken by the business operate on a time and
materials basis. Increasingly the Group is undertaking more long term
and/or fixed price projects that may include milestone payments. The
Group also enters into contracts with subcontractors.

The Company operates a formal bid process where all opportunities are
considered by the Industry Lead, Client Partner and Delivery Manager,
drawing on technical expertise where appropriate. Bids are supported
by the Group's Bid Team. Only when all the risks have been
considered and satisfactory mitigating actions agreed will the Company
proceed with a bid.

The Company will ensure that deliverables and dependencies are
clearly stated at the contractual stage and may choose to apply risk
premiums to bids. The Company will seek independent legal support
where appropriate.

The client and delivery teams undertake regular project reviews and
escalate issues internally and with clients as soon as they are identified.
Strict change contro! measures are in place and the Company's
Operations Team supports with compliance tracking.

Macroeconomic and government policy risk Change to risk — decreased

Description Potential impact Mitigation

The Group heavily relies Changes to government policy Our service line structure together with our stakeholder engagement
on revenue from or spending may have a plans, regular dialogue with clients, research and marketing activities
contracts with the UK — material impact on future and regular strategic reviews of the overall business assist in
government. contract awards and maintaining a sustainable business.

Business may therefore consequently on the

be impacted by factors performance, financial

+ ey Nndition or iness
such as instability of the Condition or busines
. prospects of the Group. If
financial system, market
government procurement

policy moves away from its
current policy favouring SMEs
such as Made Tech, or if any
current or future government
reduces its stated commitment
to digital technology, the
Group's performance, financial
condition or business
prospects may be adversely
There may be a change impacted.

in government

and/or change in

government policy.

disruptions

or suspensions, a
material downturn in the
financial markets, an
economic recession, or
other unprecedented
economic disruption
caused by a global
pandemic.

Our compliance and operations teams actively manage our business
continuity plans and disaster recovery activities to ensure that Made
Tech remains prepared for a wide variety of unplanned business
disruptions.

The Group is expanding into new capabilities, and diversifying its client
base into other areas of the public sector to mitigate risk.

We note that the Labour government, elected in July 2024, has
committed to continuing investment in digital services as part of their
manifesto.

Sustainability

Description Potential impact

With the increasing Given the increased focus on
global focus on sustainability and corporate
sustainability responses to it, our failure to

and climate risk, Made appropriately respond to

Tech is prioritising the climate risk and sustainability

implementation of its § would run contrary to our

ESG strategy. values and could result in fines
for non-compliance with any
regulations and reputational
damage.

It could also deter:

. prospective
employees from joining us;

° clients from
appointing us to projects;
and

. investors from owning
our shares.

Section 472(1) statement

- Change to risk - no change

Mitigation

The Group has a broad ESG response in place, as detailed in the
Group's ESG report, which we are enhancing further through a number
of initiatives aimed at improving our sustainability ratings. While we will
endeavour to meet our ambition, success relies on some aspects
beyond our direct control. For instance, the ability to fully decarbonise
our Scope 2 emissions is dependent on the decarbonisation of local
grids and/or adoption of renewable energy supply by our landlords. The
Company's ability to reduce its Scope 3 emissions relies on our data
centre suppliers decarbonising successfully. Further, other Scope 3
value chain emissions are reliant on development of new green
technologies. Residual emissions are also dependent on a developed
carbon dioxide removals market. We are undertaking the necessary
steps to develop our transition plan to reduce emissions in line with a
Paris Agreement-aligned pathway. The Group continues to improve the
tesilience and business continuity of its office network and supply chain
and has transitioned to virtual and hybrid-working models as deemed
appropriate.

For more information on this area refer to the Social Value Report of the
consolidated financial statements of Made Tech Group PLC. (page 22).

Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 requires a director of a company to act in the way he or she considers, in ‘good
faith, would support the long-term success of the Company and its various stakeholders.

In doing this, our Directors need to consider a variety of factors, including: the long-term impact of any decision; the
interests of our employees; our relationships with our suppliers and customers; the impact that we have in our
communities and on the environment; maintaining our reputation for high standards of business conduct; and the need to
act fairly for our shareholders.

Our Directors have exercised care in their decision-making, cognisant of their section 172 obligations, and taking into
consideration the needs and interests of the various stakeholder groups as part of all board decision-making.

Stakeholder engagement
Under section 172, we consider our stakeholder groups to be our staff, our clients and partners and our investors and

shareholders.

We recognise that the importance of a topic may vary between stakeholder groups and that there may occasionally bea
conflict in the interests of different groups.

Recognising that not every decision can support each group equally, the Board is committed to effective engagement with
our stakeholders to understand their interests and priorities.

The Directors engage directly with stakeholder groups as appropriate, with examples of this interaction set out below.

Our people
Our people are fundamental to the success and sustainability of Made Tech. We rely on their skills, talent, motivation and

commitment to deliver services and solutions to our clients. Our people underpin the growth of the business so recruiting
and retaining the best talent is a key focus for management. We work hard to ensure our people are engaged, motivated
and rewarded and supported to succeed. We aim to provide an environment that puts employee wellbeing at its centre.
We are building a culture based on transparency, integrity, respect and inclusion.

We embrace diversity across our organisation and the Company recognises that discrimination is unacceptable and that
equality of opportunity is paramount. The aim of these policies is to ensure that no job applicant or employee is
discriminated against either directly or indirectly on the grounds of race, colour, ethnicity, nationality, gender

MADE TECH LIMITED
STRATEGIC REPORT (Continued)

reassignment, disability, political opinion or age. Breaches of. these policies result in disciplinary proceedings and, if
-necessary, action.

The Company recognises its responsibility to employ disabled persons in suitable employment and gives full and fair
consideration to such persons, including any employee who becomes disabled, having regard to their particular aptitudes
and abilities. Where practicable, disabled employees are treated equally with all other employees in respect of their.
eligibility for training, career development and promotion.

Our Made Tech team plays a fundamental role in shaping our corporate responsibility culture through voluntary teams
looking at employee engagement, charitable and environmental activities.

Further details on how we engage with our employees and the culture we are proud to have can be found in the ESG
Report in the Group Consolidated Annual Report.

Clients and partners

Our clients are public sector teaders which play a critical role in society. They trust us to deliver high quality work that,
improves their services and in turn positively impacts society. Every client is different, but all focus on the quality and
flexibility of our services. We are dedicated to being part of the solution. We have built strong relationships with our
clients, working alongside them for better collaboration, communication and teamwork. Our partners are important; they
enable us to provide a high-quality service to our clients. We work with a number of organisations and individuals to
support and supplement our in-house resources.

Shareholders

The Group values the support of its shareholders, and aims to work responsibly and fairly with all its stakeholders so they
may benefit from our continued growth and success. The Board meets on 2 monthly basis, and the CEO and CFO hold
meetings with analysts and institutional shareholders throughout the year to provide detailed updates, giving them
greater details around our operations, financial performance and progress against our growth strategy. Financial and other
information is available through the RNS service and the Annual Report and on our website (www.madetech.com), which
is updated regularly.

Environment

All stakeholder groups are increasingly interested in businesses’ environmental impact. We recognise the importance of
sustainable business practices in achieving long-term growth and profitability. Although our activities involve few
energy-intensive processes and generate minimal waste, we are committed to reducing our environmental impact. Our
latest energy and carbon report, along with the actions we intend to take to reduce the Company’s carbon footprint.

Our people

* The sustainable success
of our business depends
upon our engagement with
our people

* We engage to promote
the Group’s corporate
culture and cascade our
ethical values, behaviours
and expectations

¢ We aim to create a
positive and inclusive
culture, sensitive to the
issues that affect our
people, so they can thrive
and grow

« We engage to ensure that

* Encourage feedback,
including via team surveys,
employee forums and
one-to-one discussions

¢ Enhancing training
opportunities via learning
and development offerings
° Regular business
performance and strategy
updates directly from our
CEO, CFO and senior team
Access to anonymous
whistleblowing service

* Strategy & Vision:
Short-term and long-term
strategic plans (to the year
2030), including
opportunities for
departmental growth and
advancement

* Need for a flexible
working environment with
support for team health
and wellbeing

© Opportunities for growth
and development and
support in reaching full
personal potential

* Ensuring pay and benefits

© Increased and improved
flexibility in working
patterns

* Improved decision
making on team structure
and recruitment

* Improved focus on talent
pipeline and development
of succession planning

* Promotion of leaders
from within our businesses,
alongside new talent
sourced externally

© implementation of ESG
initiatives


we continue to develop and
invest in our highly talented

and dedicated people in
the right way

Our clients and partners

Effective engagement is
key to attracting, and
retaining, a quality client
and partner base from
which we can nurture
strong and long-term
relationships, trust and
credibility, and ethics
(including anti-corruption
and bribery, human rights
and modern slavery)

* Our clients’ and partners’
success are driven by the
quality of our products and
services. We ensure
continued investment in
the right technology,
services and teams to
enhance our relationships
and create long-term value
on both sides

*
Our investors

¢ We strive to develop our
investors’ understanding of
our business model,
strategic objectives and
culture

¢ Through open and
transparent engagement
with the investor
community, we aim to
ensure the Group’s
operations and financia!
performance are clear and
understood, and to provide
the necessary information
to ensure investors can
make informed judgements
about the Group

Investors and analysts
require our engagement on
ESG to guide their
investment stewardship

« Regular one-to-one
feedback discussions

* Through multiple client
stakeholders and
relationship owners
Virtual meetings/events
to share learning

© Hosting regular in-person
events and service reviews
« External CSAT interviews

© Publication of Annual
Report and Accounts and
annual Social Value Report
¢ Regular and detailed
trading updates to the
market

* Availability of CEO and
CFO to answer questions
around trading updates
throughout the year

© One-to-one and open
online investor meetings or
calls with the CEO/CFO at
the full year and interim
results

* Detailed “investor”
section on the Company’s
website

¢ Annual General Meetings
and availability of Chair of
the Group Board and Chair

are competitive with our
industry peers

© Embracing diversity and
inclusion

© Our service offering and
client support

° Increasing the strategic
nature of our relationships
Issue remediation and
resolution

© Opportunities for
expansion and growth

© Our people delivering
services

Financial performance
Approach to ESG and
corporate governance ©
Strategic priorities * Market
opportunity

10

Strong client retention
« Improved client
satisfaction

¢ Improvements in our
service offerings and
products

© Reward and recognition
of key staff

© Improved investor
knowledge and
understanding of the
Group, its operations and
activities

© Investor relations activity
and feedback discussed
regularly at Board meetings
and factored into decision
making by the Group Board
¢ Improved transparency of
Group information with
open access investor
relations content available
on the Company's website


activities of each Board Committee
to answer questions
© Ad-hoc meetings or

written responses as
requested by existing and
potential shareholders and
analysts

Future outlook

The Directors remain extremely positive about the future of digitisation in the UK public sector, both immediately and
over the long term. The Directors are confident that based upon the strong reputation and successful track record, Made
Tech is well positioned to maintain a central role in this transformation drive.

The Company's progress in the past year provides confidence that the business is well positioned to deliver significant
growth in the years ahead.

Going concern
Management has produced forecasts and projections through to February 2026 which have been reviewed by the Directors.

These demonstrate that the Company is forecast to generate profits and cash in the year ending 31 May 2025 and beyond
and that the Company has sufficient working capital to enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due for a period of at least
12 months from the date of signing of these financial statements.

As such, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue to operate for
the foreseeable future. The Directors therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial
statements.

Approval
The Strategic Report was approved by order of the Board on 28 February 2025.

iL Elto

Neil Elton (Feb 28, 2025 12:20 GMT)

Neil Elton
Director

11

MADE TECH UMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the year ended 31 May 2024

Directors’ report ;
The Directors present their annual report and financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2024.

Directors’ responsibilities
The Directors are responsible for preparing the strategic report, the directors’. “Teport and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable laws and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under ‘that law the Directors
have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the
UK and Republic of Ireland, and applicable law).

Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.

In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to:

e select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

© state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 102, have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

@ make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and

@ prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group
and Company will continue in business.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Group
and Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and
Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.

The Directors are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Company's website. Legislation in the United
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other
jurisdictions.

Principal activity

The principal activity of Made Tech Limited is a provider of digital, data and technology services to the UK public sector.
Service offerings include digital service delivery, embedded capabilities, data infrastructure and insights and legacy
application transformation.

Results and dividends
The Company recorded revenue in the year of £38.6m (2023: £40.2m) and loss after tax of £1.7m (2023: profit of £0.6m)

The Directors have not recommended the payment of a dividend for the year (2023: nil)
Directors
The directors who held office during the year and up to the date of signature of the financial statements were as follows:

R P MacDonald

CJ Blackburn

N Elton (appointed 1 February 2024)

D Lovegrove (resigned 1 February 2024)

12

MADE TECH LIMITED
DIRECTORS’ REPORT (Continued)

Directors’ confirmations

The Directors consider that the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and
understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s position and
performance, business model and strategy.

in the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors’ Report is approved:
@ so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are
unaware; and
e@ they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company’s auditors are aware of that information.

Independent auditors

The auditors, Crowe U.K. LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution concerning their
re-appointment was approved at the Group’s AGM.

The report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf.

eit Elto.
Neil Elton (Feb 28, 2025 12:20 GMT)
Neil Elton

Director
28 February 2025

13

MADE TECH LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
For the year ended 31 May 2024

Independent Auditor’s report to the members of Made Tech Limited

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Made Tech Limited (“the Company”) for the year ended 31 May 2024, which
comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of Changes in Equity and notes to
the financial statement, including significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied
in the preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards including FRS 102 The Financial Reporting
Standards applicable in the UK and Republic of treland (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice);

@ [nour opinion, the financial statements:

® give a true and fair view of the state of the Company’s affairs as at 31 May 2024 and of its loss for the year then
ended;

@ = have been properly prepared in accordance United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and

e@ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial
statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that
are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard as applied to listed
entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. med

Conclusions relating to golng concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in
the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions
that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Company's ability to continue as a going concern for a
period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant
sections of this report.

Other information

The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the
annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the financial
statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do
Not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine
whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that
fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

14

MADE TECH LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT (Continued)

Opinion on other matter prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion based on the work undertaken in the course of our audit

e the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

e the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit,
we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you
if, in our opinion:

e adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not
been received from branches not visited by us; or

e@ the company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

certain disclosures of directors' remuneration specified by law are not made; or

@ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements
As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement on page 12, the directors are responsible for the -
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal
control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud of error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting
unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to
do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs
(UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line
with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material

misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting
irregularities, including fraud is detailed below :

@ We obtained an understanding of the lega! and regulatory frameworks within which the company operates,
focusing on those laws and regulations that have a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. The laws and regulations we considered in this context were the
Companies Act 2006 and UK taxation legistation.

e@ We identified the greatest risk of material impact on the financial statements from irregularities, including fraud,
to be the override of controls by management. Our audit procedures to respond to these risks included enquiries
of management about their own identification and assessment of the risks of irregularities, sample testing on the
posting of journals and reviewing accounting estimates for bias.

15

MADE TECH LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT (Continued)

Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some material
misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance
with auditing standards. We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect
non-compliance with all laws and regulations.

These inherent limitations are particularly significant in the case of misstatement resulting from fraud as this may involve
sophisticated schemes designed to avoid detection, including deliberate failure to record transactions, collusion or the
provision of intentional misrepresentations.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting
Council’s website at: www-frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members those
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted
by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company's, members asa
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. .

(po WeQ__

Leo Malkin (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of

Crowe U.K. LLP

Statutory Auditor

London

EC4M 7JW

28 February 2025

16

MADE TECH LIMITED

STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/(LOSS)

For the year ended 31 May 2024

Note 31 May 31 May

2024 2023

£ £
Revenue 4 38,568,050 40,195,372
Cost of sales (23,618,541) (25,801,993)
Gross profit 14,949,509 14,393,379
Administrative expense (12,064,311) (12,943,181)
Other operating income 51,382 59,592
Depreciation/Amortisation 11/12 (1,080,387) (263,730)
impairment expense 12 (4,314,690) -
Operating (loss}/profit 5 (2,458,497) 1,246,060
Exceptional items : 8 - (573,770)
Interest receivable 247,847 24,007
interest payable 9 (1,394) (8)
(Loss)/profit before tax (2,212,044) 696,289
Taxation 10 526,176 (55,000)
(Loss)/profit for the period (1,685,868) 641,289
Other comprehensive income - :
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (1,685,868) 641,289

All amounts relate to continuing activities. The notes on page 20 to 30 form an integral part of these financial statements.

7

MADE TECH LMITED

BALANCE SHEET
As at 31 May 2024

Tangible assets
Intangible assets
Total fixed assets
' Trade debtors and other receivables
Cash at bank and in hand
Total current assets
Total assets
‘creditors: Amounts falling due within one year
Net current liabilities
Total assets less current liabilities
Net assets
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital
Retained earnings

Shareholders’ funds

Note

11

12

13

14

15

31 May
2024

Audited

203,029
1,119,976
1,323,005
6,415,244
7,618,518

14,033,762

15,356,767

(14,739,601)
(705,839)
617,166

617,166

200
616,966

617,166

31 May
2023

Audited

368,086
5,012,350
5,380,436
6,149,228
8,449,178

14,598,406

19,978,842,

(17,675,808)
(3,077,402)
2,303,034
2,303,034

200

2,302,834

2,303,034

The financial statements on page 20 to 31 were approved and authorised by the board of directors on 28

February 2025 and were signed on its behalf by:

Neil Elto.

Neil Elton (Feb 28, 2025 12:20 GMT)

Neil Elton
Director

The accompanying accounting policies and notes on pages 20 to 30 form an integral part of these financial

statements.

18

MADE TECH UMITED

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended 31 May 2024

Equity at 1 June 2022
Profit for the period

Balance at 31 May 2023

Equity at 1 June 2023
Loss for the period

Balance at 31 May 2024

Share

capital

200

The notes on pages 20 to 30 are an integral part of these financial statements.

19

Retained
Earnings/(losses)
£

1,661,545
641,289
2,302,834

2,302,834
(1,685,868)
616,966

Total

Equity

1,661,745
641,289
2,303,034

2,303,034
(1,685,868)
617,166

MADE TECH LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended 31 May 2024

1 Company information

Made Tech Limited (“The Company”) is a private company limited by share capital, incorporated in the United Kingdom,
registration number 06591591. The address of its registered office is: 4 O’Meara Street, London, SE1 1TE. The company
acts principally as a provider of digital, data and technology services to the UK public sector. Service offerings include
digital service delivery, embedded capabilities, data infrastructure and insights and legacy application transformation.

2 Accounting policies
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies
have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

Statement of compliance
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 - ‘The Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland’ and the Companies Act 2006.

Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared using the historical cost convention except that as disclosedinthe -
accounting policies certain items are shown at fair value. .

The Company’s ultimate parent undertaking, Made Tech Group plc includes the Company in its consolidated financial
statements. The consolidated financial statements of Made Tech Group plc are prepared in Accordance with UK-adopted
International Accounting Standards and are available to the public and may be obtained from Made Tech Group website
www.madetech.com.

In these financial statements, the Company has applied the exemptions available under FRS 102 in respect of the following
disclosures:

Cash flow statement and related notes;

Certain disclosures regarding revenue;

Disclosure of key management personnel compensation and intragroup related party transactions;
Detailed disclosures on the valuation and effect of share-based payments schemes;

Financial instruments disclosures.

Going concern

At the time of approving the financial statements, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Thus the directors continue to adopt
the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.

The Directors have considered the Company’s cash flow forecasts and they have no grounds for concern regarding the
Company's ability to meet its obligations as they fall due and continue to operate within the existing cash balance and
working capital facilities, thus requiring no additional funding to maintain liquidity.

In reaching their decision to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, the Directors have a
reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statement. Accordingly, they continue to
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.

Revenue recognition

Revenue is the fair value of the total amount receivable by the Company for supplies of services. VAT or similar local taxes
and trade discounts are excluded. The Company’s source of revenue is from the provision of digital, data and technology
services to the UK public sector and product subscription and support services.

The majority of the provision of services contracts are typically “time and materials” whereby the customer is

contractually bound to pay for services for each hour or day spent in delivering a contractually agreed services scope.
Materials are incidental expenses incurred whilst delivering the services. These contracts typically have no payment

20

MADE TECH LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

milestones or bundling with other services and have no variable element. Revenue is therefore recognised in line with the
chargeable “time and materials” which are allocated to the contracted project. The Company recognises revenue each
month once as it provides these services for the duration of the contract. At the balance sheet date, an asset is recognised
for unbilled amounts for services provided yet to be invoiced. Payment for the services is based on the agreed payment
terms.

For fixed-price service contracts, the company recognises the revenue when the performance obligation is satisfied, which
may be by the completion and approval of milestones described and priced in the contract or based on the actual labour
hours and costs incurred at the end of the reporting period when performance obligations over time criteria have been
met.

For product subscription contracts the client pays fees at regular intervals to access the functionalities, support and
maintenance of the software. Current contracts are recognised ratably over the contract term.

Revenue contract liability is recorded when cash payments are received in advance of satisfying the performance
obligation. Contract liabilities are recognised in profit or loss in the period when the Company completes the agreed
services to the customers. In all other cases payments are due from customers within 30-60 days (depending on

the credit terms applicable) of the service being agreed and invoiced.

Interest income and expenditure are reported on an accruals basis.

Taxation

Current tax

Current income tax assets and liabilities comprise those obligations to fiscal authorities in the countries in which the
Company carries out its operations. They are calculated according to the tax rates and tax laws applicable to the fiscal
period and the country to which they relate. All changes to current tax liabilities are recognised as a component of tax
expense in the income statement unless the tax relates to an item taken directly to equity, in which case the tax is also
taken directly to equity. Tax relating to items recognised in other comprehensive income is recognised in other
comprehensive income.

Deferred tax
Deferred income taxes are calculated using the liability method on temporary differences between the carrying amounts
of assets and liabilities and their tax bases.

A deferred tax asset is recognised for all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable
profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Tax losses available to be
carried forward as well as other income tax credits to the Company are assessed for recognition as deferred tax assets.

Deferred tax liabilities are always provided for in full. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable
that future taxable profits will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax assets
and liabilities are calculated at tax rates that are expected to apply to their respective period of realisation, provided they
are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.

Exceptional items

The Company’s income statement separately identifies exceptional items. Such items are those that in the Directors’
judgement are one off in nature or non-operating and need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence.
In determining whether an item should be disclosed as an exceptional item, the Directors consider quantitative and
qualitative factors such as the frequency, predictability of occurrence and significance. This is consistent with the way
financial performance is measured by management and reported to the Board.

Intangible assets

Internally generated intellectual property

An internally generated intangible asset consisting of intellectual property, arising from development (or the development
phase) of an internal project is recognised if, and only if, all of the following have been demonstrated:

° the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that it will be available for use or sale

e the intention to complete the intangible asset and use or sell it
ry the ability to use or sell the intangible asset

21

MADE TECH LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

° how the intangible asset will generate probable future economic benefits

e the availability of adequate technical, financial and other resources to complete the development and to use or sell
the intangible asset

° the ability to measure reliably the expenditure attributable to the intangible asset during its development.

The amount initially recognised for internally generated intangible assets is the sum of the expenditure incurred from the
date when the intangible asset first meets the recognition criteria listed above. Where no internally generated intangible
asset can be recognised, development expenditure is charged to profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred.

Subsequent to initial recognition, internally generated intangible assets are reported at cost less accumulated
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Internally generated intangibles not yet in use are not amortised but
are subject to annual impairment testing. :
Internally generated intangible assets have been amortised over three to five years.

Research expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in which it is incurred.

Tangible assets

Tangible assets are recorded at cost net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment. Depreciation is
provided to write off the cost of the asset less any residual value over its useful economic life in line with below. The

residual values of assets are reviewed annually and revised where necessary. Assets’ useful economic lives are as follows:

Furniture and fittings 25% reducing balance

Office equipment 3 years straight line

Leasehold improvements 25% reducing balance
Right-of-use lease assets straight line over the lease term
Impairment of assets

For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest level for which there are separately identifiable
cash flows. As a result, some assets are tested individually for impairment and some are tested at cash-generating unit level.

Intangible assets not yet available for use are tested for impairment at least annually. All other individual assets or
cash-generating units are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the
recoverable amount of the asset or cash-generating unit. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value, reflecting market
conditions, less costs to sell, and value in use based on an internal discounted cash flow evaluation. The cash flow evaluations
o Directors’ estimation of future sales and expenses based on their past experience and the current market
activity within the business. All assets are reassessed and impairment losses previously recognised may be reversed where the
recoverable amount exceeds the carrying value in subsequent periods.

Any impairment charge arising from the review of the carrying value of assets, where material, is disclosed separately on the
face of the consolidated income statement.

Trade debtors
Trade debtors are amounts due from customers for merchandise sold or services performed in the ordinary course of

business.

Trade debtors are recognised initially at the transaction price. They arc subsequently measured at amortiscd cost using
the effective interest method, fess provision for impairment. A provision for the impairment of trade debtors is established
when there is objective evidence that the company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original
terms of the receivables.

Trade creditors
Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from

suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if the company does not have an unconditional right, at the end
of the reporting period, to defer settlement of the creditor for at least twelve months after the reporting date.

22

MADE TECH LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

If there is an unconditional right to defer settlement for at least twelve months after the reporting date, they are
presented as non-current liabilities.

Trade creditors are recognised initially at the transaction price and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the
effective interest method.

Borrowings

Interest-bearing borrowings are initially recorded at fair value, net of transaction costs. Interest-bearing borrowings are
subsequently carried at amortised cost, with the difference between the proceeds, net of transaction costs, and the
amount due on redemption being recognised as a charge to the Profit and Loss Account over the period of the relevant
borrowing.

Interest expense is recognised on the basis of the effective interest method and is included in interest payable and similar
charges.

Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the company has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the
liability for at least twelve months after the reporting date.

Leases

Leases in which substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating
leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the period of the
lease.

Share capital

Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Equity instruments are measured at the fair value of the cash or other resources
received or receivable, net of the direct costs of issuing the equity instruments. If payment is deferred and the time value
of money is material, the initial measurement is on a present value basis.

Dividends
Dividend distribution to the company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability in the financial statements in the reporting
period in which the dividends are declared.

Employee benefits
The Company provides a range of benefits to employees, including annual bonus arrangements, paid holiday
arrangements and defined contribution pension plans.

Short-term benefits, including holiday pay and other similar non-monetary benefits, are recognised as an expense in the
period in which the service is received.

Termination benefits are recognised immediately as an expense when the Company is demonstrably committed to
terminate the employment of an employee or to provide termination benefits.

Defined contribution pension obligation

The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The assets are held separately from those of the
Company in an independently administered fund. The pension cost charge represents contributions payable by the
Company to the fund. Other payables include £230,588 (2023: £203,643) in respect of pension contributions committed
but not yet paid at year end.

The cost of pensions in respect of the Company’s defined contribution scheme is charged to the income statement in the
period in which the related employee services were provided.

3 Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty

The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimations and assumptions
that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the year-end date and the amounts reported for
revenues and expenses during the year. These judgements and estimates are based on management's best

23

MADE TECH LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED) -

knowledge of the relevant facts and circumstances, their historical experience and other factors including expectations of
future events. Actual results may differ from the amounts included in the financial statements.

The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of material adjustment to the carrying amount of
assets and liabilities within the next financial years are summarised below:

Development costs

Capitalisation of development costs in accordance with IAS 38 requires analysis of the technical feasibility and commercial
viability of the project in the future. This in turn requires a long-term judgement to be made about the development of
the industry in which the development will be marketed. Where the Directors consider that sufficient evidence exists
surrounding the technical feasibility and commercial viability of the project which indicates that the costs incurred will be
recovered they are capitalised within intangible fixed assets. The amount of the capitalisation is based on estimates to
judge the percentage of the time relevant staff spend on projects. Where insufficient evidence exists, the costs are
expensed to the income statement.

Sources of estimation uncertainty

Intangible assets useful life

The useful life of the Company's intangible assets has been estimated based on the classification of intellectual properties
into two categories: Technology Platforms and Capability iP. Management’s judgement in this estimation process
incorporates a comprehensive analysis of markct conditions, potential client needs, competitive developments, and
internal expertise to assess the obsolescence risk associated with the developed technology. The Company will review the
estimated useful lives of these intangible assets at least annually and adjust them as necessary to reflect changes in
circumstances or expectations regarding their economic benefits. Please refer to note 12 for more details.

Impairment of intangible assets

Determining whether intangible assets are impaired requires an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating unit
to which the intangibles have been allocated. The value in use calculations require an estimation of the future cash flows
expected to arise from the cash-generating units and a suitable discount rate to calculate the present value. An
assessment of impairment of intangibles is performed if there is an indicator of impairment. The key estimate for the
carrying value of the intangibles is the cash flows associated with the investment and the Weighted Average Cost of
Capital (“WACC”). Each intangible is reviewed regularly to ensure that it generates discounted positive cash flows. Where
there is an indication of impairment, the investment is impaired by a charge to the consolidated income statement. The
key area of uncertainty is revenue growth and WACC. Management performs sensitivity analysis to ascertain the level of
growth rate and assumptions on the WACC that will start to impair the investment on a yearly basis. Please refer to note
12 for more details.

4 Revenue
. At 31 May 24 At 31 May 23
£ £
Revenue from operations
Revenue arises from:
Provision of digita! services 38,568,050 40,195,372

The Company operates only in the United Kingdom and had four customers that exceeded 10% of revenue in the year
(2023: four customers). The Company has only one segment and therefore segmental analysis is not performed.

5 Operating profit

The operating profit has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):

24

MADE TECH LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

At 31 May 24 At 31 May 23

£ £

Auditors’ remuneration 65,000 11,000

Other accountancy fees 22,733 25,684

Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 8,138 9,220

Advertising expense 202,969 487,542

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment & amortisation 1,080,387 263,730

Impairment expense . 4,314,690 -

Staff costs (note 6) 25,410,416 27,793,932

6 Staff costs

Staff costs consist of:

At 31 May 24 At 31 May 23

£ £

Wages and salaries 22,854,812 26,349,720

Other taxable benefits : 87,014 109,611

Social security costs 2,502,557 3,011,002

Pensions : 1,222,932 1,352,222

Total staff costs 26,667,315 30,822,555

Included in staff costs above is £1,256,899 (2023: £3,028,623) of costs that have been capitalised as intangible assets (see notes 12).

The average number of employees, including directors, during the year was as follows:

. At 31 May 24 At 31 May 23
Average number of employees 358 434

7 Key management remuneration

Key management personnel include all the directors of the Company, who together have authority and responsibility for
planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company.

In the year ended 31 May 2024 the directors’ salaries of the Company were paid by the Company’s ultimate parent, Made
Tech Group PLC.

At 31 May 24 At 31 May 23

£ £

Wages and salaries 1,062,487 772,000
Other taxable benefits 4,687 5,924
Social security costs 136,922 107,727
Pensions 49,217 43,937
Total staff costs 1,253,313 929,588

25

MADE TECH LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Remuneration disclosed above Includes the following amounts payable to the highest paid Director:

The highest paid director received a total remuneration of £492,595 (2023: £325,129), which included compensations for
loss of office of £200,00 (2023: Enil)

8 Exceptional items
At31May24 = At 31 May 23
£ £
Exceptional items arise from:
Termination costs — employee severance pay - 493,365
Restructuring costs - 80,405
Totai - $73,770

Exceptional items relate to the following:

© Termination costs — relating to severance for twenty employees exited in FY23
Restructuring costs ~ relating to reorganisation and restructuring improvements to improve efficiency and accountability
in FY23.

9 Finance expense
At 31 May 24 At31 May 23
£ £
Other interest 1,394 8
Total finance expense 1,394 8

There were no exceptional items in FY24. In FY23 exceptional costs related to severance costs for exiting employees and
restructuring costs relating to reorganisation improvements.

10 Taxation

At 31 May 24 At 31 May 23

£ £

Corporate tax - -
Total current tax expense Loe -
R&D tax credit (502,050) -
Origination and reversal of timing differences (24,126) * 55,000
Tax charge/(credit) for the year (526,176) 55,000

The tax assessed for the year is different from the standard rate of corporation tax as applied in the respective trading domains where
the Company operates. The differences are explained below:

At 31 May 24 At 31 May 23
£ £
Profit/ (Loss before tax) ; (2,212,044) 696,289

26

MADE TECH LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Profit/(Loss) before tax multiplied by the respective standard rate of corporation tax (553,011) 139,258
applicable — 25% (FY23: 20%)
Effects of: :
Depreciation in excess of capital allowances 38,348 37,101
Expenses not allowed 1,296,809 47,422
Utilisation of losses (354,357) /
Unused tax losses - 397,885
Group loss relief (113,563)
IP capitalised (314,226) (621,666)
Movement in deferred tax provision (24,126) 55,000
Tax charge/{credit) for the year (24,126) 55,000
Deferred tax

At 31 May 24 At 31 May 23

£ €£

AtiJjun 75,000 20,000
Deferred tax recognised (24,126) 55,000
At 31 May 50,874 75,000

Current taxes comprise the income taxes of the Company which posted a taxable profit for the year, while deferred taxes
show changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities which were recognised by the Company on the temporary differences
between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their amount calculated for tax purposes and calculated using

the rates that are expected to apply in the year these differences will reverse.

11 Tangible Assets
Leasehold Furniture, Total
improvements fittings and equipment
£ £ £
CosT
At 31 May 2022 33,314 885,165 918,479
Additions - 60,293 60,293
Disposals - (106,181) (106,181)
At 31 May 2023 33,314 839,277 872,591
Additions 5,169 83,714 88,883
Disposals - (52,856) (52,856)
At 31 May 2024 38,483 870,135 908,618
DEPRECIATION
At 31 May 2022 20,821 302,987 323,808
Charge for period 3,123 260,608 263,731
Disposals - (83,034) {83,034)

MADE TECH LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

At 31 May 2023 23,944 480,561 504,505
Charge for period 3,527 242,274 245,801
Disposals - (44,717) (44,717)
At 31 May 2024 27,471 678,118 705,589
NET BOOK VALUE

At 31 May 2023 9,370 358,716 368,086
At 31 May 2024 11,012 192,017 203,029

12 Intangible assets

Intangible assets relate to development activities to develop new software products (IP) to improve existing and/or create
new products. All intangible assets have an identifiable future economic benefit to the Company at the point the costs are
incurred.

Technology

Platforms Capability IP Total

£ £ an 3
cost
At 31 May 2022 , 1,904,021 - 1,904,021
Additions 591,717 2,516,612 3,108,329
At 31 May 2023 2,495,738 2,516,612 5,012,350,
Additions ‘ 1,256,902 - 1,256,902
At 31 May 2024 3,752,640 2,516,612 6,269,252
AMORTISATION
At 31 May 2022 - - -
Charge for period : - - -
At 31 May 2023 - - -
Charge for period 274,798 559,788 834,586
Impairment 3,477,842 836,848 4,314,690
At 31 May 2024 3,752,640 1,396,636 5,149,276
NET BOOK VALUE
At 31 May 2023 2,495,73 2,516,612 5,012,350
At31 May 2024 - 1,119,976 1,119,976

The Company has classified its intangible assets into two types of intellectual property: Technology Platforms and
Capability IP. During the year the Company has capitalised costs relating to the ongoing development of its Technology
Platforms, being SaaS solutions aimed primarily at the Local Government housing market. After initial sales Made Tech has
moved to the commercialisation phase of these products. Technology Platforms comprise 5 CGUs; amortisation of four of

, the CGUs commenced in June 2023 as commercialisation of the products began and they are amortised over five years.
Personnel costs of £1,256,899 (FY23: £3,028,623) have been capitalised during the year related wholly to Technology
Platforms.

MADE TECH LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Capability IP comprises 7 Cash Generating Units (“CGUs”) based around some of the core capabilities of the Company
such as Data & Al, and Transformation. Amortisation of all Capability IP CGUs, other than Academy, commenced in June
2023 over a useful life of three years.

Intangible assets have been tested for impairment by assessing the value in use of the CGUs. The value in use calculations
were based on projected cash flows over the estimated useful economic life of the assets with no terminal rate being
applied. Varying growth rates derived from market demand and an assessment of the assets’ development pipeline were
applied. The annual growth rates assumed for Technology Platforms IP was between c.0% and c.40%, dependent on the
specific SaaS product. An annual growth rate of c.8% was assumed for the Capability IPs, excluding the Academy which
was assumed to generate no revenue, on a total basis.

The discount rate used to test the cash-generating units used the Company’s pre-tax WACC of 40.2%, being the equivalent
of a post-tax WACC of 16.5% (FY23: 12.4%). The value in use calculations using the above growth assumptions indicated an
impairment on all the Company’s Technology Platforms and Academy Capability IP. As a result, an impairment charge of
£4,314,690 has been booked in the year (FY23: nil). Following the early commercialisation of the Technology Platforms it
has become evident that the sales cycles to local government clients was longer than originally anticipated, thus reducing
the contribution that the SaaS products were forecast -to deliver over the next four years. Nevertheless, the Company
continues to pursue the commercialisation of the Technology Platform IP in what management view as a large, compelling
and fragmented market. Made Tech had invested in its Academy IP to operate as an apprenticeship provider, working
alongside government departments including the HMRC. However, changes in demand by government clients mean that
the Buard sw longer views this as a core revenue generating offering and therefore as a result have impaired the full
carrying value of the asset.

Additional sensitivity analyses were run on alt the remaining Capability IP. Assuming nil growth in Capability IP revenue
over the remaining useful economic life of the intangible assets, and using a post-tax WACC discount of 16.5%, an
additional impairment of c.£405,000 was indicated. Assuming a 20.0% post-tax WACC and nil growth (with other
assumptions remaining constant) an additional impairment of c.£22,000, when compared with sensitivity using the 16.5%
post-tax WACC discount rate, was indicated. Management docs not consider that any reasonably possible changes in the
assumptions would result in an impairment. The assumptions used in the impairment review are subjective and provide
key sources of estimation uncertainty, specifically in relation to growth assumptions, future cash flows and the
determination of discount rates. The actual results may vary and accordingly may cause adjustments to the Company’s
valuation in future years.

13 Trade debtors and other receivables

At 31 May 24 At 31 May 23
£ £
Trade receivables — gross 4,428,915 4,304,406
Trade receivable — net 4,428,915 4,304,406
Other receivables 1,986,329 1,844,822
Total trade and other receivables 6,415,244 6,149,228
14 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
At 31 May 24 At 31 May 23
£ £
Trade payables 617,997 «1,607,840
Accruals 1,299,751 953,942
Tax and social security 587,989 1,873,083
Other payables 646,512 205,864
Amounts owed to Group undertakings 11,587,352 13,035,079
Total trade and other payables 14,739,601 17,675,808

29

MADE TECH LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

Amounts owed to Group undertaking are unsecured and interest free, have no fixed date of repayment and are repayable on demand.

15 Share capital
On 31 May 2024, the issued and paid up share capital of the Company consisted of 100 ‘A’ Ordinary shares and 100 ‘B’
Ordinary shares each with a nominal value of £1.00. -

‘W’ Ordinary shares have 3 votes per share, equal rights to dividends and preferential 75% rights to capital on winding up,
asset sale, listing or share sale. The shares are not redeemable.

‘B’ Ordinary shares have 1 vote per share, equal rights to dividends and non-preferential 25% rights to capital on winding
up, asset sale, listing or share sale. The shares are not redeemable.

16 Related party transactions :
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available under Financial Reporting Standard 102 “Related Party
Disclosures” not to disclose transactions with companies that are wholly owned subsidiaries of Made Tech Group plc.

17 Capital and other commitments
The Company has the following commitments in respect of its rent:
At 31 May 24 At 31 May 23
: £ £
Total commitments within one year 123,750 165,000
Total commitments between one and five years 78,750 ; -

The company had no off-balance sheet arrangements.

18 Subsequent Events
There are no significant events after the balance sheet date to report.

19 Ultimate controlling party

The ultimate parent undertaking is Made Tech Group PLC, a company registered in England and Wales.

The financial statements are included in the consolidated group accounts for Made Tech Group PLC available from
Companies House.

30

