Merseyrail Electrics 2002 Limited

Report and Financial Statements

6 January 2024

Company no. 04356933

Hn

AT 04/10/2024 #109
COMPANIES HOUSE

FRIDAY

Corporate information

Directors

D Booth

J English (Resigned 29 November 2023)

P Strachan

C Harris

J Whitehurst (Resigned 20 March 2024)

C Maher

G Conneely (Appointment 23 February 2023)
J Heron (Resigned 23 February 2023)

A Heath (Resigned 24 May 2023)

D Kaye (Resigned 24 May 2023)

J Grundy (Appointed 24 May 2023, resigned 31 October 2023)
N Grabham (Appointed I August 2023)

M Beable (Appointed | November 2023)

S Bailey (Appointed 20 March 2024)

Auditors

Emst & Young LLP
Edward Pavilion
Royal Albert Dock
Liverpool! L3 4AF

Bankers
National Westminster Bank
Liverpool

Solicitors

Burges Salmon Solicitors
One Glass Wharf

Bristol

BS2 0ZX

Stephenson Harwood LLP
1 Finsbury Circus
London

EC2M 7SH

Registered Office
Rail House

Lord Nelson Street
Liverpool

United Kingdom
Merseyside Li 1JF


Strategic report

The directors present their Strategic report and the financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 6 January
2024.

Principal activity and review of the business

In 2003, Merseyrail was awarded a 25-year concession to provide rail services on behalf of Merseytravel,
the local transport authority in Merseyside. Now in the latter stages of the concession, (which is due to end
in July 2028) the length of the contract has enabled Merseyrail to take a long-term perspective on investment
in and development of rail passenger services. We endeavour to exceed the expectations of not only the
people of Merseyside, but also the wider public transport community. This is in line with the objective of
our two 50 per cent shareholders, Serco Group ple and Transport UK Limited (who purchased all issued
share capital of Abellio Transport Group Limited, leading to a management buyout completed on 28
February 2023). Transport UK Limited is a wholly owned subsidiary of Transport UK Group Limited which
is both UK owned and operated.

Merseyrail is an urban network of vital importance to the transport infrastructure and local economy of
Merseyside. It is one of the most intensively used networks in the UK, we operate over 550 train services
daily from Monday to Saturday and 378 on Sundays. An average of 78,000 journeys were made each day,
and there were 28 million passenger journeys last year, a post-covid peak.

During FY 2024 the rail industry saw increased confidence and further improvement in passenger levels.
Merseyrail benefitted hugely from the Grand National, Eurovision and the Open Golf at Hoylake.
Eurovision and the Open Golf brought an extra 182k journeys to the network. We averaged 93% of pre
pandemic levels with a peak of 99% during Eurovision. Although the year had operational challenges, the
loyalty of our passengers was clear and recognition of this has helped to minimise the impact on revenue
by increasing the level of journeys seen on our network.

With FY 2024 benefitting from major events and increased covid recovery, the challenge in FY 2025 is to
maintain high levels of growth and look to capitalise on the varied events calendar and partnerships
particularly through tourism with visitors to the city. Further challenges exist around the continued roll out
of the New Fleet, whilst there is the long-term aim to grow patronage, our priority is in maintaining a safe
and reliable service whilst minimising disruption from any issues with the fleet which is discussed in more
detail below.

The network is bisected by the river Mersey and incorporates 120km of track, 10.5km of which are
underground. Of the 69 stations, 68 are managed by Merseyrail and five are sub-surface. There are terminus
stations at Southport, Ormskirk, Kirkby and Hunts Cross on the Northern line and New Brighton, West
Kirby, Chester, and Ellesmere Port on the Wirral line.

In FY 2024 Headbolt Lane came into operation as the newest station to be added to the Merseyrail network.
This was different to previous new station openings as it entailed an extension to the Merseyrail network,
with Headboit Lane being almost | mile beyond the previous end-of-line terminus of Kirkby. It is also a
novel development as this 1 mile of track is not electrified with third rail traction, meaning Merseyrail are
required to deploy a separate sub-fleet of trains (Class 777/1) which utilise battery technology to operate on
the non-electrified sections of track. As a UK-first, these trains have been gradually rolled out and are soon
expected to provide a 4 trains per hour service. It is recognised that although with any new technology initial
problems can occur, the roll out of the IPEMU battery operated trains has adversely impacted our passengers
wanting to utilise both the Kirkby Line and the new Headbolt Lane station. Merseyrail are working closely
with our partners at Merseytravel and Stadler UK Ltd to improve the efficiency of the fleet which will in
turn enhance the journey for our passenger using this line.

Additionally, the roll out of the New 777 fleet commissioned by Merseytravel gathered pace during FY
2024, with the fleet now operating on the majority of our lines. Although the fleet remain supported by our
class 507/508 electric trains in the interim, it is anticipated that 777 units will be in operation across the
entire network during FY 2024. In line with [PEMU battery operated train roll out, the 777 units have not
embedded without issue and the business has made progress to reduce disruption across the network by
continuing to work effectively with our partners to improve performance, reducing any operational impact
on our customer.

The Company was party to a dispute relating to the underpayment (to the Company) of Contract Payments
under the concession Agreement, this was concluded during the year resulting in the company being


Strategic report (continued)

awarded £14.3m and £0.7m of contract payments and interest respectively, relating to prior periods. Please
see note 20. In February 2024 a further ruling linked to this matter was determined in favour of Merseyrail,
please see note 23.Following the outcome of the initial Arbitration process, a specific element of the award
relating to indexation was referred back to the Arbitrator in the year. In February 2024, the Arbitrator ruled
again in Merseyrail’s favour, therefore meaning that the award in relation to indexation, in addition to legal
costs and interest is now due to Merseyrail. Further information with regards to the outcome of the
Arbitration case is detailed in note within our accounting policies section.

The directors are exceptionally pleased with both the overall and underlying performance of the business in
the year, recovery continues to be strong, and the positive performance has enabled the business to invest in
both its customers and employees through initiatives such as updating customer facilities to improve
experience, and refreshing staff workspaces to provide an enhanced working environment.

The company generated profit before tax of £43.9m this is compared to a profit before tax of £15.1m in the
prior period. The profit generated in FY 2024 includes the outcome of the CP6 arbitration case of £15.3m,
however underlying profits were exceptionally strong, aided by the business maximising revenue growth
whilst managing its key cost bases. These key elements have led to FY 2024 delivering the largest profit
levels seen during Merseyrail’s history.

Turnover was £209.9m (excluding exceptional item related to the prior year) which was an uplift of 13 per
cent on the previous period (52,weeks ended 7 January 2023 — £185.7m).

On 6 January 2024, the cash balance was £27.3m (7 January 2023 — £33.2m). The company has remained
in a positive cash position throughout the period.

In FY 2024 Merseyrail continued to work with various parties to invest in the network by delivering key
schemes, including the Headbolt Lane project. A new lift at St Michaels station, was constructed, improving
accessibility at this station. In FY 2025, a new lift will open at Liverpool Central, further enhancing the
accessibility of our network.

Merseyrail was an active stakeholder in the Headbolt Lane project, inputting in the design and development
of the new station, including supporting the introduction of IPEMU battery operated trains. Merseyrail will
also continue to support the longer-term development relating to the reopening of St James station.

A continuing key focus for the business which is reflected in the rollout of our comprehensive business
strategy in FY 2024, focussing our teams on meeting our key corporate goals as part of achieving our
vision to deliver a sustainable and customer focused railway that our region can be proud of. Furthermore,
we are committed to improve Diversity Awareness through our community collaborations and inclusive
engagement with particular focus on ethnic minority groups and recruitment.

During FY 2024 we have continued with our commitment to working in partnership with community groups,
schools, colleges, and charities to support the Liverpool City Region.

Merseyrail continues to manage the impacts of market pressures including increasing RPI and CPI rates by
effective cost base management. For further information see the going concer section within the Directors’
report.

Key Performance Indicators
A summary of the company’s KPIs, is provided here.
S2weeksto 52 weeks to

06/01/2024: 07/01/2023
£41.9m. £15.0m

93.40% 95.35%
96.67% N/A


Strategic report (continued)
$172 statement

The Directors of the Company, as those of all UK companies must act in accordance with a set of general
duties, These duties are detailed in-section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 which is summarised as follows:

A director of a company must act in the way he or she considers, in good faith, would be most likely to
promote the success of the company for the benefit of its members, and in doing so have regard (amongst
other matters) to-

+ the likely consequences of any decision in the long-term,

* the interests of the company's employees, .

+ the need to foster the company's business relationships with suppliers, customers, and others,

+ the impact of the company's operations on the community and the environment,

* the desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct,
and

+ the need to act fairly between members of the company.

The Board of directors regularly reviews the business’s principal suppliers, customers, and stakeholders and
how we engage with them.

The Board is comprised of 8 directors of which 6 are from Merseyrail’s shareholders Serco and Transport
UK Limited.

The other directors include the Managing director, the Finance director and the wider Merseyrail Director
team.

In addition to a scheduled programme of monthly Board meetings, the Merseyrail Team of Directors (ToD)
meet weekly, during which there is feedback from various business areas, with particular focus on specific
stakeholder groups.

Key stakeholders are:
e Shareholders — Transport UK and Serco
«  Merseytravel
e Key suppliers ~ Network Rail and Stadler
e Office of Rail and Road Regulator (ORR)
« Customers
* Local Community
e Our People

Prior to the monthly Board meeting the Team of Directors ToD hold a business review meeting, the results
of which are fed back to the wider Board.

The outcome of stakeholder engagement generally, as fed back to the Board via the channels referred to
above and below, influences the formulation and ongoing review of the long-term strategy and financial
planning to ensure that our approach continues to deliver sustainable returns and promotes reputational
reward. The Directors aim to take the needs and priorities of each stakeholder group into account as part of
their decision-making processes, recognising that the pertinence of a particular stakeholder group may vary
depending upon the matter under discussion.

The following paragraphs summarise how the Directors fulfil their duties and engage with each of the key
stakeholder groups:

Risk Management

To comply with the Railways and Other Guided Transport Systems (safety) regulations (ROGs), as a
Mainline operator, Merseyrail are certified to operate units on the mainline network under a current safety
certificate and safety authorisation which is endorsed by the Office of the Rail and Road Regulator (ORR).
As a Company we document all our risk management arrangements for operating safely on the mainline
network within the safety certificate, which is supported by the relevant elements of the safety management
system. Where there are substantial changes to the way in which Merseyrail operates, an amendment
application is made to the ORR which ensures that any notable changes are recorded, and the contents of
the safety certificate remains valid and up to date.


Strategic report (continued)
We remain alert to changes in its risk profile through various mechanisms including risk assessment, safety
validation of change, major risk reviews and periodic review of the business risk register.

Risks are owned by management and therefore they are responsible for ensuring that relevant controls are
designed, implemented, and periodically tested to ensure that the control design effectiveness remains valid,
whether the risk remains, has been terminated and / or whether new risks require new controls putting in
place.

On a quarterly basis the business risk register is issued to the Team of Directors for review and update.
Responses are received and the relevant updates made to the register including risk score, profile, and
mitigation. The risk register also forms part of the monthly board packs.

Through all mediums of evaluating risk in the business there are suitable and sufficient techniques available
which allow for controls to be identified and risks to be qualified/quantified.

Our People :

Merseyrail is committed to being a responsible business. Our behaviour is aligned with the expectations of
our employees, stakeholders, customers, communities, and society. For our business to succeed we need to
manage our people’s performance and develop them to create an environment that produces highly
motivated, high performing and highly satisfied employees whilst ensuring we operate as efficiently as
possible.

The Employee Engagement Survey provided a valuable opportunity for staff to share their opinions. FY
2024 saw a 78% response rate and 76% engagement score for the business in our Your Voice - Employee
Engagement Survey in November 2023. We have subsequently reviewed those results and action planned
accordingly.

We continuously endeavour to engage and involve our employees at every opportunity as our people are
important to us.

This includes recording and sharing a monthly MD Business update video, functional team meetings and
Directors and Senior Management undertake Staff Facebook Live Director Question and Answer sessions.
We also held our management conference this year which gives our employees the opportunity to plan
initiatives and engage with senior stakeholders from across the organisation.

For more details on this approach see the Employees’ engagement section of the Director’s report.

Business Relationships

Merseyrail has detailed plans in place to build strong lasting relationships with all our stakeholders including
our customers.

To exceed our customers’ expectations, we must not be complacent. Delivery of excellent service day in,
day out is core, but we also proactively engage and actively listen to our customers.

Merseyrail introduced a new fleet of trains in 2023, the PPM score for the 12-month period was 93.40%.
The PPM value this year has been impacted by the issues experienced with the new fleet, however when the
value is adjusted to remove these impacts the PPM value for the year increases to 96.67%.

Merseyrail will continue to strive to be a good partner and through driving innovation, growth, and
efficiency, we will support Merseytravel in delivering an affordable rail proposition.

In line with our client’s own ambitions, we will continue to proactively engage with the Liverpool City
Region Combined Authority’s Long-Term Rail Strategy, driving forward with expansion and enhancement
of the network.

Our proactive partnership approach is also critical to our success in many other areas too, notably with
Network Rail, Stadler and other strategic suppliers and stakeholders.

Our partnership with Stadler and Merseytravel saw the introduction of Class 777 units during FY 2023 and
all branches of the network are now served by at least one of these new trains. The phased rollout is planned
to complete in summer 2024.

We regularly engage with stakeholders to obtain their feedback and points of view to foster the company’s
relationships and ensure we have good working partnerships. Stakeholder satisfaction as measured by our
annual stakeholder survey was 91% in 2023.


Strategic report (continued)
We hold frequent meetings with Stadler, Network Rail and Merseytravel to discuss projects and their
progress.

Community and Environment

The Company’s approach is to use our position of strength to create positive change for the people and
communities with which we interact. One of our key business objectives is to “Focus on our role as a
valued society partner to the Liverpool City Region, ensuring we continually enhance the communities we
serve”.

During FY 2024 we continued to work hard to ensure that Merseyrail’s involvement in the communities
across the city region helps to make it a better place and that it has the greatest positive impact. This has
included working with our partners to support and help charities and organisations to make a difference to
local lives and issues. We also continued our charity partnerships with our four charities as voted for by
our employees: KIND, Tam O Shanter Community Farm, Sefton Women’s, and Childrens Aid and Paper
Cup Project for the Homeless. This was the final year of our two-year partnerships with them. We were
very pleased to be able to raise over £40,000 for them during the year but also to continue to support their
work in their specific areas across Merseyside. In FY 2025 we will champion four more small charities
spanning different sectors across Merseyside, enabling us to reach out and support more individuals in our
communities.

We have and will continue to encourage our staff and partners to find meaningful ways to contribute their
time, skills and energy to voluntary and community organisations and other initiatives across the region.

We continue our focus on trying to make a difference in the lives of young people in our City Region
working with partners to give young people the skills and confidence to travel. As part of this, we have
engaged with schools and colleges to deliver our community ticketing scheme in partnership with LCRCA
to 1000’s of children and vulnerable adults. This enables us to promote travel confidence and awareness.

We have strengthened our relationships with organisations like Elevate. Through which Merseyrail have
offered work inspiration sessions, careers advice and innovative virtual programmes for use with young
people to help them better understand potential rail careers. This engagement with our schools in the
region will help to improve access to opportunities and to ensure they have a voice in the Merseyrail of the
future. We also are a key partner in the Liverpool City Council’s UNICEF Child Friendly City Project. We
are leading on actions and activity with partners in the transport and public services sector on their ‘Place’
Badge. This is ensuring that young people have a say and a part in the green spaces, neighbourhoods, and
transport in the region now and in the future.

During this year we have also increased our engagement in our communities with our station partnerships
who are active in support of their local train station. We have initiated 4 new partnerships which engage
individuals to become involved in improving their station at Spital, Bebington, Hall Road and Seaforth &
Litherland. Our work in this area over several years has been recognised both locally and nationally with
Merseyrail stations winning many awards for improvements and enhancements.

We have championed those with disabilities, working with organisations that support them to help remove
barriers to travel for their service users. Working alongside our partners involved in the Accessibility
Forum and organisations like Mencap, Autism Initiatives and Dementia UK we gather their feedback and
work towards ensuring support for disabled travellers.

Merseyrail will continue to contribute to the city region, providing support and exercising influence in the
best interests of local communities and the regional economy. We will invest in our local communities and
promote community engagement across the region. We will seek input from the groups we are actively
trying to engage and invest more time in building relationships with grassroots community leaders to gain
their insights and expertise. We will create a multitude of ways for people to get involved. This could be
through hands-on activities—a station cleanup or a playground build—get people working side-by-side,
sharing an experience, meeting, and speaking with one another.

As directors we keep the local community informed by means of social media.


Strategic report (continued)

Shareholders

The Board is committed to communicating effectively with shareholders and understanding their views and
acting fairly between the different members. It is important to us that the shareholders understand our
strategy and objectives, so we engage regularly with our shareholders to explain our strategy, listen to
feedback, and answer issues or queries raised.

As mentioned above this is achieved by regular Board, Audit Committee and shareholder meetings and
communication between the different parties.

Long term Decisions

During FY 2025 the continued delivery of the New Fleet project and therefore the final stages of the 777
and [PEMU roll out across our network will continue to be a key focus for the Merseyrail team. The business
is committed, whilst working closely with our partners at Merseytravel and Stadler to resolve fleet
availability issues seen during FY 2024.

Merseyrail will continue to upgrade our infrastructure and make improvements to the network and our
services. The directors of the businesses attend a quarterly strategy group to discuss proposals and provide
progress updates.

Further long-term plans continue to include extension of the network from Bidston to Wrexham, the
reopening of St James station allowing for direct access to the thriving Baltic Triangle area, and
enhancements to the capacity, accessibility, and facilities at Liverpool Central Station. As the current
concession draws to a close in July 2028, Merseyrail is considering its plans to the end of the concession,
and will continue to work closely with our stakeholders to help deliver the Metro Mayors long-term plans
to reform Merseyside’s transport system.

Merseyrail are working towards the modernisation of the ticketing system and expects to see a
transformation in how customers purchase their tickets in the next 1-3 years. Merseyrail have secured
funding to develop Phase | of an Account Based Ticketing (ABT) system, which will enable tap-in tap-out
travel with an ITSO smartcard. A pilot scheme is expected to begin in summer 2024. Work continues to
secure funding for Phase 2 which will allow customers to use their bankcards / phones to tap-in tap-out of
the ABT system. Phase 2 necessitates the replacement of Merseyrail’s estate of ticket gates at 8 stations.

Principal risks and uncertainties

The principal risks and uncertainties facing the company are broadly grouped as market, credit, liquidity,
and interest rate risk:

Market Risk

The 25-year concession has granted Merseyrail some stability. However, the local nature of the service does
mean that Merseyrail is very reliant on the regional economy. Retaining and increasing patronage remains
a priority, and the Merseyrail leadership team are closely monitoring all relevant business KPIs which
includes operational, commercial and finance, customer, and people KPIs, to ensure that any necessary
remedial action is taken in response to changing economic conditions. We continue to work with local and
national organisations to ensure that services meet and exceed the expectations of our stakeholder. Looking
ahead, Merseyrail will be working in partnership with Merseytravel and other funders to:

. Modemise the way passengers pay for their rail journeys through smart ticketing systems.

. Embrace further devolution opportunities, particularly with respect to responsibilities for station
operation, maintenance, renewal, and enhancement.

. Improve and further enhance our passenger journeys by resolving current fleet issues.

. Identify and deliver increased passenger growth, to underpin Merseytravel’s long term rail
strategy and bring further economic benefits to the city region.

. To invest in the development of our leadership/management culture, empowering our people to
contribute effectively to the changes facing the network in coming years.

. Determine the feasibility of network expansion.

The Companies recovery has been strong which has seen a shift in passenger travel to a more leisure travel
focused service, however, the Company recognises the current cost of living crisis and the potential impact
on leisure travel as people look at ways to save money and reducing the level of disposal income for leisure

Strategic report (continued)
activities. Therefore, the key risk area for Merseyrail is the loss of leisure passengers because of inflationary
pressures on personal budgets.

To mitigate these risks Merseyrail are undertaking various actions:

. Assessing the impact any ticket price changes would have on passenger numbers and building
that price elasticity into forecasts to aid key business decisions.

. Revenue trends monitored regularly by the business to identify change in passenger habits.

+ Increased promotional work being performed around key events coming to the city, for example
The Grand National Festival.

Whilst the cost of living is something to be monitored it also presents as a potential opportunity for the
business, with Merseyrail train tickets being moderately priced and Liverpool having lots of free events
and activities throughout the year.

Credit Risk

The company has limited credit risk with most of our debtors being other companies operating within the
rail industry.

Energy Crisis Risk

The business has hedged its energy purchasing in to the first quarter of FY 2025 at a rate which is lower
than current market values, thus reducing the financial impact of potential energy price increases expected
during these initial periods. While the business recognises there is an emerging risk as a result of future
energy prices, this is being felt across the industry as a whole. The situation remains unknown at this stage
and what measures will be taken by the industry to mitigate the exposure to the rising energy prices. The
situation is being monitored through regular updates from the Rail Delivery Group around future EC4T
costs.

Liquidity Risk
The business has a low liquidity risk as it receives contracted payments from Merseytravel for the duration
of the concession.

Interest Risk

During the year there has been a high degree of volatility in interest rates. Discount rates and short-term
inflation rates have been rising since the prior year end, albeit the market is seeing am element of reprieve.
Concerns over inflation volatility, recession, and disruption to supply chains due to political pressures and
rising interest rates, resulted in a sharp rise in the Bank of England SONIA base rate.

While there is a risk associated to the interest rate increases, the company has positive cash reserves, and no
borrowings so has minimal interest rate risk.

Climate Change Risk

The company has considered the impact of Climate Change and have determined there are three main
potential risks for Merseyrail:

. Significant disruption to services or loss of network because of climate change such as weather
and temperature changes (e.g., coastal and river flooding, heat restrictions, extreme ice)

. Disruption to the supply chain including fleet maintainer because of climate change.

. Reduction in passenger numbers due to effects of climate change including service disruption and
passenger comfort.

Merseyrail will continue to work with key stakeholders to understand their climate change mitigation
measures and how Merseyrail can support these. These include Network Rail who are responsible for the
infrastructure, Merseytravel who have led on the procurement of the new fleet and Stadler as the current
fleet and new fleet maintainer. In addition, Merseyrail will continue to monitor the climate change risk and
identify any adaptation measures reporting to the Merseyrail Sustainability Strategy Group.

Cyber Risk

The business is at a greater risk of a cyber-attack given that it is an operator of essential transport services.
This was evidenced by the cyber-attack which took place in April 2021. Failure to prevent a cyber-attack
or data breach could negatively impact our customer data, employee data, rail and rail side operations,
financial reporting systems and stakeholder confidence. It could ultimately result in fines levied by the


Strategic report (continued)

Information Commissioners Office (ICO). Throughout FY 2024 the business has cemented and began to
integrate its strategic plan to mitigate risks associated with cyber security, data loss, GDPR non-
compliance, and data control weaknesses. Industry experts have been recruited to support the delivery of
these changes and embed practices across the organisation. Excellent progress has been made with the
deployment of endpoint security and a number of other remediations to remove security vulnerabilities. A
portfolio of investment and modernisation will continue through 2024 which will further reinforce cyber
and data security and ensure that the business can actively monitor and react to changing threats.

Approved by the Board on 18 April 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

ZOE

Director
C Maher
Company registration no. 04356933


Directors’ report

The directors present their report and financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 6 January 2024. The prior
period end finished on 7 January 2023.

Results and dividends

The profit for the period after taxation amounted to £33.6m (52 weeks ended 7 January 2023 — £12.6mi).
Trading was strong during FY 2024 aided by recovery, growth and one-off items including the CP6 award.
The directors have issued dividends of £42.2m for the period ended 6 January 2024 (52 weeks ended 7
January 2023 - £14.5m).

Future developments

Throughout FY 2025 Merseyrail will continue, in partnership with Merseytravel and others, to make
improvements to the network and deliver the 777 project in its full capacity. FY 2024 saw us procure and
operate the first battery operated trains on our network running to our new station Headbolt Lane. Further
extensions of the network from Bidston to Wrexham, the reopening of St James station allowing for direct
access to the thriving Baltic Triangle area, and enhancements to the capacity, accessibility, and facilities at -
Liverpool Central Station are also part of Merseyrail’s plans.

Merseyrail continues to work closely with Network Rail in maintaining and upgrading our infrastructure,
including our Access for All scheme which will continue throughout FY 2025.

The business is now operating with a bigger focus on the leisure market. We are seeing a positive trend in
passengers using the network, revenues and cashflows are regularly monitored and we anticipate that the
business will continue to perform strongly to the end of the concession. Merseyrail are exploring post
concession options and working closely with Merseytravel to determine longer-term plans.

We will see transformation and modernisation in our ticketing system over the next 1-3 years. Initial funding
has been secured and presents a positive opportunity for both the business and our passengers.

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting
Energy Efficiency Action

Periodic analysis of electric and water usage is calculated at each station/depot to identify any deviation
over 20%. Thereafter, an investigation working collaboratively with the location manager is conducted to
rectify and lower potential usage.

Delivery of annual station audits is maintained to ensure compliance following the environment code,
COSHH and waste arrangements.

The influence of lighting has continued to decrease due to the ongoing installation of LED lighting across
the network.

Opportunities for improvements are documented in the annual Environmental Sustainability Plan. In
addition, improvements identified during energy audits are initiated via new works requests and tracked at
the Environment and Energy Delivery Group.

Staff and Passenger Environmental Roadshows are scheduled throughout the year involving our main
stakeholders including Network Rail to promote themed principles. Including the Environmental Code,
Community Events and Climate Change initiatives.

Throughout FY 2024 Merseyrail saw the fifth year of a behavioural change in relation to the
Environmental Code. The code focuses on six key elements to aid the reduction of the amount of energy
consumed. Pleasingly, actual year to date usage was 5,492,051 kWh which falls below the year-to-date
target of 5,690,822:kWh (3.5% reduction).

Every period the data is tracked, and a deep dive is conducted into stations showing a 20% increase from
the same period in the previous year. When this is identified as a potential behavioural cause, this is then
flagged with the station manager to understand the cause and to address this to ensure the Environment
Code is followed. There has also been completion of a project upgrading platform lights to LED fittings,
further reducing electricity consumption.

10

Directors’ report (continued)

All non-traction electricity is procured through a REGO backed green tariff. As a result, emissions using a
market-based factor remain at zero. Our traction also continues to be procured through Network Rail using
a ‘blue’ nuclear tariff, a market-based conversion factor of zero can also be applied to this energy
consumption. In addition, this year Merseyrail was the first operator to procure a battery-operated unit,
further supporting our commitment to reduce our energy usage.

Furthermore, Merseyrail’s tenure to date has involved units which have operated on the third rail network,
therefore, the introduction of the IPEMU trains which will have the capacity to operate on bi-mode as both
third rail traction and battery operated, which is new to Merseyrail’s experience as a train operator. The
operational change of introducing the sub-fleet of Class 777s (i.e., IPEMU) is beneficial to the reduction
of EC4T traction data.

As part of the network expansion programme managed by Merseytravel, the number of stations operated
by Merseyrail has increased to include Headbolt Lane which is a non-third rail station and was delivered
in line with the introduction of the IPEMU. In addition to this, works have started on the Baltic Station
which will be located between Liverpool Central and Brunswick and will be categorised as a sub-surface
station.

Traction electricity consumption in the year has increased compared to the previous year. This is a result
of introducing the new 777 units alongside the current 50X fleet, as well as the ongoing testing of 777
units as part of the acceptance process. Going forward it is expected that there will be a saving in traction
electricity consumption when operating just a single fleet of 777 units, however we don't have a full
picture of the potential savings, especially as we have been running additional trains for testing and
training. It won't be until 2025 until we see the full benefit of the 777's energy saving.

During FY 2024, we introduced a new Environment and Energy Manager to the business. Consequently,
we enhanced our interaction with front-line staff regarding environmental and energy matters.
Preparations to relaunch the Carbon Cup initiative have commenced and is aimed at motivating our station
staff to conserve and reduce energy consumption across our network.

UK and offshore Emissions 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended
6 January 2024 7 January 2023

5,374,177

Non-traction electricity consumption used to calculate 5,492,051

emissions (kWh)

55,672,881

Traction electricity consumption used to calculate emissions 69,362,206

(kWh)

Gas consumption used to calculate emissions (kWh) 220,603 328,285

Diesel Transport fuel consumption used to calculate emissions

(L)

Unleaded Transport fuel consumption used to calculate 4,743 4,253
emissions (L)

Emissions from combustion of gas: tCOze (Scope L) 39.7 60.1

Emissions from combustion of fuel for transport purposes:
tCOve (Scope 1)

Emissions from purchased electricity: tCO2e (Scope 2, location 15,500.04
-based)

Emissions from business travel in rental cars or employee-
owned vehicles where company is responsible for purchasing
the fuel: tCOze (Scope 3) i.

Intensity ratio: gCOze / Passenger journey km

MW

Directors’ report (continued)

Methodology

A location-based calculation of CO2 equivalent was applied to both traction (energy used by trains) and
non-traction (energy used in buildings) using the 2022 and 2023 DEFRA emissions factor for grid
electricity. Traction electricity usage is calculated by Network Rail using modelled usage across the
network Merseyrail operate on and provided to the business on a four-weekly basis. Data for non-traction
energy was taken from AMR half hourly data for 73 of 76 meters owned by Merseyrail. Data for the
remaining 3 meters was taken from supplier invoices and manual meter readings.

Gas usage was collected from our energy supplier for all 3 meters and CO2 equivalent calculated using the
2022 and 2023 DEFRA emissions factor for natural gas.

Fuel data is collected from purchase receipts and recorded in litres. The 2022 and 2023 DEFRA emissions
factors for average biofuel blend Diese! and Petrol were applied.

Merseyrail’s intensity metric is calculated using ticket sales.
Boundaries
The following emissions are covered in the scope of this report:

- Scope 1 — All scope 1 emissions produced by Merseyrail. These are all direct emissions from fuel
combustion on site and includes mains gas as well as vehicle fuel usage.

- Scope 2 — All scope 2 emissions produced by Merseyrail. These are all indirect emissions
produced offsite when generating electricity directly consumed by the organisation.

- Scope 3 — Only scope 3 emissions associated with fuel purchased by Merseyrail for leased or
employee-owned vehicles are included. All other indirect emissions such as procurement, waste
and water are not required to be included.

Going concern

The Directors have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements after
assessing the financial forecasts of the company for the period to 21 June 2025 whilst considering a range
of sensitivities for plausible downside scenarios due to the cost-of-living crisis and its impact on both UK
public transport and the wider economy.

Merseyrail operates under a concession agreement which is monitored using a ‘liquidity maintenance’ test.
If failed, could lead to the possibility of the concession agreement being terminated early. Historically,
Merseyrail has been a profitable business with a strong cash position and no external or intercompany debt,
therefore the terms of the maintenance test have not previously been breached. Liquidity is‘further supported
by the 25-year Concession Agreement with Merseytravel which grants Merseyrail some stability and
provides a significant subsidy payment in the form of frequent contract payments.

The local nature of the train service does mean that Merseyrail is very reliant on the regional economy.
During the year, the company saw passenger habits continue to have a stronger focus on leisure journeys
compared to commuter journeys. With a large proportion of companies now embracing hybrid working less
passengers are using the network to commute compared to historic trends. However, Merseyrail has seen a
slight increase in the number of commuters using the network in the second half of FY 2024.

As most of the revenue is contractual, a key driver in the profit and loss and cash flow forecasts is the
projected passenger revenues. Therefore, when assessing the going concern assumption the focus of
management has been the potential volatility of passenger revenues.

Management have assessed the entity’s ability to continue as a going concem and prepare financial
statements on that basis. Management have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and
uncertainties facing the Company, which could impact the business model, focussing, specifically on:

Cost-of-living
. Increases in EC4T charges caused by the ongoing energy price increases
. Increased RPI rates at 5.14% for forecast period based on the Q1] 2024 OBR forecast — this increase

has only been applied to the costs of the business within the scenario testing, however the contractual

12

Directors’ report (continued)

Going concern (continued)

mechanism with Merseytravel means that the contract payment received would also increase in line
with the RPI rates

. The potential impact of leisure passenger numbers dropping as a result of the challenges presented
by the cost-of-living crisis on customers

Increased dividends

. The potential impact of additional dividends beyond the forecasted profit levels for the period to 21
June 2025

In assessing the Going Concern assumption for these financial statements, management have prepared cash
flow and profit forecasts to consider the liquidity requirements set out in the concession agreement and the
potential impacts the matters noted above could have on the Company. Cash flow and profit forecasts have
been prepared up to and including 21 June 2025.

Merseyrail does not have any external finance or borrowings. It does, under the franchise agreement, have
several operational and financial covenants the main one being the liquidity maintenance ratio. This requires
that, at each rail period end, the company has adequate funds to meet its forecast financial obligations for
the following two periods after considering franchise revenue receipts in the next two periods. This ratio has
been considered as part of the Company’s going concern assessment.

If any of the above scenarios impact cash inflows to the point at which the liquidity test is breached there
are several mitigating actions the company can take to bring headroom to the required levels.

. Cancellation of proposed dividend payments
. Delay projects which require upfront costs
. Delay Accounts Payable spend in FY 2025 and FY 2026 by one period

A base case cash flow forecast has been prepared and assumes that the business will continue standard
operations in line with market conditions with regards to passenger trends. The base case also assumes that
leisure travel will increase by a further 9.5% compared to FY 2024 actuals and commuter levels are expected
to increase by an annual average of 8.9% compared to FY 2024 actuals. Commuter growth is anticipated to
be lower than that of the leisure sector largely due to companies operating on a hybrid working basis. To
support the above assumptions, leisure passenger revenues increased by 19% in FY 2024 compared to the
prior year whilst commuter revenues increased by 12%.

As forecasting is inherently difficult in the current environment and passenger revenues can be impacted by
extemal factors, management applied sensitivities to the base case, challenging the forecasted values by
incorporating severe but plausible scenarios which include:

, Increases in EC4T energy prices by 20% based on the base case which used rates provided by the
RDG for FY 2025 onwards.

. Leisure revenues reduce by 20% of the forecasted rates for FY 2024 onwards.

. Inflation is expected to be an average of 5.14% in 2024, then reducing further in 2025 to an average

rate of 2.6%. Sensitivity applied to assume 5.14% for the whole forecast period.

Energy charges relating to EC4T, the electrical current used to run the trains, have been hedged through to
March 2024 to a hedge level of 104%, as confirmed by Network Rail & RDG. From April 2024 to March
2025 the energy charges are hedged to 32%. The rate agreed in the energy hedge contract to March 2024
have been reflected in the forecast. The rate used from April 2024 onwards is based on RDG’s forecasted
rate. Since the forecast was prepared, the RDG have released an updated rate for 2024/25 on 30 November
2023 which is of a lower value to the amount used in the forecasts. Within the forecasts a 3% inflation rate
has been applied to the EC4T charges in the P&L

13

Directors’ report (continued)

Going concern (continued)

Based on the current available energy future contract prices, energy prices are expected to fall by as much
as 28.5% of the 2024/25 rate provided by RDG. On that basis Merseyrail believes the EC4T rate charges in
the forecasts have headroom based on the current market information.

Within the downside scenario, an additional 20% of EC4T has been applied to the forecast from April 2025
onwards, being the period outside the RDG rate forecasts.

The lowest cash balance throughout the forecasted period when applying this downside is £23.8m (P4 2024)
with the lowest headroom being £4m in P2 2024. Therefore, the liquidity test is not breached at any point
in the forecast, with no mitigating actions required.

With the ongoing cost of living crisis there is a risk that passenger revenue numbers will be impacted,
particularly leisure travel as people look at ways to save money. If current forecasted leisure revenues were
to reduce by 20%, headroom remains positive with a low point of £18m in P3 2025, and the liquidity position
is maintained, falling to its lowest position of £0.8m in P11 2024.

As a severe downside scenario, the business has looked at the combined impact when applying all
sensitivities to the base case together, being:

Increase of 20% to EC4T rates from April 2024 onwards

Reduction in leisure travel of 20%, and

Inflation rate assumed to remain at 5.14% applied to costs for whole forecast period

In addition to an increase in anticipated dividends above profit levels by an additional £5.5m per
year, therefore drawing on reserves.

In this scenario this would result in negative headroom of £6.1m in P11 FY 2025, increasing to £7.9m by
P6 FY 2026, therefore the liquidity maintenance test would be breached. This scenario is deemed highly
unlikely to occur given the recovery rates to date have been surpassing our base case projections. However,
to bring headroom up to the required levels the business can withdraw the additional dividends within the
scenario as well as reducing the forecast dividends in 2024 from £16.4m to £10m which would provide
sufficient headroom and therefore satisfying the liquidity maintenance test. The base case and sensitised
cashflows demonstrate that sufficient cash resources exist in all scenarios. Although headroom falls below
the required levels in the combined scenario, mitigating actions are available and can be actioned
immediately.

Following this detailed exercise and considering the results of the base case forecast and downside
sensitivities, the directors are satisfied that the liquidity maintenance requirements will be met for the period
covered by the forecast (up to 21 June 2025) therefore there will be no breach of the Concession Agreement
with Merseytravel.

As such the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concem basis in
preparing these financial statements.

Financial instruments

The financial instruments relate to debtors and creditors and details of these are provided in note 22. No
derivative financial instruments are used. This is the same as in the prior year.

Directors
The directors who served the company during the period were as follows:

D Booth

C Harris

P Strachan

J English(Resigned 29 November 2023)

J Whitehurst (Resigned 20 March 2024)

C Maher

G Conneely (Appointment 23 February 2023)
J Heron (Resigned 23 February 2023)

A Heath (Resigned 24 May 2023)

14

Directors’ report (continued)

D Kaye (Resigned 24 May 2023)

J Grundy (Appointed 24 May 2023, resigned 31 October 2023)
N Grabham (Appointed 1 August 2023)

M Beable (Appointed 1 November 2023)

S Bailey (Appointed 20 March 2024)

Indemnity provision for directors

During the year, the company had third party indemnity insurance for the directors and officers. This
insurance remains in force as at the date of approving the Directors’ report. This is the same as in the prior
year.

Post balance sheet events

In February 2024, a dispute was ruled in Merseyrail’s favour, consequently an award, in addition to legal
costs and interest is now due to Merseyrail, however at the date of these financial statements the values are
subject to appeal and are required to be agreed by both parties before any associated payments will be made.
The matter has been determined as a non-adjusting post balance sheet event.

Political and charitable contributions

During the period, the company made charitable donations and sponsorship payments of £61,211 (52 weeks
ended 7 January 2023 — £51,417) principally to local charities and groups serving the communities in which
the company operates.

Stakeholder interests

It is important to Merseyrail that we foster the Company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers,
and others and that we consider the effect on all stakeholders of principal business decisions taken by the
company.

We regularly engage with Network Rail, Stadler and other strategic suppliers and stakeholders to this end.

Examples of what we currently do to engage with stakeholders and obtain their feedback and points of view
are:

+ Annual stakeholder reception

. Annual stakeholder survey

+ Frequent meetings with our key suppliers Merseytravel, Stadler and Network Rail

* Work with local companies and small medium enterprises to provide guidance and support
to enable them to work with us

+ Simplifying vendor accreditation documentation to make it easier for new suppliers to
engage with us

. Bi-annual customer surveys

+ Passenger forums

Employee Engagement

Our employee engagement scores are detailed above in the strategic report (page 5). We endeavour to engage
and involve our employees at every opportunity as our people are important to us.

Examples of what we currently do regarding visibility and frontline engagement are:

We record and share a monthly MD Business update video.

We hold monthly functional team meetings.

We hold a yearly Management Conference

Merseyrail Achievement Awards (MAAs), annual award ceremony to recognise, reward and
celebrate our staff.

Twice yearly director ‘blitz’ of the network — everywhere in a day.

The use of a variety of communications channels; Merseyrail Facebook page, The Loop - our
employee intranet page, Signal Briefing — our Traincrew magazine, Inside Track, all staff

15

Directors’ report (continued)

magazine, Team Meetings and Snapshot Briefs and Staff Facebook Live Director Question and
Answer sessions.

« Regular Wellbeing eshot which includes hints, tips, and links to resources to support wellbeing
including Mental, Financial, Physical and Social Wellbeing.

« Customer Praise Wall on our intranet which is regularly updated with any customer praise we
receive to help engage employees and boost morale.
Regular Business Update sessions
Health & Wellbeing Roadshows, these showcase the benefits which are available to staff,
supported by our key health and wellbeing suppliers and are supported by our health and wellbeing
champions and Mental Health First Aiders.

e Prostate-specific antigen (PSA), Cholesterol) testing (Lipid Profile test) and Diabetes Testing
(Haemoglobin Alc blood test) were offered to employees.

«We launched the Inspire Programme inhouse, which offers women support through the different
stages of perimenopause, menopause, and post menopause.

« Spring, Summer, and Winter Health Checks are offered to all staff, with our Occupational Health
Nurse. These check your blood pressure, body mass index percentage, visceral body fat and body
fat rating.

Examples of how employees are involved in the business and decision making:
e Employee forums, workshops, and champion meetings (Women in Merseyrail, Diversity Forum,

Health and wellbeing and engagement champions and LGBTQ+ & Allies Network)
e Involvement in upgrade and refurbishment work across the network

Employee involvement and disabled employees

The company gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled people having
regards to their aptitudes and abilities. Efforts are made to continue the employment of those who become
disabled during their employment, and training, career development and promotion is, as far as possible,
identical for all employees in accordance with their skills and abilities.

The company also has a policy of communicating and consulting with its managers and employees to ensure
their active involvement.

Disclosure of information to the auditors

So far as each person who was a director at the date of approving this report is aware, there is no relevant
audit information, being information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing its report, of which
the auditor is unaware. Having made enquiries of fellow directors and the company’s auditor, each director
has taken all the steps that he/she is obliged to take as a director to make himself/herself aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.

Auditors

Pursuant to section 487 of the Companies Act 2006, Ernst & Young LLP will be deemed to be re-appointed
as auditors.

On behalf of the Board

Director ZA lh ta

C Maher °

18 April 2024

Company registration no. 04356933

16

Directors’ responsibilities statement

The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance
with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law
the directors have elected to prepare the company financial statements in accordance with the
requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), including Financial Reporting Standard FRS
102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (“FRS 102”). Under
company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for
that period.

In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to:

. select suitable accounting policies in accordance Section 10 of FRS 102 and then apply them
consistently.

. make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent.

. present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant,
reliable, comparable, and understandable information.

. provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in FRS 102 is

insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of transactions, other events and
conditions on the company financial position and financial performance.

. state whether applicable UK accounting standards, including FRS102, have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and
. prepare the financial statements on the going concer basis unless it is appropriate to

presume that the company will not continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and
explain the company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the company and enable them to ensure that the company financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for
taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a strategic report and
directors’ report that comply with that law and those regulations. The directors are responsible for the
maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the company’s website.

17

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS
OF MERSEYRAIL ELECTRICS 2002 LIMITED

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Merseyrail Electrics 2002 Limited for the period ended 6
January 2024 which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Financial
Position, and the Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes | to 24, including a summary of
significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards including FRS 102 “The
Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland” (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice).

Tn our opinion, the financial statements:

« give a true and fair view of the company’s affairs as at 6 January 2024 and of its profit for the period
then ended;

« have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and

« have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the
company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial
statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis
of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events
or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to
continue as a going concern for the period to 21 June 2025.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in
the relevant sections of this report. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted,
this statement is not a guarantee as to the company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial
statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information
contained within the annual report.

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent
otherwise explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

18

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS
OF MERSEYRAIL ELECTRICS 2002 LIMITED

Other information (continued)

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information
is materially inconsistent with the financial statements, or our knowledge obtained in the course of the
audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or
apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material
misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we
conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

© the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which
the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

¢ the strategic report and directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the
course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or directors’
report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006

requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

adequate accounting records have not been kept or returns adequate for our audit have not been ~
received from branches not visited by us; or

e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

© certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

© we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 17, the directors are
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and
fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to
continue as a going concem, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the
going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that
includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit

19

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS
OF MERSEYRAIL ELECTRICS 2002 LIMITED

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements (continued)

conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the
basis of these financial statements.

Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting
irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect irregularities, including fraud. The
risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one
resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional
misrepresentations, or through collusion. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting
irregularities, including fraud is detailed below. However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and
detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.

Our approach was as follows:

+ We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the
company and determined that the most significant are: Railways Act 1992, Transport Act 2000,
Railways and Transport Safety Act 2003, Railways Act 2005, Companies Act 2006, UK tax
legislation, FRS 102, The Data Protection Act 2018 and Railways (Safety Case) Regulations 2000.

+ We understood how Merseyrail Electrics 2002 Limited is complying with those frameworks by
making enquiries with management, those charged with governance, internal audit and those
responsible for legal and compliance matters and also reviewing the entity code of conduct and
whistle-blower hotline.

> We assessed the susceptibility of the company’s financial statements to material misstatement,
including how fraud might occur by assessing the risk of fraud absent of controls, and then
identifying the controls which are in place at the entity level and whether the design of these controls
is sufficient for the prevention and detection of fraud. We also consider the risk of management
override and consider the design and implementation of controls at the financial statement level to
prevent this.

* Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify noncompliance with such
laws and regulations. For direct laws and regulations, we considered the extent of compliance with
those laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items. For both
direct and other laws and regulations, our procedures involved; making enquiries with those charged
with govermance and senior management for their awareness of non-compliance with laws and
regulations, inquiring about policies that have been established to prevent non-compliance with laws
and regulations by officers and employees and how the company monitors this. In respect of the risk
of management override we perform tailored journal entry testing to identify a subset of the whole
population that might pertain to fraud risk areas, performed procedures on revenue to a lower testing
threshold and enquired of third parties in areas of significant judgment.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the
Financial Reporting Council’s website at https://www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description
forms part of our auditor’s report.

20

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS |
OF MERSEYRAIL ELECTRICS 2002 LIMITED

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16
of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To
the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.

| Ernst & jou WP

Elizabeth Jones (Senior statutory auditor)

for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Liverpool

18 April 2024

21

Statement of comprehensive Income
for the period ended 6 January 2024

Turnover - Other

Turnover — Tumover received with respect to prior periods
Turnover

Cost of sales

Gross Profit

Other income

Operating profit

Interest receivable and similar income
Interest received on late contract settlement
Total interest received

Other finance income

Profit on ordinary activities before taxation
Tax

Profit for the financial period

Other comprehensive income
Actuarial gain relating to pension scheme
Deferred tax attributable to actuarial gain
Other comprehensive income

Total comprehensive income for the period

52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
6 January 7 January
2024 2023
Notes £000 £000
209,903 185,683
14,255 -
224,158 185,683
(183,621) (174,348)
26,282 11,335
3 1,387 3,674
3 27,669 15,009
20
18 76 28
43,923 15,136
7 (10,353) (2,543)
16 33,570 12,593
18 1,457 6,382
7 (364) (1,596)
1,093 4,786

34,663

17,379

22

Statement of financial position
at 6 January 2024

Fixed assets
Intangible assets
Tangible assets
Investments
Deferred tax asset

Current assets

Stocks

Debtors

Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors: amounts falling due
within one year

Net current assets

Total assets less current
liabilities

Net assets before pension
liability

Pensions

Net assets

Capital and reserves
Called-up share capital
Profit and loss account

Shareholders’ funds

Notes

10
ll

12
13

18

15
16

16

£000

93
17,744
27,258
45,095

(32,382)

2024

£000 £000
945
1,394
137
2,476

101

13,853

33,152

47,106

(27,260)
12,713

15,189

15,189

15,189

15,189

15,189

2023
£000

993

1,619

218
2,830

19,846
22,676

22,676

22,676

22,676
22,676

The financial statements of Merseyrail Electrics 2002 Limited were approved by the Board of Directors on

18 April 2024.

LCE

Director
C Maher

Company registration no. 04356933

23

Statement of changes in equity
for the period ended 6 January 2024

Called-up Profit and Share-

capital loss account holders

equity

£000 £000 £000

At 9 January 2022 - 19,797 19,797
Profit for the period - 12,593 12,593
Other comprehensive income - 4,786 4,786
Total comprehensive income for the year ~ 17,379 17,379
Equity dividends paid (note 8) = (14,500) (14,500)
At 7 January 2023 = 22,676 22,676
Called-up Profit and Share-

capital loss account holders

equity

£000 £000 £000

" At 8 January 2023 - 22,676 22,676
Profit for the period - 33,570 33,570
Other comprehensive income = 1,093 1,093
Total comprehensive income for the year - 34,663 34,663

Equity dividends paid (note 8) (42,150) (42,150)
At 6 January 2024 - 15,189 15,189

24

Notes to the financial statements
at 6 January 2024

Accounting policies
Statement of compliance

Merseyrail Electrics 2002 Limited is a limited liability company incorporated in England. The Registered
Office is Rail House, Lord Nelson Street, Liverpool L1 1JF.

The Company’s financial statements have been prepared in compliance with FRS 102 as it applies to the
financial statements of the Company for the 52 weeks ending 6 January 2024. This is the same as in the
prior period.

Basis of preparation

The financial statements of Merseyrail Electrics 2002 Limited were approved for issue by the Board of
Directors on 17 April 2024. The financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting
standards. The financial statements are prepared in sterling which is the functional currency of the company
and rounded to the nearest £000. The impact of climate change has been considered during the preparation
of these financial statements, details can be seen in our Streamlined Energy and Carbon reporting included
on page 10.

Judgements and Key sources of estimation uncertainty

Judgements and Estimates

The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the balance sheet date and the
amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year. However, the nature of estimation means that
actual outcomes could differ from those estimates. The following judgements (apart from those involving
estimates) have had the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial statements.

Pension and other post-employment benefits

The costs of the defined benefit pension plans are determined using actuarial valuations. The actuarial
valuation involves making assumptions about discount rates, future salary increases, mortality rates and
future pension increases. Due to the complexity of the valuation, the underlying assumptions and the long-
term nature of these plans, such estimates are subject to significant uncertainty. In determining the
appropriate discount rate, management works closely with the actuaries to establish the rate which best
represents the company’s views. The mortality rate is based on publicly available UK mortality tables.
Future salary increases and pension increases are based on expected UK future inflation rates. Further details
are given in note 18. .

Goodwill and intangible assets

The company establishes a reliable estimate of the useful life of goodwill and intangible assets arising on
business acquisitions. This estimate is based on a variety of factors such as the life of the franchise and any
potential legal, regulatory, or contractual provisions that can limit useful life. Further detail has been
provided in note 9.

Taxation

Management estimation is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised,
based upon likely timing and level of future taxable profits together with an assessment of the effect of
future tax planning strategies. Further details are given in note 7.

Accrued Income
CP6 Settlements

Following the outcome of the initial Arbitration process (see note 20), a further element of the award was
referred back to the Arbitrator in the year. It was not appropriate to recognise anything in this year in respect
of this item as recovery was not virtually certain. In February 2024, the Arbitrator ruled in Merseyrail’s
favour, consequently an award including legal costs and interest is now due to Merseyrail, however at the

25

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Accounting policies (continued)
CP6 Settlements (continued)

date of these financial statements the values are subject to appeal and are required to be agreed by both

_ parties before any associated payments will be made. The matter has been determined as a non-adjusting

post balance sheet event.
Onerous contracts and impairment of fixed assets

A review has been performed on both the tangible and intangible assets of the company to consider
impairment along with an analysis of the concession agreement to consider whether an onerous contract
exists.

To do this, profit and cashflow forecasts were completed covering the remainder of the concession
agreement, consistent with the going concern review for that period and then assuming further recovery of
passenger revenues. Both in the case of the impairment review and the onerous contract review sufficient
headroom was found to exist to negate the need for impairment or an onerous contract provision. The
assumptions included in our cashflow forecast are that the business will show steady performance and
growth with leisure travel increasing by 9.5% in FY 2025, and commuter travel is expected to increase by
8.6% in FY 2025. The ongoing cashflow forecast into perpetuity is based upon an average RPI growth of
4.85% in FY 2025, reducing to 3.4% for FY 2026 and 3% for FY 2027 and beyond. Sensitivities have
been run on those which do not show an impairment or onerous contract. Consistent with the Going
Concern review, the cashflow model has been sensitised with a number of different scenarios detailed in
the Going Concern note. Based on the sensitivities, the expectation remains that there is no fixed asset
impairment or onerous contract.

Provisions and contingent assets & liabilities

Provisions are recognised when the company has a legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event
and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable
estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.

The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present
obligation at the balance sheet date, considering the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.

A contingent asset is defined by the standard as ‘a possible asset that arises from past events and whose
existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events
not wholly within the control of the entity’.

Contingent assets are not recognised in the financial statements where not virtually certain but are disclosed
when an inflow of economic benefits is probable, i.e. more likely than not. This is because of the uncertain
future nature of the possible economic inflow.

As noted above, it has been deemed that there has been an underpayment to the Company in respect of the
indexation element of the CP6 dispute. However, at the balance sheet date the value of economic benefit
remains uncertain and therefore no asset has been recognised at this time.

Legal costs associated with the initial CP6 case are under consultation and were therefore unknown at year
end, meaning the value of economic benefits remains uncertain and no asset has been recognised.

26

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Accounting policies (continued)
Going concern

The Directors have continued to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements after
assessing the financial forecasts of the company for the period to 21 June 2025 whilst considering a range
of sensitivities for plausible downside scenarios due to the cost-of-living crisis and its impact on both UK
public transport and the wider economy.

Merseyrail operates under a concession agreement which is monitored using a ‘liquidity maintenance’ test.
If failed, could lead to the possibility of the concession agreement being terminated early. Historically
Merseyrail has been a profitable business with a strong cash position and no external or intercompany debt,
therefore the terms of the maintenance test have not previously been breached. Liquidity is further supported
by the 25-year Concession Agreement with Merseytravel which grants Merseyrail some stability and
provides a significant subsidy payment in the form of frequent contract payments.

The local nature of the train service does mean that Merseyrail is very reliant on the regional economy.
During the year, the company seen passenger habits continue to have a stronger focus on leisure journeys
compared to commuter journeys. With a large proportion of companies now embracing hybrid working less
passengers are using the network to commute compared to historic trends. However, Merseyrail has seen a
slight increase in the number of commuters using the network in the second half of the year.

As most of the revenue is contractual, a key driver in the profit and loss and cash flow forecasts is the
projected passenger revenues. Therefore, when assessing the going concern assumption the focus of
management has been the potential volatility of passenger revenues.

Management have assessed the entity’s ability to continue as a going concem and prepare financial
statements on that basis. Management have carried out a robust assessment of the principal risks and
uncertainties facing the Company, which could impact the business model, focussing, specifically on:

Cost-of-living
. Increases in EC4T charges caused by the ongoing energy price increases

. Increased RPI rates at 5.14% for forecast period based on the Q1 2024 OBR forecast — this increase
has only been applied to the costs of the business within the scenario testing, however the contractual
mechanism with Merseytravel means that the contract payment received would also increase in line
with the RPI rates

. The potential impact of leisure passenger numbers dropping as a result of the challenges presented
by the cost-of-living crisis on customers

Increased dividends

. The potential impact of additional dividends beyond the forecasted profit levels for the period to 21
June 2025

In assessing the Going Concern assumption for these financial statements, management have prepared cash
flow and profit forecasts to consider the liquidity requirements set out in the concession agreement and the
potential impacts the matters noted above could have on the Company. Cash flow and profit forecasts have
been prepared up to and including 21 June 2025.

Merseyrail does not have any external finance or borrowings. It does, under the franchise agreement, have
several operational and financial covenants the main one being the liquidity maintenance ratio. This requires
that, at each rail period end, the company has adequate funds to meet its forecast financial obligations for
the following two periods after considering franchise revenue receipts in the next two periods. This ratio has
been considered as part of the Company’s going concern assessment.

If any of the below scenarios impact cash inflows to the point at which the liquidity test is breached there
are several mitigating actions the company can take to bring headroom to the required levels.

27

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

Going concern (continued)

. Cancellation of proposed dividend payments

. Changing the supplier payment terms with one key specific supplier

. Delay Accounts Payable spend in FY 2025 and FY 2026 by one period

A base case cash flow forecast has been prepared and assumes that the business will continue standard
operations in line with the current market conditions with regards to passenger trends. The base case also
assumes that leisure travel will increase by 9.5% compared to FY 2024, being a mix of increased passenger
numbers and a forecast average fare increase of 5% from April 2024 onwards. Commuter levels are expected
to increase to by 8.6% compared to FY 2024, again being a mix of increased passenger numbers and a
forecast average fare increase of 5% from April 2024 onwards. To support the above assumptions, leisure
passenger revenues have increased by 19% during the FY 2024 year and commuter revenues have increased
by 12% in FY 2024.

As forecasting is inherently difficult and passenger revenues can be impacted by external factors,
management applied sensitivities to the base case, challenging the forecasted values by incorporating severe
but plausible scenarios which include:

. Increases in EC4T energy prices by 20% based on the forward contract rates provided by the RDG

for FY 2025 onwards.
. Leisure revenues reduce by 20% of the forecasted rates for FY 2024 onwards.
. Inflation is expected to be an average of 5.14% in 2024, then reducing further in 2025 to an average

rate of 2.6%. Sensitivity applied to assume 5.14% for whole forecast period.

Energy charges relating to EC4T, the electrical current used to run the trains, have been hedged through to
March 2024 to a hedge level of 104%, as confirmed by Network Rail & RDG. From April 2024 to March
2025 the energy charges are hedged to 32%. The rate agreed in the energy hedge contract to March 2024
have been reflected in the forecast. The rate used from April 2024 onwards is based on RDG’s forecasted
rate. Since the forecast was prepared, the RDG have released an updated rate for 2024/25 on 30 November
2023 which is of a lower value to the amount used in the forecasts. Within the forecasts a 3% inflation rate
has been applied to the EC4T charges in the P&L. Based on the current available energy future contract
prices, energy prices are expected to fall by as much as 28.5% of the 2024/25 rate provided by RDG. On
that basis Merseyrail believes the EC4T rate charges in the forecasts have potential headroom based on the
current market information and no mitigating actions would be required.

Within the downside scenario, an additional 20% of EC4T has been applied to the forecast from April 2025
onwards, being the period outside the RDG rate forecasts as a stress test on the EC4T rates applied in the
forecast.

The lowest cash balance throughout the forecasted period is £23.8m (P4 2024) with the lowest headroom
being £4m in P2 2024. Therefore, the liquidity test is not breached at any point in the forecast, with no
mitigating actions required. .

With the ongoing cost of living crisis there is a risk that passenger revenue numbers will be impacted,
particularly leisure travel as people look at ways to save money. If current forecasted leisure revenues were
to reduce by 20%, headroom remains positive with a low point of £18m in P3 2025, and the liquidity position
is maintained, falling to its lowest position of £0.8m in P11 2024.

28

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024 .

Accounting policies (continued)

Going concern (continued)

At the year-end Merseyrail had £15.2m in distributable reserves. The business has assessed the impact of
whether the shareholders take additional dividends each year for 2 years, beyond the forecasted profits,
drawing on existing reserves. In the scenario the cash liquidity ratio is tested to ensure any additional
dividend taken does not breach the liquidity test.

As a severe downside scenario, the business has looked at the combined impact when applying all
sensitivities to the base case together, being:

Increase of 20% to EC4T rates from April 2024 onwards

Reduction in leisure travel of 20%, and

Inflation rate assumed to remain at 5.14% applied to costs for whole forecast period

Increase in dividends beyond the forecasted profits, by an additional £5.5m per year, drawing on
Reserves and cash balances.

In this scenario this would result in negative headroom of £6.1m in P11 FY 2025, increasing to £7.9m by
P6 FY 2026, therefore the liquidity maintenance test would be breached. This scenario is deemed highly
unlikely to occur given the recovery rates to date have been surpassing our base case projections. However,
to bring headroom up to the required levels the business can withdraw the additional dividends within the
scenario as well as reducing the forecast dividends in 2024 from £16.4m to £10m which would provide
sufficient headroom and therefore satisfying the liquidity maintenance test.

The base case and sensitised cashflows demonstrate that sufficient cash resources exist in all scenarios with
minimum cash position being £23.8m in the base case and £8.2m as the lowest point in the severe downside
sensitivity. Although headroom falls below the required levels in some scenarios, mitigating actions are
available and can be actioned immediately.

Following this detailed exercise and considering the results of the base case forecast and downside
sensitivities, the directors are satisfied that the liquidity maintenance requirements will be met for the period
covered by the forecast (up to 21 June 2025) therefore there will be no breach of the Concession Agreement
with Merseytravel.

As such the directors have concluded that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing these financial statements.

Statement of cash flows

The company has elected to take advantage of the reduced disclosures for subsidiaries under FRS102 (FRS
102 paragraph 1.11 and 1.12) and has opted out of including a cash flow statement in its financial statements
as it is a wholly owned subsidiary of Merseyrail Services Holding Company Limited, a company
incorporated in the United Kingdom, which has included a group statement of cash flows in its financial
statements.

Goodwill

Positive goodwill acquired on a business is capitalised, classified as an intangible on the statement of
financial position and amortised on a straight-line basis over its useful life. The directors regard 25 years as
a reasonable maximum for the estimated useful life of goodwill since it coincides with the life of the rail
concession (25 years).

Intangible fixed assets

Other intangible fixed assets are capitalised at cost in the year they are incurred and amortised over their

useful economic lives. The concession costs incurred in the period ended 3 January 2004 (note 9) are
amortised over the life of the concession (25 years).

The carrying values of intangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in
circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.

29

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Accounting policies (continued)
Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.

Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost less estimated residual value of each asset
on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life at the following annual rate:

Leasehold land and buildings - 2%-10% per annum
Plant and machinery, motor vehicles and fixtures and fittings — 10%-50% per annum
Energy Conservation assets - 5% per annum

Assets under construction are not depreciated until the asset has been brought into operation.

The carrying values of tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in
circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.

Turnover

Turnover consists of rendering of services and goods for resale. Rendering of services includes passenger
income, concession payments and ancillary services.

Passenger income represents agreed amounts attributed to the company by the income allocation systems of
the Railway Settlement Plan Limited with revenue being recognised as journeys are undertaken.

Concession payments relate to amounts received from Merseytravel under the Concession Agreement to
operate Merseyrail trains and is recognised as per the Concession Agreement between the two parties.

The provision of ancillary services to external parties is recognised only when it can be measured reliably,
and it is probable that economic benefits will flow to the company as the service is delivered.
Other income

Other income represents compensation received from Network Rail for loss of earnings as a result of strikes
impacting the ability to operate.

Long term contracts

Contract revenue is recognised to the extent of contract costs incurred that it is probable will be recoverable.
Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. Profit on long term
contracts is only taken at the stage near enough to completion for that profit to be reasonably certain.

Stocks

Stock is stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost includes materials and consumable goods.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow-moving, and defective items where appropriate.

Grants

Grants are recognised when it is reasonable to expect that the grants will be received and that all related
conditions will be met, usually on submission of a valid claim for payment.

Capital grants and other contributions received towards the cost of tangible fixed assets are included as
deferred income in the balance sheet and credited to the income statement over the expected useful life of

the asset. Revenue grants are credited to the income statement to match off with the expenditure to which
they relate. :
Current taxation

Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the period, using tax
rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect
of previous periods.

30

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Accounting policies (continued)
Deferred taxation

Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences which are differences between taxable profits
and total comprehensive income that arise from the inclusion of income and expenses in tax assessments in
periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements, except that:

* where there are differences between amounts that can be deducted for tax for assets (other than
goodwill) and liabilities compared with the amounts that are recognised for those assets and liabilities
in a business acquisition a deferred tax liability/(asset) shall be recognised. The amount attributed to
goodwill is adjusted by the amount of the deferred tax recognised; and

e — unrelieved tax losses and other deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors
consider that it probable that they will be recovered against the reversal of deferred tax liabilities or
other future taxable profits.

Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods
in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the
balance sheet date.

Short-term debtors and creditors

Debtors and creditors with no stated interest rate and receivable or payable within one year are recorded at
transaction price. Any losses arising from impairment are recognised in the income statement in other
operating expenses.

Accrued Income

The Company recognises accrued income in relation to ongoing claims in line with agreed industry standard
processes. In determining the amount to recognise, management utilise all available information in relation
to the claim, and, if appropriate, seek external guidance from industry experts.

Leasing and hire purchase commitments

Assets held under finance leases and hire purchase contracts, which are those where substantially all the
risks and rewards of ownership of the asset have passed to the company, are capitalised in the balance sheet,
and are depreciated over their useful lives. A corresponding liability is recognised for the lower of the fair
value of the leased asset and the present value of the minimum lease payments in the balance sheet.

The interest element of the rental obligations is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease
and represents a constant proportion of the balance of capital repayments outstanding.

Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease.
Pensions

The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit credit
method, which attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost) and
to the current and prior periods (to determine the present value of defined benefit obligations) and is based
on actuarial advice. When a settlement or a curtailment occur the change in the present value of the scheme
liabilities and the fair value of the plan assets reflects the gain or loss which is recognised in the income
statement during the period in which it occurs.

The net interest element is determined by multiplying the net defined benefit liability by the discount rate,
at the start of the period considering any changes in the net defined benefit liability during the period as a
result of contribution and benefit payments. The net interest is recognised in profit or loss as other finance
revenue or cost.

Re-measurements, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling and the return on the
net defined benefit liability (excluding amounts included in net interest) are recognised immediately in other
comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Re-measurements are not reclassified to profit and
loss in subsequent periods.

31

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

Pensions (continued)

The deficit reflected in the balance sheet reflects only that portion of the deficit that is expected to be funded
over the franchise term, net of deferred tax. A ‘franchise adjustment’ is made to the deficit on this basis.
The franchise adjustment is the projected deficit at the end of the franchise term, which the company will
not be required to fund, discounted back to present value.

The defined benefit pension scheme is funded, with the assets held separately from those of the company,
in separate trustee administered funds. Pension scheme assets are measured at bid value and liabilities are
measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the
current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the scheme
liabilities. The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet
date. Subject to the franchise adjustment, any resulting defined benefit asset or liability is presented
separately after other net assets on the face of the balance sheet.

Finance costs

Finance costs of financial liabilities are recognised in the income statement over the term of such instruments
at a constant rate on the carrying amount.

Turnover and segmental analysis
All turnover originates in the United Kingdom and is derived from passenger income and other services.

Area of activity
52 weeks 52 weeks

ended ended
6 January 7 January
2024 2023
£000 £000
Continuing operations:
Total sales of goods . 1,195 1,090
Rendering of services 208,708 184,593
Turnover received with respect to prior periods (Note 20) 14,255 -
Total sales 224,158 185,683

Operating profit
This is stated after charging / (crediting):
52 weeks 52 weeks

ended ended
6 January 7 January
2024 2023
£000 £000
Auditors’ remuneration
Fees payable to the company’s auditors for the audit of the company’s
annual financial statements 306 276
Fees payable to the company’s auditors and their associates for other
services to the company
- other audit related assurance services : 34.

32

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Operating profit (continued)

Loss on disposal of fixed assets 2 4
Government grants released (67) (67)
Depreciation and amortisation — intangible fixed assets 206 166
- owned tangible fixed assets 649 764
Access charges payable to Network Rail (operating leases) 21,792 20,307
Other operating lease rentals — plant and machinery 13,705 12,907
- land and buildings 11,218 10,212
Other income ( 1,387) (3,674)

Included with Other income are amounts from Network Rail relating to schedule 4 compensation received
as a result of Network Rail restriction of use due to industrial action undertaken by their employees during
the prior year. Other income recognised in the current year relates to a change in the compensation model
used by Network Rail compared to the model used for the provision at the prior period end therefore the
additional compensation has been recognised in the current year.

Directors’ remuneration
52 weeks 52 weeks

ended ended

6 January 7 January

2024 2023

£000 £000

Remuneration 759 434
Pension contributions 37 4l
796 475

Remuneration of the highest paid director 350 175

The company contributed £9,179 (52 weeks ended 7 January 2023 — £19,905) to the pension scheme of the
highest paid director.

The number of directors who were members of the defined benefit pension scheme at the period end was
2 (52 weeks ended 7 January 2023 — 3).

The costs of the directors of non Merseyrail staff’s remuneration are borne by related parties.

Staff costs
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended
6 January 7 January
2024 2023
£000 £000
"Wages and salaries 57,169 48,978
Social security costs . 6,134 5,496
Pension costs - defined benefit schemes . 4,724 9,134
68,027 63,608

33

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Staff costs (continued)

The staff costs include the directors’ salaries details of which are included in Note 4.

The average monthly number of employees during the period, including directors, was made up as follows:

Operational
Engineering and maintenance
Administration and support

Interest receivable and similar income

Bank interest
Other interest
Interest received on late contract settlement (Note 20)

Tax
(a) Tax on profit on ordinary activities
The tax (charge)/credit is made up as follows:

Current tax:

UK corporation tax on the profit for the period
Adjustment in respect of prior periods

Total current tax

Deferred tax:

Origination and reversal of timing differences
Adjustment in respect of prior periods

Pension cost charge in excess of pension relief
Deferred tax

Tax on profit on ordinary activities

52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended

6 January 7 January

2024 2023 —

No. No.

1,063 1,043

30 30

89 78

1,182 1,151

52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended

6 January 7 January
2024 2023
£000 £000

841 96

353 3

729 -
1,923 99

52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended

6 January 7 January
2024 2023
(10,625) (4,075)
qd) (26)
(10,636) (4,101)
(75) (59)

(6) 21

364 1,596

283 1,558
(10,353) (2,543)

34

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Tax (continued)

(b) Factors affecting the total tax charge for the period:

The tax assessed for the period differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23.5%

(52 weeks ended 7 January 2023 — 19%). The differences are explained below:

Profit on ordinary activities before tax

Tax on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the
UK of 23.5% (52 weeks ended 7 January 2023 — 19%)

Effects of:

Expenses not deductible for tax purposes

Adjustment in respect of prior periods
Impact on deferred tax of change in tax rate

Total tax (charge)

(c) Deferred tax

Deferred tax asset: °

At 8 January 2023

Deferred tax credit in the profit and loss account
Debited to statement of comprehensive income
At 6 January 2024

Deferred tax asset

52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended

6 January 7 January
2024 2023
£000 £000
43,923 15,136
(10,322) (2,876)
(53) G1)

(17) @)

39 369
(10,353) (2,543)
£000

218

283
(364)

137

52 weeks 52 weeks
ended ended

7 January 7 January
2024 2023
£000 £000
137 218

35

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Tax (continued)

Analysis of deferred tax balance
52 weeks 52 weeks

ended ended

6 January 7 January

2024 2023

£000 £000

Depreciation in excess of capital allowances 31 138
Short term timing difference 106 80
Deferred tax asset 137 218

The underlying trade of the Company is profitable and profit forecasts support that it is more likely than not
that there will be sufficient future trading profits against which the timing differences giving rise to the
deferred tax asset will reverse. This is consistent with the prior year.

(d) Factors that may affect future tax charges:

From April 2023 the Corporation tax rate increased from 19% to 25%. The current tax rate for the period to
6 January 2024 is 23.5%. The future current tax charge for the company will be calculated at 25%.

The deferred tax asset at 6 January 2024 has been calculated in line with the expected tax rate prevailing
when we will realise the asset which is 25% for short term timing difference and depreciation in excess of
capital allowances and pension movements.

Dividends
6 January 7 January
2024 2023
£000 £000
Equity dividends paid of £21,075,000 per share (52 weeks ended 7 January
2023 — £7,250,000) 42,150 14,500

36

10.

Notes to the financial statements

At 6 January 2024

Intangible fixed assets

Cost:

At 8 January 2023
Transfers in the period
Disposals in the period
At 6 January 2024
Amortisation:

At 8 January 2023
Charge for the period
At 6 January 2024

Net book value:

At 6 January 2024
At7 January 2023

Tangible fixed assets

Cost:

At 8 January 2023
Additions

Disposals

Transfers

At 6 January 2024
Accumulated depreciation:
At 8 January 2023
Charge for the period
Disposals

At 6 January 2024
Net book value:

At 6 January 2024
At 7 January 2023

Concession
costs Goodwill Software Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
726 3,190 122 4,038
: - 158 158
726 3,190 280 4,196
562 2,473 10 3,045
29 127 50 206
591 2,600 60 3,251
135 590 220 945
164 77 112 993
Leasehold Assets in the
land and course of Plantand Fixtures and
buildings construction machinery fittings Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
1,114 98 8,256 6,648 16,116
- 584 — - - 584
- - (74) - (74)
= (556) 335 63. (158)
1114 126 8,517 6,711 16,468
781 - 7,686 6,030 14,497
48 - 331 270 649
- = (72) - (72)
829 - 7,945 6,300 15,074
285 126 572 All 1,394
333 98 570 618 1,619

The cost of assets held by the company under finance leases at 6 January 2024 was £1,863,000. (7 January
2023 — £1,863,000). The accumulated depreciation provided for on those assets at 6 January 2024 was
£1,863,000 (7 January 2023 — £1,863,000). The assets are held for continuing use in the business with an

annual peppercorn rent made.

The cost of assets held by the company financed by a government grant at 6 January 2024 was £2,609,000
(7 January 2023 — £2,609,000). The accumulated depreciation provided for on those assets at 6 January 2024
was £2,471,000 (7 January 2023 - £2,404,000).

37

11.

12.

13.

14,

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Investments
Investments held as fixed assets

‘Shares in each of the following companies are held by Merseyrail Electrics 2002 Limited:

Proportion
Company name Capital held Activities
ATOC Limited £0.04 4.76% Contracting arm of ATOC
Manages staff travel in the industry on
Rail Staff Travel Limited £0.04 5.00% behalf of ATOC

Operates the income allocation and
Rail Settlement Plan Limited £0.04 5.00% settlement routines on behalf of ATOC
Provides rail related information to the

NRES Limited £1.00 5.00% public
Train information Services Limited £1.00 5.00% Provides the national rail enquiry services
Stocks
6 January 7 January
2024 2023
£000 £000
Raw materials and consumables 93 101
Stocks recognised as an expense in the period were £1,174,000 (7 January 2023 — £1,006,000).
Debtors
6 January 7 January:
2024 2023
£000 £000
Trade debtors 5,320 5,992
VAT 3,118 2,845
Other debtors 1,166 1,374
Prepayments and accrued income 8,140 3,642
17,744 13,853
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
6 January 7 January
2024 2023
£000 £000
Trade creditors 10,099 10,464
Corporation tax payable 28 2,389
Other creditors 11,665 5,862
Taxation and social security costs 1,431 1,195
Accruals and deferred income 9,159 7,350

32,382 27,260

38

15.

16.

17.

18.

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Issued share capital

6 January 7 January

2024 2023

Allotted, called up and fully paid No. £ No. £
Ordinary shares of £1 each 2 2 2 2

Reconciliation of shareholders’ funds
6 January 7 January

2024 2023

£000 £000
Profit for the financial period 33,570 12,593
Dividends paid (note 8) . (42,150) (14,500)
Other recognised gains and losses relating to the period (net of deferred tax) 1,093 4,786
Net(decrease)/increase in shareholders’ funds (7,487) 2,879
Opening shareholders’ funds 22,676 19,797
Closing shareholders’ funds 15,189 22,676

Capital commitments
6 January 7 January

2024 2023
£000 £000
Contracted for but not provided in the financial statements 86 -

Capital commitments relate to the procurement of network switches ordered prior to the period end.

Pensions
Pension commitments

The company operates a section of the Railways Pension Scheme (“the section”). This provides benefits for
employees based on final pensionable pay. The members are expected to meet 40% of the cost of the
emerging benefits. The employer made contributions of £3,563,000 (including Brass) in the period (7
January 2023 — £3,172,000). The expected employer contributions for the next financial period are estimated
at £4,130,000 (7 January 2023 — £3,609,000).

On 8 July 2010, the UK minister for Pensions announced the Government’s intention to move to using the
Consumer Prices Index (CPI) rather than the Retail Prices Index (RPI) as the inflation measure for
determining the pension increases to be applied to the statutory index-linked features of retirement benefits.
The rules of the section refer directly to the relevant legislation, rather than RPI inflation, in respect of
increases to deferred pensions and pensions in payment. The Company has therefore allowed for increases
to pensions in payment and deferment in line with CPI inflation.

A CPI inflation of 2.6% p.a. has been assumed at 6 January 2024.

A High Court judgment regarding the equalisation of GMP was published on 26 October 2018. The
judgment itself related to the Lloyds Banking Group’s pension schemes and requirements to equalise scheme
benefits, to address the inherent inequality between genders caused by GMP legislation. GMP is the

39

18.

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Pensions (continued)

minimum benefit that must be provided by a pension scheme to a member who had been contracted out of
the State Earnings-Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) between 6 April 1978 and 5 April 1997. This ruling
has implications for all occupational pension schemes; including Merseyrail; that were contracted out of
SERPS on a defined benefit basis between 17 May 1990 and 5 April 1997.

While the funded status liability (pre members’ share) increased over the period, the employer’s net liability
has remained at £zero, as a result of the Company choosing to recognise only 60% of the past service deficit
(or surplus) in recognition of the shared cost nature of the Scheme and an adjustment made through the
Franchise Adjustment.

Actuarial assumptions

The full actuarial valuation at 31 December 2022 was updated to 6 January 2024 by a qualified actuary,
using the following assumptions in relation to future experience:

6 January 7 January 8 January

2024 2023 2022
Discount rate 4.85% 5.00% 1.90%
Rate of increase in salaries 2.60% 2.70% 2.80%
Rate of increase in deferred pensions 2.60% 2.70% 2.80%
Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.60% 2.70% 2.80%
Inflation assumption 3.00% 3.10% 3.30%
Long term rate of return expected 4.85% 5.00% 1.90%

In addition to the above rates of increase in salaries, a scale of promotional salary increase is assumed.

Male members are segmented into six postcode and pension amount groups (females into two groups) and
an adjustment is made to the multipliers accordingly. Allowance for future improvements in mortality from
1 January 2019 onwards has been made in line with the 2021 version of the “CMI core projection” model
published by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, but with a smoothing factor of 7.5, assuming a long-
term improvement rate of 1.25% p.a. For the period | January 2013 to 31 December 2018 allowance for
future improvements in mortality has been made in line with the 2018 version of the "CMI core projection"
model.

The net asset/ (liability) of the company is summarised as follows:

6 January 7 January 8 January 9 January 4 January

2024 2023 2022. 2021 2020
Value Value Value Value Value
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Total market value of asscts 266,598 257,011 280,852 233,804 218,615
Present value of scheme
liabilities (252,151) (232,306) (414,715) (398,358) (312,310)
Members’ share of :
(surplus)/deficit (5,779) (9,882) 53,545 65,822 37,478
Franchise adjustment (8,668) (14,823) 80,318 98,732 $6,217

Deficit in scheme - - - - , -
Related deferred tax asset = - - _ _

Net pension asset/ (liability) = - - _ _

40

18.

Notes to the financial statements

At 6 January 2024

Pensions (continued)

The long-term contractual responsibility for the rail pension schemes rests with the Department for
Transport. Accordingly, the company balance sheet only recognises the share of surplus or deficit expected
to be realised over the life of each franchise. To better reflect the company’s limited responsibility for
pensions during the length of its franchise, the operating profit only recognises the company’s agreed cost
for pensions during this period. This is affected by means of a franchise adjustment to the income statement.

Fair value of assets
The assets in the scheme were:

6 January 7 January
6 January 2024 7 January 2023
2024 Value 2023 Value
% £000 % £000
Equities 72.2 192,430 74.6 191,730
Bonds/Gilts 13.1 35,085 16.6 42,664
Property 11 29,512 10.9 28,014
Cash 3.6 9,571 (2.1) (5,397)
100% 266,598 100% 257,011
6 January 7 January
2024 2023
£000 £000
Amounts included within operating profit:
Current service cost 4,642 9,042
Brass contributions 82 92
Total included within operating profit 4,724 9,134
Amounts included as other finance (income)/costs:
Expected return on scheme assets (7,651) (3,185)
Interest cost on scheme liabilities 6,834 4,683
Interest on franchise adjustment 741 (1,526)
Net finance return (76) (28)
Taken to other comprehensive income:
6 January 7 January
2024 2023
£000 £000
(Return)/loss on plan assets (774) 24,655
Effect of changes in financial assumptions 2,728 (203,818)
Effect of experience adjustments 12,745 7,547
Effect of changes in demographic assumptions (5,635) (131)
(Gain)/Loss from change in members share (3,626) 68,698
(Gain)/Loss on franchise adjustment (6,895) 96,667

Remeasurement gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income (1,457) (6,382)

41

18.

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Pensions (continued)

6 January 7 January

2024 2023

Analysis of the change in benefit obligation during the period: ; £000 £000
Benefit obligation at beginning of the period 232,306 414,715
Current service cost — Employer (including Brass) 4,724 9,134
Current service cost — Employee 3,095 6,028
Effect of experience adjustments 12,745 7,547
Interest cost - Employer 6,834 4,683
Interest cost - Employee 4,556 3,122
Effect of changes in financial assumptions 2,728 (203,818)
Effect of changes in demographic assumptions (5,635) (131)
Benefits paid (including Brass) (9,202) (8,974)
Benefit obligation at end of period 252,151 232,306

6 January 7 January

2024 2023

£000 £000
Analysis of the change in plan assets during the period:
Fair value of plan assets at beginning of the period 257,011 280,852
Interest income - Employer 7,651 3,185
Interest income - Employee 5,101 2,123
Return/(loss) on plan assets 774 (24,655)
Administrative expenses paid from plan assets (621) (746)
Employer contribution ‘ 3,481 3,080
Employer Brass matching contributions 82 92
Member contributions 2,321 2,054
Benefits paid (including Brass) (9,202) (8,974)
Fair value of plan assets at end of period 266,598 257,011

Discussions with the Pensions Regulator, and other stakeholders, in relation to the latest statutory Pensions
Act valuation as at 31 December 2016 and, due to the passage of time, as at 31 December 2019 for all
Sections of the Railway Pension Schemes in relation to the Train Operating Companies were still ongoing
during the year. As a result, the Regulator asked that these Pensions Act valuations be deemed not completed
until matters are all agreed.

The 2022 triennial valuation was completed in January 2024, with the Railway Pension Schemes confirming
the Merseyrail section of the pension scheme to be in a surplus of £48m, with a funding level of 121.4%.
As part of the completion of the 2022 valuation, the previous two valuations have been signed off at the
same time.

On 16 June 2023 the High Court issued a ruling in respect of Virgin Media v NTL Pension Trustees IT
Limited. Whilst this case could have application to other schemes, the decision reached was based on
specific assumptions related to an amendment which was worsening benefits and so it is unclear as to its

42

18.

19.

20.

21.

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Pensions (continued)

wider application. A Court of Appeal hearing is due in the Summer of 2024 which may clarify this. The
Railways Pension Scheme have comprehensive procedures and practices to ensure full compliance with all
legal and regulatory requirements, including taking appropriate external advice whenever any changes have
been made. We have no reason to consider that this case will have a material impact on defined benefit
values or the financial statements of the Company however our exercise in respect of this is ongoing.

Obligations under leases

At 6 January 2024 the company has entered into commercial leases on certain properties, motor vehicles,
and all the rolling stock required to operate our rail services. Future minimum rentals payable under non-
cancellable operating leases are as follows:

6 January 7 January
2024 2023

Land and Land and
buildings Other buildings Other
£000 £000 £000 £000

Amounts payable:

Within one year 14,085 43,874 11,060 40,497
In two to five years 32,409 173,912 36,299 103,128
Over five years - : 237 14,273
46,494 217,786 47,596 157,898

Leases shown within Other relate to the lease of motor vehicles and rolling stock.

Exceptional items

The Company was party to a dispute relating to the underpayment (to the Company) of Contract Payments
under the concession Agreement, this was concluded during the year resulting in the company being
awarded £14.3m and 0.7m of contract payments and interest respectively, relating to prior periods.

Related party transactions

During the year, the company entered into transactions, in the ordinary course of business, with other related
parties. The transactions with them are summarised below:

Serco Group pic
6 January 7 January

2024 2023
£000 £000
Dividends paid and proposed 21,075 7,250
Other trading transaction costs 55 281

All of the above expenses were payable to Serco Group ple and its subsidiaries which are related parties
by virtue of Serco Group ple owning 50% of the issued share capital of the company. At the period end,
the company owed Serco Group ple £nil (7 January 2023 — £nil). At the period end, the company was
owed Enil by Serco Group ple (7 January 2023 — £nil).

43

21.

22.

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Related party transactions (continued)

NV Nederlandse Spoorwegen
6 January 7 January

2024 2023

£000 £000
Other trading transaction income including salary recharges (12) (73)
Dividends paid and proposed - 7,250
Other trading transaction costs 83 260

All of the above expenses/(income) were payable to/(receivable from) NV Nederlandse Spoorwegen and its
subsidiaries which are related parties by virtue of NV Nederlandse Spoorwegen owning 50% of the issued
share capital of the company up to 28 February 2023. At the period end, the company owed NV Nederlandse
Spoorwegen £Nil (7 January 2023 ~ £13,519) At the period end, the company was owed £Nil by NV
Nederlandse Spoorwegen (7 January 2023 — £6,566).
Transport UK (Operations) Limited

6 January 7 January

2024 2023
£000 £000
Other trading transaction income including salary recharges (73) -
Dividends paid and proposed 21,075 -
Other trading transaction costs 381 :

All of the above expenses/(income) were payable to/(receivable from) Transport UK (Operations) Limited
and its subsidiaries which are related parties by virtue of Transport UK (Operations) Limited owning 50%
of the issued share capital of the company from 28 February 2023 onwards. At the period end, the company
owed Transport UK (Operations) Limited £Nil (7 January 2023 — £Nil) At the period end, the company was
owed £2,153 by Transport UK (Operations) Limited (7 January 2023 — £Nil).

Financial instruments
6 January 7 January

2024 2023
£000 £000
Financial assets that are debt instruments measured at amortised cost
- trade and other debtors 6,486 7,366
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
= other creditors 11,665 5,862
- trade creditors 10,099 10,464
- accruals excluding deferred income 7,335 6,279

44

23.

24,

Notes to the financial statements
At 6 January 2024

Post Balance Sheet events
In February 2024, a dispute was ruled in Merseyrail’s favour, consequently an award, in addition to legal

“costs and interest is now due to Merseyrail, however at the date of these financial statements the values are

subject to appeal and are required to be agreed by both parties before any associated payments will be
made. The matter has been determined as a non-adjusting post balance sheet event.

Ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party

The immediate parent undertaking of Merseyrail Electrics 2002 Limited is Merseyrail Services Holding
Company Limited. Copies of the financial statements are available from Companies House, Crown Way,
Cardiff, CF4 3UZ.

The ultimate and controlling parties of Merseyrail Electrics 2002 Limited are Transport UK Group Limited
and Serco Group plc. Copies of the financial statements of Transport UK Group Limited are available from
St Andrews House, 18-20 St. Andrew Street, London, EC4A 3AG. Copies of the financial statements of
Serco Group ple are available from Serco House, 16 Bartley Wood Business Park, Bartley Way, Hook,
Hampshire RG27 9UY. .

The parent undertaking of the smallest group, which includes the company, and for which group financial
statements are prepared is Merseyrail Services Holding Company Limited a company incorporated in the
UK. Copies of the financial statement of Merseyrail Services Holding Company Limited are available from
Companies House, Crown Way, Cardiff, CF4 3UZ.

45

