C

Mitchells

Amma Report
and Accoumis 2024

NN

*ADVXQ7|
08/02/2025 #6:
COMPANIES HOUSE

iM

Aol

ct aa
sig Pe ~ . —-
gee
VB
y 4]
es,
f ze
< cs
:


an

ammeni f

O

ool

neroduction)
O Avan

hiehlights,Eaviconmental
Magan

Weteameto
Misia S Butters

Chr pergase

8 ee

i 8 ay a=
lOugsustainabilityy

‘WS SBRRERN Be

Qnancial

Risk slandiuncentanucsy

Keommpliapcerstatements)

= Capaete vitally
idisclosure)

EAN onstinancialanc)
Sus tainabilitypntonmatiou
Btatementy

= Saditon 2 Campenties Aen
Sena

feinancialceview]

i 88

fRoscesonn@limmatesrelated)
Disclosties)

Gousmenas Ragen.

ee
Gren of econ

Sttamnt ef Shetae

repens

odo And Regge

ant) Aqaonts

B Capuete govcmmnes
ssiatemeny

Aucht Committze cpr

Rapert on Otracterns?

88

Rinanciallstaucmentsy
Ma Blo dependenvauditosy
FenouurotemenDersy
odMitchel Sabu vensold

DW Gaphamestanam |

we Gare eterna
Gomrprcsasta sents

wm Gooup betas

Ww ca ean

ws one

HO Midilbe Eula pe
Conpenyiinenctl eRe

B13 BN otesttotnel Mitchell ay
Guiles pte Conpemy trenatel
tate menics

locheminfoumacion)
BS OFA ltennativerpenionmancey

}
bi OOmShareholdedintonmation)


Introduction Strategic Report Governance

Financial Statements Other Information

About us

For over 125 years the Group has been at

the forefront of UK drinking and eating out,
running many of the UK’s most beautiful and
iconic pubs and restaurants. We employ over
50,000? people in pubs, bars and restaurants
that are located across the length and breadth
of the UK and in Germany.

We are a leading operator of managed
restaurants and pubs with 1,654. largely-freehold
managed businesses representing some of the
most popular brands and formats in the UK.

Our scale is impressive. In FY 2024. we served over
100 million meals, and around 330 million drinks.

Our strategy remains focused on our three
priority areas of building a more balanced
business, instilling a commercial culture, and
driving an innovation agenda, whilst pursuing
our purpose of being the host of life’s memorable
moments, bringing people and communities
together through great experiences.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.

Financial highlights

Revenue

£2,610m

FY 2023: £2,503m

Statutory operating profit

£300m

FY 2023: £98m

Adjusted operating profit”

£312m

FY 2023: £226m

Financial review
Go to page 56

Environmental targets

Net Zero

Greenhouse gas emissions by FY 2040
(Scope 1, 2 & 3)

Zero

Operational waste to landfill by FY 2030

o0%

Reduction in food waste by FY 2030

Sustainability targets
Go to page 38

a. Asat 28 September 2024.

b. The Directors use a number of alternative
performance measures (‘APMs') that are
considered critical to aid understanding of the
Group's performance. Key measures are explained
on pages 186 to 189 of this report.

¢. As defined on page 45.

NB. FY 2023 was a 53-week period.


Introduction

Mitchells & Butlers
at a glance

Our brands

Our balanced portfolio of recognised and diversified brands
and formats is loved and trusted by our guests, with 65%
home-grown and over 75% in existence for over 20 years.

ALL:-BAR-ONE

alFy

43 sites
Alex city centre bars and brasseries offer all day
menus and drinking across Germany.

46 sites

All Bar One bars are modern and cosmopolitan
serving food and drink in bright contemporary
environments positioned in city-centre locations.

ed
EMBER INNS
31 sites 149 sites
Ego restaurants are Mediterranean-style family | Ember Innsare local pubs with an individual
restaurants based across the UK. The brand name offering food with a wide range of cask
was fully acquired in 2023, having operated ales. They are in prominent residential locations.

as ajoint venture since 2018.

MILLER & CARTER BERD
- STEAKHOUSE - ‘ALE & GIN
129 sites 81 sites

Nicholson's has been in operation since 1873
and is famous for its extensive cask ale and pie
range. Nicholson's sites include examples of
historic, authentic pubs in the United Kingdom.

Miller & Carter are steakhouse restaurants
offering premium-grade beef. They are
designed to be the steak lover's destination
for everyday and special dining-out occasions.

PREMIUM
(oui STONEHOUSE Sizaling
iy PUBGORIL,

124 sites 89 sites 235 sites

Premium Country pubs are a collection of Stonehouse pubs offer freshly-carved, Our suburban pubs are typically located in
individual pubs situated in both rural and slow-cooked roasts, and stone-baked pizzas densely populated residential areas and are
suburban areas. The pubs have contemporary —_ along with other pub classics. local community pubs serving ‘value for
dining rooms and bars and many have terraces money’ food on sizzling skillets.

for al fresco dining.

Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple


Introduction

‘Harvester

151 sites

Harvesters are pub restaurants in suburban
roadside locations, principally targeting families.
They are well-known for spit-roast chicken,
smoked ribs, burgers and the salad cart.

owe Fagg

151 sites

Toby Carvery is one of the leading brands in
the UK carvery sector. It aims to offer a good
value and varied menu of roasts from its
famous carving deck. The sites are generally
in suburban roadside locations.

Strategie Report Governance

“BROW

*Stamiesmey 2

27 sites

Browns restaurants are mainly located in city
centres around the UK and offer casual,
elegant, brasserie dining often in landmark
architectural buildings.

HIGH™

67 sites

Our High Street pubs are unique, individual
pubs located in high footfall locations in cities
and towns throughout the UK. The pubs offer
music, sport and enjoyable hospitality at
competitive prices points.

Financial Statements Other Information

CASTLE

105 sites

Castle pubs are a collection of eclectic urban
pubs, with each pub having an individual
character to suit its community. The pubs
are located in city and suburban areas.

40 sites

O'Neill's are Irish bars located in city and town
centres as well as on suburban high streets.
O'Neill's offers tive sports and, in larger sites,
entertainment through music rooms.

10 sites

Located in the North West and Midlands, Pesto
offers authentic and freshly prepared Italian
small plates at sensible prices in an informal,
relaxed setting.

VINTAGE

-rons

176 sites

Vintage Inns are traditional country pubs
serving freshly cooked food with a wide range
of beers, spirits and great wines at fair prices.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024._ 03


Introduction

Mitchells & Butlers at a glance continued

Our value proposition

ours ani tei dat

ner mpesseoernenmece® Our po PpDENey

sluralegny
to tramstter dielbt cocanity asateion
Os peat] down.
7 ROD conan ; EDO),
LDA De ili . Se 7)

Seas gencetadinY 202 oe costreeholdand tong! leasehold witht
majognvestmentiplenec cveugeewenyycas

ee bene a versie parteitp We anew proven seator

of proven, brands, PAMETEMIETL keen ante)
aepth of talent.

4D) IGS

Ce OHO I ighest-cuer comployce

homes POW RANG Overg5 CORSO SEIS,
trontooftr ener Oya :

04. Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple


Introduction

Our people
Our people are fundamental to the delivery
of great experiences for our guests

00,000+

Employees making us one of the largest
employers in the industry

17%

Retail staff turnover reduced by 17 percentage
points to 64% due to the effective delivery
of our People Promise

1600+

Apprentices currently in learning,

Employees
Go to page 31

The Belvedere Arms, Sunninghill
PREMIUM

Miller & Carter steakhouse, Stevenage

MILLER & CARTER
- STEAKHOUSE -

Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Our pubs

1,654.

managed businesses with favourable spread
of locations, price points and occasions.
This leaves the business well-hedged against

changes in consumer taste The Clachan, Kingly Street, London.

UK sales by region (FY 2024)

( Prae North East 3%
\

aN,

Yorkshire and Humberside 8%

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.

08


ae

ot

4. Abe

eas

ye

i

BOCES

PEP ea PA ek

Spe oP Fis ON TY


Introduction St

Welcome to
Mitchells & Butlers

1 Stacements Other Information

Our purpose is to be the
host of life’s memorable
moments, bringing people
and communities
together through great

experiences.

We are clelighted to report that our continued
like-for-like sales outperformance against the
market, coupled with easing inflationary costs
and focus on efficiencies, has resulted in strong
profit growth this year.

We remain committed to our Ignite programme
of initiatives and our successful capital investment
programme, driving further cost efficiencies

and increased sales. We have confidence that
continued focus on effective delivery of our
strategic priorities will generate further value
from our enviable estate portfolio and customer
offers and give us a strong foundation for
continued longer-term outperformance.

Sustainability and respect for the environment
remain central to everything we do, with some
notable progress curing the year, including
investment in removing gas as an energy source
from our estate as well as a significant reduction
in waste to landfill.

Our purpose is to be the host of life’s memorable
moments, bringing people and communities
together through great experiences. Over the next
few pages, we examine this purpose in cletail,
breaking it down into its constituent parts and
exploring how our teams’ commitment to customer
service cclivers to our guests day-in day-out.

Phil Urban
Chief I:xecutioe

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.


Introduction

Co

Our purpose
is to be the

NOStooe

Delighting our guests
every time they visit us

Our skilled teams host a wide range of occasions and
experiences across our brands, and understanding our
guests’ individual needs is central to providing great
experiences. Our teams’ focus is on delighting our guests
every time they visit us, supported by a number of
central initiatives to enhance guest experience.

Our recruitment, at every level, seeks to discover those
with the skills to provide a welcoming environment for
our guests and then to take responsibility for the guest
experience from start to finish. In addition, our training
helps to develop those innate skills further, with rewards
for those who consistently score highly on guest review
scores. Supporting our operational teams, is an
investment programme that ensures not only that we are
exposed to the right market segments based on location,
site characteristics and local demographics but that our
businesses are safe, reduce their impact on the
environment and remain competitive for our guests.

Delighting our guests is as much about culture and
mindset as it is about specific procedures, with our high
guest review scores and consistent like-for-like sales
growth representing a tangible testament to the work
our teams continue to devote to this priority.

08 Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple


Introducti

Our General Managers have
responded directly to feedback
e oO from guests during the year taking

responsibility, driving
improvements and building
relationships

Like-for-like sales* growth Investment projects in FY 2024 Invested in our estate in FY 2024

a. The Directors use a number of
alternative performance measures
CAPMs'} that are considered critical
to aid understanding of the Group's
performance. Key measures are
explained on pages 186 to 189
of this report.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024


Introduction

of life’s

What makes an experience
memorable

Our people, pubs, and restaurants are here to make
sure every memorable moment our guests celebrate
with us is met with excellent service. This covers a huge
variety of occasions from birthdays, to Mother’s Day,
to Christmas, to leaving parties, to reunions after

a period apart... or indeed just a much-anticipated
night out with close friends.

Whatever the occasion, all our brand offers are informed
by guest insight to ensure we provide environments and
menus which create memorable moments for our guests.

Our marketing teams support our pubs and restaurants
through tailor-made menus and promotions to enhance
the customer experience and drive sales. Our
understanding of how best to achieve this grows year-
by-year through our analysis of sales data and customer
feedback, with the aim that we are constantly improving
everything we do to further delight our guests.

Harvester hosted a Big
Christmas Party on
Thursday 12 December with
our customers enjoying a
sprinkle of Harvester magic
thanks to a 3-course festive
menu coupled witha
complimentary glass of fizz.

Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple


Financial Statements Other In

main meals sold over the
Mother's Day weekend this year


Introduction

bringing

eon

together...

We understand the importance
of protecting communities and
the environment around them

Our businesses have long been a hub for local
communities to gather, providing intangible benefits
beyond the core offer of food and drink.

Our pubs, bars and restaurants act as a meeting place,
in the heart of the community, where people of all
backgrounds can socialise. We believe that this sense
of community is as important now as it ever has been
and is an important consideration in the evolution

of our brand offers.

We take our responsibility to the communities we serve
seriously, and have developed a plan, as part of our
sustainability strategy, to increase the positive effects
we have on society and the communities we work in and
reduce the negative impact we have on the environment.

Further details on how we aim to achieve this through
offering employment opportunities to people impacted
by homelessness, fundraising, and supporting the
provision of food to homeless people, along with various
examples of our work in FY 2024, can be seen overleaf.

12 ______ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction taLements Other Information

£200k 16 ,. * BECK ° 98%

raised for Social Bite from the tonnes of unavoidable surplus meals redistributed of operational waste diverted

Festival of Kindness * ‘ food, equivalent to 38,000 main through Too ik from landfill inFY 2024
“ o& 4 meals"donated to 732 charities via J * .

‘FareShareinthe year ,
El

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.


Introduction

Bringing people and communities together continued

Social Bite

Charitable partnerships

Caring for the community is one of three pillars of

our company sustainability strategy, with charitable
partnerships being an important element of that work.
The community pillar aligns with the ‘Social’ aspect of
our Environmental, Social and Governance strategy.

In 2019 the Company identified homelessness as a cause
with close links to the business, given hospitality’s
historical role of providing warmth, sustenance and
shelter to the public, and given the issue of homelessness
in the many city centres in which we operate.

Over the past four years we have developed a strong
partnership with Social Bite. To maximise the impact

of this partnership, this year Social Bite became our
charitable partner both at a corporate and a brand level.

Social Bite’s size makes it an effective partner as we

can create a genuine partnership, where we can make

a material difference to Social Bite’s impact, and there is
significant potential for our employees to benefit directly
through involvement in joint activity, enhancing our
employer proposition.

Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

We believe that there is significant scope to build the
partnership in the future with three main focuses:

1) Food and drink provision - our fundraising efforts
support the provision of food and drink to people
impacted by homelessness through Social Bite’s
network of partner charities throughout the UK.

2) Jobs first programme - we have employed 26 people
to date from Social Bite’s academy through the
established programme. Taking the learnings
forward we believe there is significant scope to
grow the programme and we are funding a new role
within Sucial Bite focused entirely on placing people
impacted by homelessness into Mitchells & Butlers
roles and supporting them through the first months
of their employment.

3) Help in the development ofa new ‘village’ - Social Bite
have one homelessness village where they offer housing
and support to those impacted by homelessness in
Edinburgh with two more underway. Our long-term
ambition is to support the development ofa village
in England.

SOCIAL
BITE

Introduction Strategic Report

Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Co)

Festival of Kindness

In December 2023, for the fourth year running, Social
Bite ran a UK-wide relief effort called the Festival of
Kindness. Its aim was to provide essential support

and bring some festive cheer to people experiencing
hardship through the winter. Supporters were asked to
donate money, goods and time to provide hundreds of
thousands of Christmas meals, winter food packs, gifts
and essentials to people experiencing homelessness
and poverty across the UK.

Social Bite directly provided 680 Christmas dinners

for people who were homeless on Christmas Eve and
Christmas Day, and provided an additional 166,000
meals, wrap-around support and a sense of community
over the winter months across the UK, both directly
through their social business coffee shops, and through a
network of charity partners and grassroots organisations.

For the first time since our partnership began in 2020,
all four divisions and their brands took part, with 1,500
venues across the UK inviting and facilitating guests
toadd adonation to their bill throughout December
resulting in over 34,000 meals being provided through
Social Bite’s coffee shops as aresult of our donations.

100-mile challenge

In September, almost 3,500 of our employees covered
over 100,000 miles as part of the 100-mile challenge for
Social Bite in just 30 days, raising over £113,000 for the
movement to end homelessness.

From treasure hunts and paddleboarding to fancy dress
walks featuring Willy Wonka and the Oompa Loompas,
each team contributed in their own unique way!

Some even went the extra mile, like Joe, a team coach

at the Tuclor Rose in Coulsdon, London, who completed
a marathon every week throughout September,

raising £1,400. Another team cycled all the way from
Birmingham to London, visiting every Nicholson’s pub
along the way.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.


Introduction

through

IPE

We have a team of passionate,
dedicated, knowledgeable
and capable people, critical
to delivering outstanding
experiences

Eating and drinking out remains the affordable luxury
that many consumers are happy to continue to prioritise.
We operate ina highly-fragmented market, with
significant opportunity to grow market share by offering
the right mix of food, drink, amenity and service.

ihe
Our sector is focused on creating affordable experiences ' LONDON’
that can’t be replicated at home whilst delivering high id ESSENCE |
levels of customer service. We have a team of passionate, "
dedicated, knowledgeable and capable people critical to
delivering outstanding experiences to our guests as well
as a diverse portfolio of brands and formats delivering
specific offers to suit a range of occasions. We invest
in training to ensure our people achieve their potential
through avenues such as apprenticeships, training
programmes to promote internal progression, and
a gamut of on and off-job training to ensure we provide
food and drink excellence safely.

As ever, high-quality food and drink, served by an
engaged team, in an appealing environment remain
key elements to providing our guests with memorable
experiences, alongside the highest safety standards.
We continually assess changing guest preferences

to position our brands for success. To achieve this, we
build partnerships with suppliers to develop innovation
sustainably in the supply chain, leveraging our scale
toincrease choice and quality whilst reducing the
environmental impact of the food and drinks we serve.

16 Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple


Introduction acegie Report

Co)

A.56 61% 1,600+ -I7%pts High

Average guestreview of General Managers —_ apprentices currently in learning Retail staff turnover reduced Team engagement
scores out of 5 promoted through this year at record highs
in the year internal succession

*

4

Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024.


Strategic Report

Chair’s statement

“The successful implementation of our strategic
priorities by our proven management team has

delivered a year of strong growth and performance.

Bob Ivell
Chair

»

We are delighted with the
performance over the last
financial period, with tike-for-
like sales continuing to
outperform the market,
coupled with strong cost
control, combining to deliver
notable year-on-year profit
growth. We have also achieved
exceptional people metrics,
which reflects the depth

of talent in the organisation,
and are delivering on guest
expectation, with strong guest
scores across the brand
portfolio.

Our investment programme is keeping our
brands fresh, relevant and highly competitive;
and Ignite, our transformation programme,
gives us a roadmap of initiatives that will
continue to drive improvement across every
aspect of the business, meeting the consumer
trends that we have identified.

Whilst we continue to face cost headwinds,
especially relating to employment, we remain
well placed to continue to move the business
forward whilst ensuring that guest experience
remains at the heart of everything we do.

Our purpose

During the period, our purpose to be the host
of life's memorable moments, bringing people
and communities together through great
experiences, remains unchanged. Our brands’
outperformance of their peers is testament

to our success inits delivery.

To support this purpose, at a corporate level,
we have strived to enhance our social impact
through financial and practical support to our
partner Social Bite, a social enterprise tackling
homelessness in the UK. Of particular
importance is the Jobs First programme,
helping people back to independence through
long-term employment opportunities. To date
this has employed and supported 26 people
into full employment in our business. We are
ambitious to grow this partnership further
and enhance our positive social impact over
the coming years.

Annual Report and Accounts 2024 Mitchells & Butlers ple

We are committed to reducing the
environmental impact of our business and
the Board has set challenging targets to drive
continued momentum in this area. We were
delighted to receive Science Based Targets
initiative validation for our Net Zero plans

in January 2024. Amongst other initiatives
we continue to develop our understanding
of strategies to remove gas from operations,
all to deliver targets.

Our culture

Our people are fundamental to the delivery
of great experiences for our guests. We are
delighted with the strength of the people
metrics delivered in the year. Engagement
scores have continued to improve across all
employee groups, and turnover rates are at
record lows. These metrics reflects the depth
of talent across the organisation and the
commitment of our teams to work together
to drive the future success of the business.

| would like to thank all of them, for all they
have done for our guests and our business.

Our values

The values we hold ourselves accountable

to across the business are Passion, Respect,
Innovation, Drive and Engagement. We believe
that these foster the culture and environment
needed to enable our people to work
collectively, and in union with our stakeholders,
to support our purpose.

Introduction

Strategic Report

Financial Statements Other information

Our pensioners

With both of our main pension schemes now
in buy-in or buy-out they are fully funded and
the need for further contributions has ceased.
This positive development reflects our
commitment to our pensioners both now and
into the future and has substantially eliminated
all remaining pensions risk in the Group.

Our Board

There have been no changes to the Board
membership during the year. | believe we
have a group of Non-Executive Directors with
the complementary blend of knowledge and
experience to lead the business successfully.

Further detail on the operation of the Board
in the year can be found in the Governance
section which starts on page 59.

Bob Ivelt
Chair
Mitchells & Butlers pic

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.

“Our people are

fundamental to

the delivery of great
experiences to our
guests. We are
delighted with the
strength of the people
metrics delivered

in the year.”

19


Strategic Report

Phil Urban
Chief‘ Executive

Business review

Persistent inflation over the past two years has
put pressure on the hospitality sector as while
the worst of the pandemic-related disruptions
have eased, rising costs in food supply chains,
energy, and labour which followed have
impacted margins. Looking forward costs in
general are abating, with the notable exception
of wages, which continue to rise sharply based
onincreases both in the statutory National
Living Wage and the level of Employer National
Insurance contributions. The resulting
widespread and unavoidable increase in prices
has made eating out a more considered choice
for many households and the culmination of
these pressures has been net closures of 1%

in the year to June 2024». Despite these
pressures, Lumina reported sales growth in
the pubs, bars and restaurants market of 1.5%
in 2024, with managed groups outperforming
and delivering growth of 2.9%. With positive
indications of increasing disposable income

in recent months as inflationary pressures on
households ease‘ sales growth for the sector is
expected to remain resilient in the year ahead
with forecast growth for managed pubs, bars
and restaurants of 2.6%, driven by price and
spend per head with volumes anticipated

to be in low single digit decline.

Against this backdrop total sales acrossthe
period were £2,610m reflecting 6.1% growth
on FY 2023, ona 52-week basis. Like-for-like
sales increased by 5.3% with strong
performances through the brand portfolio and
continued outperformance against the market
asa whole. Operating profit, after separately
disclosed items, of £300m reflects a notable
recovery from last year (FY 2023 £98m) built
on this strong sales performance coupled with
falling cost inflation. Adjusted operating profit®
of £312m represents a£91m increase in
profitability from last year, on a 52-week basis.

We made a very good start to the year with
like-for-like sales? growth of 7.2% over the first
seven weeks. Strong trading over the important
festive period then led to an acceleration of
like-for-like sales* growth over the latter half

of the quarter to 8.2%, resulting in overall
like-for-like sales? growth for the quarter

of 7.7%.

Sales remained strong through the second
quarter particularly on key trading dates.
Across the quarter, we recorded like-for-like
sales? growth of 6.1%, comprising drink sales
growth of 5.3% and food sales growth of

6.6%, benefiting from the movement of Easter
forward from the third quarter in the prior year.

20 ____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Chief Executive’s business review

‘We focus on maximising the value generated from our 83%
freehold and long leasehold estate, utilising the diversity of
our brand portfolio to grow market share across a broad
range of consumer occasions, demographics and locations.”

Over the third quarter like-for-like sales grew
by 3.4%, adversely impacted by the movement

__ of Easter, the easing of the inflationary

environment and a period of generally wet
weather. In the fourth quarter sales grew by
3.4%, having been negatively impacted by riots
in city centres during August, as well as an
unseasonably cool and wet summer.

Throughout the year we have consistently
outperformed the market, as represented
by the CGA Business tracker, by c.2ppts.

Overall cost inflation abated through the
financial year. Whilst the recent level of
statutory National Living Wage increases
(effective in April each year) has been relatively
high at approximately 10%, other costs have
generally returned to more normalised levels
and gas and electricity costs in particular have
been in deflation. Strong and resilient sales
growth combined with effective cost efficiency
initiatives and abatement in overall cost inflation
has driven a marked increase in profitability.

Introduction

Our strategic priorities

Our strategic pillars, which provide the
foundation for our performance, remain
consistent:

* Buildamore balanced business
*  Instil a commercial culture
* Drive an innovation agenda

We focus on maximising the value generated
from our 83% freehold and long leasehold
estate, utilising the diversity of our brand
portfolio to grow market share across a broad
range of consumer occasions, demographics
and locations.

Our Ignite programme of work remains at the
core of our long-term value creation, with a
range of initiatives underway focused on
driving sales and delivering cost efficiencies.
During the year we have successfully deployed
‘My Account’ across multiple brands, providing
guests with a single platform to manage their
bookings, orders and offers. This has led

to anotable rise in customer engagement,
particularly among younger guests, and
positions ‘My Account’ as a key platform for
future interactions as customer behaviours
evolve. In addition to digital solutions, we
remain focused on delivering excellent guest
experiences and equipping our managers with
the skills to drive the sales of their businesses.
A specific focus during the year has been
enhancing dish availability, a key consideration
in guest experience, using technology to more
accurately forecast sales which inform orders
and provide guidance to kitchen teams on the
optimal volume of food to prepare to satisfy
demand. The benefit of these initiatives is
reflected in sustained like-for-like sales* growth
across our brand portfolio as well as continued
market outperformance on guest review
scores, which averaged 4.5 out of 5.

Strategic Report Governance

Alongside driving sales, we have a range of
initiatives focused on enhancing productivity
and efficiency to help mitigate inflationary
costs. Driving a reduction in our energy
consumption remains a priority, both to
improve efficiency and to support our
sustainability objectives. During the year we
achieved a further 2% reduction in overall
energy usage, aided by investment voltage
optimisers and solar panel roll out. After a
successful trial we are also now rolling out the
use of remote control in-site energy monitoring
systems. Remote control of heating, for
example, provides a significant opportunity to
reduce consumption whilst also relinquishing
our managers of one of their many daily tasks,
allowing them to focus on guests.

During the year we held anumber of events,
gathering different cohorts from various levels
across the organisation, to generate fresh ideas
for the next wave of Ignite initiatives to launch
in FY 2025. These sessions successfully
identified numerous new opportunity areas,

as well as additional value to be realised
through improving the effectiveness of existing
work streams.

Our capital programme continues to deliver
value through improving the competitive
position of our pubs and restaurants wilhiin
their local markets. Over the last year, we have
completed 195 investment projects comprising

178 remodels, 11 conversions and 6 acquisitions.

We are continuing to see strong performances
from our investment projects, with remodel
returns for projects completed in the year of
37%, and remain focused on re-establishing
the target 7-year investment cycle which was
interrupted by Covid-19.

nial Statements Other Information

In June 2023 we completed the acquisition of
the remaining 60% stake in 3Sixty Restaurants
Limited, owners of Ego Restaurants, having
acquired the initial 40% stake in August 2018.
Ego is a collection of Mediterranean-inspired
pubs and restaurants where guests can enjoy
freshly cooked food, cocktails, cask ales and
wine from across the continent. The process of
integrating Ego is making good progress, with
all sites having now moved onto our systems
and processes. During the first half of FY 2024
we are starting to leverage the brand internally
and have converted 5 of our existing sites to the
Ego offer, with average sales doubling following
conversion. We anticipate conversion of

a further 5-10 sites in FY 2025.

In May 2024 we completed the acquisition

of Pesto Restaurants. Pesto delivers an Italian
tapas offer across its ten strong estate which

is designed to create informal social and
interactive experiences, based on sharing
with friends and family. Pesto compliments

the Mediterranean theme of Ego and together
they provide further diversification of the
estate with alow meat offer which appeals to
the health-conscious guest. The consideration
payable for the business is partly contingent
onits performance over the first year of trading
under our ownership, but is not expected to be
more than £15m.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024______ 2


Strategic Report

Chief Executive’s business review continucd

People

Our people are fundamental to the delivery of
great experiences for our guests. As such we
are delighted with the progress made across
our people measures during the year, which
reflects our continuous focus on engagement,
recruitment and retention. Engagement scores
have continued to improve across all employee
groups with record scores in our most recent
employee survey. Turnover has also continued
to improve, reaching record lows of 64% (FY
2023 81%), meaning that we are retaining our
talent, building more experienced teams, and
reducing the cost associated with the induction
and training process. In addition, our internal
succession rates have increased with 61% of
General Manager positions filled internally

(FY 2023 53%), reflecting our commitment to
team member progression and development.

Apprenticeships continue to be an integral
part of our retention and succession strategy,
with evidence that people who complete
apprenticeships are more likely to stay with

us and to be promoted. We remain committed
to delivering high quality apprenticeship
opportunities both to new starters and existing
employees and welcomed over 1,600 new
joiners to the programme this financial period.
Weare particularly proud of our culinary
apprenticeships, which continue to receive
excellent feedback from learners, providing

a pipeline of talent to a more challenging area
for recruitment, as well as a valuable career
opportunity with above industry level
enrolment for 19-24-year-olds. We are
delighted that our apprentice programmes
were recognised at the December 2023
National Apprenticeship awards, winning

the award for Best Large Employer.

Sustainability

We are committed to reducing the
environmental impact of our business and
the Board has challenging targets to drive
continued momentum in this area. We have
committed to:

* Net Zero emissions by 2040, including
Scope 1, 2&3
Progress: During the year we reduced our
emissions by 14% from our 2019 baseline
year, a year-on-year improvement of 3 ppts.
Scope 1 & 2 emissions reduced from the
baseline by 18% (FY 2023 13%) driven
primarily by the energy consumption
reduction initiatives, and the systematic
removal of gas from the estate. In the year
we have made good progress in our efforts
to reduce gas as an energy source with
60 electrified kitchens, and five sites where
gas has been fully removed, and replaced
by air source heat pumps as an alternative
for heating. We have plans to considerably
expand this programme in FY 2025. Scope 3
emissions reduced by 14% with significant
progress made in the reduction of emissions
associated to the products we buy, including
food, as well as transport emissions in our
supply chain.

* Zero operational waste to landfill by 2030
Progress: We now divert over 98% of waste
from landfill and are confident of achieving
our target ahead of 2030. In addition, we
have maintained recycling rates at 59%
with enhanced segregation and a focus on
engagement and behaviour change in sites.

* 50% reduction in food waste by 2030
Progress: We have successfully reduced our
food waste by 23% from our 2019 baseline,
with progress both in sites and in the supply
chain. We are focused on operational
practices to reduce waste, and have
effective partnerships in place with
Fareshare and Too Good To Goto
redistribute unavoidable surplus food.

Our sustainability strategy also has a strong
focus an the positive impact we have on
people and communities, and we are proud

to partner with Social Bite, a homelessness
charity. Of particular importance is the Jobs
First programme, helping peopte back to
independence through long-term employment
opportunities, which to date has employed

26 people from their academy. This year we
funded the establishment of a new role within
Social Bite, focused solely on placing people
impacted by homelessness into Mitchells &
Butlers roles and supporting them for the first
year of employment. We see considerable
scope to grow this partnership and enhance
our positive social impact over the coming years.

22 _____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024 Mitchells & Butlers ple

Current trading and outlook

Sales growth remained strong over FY 2024,
with consistent market outperformance. As we
move into FY 2025 we expect more normalised
levels of sales growth as the inflationary
environment eases. The current underlying run
rate of like-for-like sales* growth, as measured
across the first seven weeks of the new
financial year, is 4.0%.

Cost headwinds are now anticipated to total
c.£100m this financial year, an increase of just
over 5% on our current cost base. Against a
benign backdrop of general inflation

(including food and drink inputs), by far the
most significant increase is now expected to be
in relation to labour costs due both to increases
in the statutory National Living Wage and in
the recently announced increase in Employer
National Insurance contributions, both of
which take effect from April 2025. We
anticipate that energy costs this year, of which
just over one half have been bought forward,
will broadly stabilise overall with no further
deflation, as has been seen in FY 2024.

Notwithstanding future cost increases we feel
that the business is in very good shape. Our
balance sheet continues to strengthen, with
reduced debt and a substantially de-risked
pension surplus, and we expect to outperform
the market driving further profit growth in

the year ahead.

Phil Urban
Chief Executive
Mitchells & Butlers pic

a. The Directors use a number of alternative
performance measures (APMs) that are considered
critical to aid the understanding of the Group's
performance. Key measures are explained on pages
186 to 189 of this report.

b. CGA Hospitality Market Monitor, August 2024.

c. Asda Income Tracker

202 1

DIGE\nnual Reporcandl\ccounts

Mitchells Salers

4

ep re


Strategic Report

Our markets

Trading in the eating-out sector has remained
resilient during a challenging period for the

consumer.

Performance across the market over the period
reflects resilience amid challenging conditions,
particularly high inflation, the cost-of-living
crisis, and fluctuating consumer confidence.

The persistent inflationary environment has
continued to put pressure on both businesses
and consumers and while the worst of the
pandemic-related disruptions have eased, the
rising costs in food supply chains, energy, and
labour which followed have impacted margins.
The resulting increase in prices across the
industry has made eating out a more considered
choice for many households and the
culmination of these pressures has been net
closures of 1% from June 2023 to June 2024?.

Despite these pressures, Lumina reported
sales growthin the pubs, bars and restaurants
market of 1.5% in 2024, with managed groups
outperforming and delivering growth of 2.9%».
With positive indications of increasing
disposable income in recent months as
inflationary pressures on households ease
(Asda Income Tracker‘) sales growth for the
sector is expected to remain resilient in the year
ahead with forecast growth for managed pubs,
bars and restaurants of 2.6%.

24

We have identified five key Consumer Trends
evolving in the post-Covid world which we
believe will shape the future development

of the market:

a. Value Serutiny

As aresult of the cost-of-living squeeze, the
consumer is ever more precious about their
leisure time and how they spend their leisure
pound. Frequency of visit is down, but when
people are out, they are willing to opt for

a premium experience, but are less forgiving
when the operator gets things wrong.

The other component of value is of course
price; it is therefore critical to remain structured
and systematic in the way we take price by
product and by business, with decisions based
on regular peer group price surveys, remaining
acutely aware of market and product
relativities, and on price elasticity.

b. Premiumisation & Experience

The second key trend we see is around
premiumisation and experience, which
recognises the growing importance of quality
in all that is done for the guest and the need

to provide a better overall experience, not just

Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

stopping at good food and beverage. Having

a great environment and great standards has
never been more critical to success. We believe
that successful operators will be those that
have the courage and financial capability to
invest to transform the image of their offers,
premiumising as they do so, and driving higher
spend as a consequence.

However, premiumisation and experience are
not solely about capital, it is also about having
the operational ability to design experience-led
events and offers that appeal to amore
discerning guest.

e. Technology & Data

The third key trend that we see is around the
use of technology and data. It is fair to say that
we have never had as much access to data as
we do today, and our guests have never been
more comfortable engaging with technology
than they are today.

The challenge is to use that data to personalise
communication with our guests, and to
improve their interaction with technology
platforms. To achieve this, there will need to be
continual investment in ever-more sophisticated
CRM systems.

d. Health & Wellbeing

The fourth key trend we see is around health
and wellbeing, which has been a theme

for several years, but which we believe will
continue to strengthen. Consumers are
increasingly interested in, and knowledgeable
about, nutrition and in managing their weekly
approach to diet. We do not believe that this
means that people will reject alcohol, red meat,
and desserts but they do want to know what
they are consuming and want to have choice
throughout the week.


Introduction

Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Strategic Report

¢. Sustainability & Conscientious
Consumption

The final trend that we see is around
sustainability and conscientious consumption.
There is no doubt that sustainability has risen
sharply in terms of awareness across the UK,
but currently there is less evidence yet of a
change in behaviour of our guests in terms of
how they spend their money, and certainly less
appetite to pay for more sustainable choices.
However, this trend is growing and we feel that
we need to keep progressing, as the consumer
will, at some time in the future, start to favour
those businesses that are ‘greener’ across

the spectrum.

Looking ahead, the market's outlook remains
Cautiously optimistic. While economic
conditions are likely to remain challenging

in the short term, continued innovation in
menu offerings, sustainability, and digitat
transformation will be critical in driving
long-term growth. Operators that can balance
cost pressures with consumer demand for
affordability and experience will be well-placed
to capitalise on opportunities in the coming
years. Longer term, Lumina Intelligence‘
forecasts that the UK Eating Market will
growat c.2.4% p.a. over the next three years.
Whilst they use a broad market definition,
with coffee shops and fast- food predicted

to be the leaders, Lumina also acknowledges
that branded restaurants will continue to
outperform, at the expense of independent
Operators in particular.

In conclusion, the UK eating out market in
2024 reflects a sector that is adapting to both
economic constraints and evolving consumer
preferences. With resilience, innovation, and
a focus on sustainability, the market has the
potential to remain a vibrant part of the

UK economy.

Our response to this competitive environment
can be seen on pages 34 and 35 in our strategic
priorities.

Sources:

a. CGA Hospitality Monitor, August 2024.

b. Lumina Intelligence UK Menu & Food Trends Report
December 2023.

¢. Asda Income Tracker, September 2024.

UK Consumer Confidence Index

0)

Jul
24

Jun Oct

24

Oct
23

Feb
24

Mar
24

Sep
24

Jan
24

Dec
23

Nov
23

Apr
24

May
24

Aug

Source: GfK Consumer Confidence Index

Asda Income Tracker (year-on-year percentage change)
20

3 127%

10

13%

5

0% .

Jul
23

Jul
21

Oct
21

Jul
22

Oct
22

Oct
23

Jan Apr Jul Sep
24 24 24 24

Jan Apr
22 «22

Jan Apr
23 «23

Jan Apr
21° «21

Source: Asda Income Tracker July 2024

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.


Strategic Report

Our business model

The Mitchells & Butlers difference

In this section, we outline the distinctive
characteristics of Mitchells & Butlers that enable
us to create value for our stakeholders - be they —
financial, structural, environmental or cultural.

Financial

Long-term transfer of value to equity

as debt is paid down

Strategy designed to generate sustainable
growth and to provide flexibility in
uncertain trading environments

Financial review
Go to pages 56 to 58

Struetural

Our diversified portfolio of leading brands
and offers caters for various demographics
and disposable income levels making us
less susceptible to short-term changes

to industry trading conditions

Weare a predominantly freehold
business with well-invested properties
As one of the largest operators we benefit
from economies of scale driven by our
central functions

We understand our guests and have the
systems in place to receive and react to
their changing needs to evolve our offers

Ata glance
Goto pages 2 to5

26 _____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024 Mitchells & Butlers ple


Introduction

Environmental

* Our sustainability strategy is designed
to create a positive effect on people and
communities and to reduce the negative
effect of our operations on the environment

Our sustainability targets
Go to pages 38 and 39

The Mitchells & Butlers difference

Strategic Report

Cultural

* Wehave a defined purpose
supported by our PRIDE
(Passion, Respect, Innovation,
Drive, Engagement) values

* Our people strategy encompasses
astructured approach to
recruitment, retention,
development and engagement

* Wehave ateam of dedicated,

knowledgeable and capable

people who are critical to

delivering outstanding

experiences to our guests

Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024


Strategic Report

Our business model

How we create value
Our business model is driven by our understanding Our experience and
f our guests and our ability to evolve our brands ability fo interpret
0 8 y . . guest feedback help
and offers to reflect changes in their needs. us understand what
our guests want.

Occasion

Environment

Critical to the delivery of our offers is the

quality of our people, supply chain, estate

and central functions, which provide the

. an
infrastructure through which our brands

deliver memorable moments to our guests. Hygiene ,

Our success in creating these moments

consistently, safely and profitably creates

long-term value for our stakeholders.

Everything we learn about our
guests’ requirements is fed back.

Creating memorable [ume

moments generates
value for stakeholders.

at @


Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Understanding .
what our guests ——
want influences
every element
of our brands
and offers. ;

Everything we do is...
Run by our people... Supplied by our supply chain... | Realised within our estate... Supported and
* managed by our central
+90,000*| +1800 1,726 functions.
* Finance and Technology
Employees Suppliers Pubs, bars and restaurants Human Resources

* Legal and Risk
* Marketing

+ Procurement
* Property

@ .” Asat 28 September 2024.

The combination of our brands, people, supply chain, estate
and central functions creates memorable moments for our guests.

29


Strategie Report

Value creation story

FY 2024 highlights

Suppliers

Our annual supplier conference allows
us to communicate our business and
sustainability priorities direct to our
suppliers

Our centralised procurement team
has developed strong relationships
which have enabled us to minimise the
impact of any supply chain disruptions

Ve
FareShare
tackling food wate
Donated unavoidable surplus food in

the supply chain in partnership with
FareShare

Our suppliers provide the products which bring
our brand visions to life. Our guests’ tastes are
continuously evolving and our ability to meet
changing preferences at scale sets us apart
from our competitors.

We build long-term and collaborative
partnerships with our suppliers. We work
closely with suppliers to ensure the needs

of both businesses are met, and to ensure
relationships are maintained. By working
together, we can develop new and innovative
products with suppliers which help our
brands adapt and evolve, building both of
our businesses. Through these partnerships,
we work to maintain transparency about

our payment terms.

We work with suppliers to understand the
environmental impact of our supply chain and
to minimise the negative impact of production
and transportation. We are working to ensure
that all our suppliers can support our
sustainability ambitions, including prioritising
high animal welfare standards. Further detail
on our sustainability strategy can be seen on
pages 38 and 39.

Guests

Online review score of over 4.5 out of 5
across the business

99.6% of outlets with safety scores
of 4.or 5 out of 5

Introduction

The satisfaction and enjoyment of our guests

is critical to the success of our business. We
always aim to exceed guests’ expectations and
continually evolve our offers with that objective
in mind.

We collate guest feedback through online
channels and via our brand surveys which
is reviewed centrally and used to provide
valuable insight to both our operations and
brand marketing teams.

We have always strived to achieve high safety
and hygiene standards and have used this
strong base to evolve our ways of working for
the challenges we face. We focus on ensuring
high-quality, consistent practices across

the business. We constantly review the new
procedures to ensure that both high safety
levels and guest satisfaction can be achieved.

As ever, high-quality food and drink, served by
an engaged team, in an appealing environment
remain key elements to providing our guests
with memorable experiences, alongside the
highest safety standards. We regularly assess
changing guest preferences across these areas
to position our brands for success.

Strategic Report
lant

Governance

Financial Statements Other Information

Employees

Growing and developing our internal
talent is a priority to address talent
shortages

innovative recruitment and attraction
solutions ensuring the right peopte
join our business

Employce wellbeing has never been
more important

The following table sets out our diversity
balance between men and women at the end
of FY 2024.

Men Women
Board Directors 7 2
Other senior managers 30 13
All employees 24,346 26,462

Our people are central to our business,
bringing brand visions to life through engaging
interaction with our guests and preparation

of high-quality food and drink.

Through our open and inclusive culture,

we aim to create an environment which allows
our people to develop and grow. Recruiting
effectively is important as it ensures that we
attract the right people that will thrive in our
organisation. Increasingly, technology can be
helpful in supporting our recruitment activity,
and enables us to market our job opportunities
effectively in a very competitive environment.

We are proud of the learning and development
opportunities we offer and strive to provide
progression opportunities to all our people.
Over the past year we have increased the
number of people promoted internally,
particularly at the frontline.

Regular development catch ups are held
throughout the year to support employees’
progression and personal development.

We have two formal feedback surveys ayear
providing the opportunity to gain insight
into employee satisfaction and to highlight
opportunities to improve our offer as an
employer.

Employee forums are hosted by the Executive
Committee team members and enable

all employees to raise issues via elected
representatives, giving them the opportunity
to directly discuss any issues.

The welfare of our employees is of paramount
importance to us and we continually review
the support we offer to employees across

the business.

Dave Coplin, an independent Non-Executive
Director, is the nominated Board member
responsible for representing the employee
voice at Board level.

We are committed to providing equal
opportunities for all our employees. Our
employee Diversity and Equality Policy ensures
that every employee, without exception,

is treated equally and fairly and that all our
employees are aware of their responsibilities.


Strategic Report

Value creation story contiqucd

Local community Environment
Developed a nutritional roadmap We have along history of providing a central Investment in FY 2024.in
focused on enhanced information hub to many communities where peoplehave | energy-reducing technology
and balanced choices met and socialised for decades.

Many of our brands are long-standing

supporters of causes which resonate with the
brand and its guests. For example, All Bar One
supports Shelter with selected dishes including oO

adonation, and Toby Carvery supports the
tax paid in FY 2024.(not including tax Armed Forces. of operational waste diverted from
collected, e.g. VAT) landfill in FY 2024.
We are actively looking to enhance the positive
~ ——_ impact we can have on local communities, hoe en ead hohe ey
Worked with Social Bite to help including supporting charities, providing Target to reduce our absolute Scope 1
provide employment to vulnerable career opportunities, encouragingresponsible | & 2 GHG emissions by 70% by 2030 vs
people on their Jobs First programme drinking, and supporting health by enhancing 2019 and our absolute Scope 3
and providing information on the nutritional emissions by 28% over the same
content of our meals. time frame

Over 110 tonnes of unavoidable
surplus food donated to charities via

FareShare during the last five years yy) 3%

Food waste reduction in
FY 2024 vs 2019 baseline

Committed to achieving Net Zero
emissions by 2040

32 Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & a
. _

ae _—


Introduction

The natural environment provides the business
with the resources it needs to operate. We take
our responsibility to protect that environment
seriously and have set stretching targets to
reduce the negative impact of our business.

We have aligned our objectives with the UN
Sustainable Development Goals in order to
focus our efforts on the global priorities. Our
aimis to embed a sustainable way of doing
business within our current operations such
that it becomes business as usual and we are
doing that through a Board-level committee,
steering committee and focused workstreams
with representatives from across the business.

The food industry has an important part to play
in climate change, as food supply chains are

a significant factor in rising greenhouse gas
emissions and in the reduction of biodiversity.
We have measured our baseline emissions
and have used this to create a roadmap for
reduction which is one of our priority areas.
Weare also conscious of the food industry's
significant impact on biodiversity which

is another area we are balancing within our
future plans to reduce the negative impact
our organisation has on the environment

and to enhance the positive outcomes
wherever possible.

Further detail of our sustainability strategy
can be found on pages 38 and 39.

Strategic Report

Investors

Robust financial management through
challenging macro-economic conditions

Equity raise in FY 202] gave strength
to balance shect

Reporting on environmental, social
and governance issues enhanced

Our investors are made up of our shareholders
and bondholders who play an important role in
monitoring and safeguarding the governance
of the Company.

We aim to demonstrate the responsible
stewardship of the Company from a financial,
strategic, governance, environmental and
ethical perspective. We have a highly effective
Board, with Directors with various specialisms
and backgrounds to best govern the Company.
Their biographies can be found on pages 64
and 65.

Financial Statements Other Information

We maintain an open dialogue through our
investor relations programme. We update
investors and bondholders on financial

and strategic performance through regular
performance updates and facilitate discussion
through meetings, roadshows and our Annual
General Meeting.

Board-level committees ensure that
appropriate time and focus are allocated to the
key areas of governance of the business and,
where necessary, expert third parties are
consulted. The Board provides a healthy

level of challenge and debate on key areas and
has been successful in moving the business
forward.

The Executive Committee consists of members
of management from across the business who
have a wealth of experience both within the
hospitality industry and from other sectors.
Their biographies can be found on our website
at www.mbplc.com/investors/our-
management.

We recognise that it is important that our
investors have transparency over the operation
of our business and the full details of our
governance procedures are set out on pages
75 to 87.


Strategic Report

Our strategic priorities

Maintaining our consistent three strategic priorities

Consistent focus on our strategic priorities has enabled
the business to continue to generate sales growth
ahead of the market as well as cost efficiencies

Our strategic priorities are the pillars which
underpin the activity within the business

to drive long-term sustainable growth and
ultimately that enable us to achieve our
purpose of being the host of life's memorable
moments, bringing people and communities
together through great experiences. Through
building a strong and efficient business we are
able to focus on providing experiences which
our team and guests enjoy being a part of,
including processes which are sustainable and
aim to bring people together throughout our
supply chain. We have maintained consistency
in our three strategic priorities over recent
years and believe that continued focus in these
areas is key to retaining stability and driving
growth in the business. Our three strategic
pillars are:

* Build amore balanced business
*  Instilamore commercial culture
* Drive aninnovation agenda

Focusing on these areas through our Ignite
programme of work, a wide range of
management improvement initiatives delivered
significant progress, generating sustained
like-for-like sales* growth and cost efficiencies.
The third wave of Ignite initiatives has continued
this progress and planning sessions for the
fourth wave have taken place during the year
with plenty of new initiatives to continue the
momentum. We continue to focus on initiatives
which enhance efficiency and productivity,

in areas such as automatic product ordering,
enhanced labour scheduling, cost-mitigating
procurement strategies and energy
consumption reduction, Alongside efficiency
improvements, we have anumber of projects
designed to drive sales, with focus on enabling
our teams to deliver exceptional guest
experiences alongside digital development
designed to enhance the guest experience

as well as the effectiveness of our marketing
strategies. We remain confident in our ability
to deliver long-term and sustained efficiencies
and business improvements through the
existing Ignite programme.

Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

We believe that our three strategic pillars
remain the crucial elements of the business
which will drive long-term growth. Through
the Ignite workstream and our capital
programme, we will continue to unlock value
in these areas, enhancing our competitive
position in the market.

The table on page 35 outlines these strategic
priorities, our progress against them in FY
2024, our priorities for FY 2025 and their link
to our sustainability strategy, risks and KPIs.

“We have maintained
consistency in our three
strategic priorities over
recent years and believe
that continued focus in these
areas is key to retaining
stability and driving growth
in the business.”

a. The Directors use a number of alternative
performance measures (‘APMs’) that are considered
critical to aid the understanding of the Group's
performance. Key measures are explained on pages
186 to 189 of this report.

Introcuction

1. Build a more
balanced business

* Toeffectively utilise our estate of largely freehold-
backed properties

* Toensure we are exposed to the right market segments
by having the optimal trading brand or concept in each
outlet, based on location, site characteristics and local
demographics

+ To maintain the amenity level of the estate such that we
operate safely, reduce our impact on the environment
and remain competitive to guests, alongside meeting
cashflow commitments

Strategic Report

overnance

2. Instil a more
commercial culture

To empower teams across the business to make
changes to facilitate sustainable growth

To engage our teams in delivering outstanding guest
experiences

To act quickly and decisively to remain competitive
in our fast-changing marketplace

To provide training and development opportunities
which allow our people to thrive within the business
To enhance processes to address Modern Slavery
threats in the supply chain

Financial Statements Other Information

3. Drive an
innovation agenda

To ensure that our brands and formats remain fresh

and relevant within their market segments

* To leverage the increasing role technology can play

in improving efficiency and guest experience

To execute a digital strategy to engage with consumers
across a variety of platforms

* To facilitate new product and concept development

To utilise our scale and position to lead on environmental
issues which impact our sector, finding innovative
solutions to pressing issues

F Y¥ 202 | progress
* Capital expenditure at£154m

* Completed 189 conversions and remodels, and acquired

four new freehold and two new leasehold sites
* Expanded our competitive socialising darts concept,
Arrowsmiths, across 10 sites providing a strong return
from secondary space
* Acquisition of Pesto Restaurants Ltd, delivering Italian
Tapas offer across its ten strong estate. Pesto
complements the Mediterranean theme of Ego:
together these brands provide further diversification
of the estate with a low meat offer which appeals to
the health-conscious guest
Conversion to Ego, acquired in FY 2023, continues with
31 sites within the brand and strong sales uplifts
following conversion
+ Weare committed to re-establishing a seven-year
investment cycle and this continues to be a key focus
forthe business

r ¥ 202-4 progress

Launched a ‘Guest Obsessed’ programme to enhance
the skills of our teams and provide exceptional guest
experiences with a focus on driving sales, delivering
record guest review scores

Successful implementation of a new dish availability
system has improved menu availability which has a
significant impact on guest experience

Continue to train and develop our people, celebrating,
550 apprenticeships completed in the year, and internal
succession to General Manager roles increasing to 61%
Focus on employee engagement resulting in record
engagement scores across all employee groups and
turnover reduced to 64%

r Y 2025 priorities

There is a full capital programme planned for FY 2025
* Focus on enhancing asset value through remodelling
sites where we believe increased value can be unlocked
Make selective acquisitions where we feel they add
value to the estate, and disposals where we feel we
have extracted maximum value
+ Continue to realise conversion opportunities within
the estate to the Ego format and begin to expand Pesto
Invest in technologies, such as solar panels and
internet-connected control devices, to improve the
energy efficiency of our estate
Continue to maximise the utility of the secondary
spaces across the estate via a dedicated Ignite initiative

FY 2025 priori

Adapt to the changing environment within which we
operate to maximise the profitability of each business
Deliver a wide range of cost control initiatives across
the estate under the Ignite programme including

range management to deliver lower-cost alternatives
Unlock the full benefits of automated team member
scheduling in every business

Expand the trials of internet-connected control devices
for heating systems and kitchen equipment to reduce
energy consumption

Increasingly leverage scale through central procurement
and benchmark our businesses

FY 202-4 progress

* Successfully deployed ‘My Account’ across multiple
brands, providing guests a single platform to manage
their bookings, orders and offers. Resulting in notable
rise in customer engagement, particularly among
younger guests, and positions ‘My Account’ as a key
platform for future interactions

* Ourwebsites and apps were redesigned witha fresh
look and improved functionality, leading to higher
conversion rates. The new design has enhanced the
overall user experience, making our digital platforms
more engaging and intuitive

* Apre-order system for Christmas was introduced.
automating what was previously a manual process.
This has provided guests with a more streamlined and
efficient experience, while also reducing operational
complexities during a busy time of year

+ We expanded our marketing efforts by adopting new
social media platforms and introducing personalised
website content, improving how we target and engage
with different customer segments.

FY 20235 priorities

* Building on the success of ‘My Account’, we will trial
more advanced points-based loyalty schemes to further
incentivise repeat customer engagement and
strengthen brand loyalty

* Extend digital gamification across more brands,
enhancing customer interaction and engagement

* OurCRM platform will be upgraded to enable better
data management, deeper customer insights, and more
tailored marketing communications. ensuring we stay
competitive in personalisation and customer relationship
strategies

* Further enhancements to our ordering and booking
platforms, focusing on improving speed, reliability, and
the overall customer experience to meet the evolving,
expectations of our digital audience

Sustainability

+ Enhancing the sustainability credentials of our buildings
is akey priority

During the year we have installed solar panels on 151
sites producing on-site renewable electricity and have
plans to continue this programme into FY 2025
Removing gas as an energy source from our sites is akey
objective of our Net Zero roadmap. We now have 60
sites with all-electric kitchens and five sites where we
have fully removed gas in favour of renewable electricity
+ We have a team of sustainability ambassadors across the
business who have helped to drive behavioural change
resulting in reduced energy consumption; coupled with
investment in energy reducing technology we have
reduced consumption by 2% during the year

We divert 98% of our operational waste from landfill and
are focused on reducing overall volumes of waste whilst
increasing recycling rates

Sustainability

We communicate our sustainability ambitions on ail
brand websites and have built our communication on
these topics through social media in appropriate brands
We have made good progress in reducing food waste,
down by 23% in FY 2024 from FY 2019 baseline,
facilitated through enhanced practices and partnerships
with Fareshare and Too Good To Go to redistribute
unavoidable waste

We are working in collaboration with our waste
management providers and suppliers to reduce

the amount of waste generated by the business
Continue our work with Stop The Traffik to drive best
practice in addressing Modern Slavery threats in the
supply chain

We are expanding our programme with Social Bite to
help provide employment to support people impacted
by homelessness by funding a Social Bite support
worker dedicated to placing people impacted

by hometessness into Mitchells & Butlers roles

Sustainability
Around 18,000 people have completed our training
on sustainability designed to enhance understanding
of sustainability challenges
* We have active and ongoing discussions with
our suppliers on innovative ways to reduce the
environmental impact of our supply chain
* Our food development teams are exploring ways
to reduce the environmental impact of our menus.
+ Weare active members of the Zero Carbon Forum,
a cross-industry group whichis focused on finding
solutions to help hospitality transition to a low carbon
economy

+ We have representation on the Hospitality Sector

Council Sustainability Group, making us part of the
conversation with government for future legislative
changes to support enhanced sustainability in the sector

Links to Key Risks Links to Key Risks Links to Key Risks

1, 2,3, 7,8, 10, 11, 12, 14 1, 2,3, 6, 7,8, 10, 11, 12, 14 1, 2,4,5, 7,10, 11, 12, 14
See pages 46 to 52 See pages 46 to 52 See pages 46 to 52
Links to KPIs Links to KPIs Links to KI

2,3,4,5 1,2,3,5 2,3,5

See pages 36 and 37 See pages 36 and 37 See pages 36 and 37

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024_ 35


Strategic Report

Key performance indicators

Measuring performance

We measure our performance against our strategy
through five key performance indicators.

L
Staff turnover

Definition

The number of leavers in our retail businesses,
expressed as a percentage of the average
number of retail employees. This like-for-like
measure excludes site management. The
turnover measurement gives an indication

of the retention of retail staff and can help to
identify if there is an arising retention issue in
any area of the business which could highlight
an engagement issue. In addition, as team
members go through a thorough induction
and training process there is an element of
cost for each person who leaves the business.
Therefore, it is important for the Board to
monitor this measure.

FY 2024. performance

Retail staff turnover reduced by 17 ppts to 64%
during the year due to the effective delivery

of our people promise, to meet the needs of
our employees, driving improved retention.
The reduction in turnover reflects improved
stability and experience of teams across all
levels. During FY 2020 and 2021, turnover was
suppressed by the impact of Covid-19 as there
were minimal leavers during closure periods.

Link to strategic priority: 2
See page 35

Staff turnover

64%

94%

81%

64%

56% 58%

2020 2021 2022 2023 2024

2.
Guest review score

Definition

Our reported guest measure is an average
feedback score across the major third-party
feedback channels such as Google, Facebook,
Tripadvisor and other review sites. Improving
this score remains a key focus of the business
as we aim to create memorable moments for
our guests.

FY 2024 performance

Our average feedback score across all major
feedback channels was 4.5 out of 5 for

FY 2024, an improvement on prior year of 0.1.
Weare delighted with the significant progress
made in recent years on guest feedback, which
reflects the satisfaction of our guests. Progress
has been made over the year, driven by

a collection of Ignite projects focusing on
improving this metric and our managers’
continued commitment to delivering excellent
guest experiences.

Links to strategic priorities: 1,2 & 3
See page 35

3.
Year-on-year same outlet
like-for-like sales*

Delinition

Sales in FY 2021 and 2022 were impacted by
Covid-19 related closures, therefore during
these years sales were compared to the sales
in FY 2019, being the last full year pre-Covid-19.
Since FY 2023 the measurement has reverted
to using the prior year as a comparative for all
UK managed sites that were trading in the
two periods being compared, expressed as a
percentage. Like-for-like sales is an important
indicator of how the business is performing

in the context of its previous performance,
the long-term trend of which can reflect
improvements in guest appeal.

FY 2024. performance

Like-for-like sales increased by 5.3% in FY 2024,
with strong trading throughout the year and

all brands in like-for-like sales growth. Sales
growth remained consistently ahead of the
market as measured against the CGA Business
Tracker.

Links to strategic priorities: 1,2 & 3
See page 35

Guest review score

4.5

a 43 i743 || +4 |e
2020 || 2021 |} 2022 || 2023 | ea

36

Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Year-on-year same outlet
like-for-like sales* e (¢)

9.1%
5.3%
1.1%
co
“e
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024

Introduction

4.
Incremental return on
expansionary capital"

Definition

Expansionary capital includes investments
made in new sites and investment in existing
assets that materially change the guest offer.
Incremental return is the growth in annual site
EBITDA, expressed as a percentage of
expansionary capital. It is important for the
Board to monitor return on investment as it
indicates the success of the capital programme
which underpins one of our three key strategic
pillars, to build a balanced business.

FY 2024 performance

The EBITDA return on all conversion and
acquisition capital invested over the last four
years was 19%. We remain confident in the
quality of the investment programme and
committed to the re-establishment of a
seven-year investment cycle. Our capital
programme continues to be akey focus of the
business and one which we believe will deliver
significant future value.

Strategic Report Governance

5.
Adjusted operating profit"

Definition

Operating profit before separately disclosed
items as set out in the Group Income
Statement. Separately disclosed items are
those which are separately disclosed by virtue
of their size or incidence. Excluding these items
provides both management and investors with
useful additional information about the Group's
performance and supports an effective
comparison of the Group's trading performance
from one period to the next. The Board
monitors adjusted operating profit as one of the
financial health indicators, as it helps to reveal
how efficiently the business is being operated.

FY 2024 performance

Adjusted operating profit? of £312m was £91m
higher than the prior period, on a52-week
basis. Strong sales performance and enhanced
operating efficiency as well as easing cost
inflation during the year resulted in notable
profit growth for the period.

Link to strategic priority: 1
See page 35

Links to strategic priorities: 1,2 & 3
See page 35

Incremental return on
expansionary capital"

19%

1
1a o% || HS
6%
0.8%
2020 | 2021 | 2022 || 2023 || Sa
co

Adjusted

operating profit" £312m

£312m
£240m
£221?
2022 2023 2024)

£99m
£29m
sox | 2021 ]

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024

Financial Statements Other Information

4..5 out of 5

Average guest review score

19%

Incremental return on expansionary capital

a. The Directors use a number of alternative
performance measures (APMs) that are considered
critical to aid the understanding of the Group's
performance. Key measures are explained on pages
186 to 189 of this report.

b. 52-week basis.


Strategie Report

Our sustainability targets

The focus areas of our strategy were determined by a materiality

assessment informed by stakeholder engagement

We remain focused on reducing the environmental
operations of our business and are pleased with the
progress made during the year.

We have been working on enhancing the
sustainability of our operations since 2019 and
are pleased with the progress we have made.
We believe that embedding sustainability skills
into our existing teams is essential in order to
generate the changes needed to reduce the
environmental impact of the business.
Therefore, building knowtedge across the
organisation such that sustainability can be
considered in each business decision has
remained a key focus during the year. The
Sustainability Steering Committee oversees
the development and progress of the Company
strategy, supported by three working groups
aligned to the three pillars of the strategy.

The Board provides challenge and insight

and is regularly updated on progress, and team
members across the business receive

Sustainability strategic pillars

1. Respect for the planet

communication on key initiatives to drive
engagement and enhance understanding
of our objectives.

Our strategy has been developed to align with
the issues addressed by the UN Sustainable
Development Goals and Paris Climate
Agreement. We have committed to reducing
the negative impact of our business model on
the environment in light of these objectives and
look for opportunities to enhance our positive
impact on society. Our Net Zero ambition

has been developed to align with the Science
Based Targets initiative (SBTi) methodology
to keep global warming well below 2°C,

and our roadmap was validated by the SBTi

in January 2024.

We have identified the UN Sustainable
Development Goals which we believe we can
have the greatest impact on and have aligned
these to our strategic pillars as shown below.
For each of the pillars we have defined our
objective, key actions and targets.
Collaboration across our industry and value
chain is essential in order to facilitate progress;
we are members of industry groups such as the
UK Hospitality Sustainability Committee and
Zero Carbon Forum, to share best practice with
the intention of moving the industry forward
as awhole, and we are also represented on

the Hospitality Sector Council.

Details of the link between our sustainability
strategy and our strategic pillars can be seen
on page 35.

2. Pride in our offers

3. Care for communities

Objective
We are committed to reducing our emissions, tackling
waste and protecting biodiversity

Objective
We strive to deliver responsibly-sourced products and
menu options for everyone

Objective
People are central to our business; we are focused on
supporting our teams and the communities we serve

Key actions

* Wehavemade progress against our Net Zeroroadmap,
which was built in collaboration with third-party
experts, providing a detailed plan for decarbonisation

* We received validation for our Net Zero roadmap
from Science Based Targets initiative

* Wearea founding and active member of the Zero
Carbon Forum, bringing the industry together to
reduce emissions across the sector through shared
learning and insights

+ Wecontinue to purchase 100% renewable electricity

* Wecontinue our solar panel roll out, with 151 sites
now completed, allowing us to generate on-site
renewable energy

* We have successfully removed gas as an energy
source for cooking, heating and hot water in five
sites providing essential learning for the future
scaling of this initiative

+ We have successfully converted 60 kitchens from
Bas to electricity

* We have increased the proportion of operational
waste diverted from landfill to 98% (FY 2023 97%)

+ We have maintained our recycling rate at 59% (FY
2023 59%), through team engagement and working,
with suppliers on more sustainable packaging,

Key actions

+ Wecontinue to evolve our menus to support our
ambition of reducing food emissions

+ Wework with suppliers across ail categories
to understand and improve the environmental
credentials of the products we buy

+ Wehave enhanced our animal welfare requirements
from suppliers

* We engage with suppliers on sustainability through
our procurement managers and at our annual
supplier conferences

+ We have maintained our focus on enhancing
the nutritional balance and information available
onmenus

* Wesource all direct palm oil purchases from
Rainforest Alliance Approved sources

Key actions

* We have developed a partnership with Social Bite,
acharity tackling homelessness

* We have expanded our employment programme
with Social Bite, supporting vulnerable people back
into employment

+ Weraised £211k for Social Bite through Festival
of Kindness, a campaign which facilitates donations
across all of our sites

* We have an enhanced employee wellbeing strategy
and improved resources and tools available to
employees

* We maintain oversight of our Modern Slavery policy
with risk assessment completed, in partnership with
Stop the Traffik

UN Sustainable Goal alignment

UN Sustainable Goal alignment

UN Sustainable Goal alignment

Saeee 913 co

38 —____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction

Strategie Report

Financial Statements Other Information

Our targets

1. Net Zero greenhouse gas
emissions by 2040

2. Zero operational waste
to landfill

Target

Achieve Net Zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2040
{absolute reduction of emissions, including Scope 1,2
& 3} from our FY 2019 baseline. We align our definition
of Net Zero to the Science Based Targets initiative
corporate standard. Our Net Zero target includes our
Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions, using an operational contro!
approach. We have set a near-term target (validated by
SBTi) to reduce our absolute Scope 1 &2 GHG emissions
by 70% by 2030, compared toa 2019 base year (aligned
to well below 2°C) and a target to reduce our absolute
Scope 3 emissions by 28% over the same timeframe.
We have also set along-term target (validated by SBTi)
to reduce absolute GHG emissions from Scopes 1,2&3
90% by 2040 from a 2019 base year to be Net Zero

by 2040. Aligned to the SBTi criteria we will offset our
residual 10% emissions using carbon removal offsets

at our Net Zero date. During FY 2024 we will recalculate
our baseline and reduction pathway to align with the
Forest, Land and Agriculture (FLAG) guidance.

Target
Zero operational waste to landfill by 2030.

Performance

Our Scope 1, 2 & 3 greenhouse gas emissions have
decreased by 14% against our FY 2019 baseline in

FY 2024. This reduction is primarily driven by reduced
energy consumption, reduced reliance on gas as a fuel
sourcein our businesses and a reduction in the
emissions associated to the products we buy. On an
intensity basis of emissions to turnover our output of
emissions has reduced by over 4.1% from prior year.

Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions reduced from the baseline
by 18% (FY 2023 13%) driven primarily by the energy
consumption reduction initiatives delivering 2%
reduction, and the systematic removal of gas from

the estate. In the year we have made good progress

in our efforts to reduce gas as an energy source with

60 electrified kitchens nowin place, and five sites where
gashas been fully removed and replaced by air source
heat pumps as an alternative for heating. We have plans
toconsiderably expand this programme in FY 2025.

\n addition, we have continued our solar panel roll out
programme and now have 151 sites with solar panels
installed, creating renewable energy, with plans

to further expand this initiative into FY 2025.

Our Scope 3 emissions, which include all other indirect
emissions that occur in our value chain, reduced by

14% versus our 2019 baseline driven by reductions in
emissions associated with the products we buy and with
our supply chain logistics. Scope 3 emissions represent
92% of our baseline footprint and therefore are an
important focus of our transition plan. Food emissions
are the largest individual contributor to our footprint and
we have made good progress over the year. By engaging
with suppliers we have moved to product specific
emission factors across a number of high emission
categories with procurement managers regularly
discussing emission reduction plans with suppliers.

We have also established a working party focused

on building emission reduction plans into our food
development cycle. We will continue to progress

in this area with the aim of reducing the emissions

of our menus across all brands, which is a key focus

for achieving Net Zero.

Performance

During the year we have diverted 98% of operational
waste from landfill putting us on track to deliver our
target of zero operational waste to landfill by 2030.

In partnership with our waste management providers,
we have runa bin optimisation programme, ensuring
that all of our sites have appropriate recycling and
general waste bins in the most accessible areas of the
business, to encourage improved segregation of waste.
This, alongside team engagement on our environmental
ambitions, has helped us maintain our recycling rate

at 59%.

We have targeted a recycling rate of 80% by 2030 and
are working across a number of fronts to achieve an
improvement in the proportion of waste we recycle.

We are working with suppliers to reduce the volume of
packaging entering our sites, and to ensure that as much
packaging as possible can be recycled, as well as engaging
teams in the positive environmental impact they can
have by increasing recycling rates. We face challenges
in some geographies where recycling of materiats

is not yet available, and we continue to investigate
opportunities to access recycling in these areas.

Zero

Target to achieve Net Zero
greenhouse gas emissions
by 2040

Zero

Target to achieve zero
operational waste to landfill
by 2030

3. Food waste

Target
Reduce food waste by 50% by 2030 from our FY 2019
baseline.

Performance
This year we have achieved a 23% reduction in food
waste against our FY 2019 baseline.

In our sites, food waste reduction has been achieved
through strengthened operational procedures which
reduce the level of waste generated during the food
prep process, including enhanced ordering accuracy, as
weltas reduced menu complexity. The introduction of
auto-ordering has helped to improve the forecasting of
dish mix and therefore reduced waste through spoilage.
Inaddition, we have continued our roll out of Too Good
To Go which is now across seven brands, saving on
average over 14,000 meals a week from wastage and
having saved two million meals from waste since the
beginning of the partnership. During FY 2025 we will
collate data to better understand the drivers of guest
plate waste in order to develop strategies targeting a
reduction of waste returned to our kitchens on plates.

Unavoidable food waste from our pubs and restaurants
is sent to anaerobic digestion. The digestion process
itself creates biogas which is then captured and used
to generate electricity.

We have also remained focused on managing waste
within the supply chain, particularly around menu
changes and key dates, and have maintained the
progress made last year. Where possible we donate
food which would otherwise go to waste within the
supply chain to Fareshare who redistribute the food
tocommunity groups who need it. During the period
we donated 16 tonnes of food through Fareshare,
the equivalent of c.38.000 meals.

90%

Target to reduce
food waste by 50%
by 2030

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.


Strategic Report

Task Foree on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures (TCFD’)

The purpose of this statement is to provide investors and wider stakeholders
with an understanding of Mitchells & Butlers ple’s governance structure in
relation to climate, our exposure to climate-related risks and opportunities,
our strategic response to managing identified risks and opportunities and the

key metrics we use.

We are pleased to confirm that we have
included climate-related financial disclosures
consistent with the TCFD recommendations
and recommended disclosures, except for
Scope 3 emissions, and in compliance with
UKLR 6.6.6R(8). Our report addresses the
four TCFD pillars: Governance, Strategy,
Risk Management and Metrics and Targets.

In preparing this information, all of the guidance
in Section C and E of the TCFD Annex has been

considered. Scope 3 emissions have not been
disclosed for the current period. Our intention
isto disclose Scope 3 emissions on the
conclusion of our rebasing for Forest, Land
and Agriculture targets as required by Science
Based Targets initiative, allowing us to begin
disclosure on a basis which we expect to

remain consistent in future years. We anticipate

our internal processes to be concluded in the
first half of 2025 with Science Based Targets
initiative approval to follow.

Governance

We, alongside our stakeholders, recognise
that the health of our planet is critical to the
wellbeing of society at large and that the

food industry has a significant part to play

in addressing the current climate emergency.
We also recognise that the food industry will
feel the effects of continued climate change
ever more acutely which will result in changes
in consumer behaviour, advances in innovation
and the evolution of leisure offers to adapt

to changing needs.

The Board of Mitchells & Butlers plc is
committed to delivering the purpose of the
organisation; to be the host of life's memorable
moments, and to do so ina way which reduces
the environmental harm caused by operations.
The Board considers climate-related matters
when reviewing and guiding strategy,
investment decisions and the risk management
policies. Our approach to climate enables us to
evolve our offers to meet changing consumer
expectations in order to realise potential
climate-related opportunities whilst also
monitoring and addressing the risks posed by

climate. We have developed a clear governance

framework to support our assessment and
response to climate-related matters.

40

This framework has helped us to continue to
make progress against our climate goals and
to address challenges faced by the industry
asawhole.

Strategy & risk management

In response to the TCFD requirements, we
performed a detailed review of the climate-
related risks and opportunities relevant to

the business. The resulting principal risks were
added to the risk register and are now assessed
ona regular basis as part of the Risk
Committee's review.

Identifying, assessing and managing
climate-related risks and opportunities
The following stages formed the process of
identifying and assessing climate-related risks
and opportunities:

* Workshops were held with external third
parties who reviewed Mitchells & Butlers
operations before generating alist of
Climate-related risks and opportunities
relevant to the business. These were
considered alongside guidance from the
World Business Council for Sustainable
Development (WBCSD) Food, Agriculture
and Forest Products TCFD Preparer Forum
to formulate a list of all the climate-related
risks and opportunities which may impact
our organisation

* Workshops were held with representatives
from relevant functions across the
organisation to obtain a wide range of
perspectives on the identified climate-
related risks and opportunities. Using
expert knowledge of the business and its
supply chain, experience from past events
and insight into guest behaviour, each risk
and opportunity was assessed and opinions
were gathered on future change and
perceived risk materiality. The output of
the workshops was a reduced list of risks
and opportunities which were considered
to be most material to the organisation
based on this qualitative assessment.

This process helped to reinforce our
response to TCFD requirements

Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

* Ourestablished risk management
framework and heat mapping (see page 46)
was then used to establish which of those
identified risks were likely to be material
to our business, being those with a high
likelihood and a high impact. Two risks were
identified to be material, and therefore have
now been included as principal risks, with
the results discussed and approved by the
Risk Committee. Our sustainability strategy
has been developed to mitigate those risks
where possible with associated KPIs to track
progress, as well as risk indicator measures
which identify if the impact of an identified
risk is increasing

All potential climate-related risks and
opportunities are reassessed annually through
the Sustainability Steering Committee and Risk
Committee. Analysis and response to risks are
supported by TCFD guidance and evolving
corporate best practice. Additional risks are
added to the principal risk register if the criteria
todo so are met; no additional risks have been
added to the register in the financial period.

Through our membership and active
involvement in industry-led organisations, such
as the UK Hospitality Sustainability Committee
and Zero Carbon Forum, and through regular
dialogue with suppliers, we will continue to
collaborate on our responses to climate risks
and to seek out opportunities to progress
against our goals. We engage actively with

our suppliers on sustainability issues, including
at our annual supplier conference, and will

be seeking to further progress alignment of
objectives which will help manage climate

risks through Scope 3 emissions measurement
and management.

Introduction

Strategic Report Other Information

ard oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities

Board of Directors

Corporate Responsibility
Committce

Sustainability Steering
Committee

The Board is responsible for the
long-term success of Mitchells &
Butlers ple and has an established
framework in place which enables
effective assessment and
management of risks, including
climate-related risks and
opportunities.

Responsibility for ESG matters is
managed within the framework by the
Corporate Responsibility Committee,
a Board level committee, using insight

The Corporate Responsibility
Committee meets atleast twice a year
toreview progress utilising information
provided by the Sustainability Steering,
Committee. The Sustainability Steering
Committee, which is a management
level committee, provides regular
update papers to the Corporate
Responsibility Committee, including
performance against stated targets
including Net Zero by 2040, waste
management and food waste
reduction, as well as progress

on key transition plan initiatives.

The Sustainability Steering,
Committee is a management level
Committee which has responsibility
for the continuous monitoring and
evolution of the sustainability strategy.

The Committee oversees the three
working groups responsible for
discrete areas of the sustainability
strategy: respect for the planet, pride
in our offers and care for communities.

The Sustainability Steering
Committee meets with the working
group leads every eight weeks, and

from the Group Risk Committee on
the assessment of climate-related
risks, the Group Audit Committee
onthe financial consideration of
climate-related risks and the Gro
Remuneration Committee on the
inclusion of climate-related metr

in remuneration.

The Corporate Responsibility
Committee is chaired by Bob Ivell and
is led by Dave Coplin, Non-Executive
Director, who has been designated

The Boardis updated at feast annually
on performance against targets

and initiatives or investment, either
underway or future, which facilitate
the attainment of our goals. Ad hoc
updates are provided where approval is
required, or a significant development
is reported. As such climate-related
risks and opportunities form an
important part of the context from
which the organisational strategy is
considered and developed, ensuring
that the Group is positioned to protect
itself from financial and reputational
risks associated with climate.

receives supporting update papers in
advance of meetings. The meetings
ensure that the Sustainability Steering
Committee maintains oversight over
sustainability activities which are

in place across various business
functions, ensuring that our approach
is consistent and executed effectively.

These meetings also provide the
foundation of the update information
provided to the Board-level Corporate
Responsibility Committee. The
Sustainability Steering Committee
also meets ona monthly basis with

by the Board to take a lead role in
oversight and development of the
Company's approach to climate-
related issues. Dave Coplin has,

for the last 30 years, been providing
strategic advice and guidance on
driving innovation and transformation
to organisations and governments
both here in the UK and around the
world giving him excellent experience
in this role. The Committee is made
up of five Board members; Phil Urban
is invited to attend regularly.

This structure also enables

the Company to benefit from

the commercial opportunities

of accelerating the sustainability
programme in order to align brand
propositions with guests’ changing,
needs. When considering any
business planning activity, the Board
takes into consideration the broader
context of its trading environment,
with details of the climate aspect
provided by the Corporate
Responsibility Committee.

members of the Executive Committee
to inform management on progress

of key initiatives and to discuss any
decisions required by the Executive
Committee

Climate-related risks and opportunities
management and strategy

Our analysis of climate-related risks and
opportunities identified the risk of the
introduction of carbon taxes and the risk of
increased severe weather events as material
and these risks have been included within our
principal risks (see pages 46 to 52). These risks
are consistent across all of our locations.

During the year we have conducted
quantitative analysis of identified risks.

In the modelling of climate-related risks

we have considered three warming scenarios,
using the Representative Concentration
Pathways (RCP) 2.6, 4.5 and 8.5 developed
by IPCC as a basis for our assumptions.

RCP capture forecast how concentrations of
greenhouse gases in the atmosphere will likely
change as a result of human activity, and
predict the future impact on regional climates.
RCPs are widely recognised and represent
respectively 1.6°C of warming, 2.4°C of
warming and 4.3°C of warming. Our analysis
assesses the short-term risks as being between
0-3 years, in line with how we assess our
principal risks and viability statement;
medium-term risks between 3-6 years; and
long-term risks between 6-20 years in line
with our longer-term contracts and climate
commitments.

The results of the quantitative analysis will be
considered in our financial planning as we make
progress against our transition plan. Elements
of the sustainability strategy are already
embedded in financial planning, for example
capital investment in sustainable technology
and building development are considered at
Group level and built into the annual capital
plan and specific initiatives developed by
brands to ensure optimal alignment with guest
needs are factored in to brand budgeting
assumptions. The financial, and environmental,
impact of all sustainability initiatives are
carefully tracked and reported to the
Sustainability Steering Committee which

in turn escalates any material impact to the
Executive Committee and Board.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024____ 41


Strategic Report

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continued

Our sustainability strategy is designed to
mitigate the financial and reputational impact of
climate-related risks and to capture the benefit
of aligning our brand proposition to changing
consumer needs. In particular, we have a
well-developed transition plan to Net Zero,
which has been designed in collaboration

with third-party experts and was validated

by Science Based Targets initiative (SBT).

We plan to resubmit for Forestry, Land and
Agriculture (FLAG) SBTi in 2025 and are
currently in the process of calculating our 2019
baseline. Our Net Zero roadmap aligns with
SBTi methodology to keep global warming well
below 2°C. This detailed roadmap provides the
benchmark against which performance can be
tracked to alow emission economy, with our
contribution clearly understood as well as that of
our suppliers, such that we can influence others
in our supply chain to reduce their emissions.

Sustainability is a key priority for the Board

and management and remains so despite the
challenges currently faced by the industry as a
whole. Hence, we have included a Sustainability

The financial impact of identified climate-
related risks and opportunities bring to life the
possible consequences for the business and its
supply chain. The various warming scenarios
were developed using the Met Office
predictions of future weather events. Physical
risk, we performed a qualitative analysis of the
possible (1) reduction in sales, (2) increase in
supplier costs, and (3) increase in damage to
properties under the three warming scenarios.

We believe that we have a robust strategy in
place to help mitigate an element of the risks
posed particularly under RCP 2.6 where the
impact is on the organisation and supply chain
is lower. Under more severe warming
scenarios, such as RCP 8.5 the impact on the
environment will be more severe reducing our
ability to mitigate and manage risks, with food
supply chain disruption being a particular area
of risk. We have acentralised building
management team who monitor the physical
risk to our estate and our sustainability strategy
is designed to address the transition risks
identified.

target in our Long Term Incentive Plan for the
Executive and Leadership team and intend to
include appropriate measures within incentives
plans through the organisation to outlet level.

Transition ri

We are conscious that collaboration,
particularly with the supply chain, will be vital
in order to tackle the future challenges ahead.
Identifying ways to develop commercially
viable solutions to approach the environmental
impact of the food supply chain, an area of
greater risk, is a significant challenge and one
on which we are working with industry bodies,
supply chain partners and other hospitality
businesses. Under a 4°C warming scenario
whereby, according to Met Office predications,
adverse weather events would be far more
frequent, the impact of both our physical and
transition risks are higher. From a physical risk
perspective, due to sea levels rises in this
scenario, a small number of sites would enter
the flood risk register and we would expect
increased frequency of damage to properties
caused by storms and extreme weather.

We monitor the frequency of weather-related
damage to buildings centrally and would
evolve an enhanced strategy to mitigate the
risk under this scenario should this be the likely
direction of travel.

Below is a summary of the climate-related
risks included within our principal risk register;
for further details on our risk assessment
framework please see page 46.

Risk level
e e e
Short-term Medium-term Long-term

Risk
Introduction of carbon taxes and levies

Category
Operational costs

Description

This risk represents the impact on
operating costs of the business both
directly through taxation and indirectly
through higher input costs which would
result from the introduction of taxation
and levies attributed to greenhouse
gas emissions.

Qualitative assessment has identified
this risk as both high in impact and
likelihood over the medium to long term
especially under RCP4.5 and RCP8.5
warming scenarios. The introduction
of a form of carbon taxation is likely

to be introduced as pressure mounts
for progress to be made against the
Government ambition to achieve

Net Zero by 2050.

Mitigating actions

We have developed a Net Zero strategy with a target
date of 2040 which has been validated by Science
Based Targets initiative (SBTi). We plan to resubmit
for Forestry, Land and Agriculture (FLAG) SBTiin
2025 and are currently in the process of calculating
our 2019 baseline.

We have anumber of initiatives underway designed
to reduce our emissions in line with our Net Zero
roadmap. In order to reduce Scope 1 & 2 emissions,
we are investing in solar panels, electric kitchens and
fully electrifying sites. Furthermore, we are investing
in anumber of initiatives that will reduce our energy
consumption.

The detailed plan for reduction will help to mitigate
an element of potential cost, and a target date ahead
of Government ambition will help to position the
organisation ahead of the market average.

In order to reduce Scope 3 emissions, we are working,
closely with suppliers, particularly in high emission
categories, to support their pathway to carbon
reduction which will help to mitigate an element of
this risk. However, if input costs increased materially
in response to carbon taxes margins would be at risk.

We are amember of UK Hospitality Sustainability
Committee which enables us to have foresight over
potential policy changes impacting the organisation.

42 _____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Quantitative analysis considerations

The approach to the quantitative assessment
performed took the Group's forecast carbon
emissions, from our net zero plan submitted for
Science Based Targets initiative approval, and
applied the 2024 carbon price for use in civil
penalties in the UK of £64.90 per tonne of CO,
over the short, medium and long term giving an
estimate of the potential financial impact of the
introduction of carbon taxes.

Under RCP2.6, a scenario under which
warming remains under 1.6°C, we have
considered the introduction of carbon taxes
is unlikely as other action has controlled
temperature rise.

Under RCP4.5 we assume a high likelihood of
introduction of taxes in relation to Scope 1 & 2
emissions in the long term as warming poses
a greater risk and intervention is introduced
to attempt to limit warming.

Under RCP8.5, where warming is 4.3°C, the
impact would be considerable with increased
severe weather events and considerable
impact on human welfare. We have considered
intervention in both the medium and long term
likely, and due to the scale of impact have
assumed carbon tax of Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions.

Introduction

Risk
Increased severity of extreme
weather events

Category
Acute

Description

This acute physical risk represents

the risk to both revenue and the supply
chain of increased severe events.
Revenue would be impacted through
the interruption to trade caused by both
extremely hot weather and adverse
weather such as rain and snow, as well
as possible site closure resulting from
flooding. In addition, the availability

of products in the supply chain, in
particular agricultural produce, could
be impacted by severe weather affecting
product availability and input prices.

The qualitative assessment of potential
revenue impact included a high-level
review of previous interruption to trade
resulting from extreme weather and
considered scientific forecasts as to

the likely increase in extreme weather
events. Procurement information
relating to previous disruption to supply
chain due to localised weather events.
and geo-political issues was reviewed
and considered in the context of
increased severe weather events.

As aresult of these assessments the risk
has been identified as both high impact
and high likelihood.

Strategic Report Governance

Financial Statements Other Information

Mitigating actions

The weather has a high level of impact on trading
levels across the estate and therefore monitoring
weather forecasts in relation to expected trading
levels is a normal part of the financial planning

of the business.

This monitoring activity will enable us to identify
when patterns of increased instances of extreme
weather events begin to develop at which point
investment in mitigating action, such as installation
of air conditioning, can be considered. In addition,
our experience during Covid has meant that we have
developed strategies to close sites at short notice,
such that in the instance of extreme weather
significantly impacting trade we could close sites

in order to mitigate some of the financial losses which
we would be exposed to.

In relation to site closure due to damage to buildings,
such as during flooding, we have insurance in place
to recover the lost trade and required repairs and this
therefore does not represent a significant risk in the
short term, however it might impact us in the medium
and tong term under RCP4.5 and RCP8.5 if the
business incurs higher insurance premiums and

is unable to insure some buildings at high risk

of flooding.

To manage the risk associated with our supply chain,
we monitor and communicate with our suppliers
closely giving us foresight over potential supply
issues. We also have sufficient breadth of products
across our brands that supply issues with one product
could be mitigated through switching to a substitute.
We are also aware of emerging agricultural
techniques which are less susceptible to weather
conditions, such as vertical farming and regenerative
agriculture, as well as shifting crops to more
favourable conditions, and would consider these
alternatives if the supply chain were likely to become
severely impacted.

Quantitative analysis considerations

The quantitative assessment performed during
FY 2024 involved a detailed analysis of extreme
weather's previous impact on trade to
determine the potential impact on revenue.

In order to quantify the future impact of
extreme weather, four weather-related data
points (maximum temperature, minimum
temperature, rainfall and wind speed) were
taken from the Met Office Climate Projections
under RCP2.6 and RCP8.5 warming scenarios.
These were used to determine the financial
impact of weather-related extreme events in
the short, medium and long term under the
three warming scenarios, that is above and
beyond what the Company has experienced

in the last three financial periods.

To measure the potential impact on the supply
chain, we reviewed historical impacts of

a variety of weather events and gathered
scientific evidence showing up to 31% decrease
in crop profits under RCP8.5, half of which can
be avoided by reallocating crop lands, and no
material impact on livestock products. Hence,
we have assumed 5% increase in crop items
cost under RCP4.5 and 10% under RCP8.5 as
Mitchells & Butlers will be able to implement
strategic ingredient swaps to dishes to adjust
for certain products’ inflation, both were
considered in the long term only.

To measure the potential impact of increased
flood risk on the estate, we assumed that in
the short term the risk would be mitigated by
insurance. in the medium and long term our
insurance premiums would increase under
RCP4.5 and RCP8.5 due to expected 11%
increase in flood instances which was derived
by the Met Office Climate Projections. In the
long-term scenario under RCP8.5, due to
significantly increased flooding we have
assumed that half of our high-risk sites would
be unlikely to be insured resulting in exposure

Transition opportunity

to financial risk.
°-@

Risk
Adjusting brand propositions to appeal
to changing consumer preferences

Category
Revenue

Description

Changing consumer preferences
towards products seen as better for the
environment, for example dietary shifts
towards low carbon products, presents
an opportunity for the Group to position
brands to appeal in an evolving market.
The breadth of brands within the Group
portfolio provides the opportunity to
test adapted brand propositions in alow
risk way and to therefore be ahead of
the market when consumer preferences
begin to change in the mass market.

Mitigating actions

All of the initiatives under the sustainabitity strategy
help to strengthen the Group's position in relation
to environmental matters. This allows our brands to
communicate with guests on environmental issues
with consistency across the portfolio and to build

a reputation for sustainable operations.

Our focus on achieving ambitious environmental
targets will position the Group well to benefit from
changing consumer habits. Our ability to trial
proposition adaptations in appropriate brands to
gauge guest reaction will ensure we are well prepared
to make informed decisions in the future as consumer
preferences change. In addition, our scale and
commitment to our investment programme will
enable the Group to enhance the sustainability
credentials of its properties.

Quantitative analysis considerations
Consumer insight is continuously reviewed and
is used to inform brand evolution. In addition,
direct consumer feedback is used to highlight
changing guest preferences, and reactions

to brand changes designed to enhance
environmental credentials.

Alongside financial performance these metrics
will inform the future evolution of our brands.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024__ 43.


Strategic Report

Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures continucd

Summary of quantitative assessment
Potential financial impact on profit inthe average year (£m)

Risk level
° @ e
Low Medium High

Introduction of carbon taxes and levies
Key Assumptions Time Horizon RCP2.6 RCP4.5 RCP8.5
* Wecalculated the financial risk of carbon taxes and levies <3 years e e e

based on Mitchells & Butlers’ Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions, as

per our SBTi submission, inthe short, medium and longterm  3—6years e Ld e
* Weused the 2024 carbon price for use in civil penalties in _

the UK - £64.90 per tonne of CO,e 6-20 years ° e t
Increased severity of extreme weather events
Key Assumptions Time Horizon RCP2.6 RCP4.5 RCP8.5
1.Sales risk <3 years e e e
* Maximum temperature, minimum temperature, rainfall

and wind speed were taken from the Met Office Climate 3-6 years e e e

Projections under RCP2.6 and RCP8.5 warming scenarios _
* The above weather events were quantified to determine 6-20 years ® ® e

the financial impact of weather-related extreme events in

the short, medium and long term under the three warming

scenarios, above and beyond what Mitchells & Butlers

has experienced in the last three financial periods
2.Supplier costs risk <3 years e e e
* Assumed 5% increase in crop items cost under RCP4.5

and 10% under RCP8.5, both were considered in the 3-6 years e e e

long term only _
* Assumed no increase in livestock cost under RCP4.5 6-20 years ° t ) t )

and RCP8.5
3.Flood risk <3 years e e e
* Assumed that Mitchells & Butlers’ insurance premiums

will increase in the medium and long term under RCP4.5 3-6 years e e e

and RCP8.5 6-20 years e [ T )

* Assumed that half of our high-risk sites are unlikely
to be insured in the long term under RCP8.5

44. _____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction

Climate-related metrics & Largets
The below metrics are used either to track the performance of strategies designed to mitigate the impact of the principal climate-related risks, or as

an internal measure of risk exposure. Emission reduction has been included in the long term incentive scheme from FY 2024 with the SBTi verified net
zero reduction plan used as a basis to calculate targets. Performance against our stated sustainability KPls is provided on pages 38 and 39.

Current and historical greenhouse gas emissions, Scope 1 & 2, are available within the Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting framework

and progress against our Net Zero roadmap is provided annually with details on the key initiatives within the sustainability section.

Strategie Report

Governance

Financial Statements

Other Information

Metric category

Climate-related risk

Greenhouse gas
emissions Scope 1,
2&3

Unit of measure
tCOe

Metric

Absolute Scope 1,2 &3
emissions calculated

in accordance with
Greenhouse Gas Protocol
guidance by an
independent third party
which is checked and
verified internally.

Climate-related risk
Waste management

Unit of measure
% of waste diverted
from landfill

Proportion of total waste
diverted from landfili, i.e.
recycled or incinerated.
Datais provided by a third
party and corroborated
with internal information.

Climate-related risk
Food waste

Unit of measure
Volume of food waste
generated

Volume of food wasted.

Data is provided by third
parties and corroborated
with internal information.

Climate-related risk
Proportion of estate
exposed to flood risk

Unit of measure
% of estate

Climate-related
opportunity
Transition to
renewable energy

Unit of measure
% and Megawatt Hour
(MWh’')

Climate-related
opportunity
Workforce
competence

Unit of measure
Number of employees
to complete training

Proportion of sites within
the estate identified as
high or medium flood risk
due to proximity to rivers
and coasts.

Group targets

Performance

Link to identified
risks and
opportunities

Yes — Group target set, Net Zero by
2040 using 2019 as our baseline year.

We align our definition of Net Zero to
the SBTi corporate standard. Our Net
Zero target includes our Scope 1,2 &3
emissions, using an operational control
approach. Our near- and long-term
targets were verified by SBTi in January
2024. We have set a near-term target to
reduce our absolute Scope 1 & 2GHG
emissions by 70% by 2030, compared to
a 2019 base year (aligned to well below
2°C) and a target to reduce our absolute
Scope 3 emissions 28% over the same.
timeframe. We have also set a
long-term target to reduce absolute
GHG emissions from Scope 1, 2 & 3

by 90% by 2040 from a 2019 base year
to be Net Zero by 2040. Aligned to the
SBTi criteria we will offset our residual
10% emissions using carbon removal
offsets at our Net Zero date.

Yes — Group target set — Zero
operational waste to landfill by 2030.

We underpin this target with an internal
metric on recycling, with an ambition to
achieve 80% of waste recycled by 2030.

Yes — Group target set — Halve food
waste by 2030 from 2019 baseline.

No target set, used as an internal
measure of risk exposure.

% and MWh of energy
consumption which

is purchased from
renewable sources.
Data is provided by third
parties and reviewed
internally.

Sustainability training
made available to all
employees.

Sustainability included
as part of the induction
process.

No target set, reported as an indicator
of progress.

Scope1&2sawa Carbon taxes

reduction of 18% versus and levies.

2019 base year.

98% of operational waste Carbon taxes

is diverted from landfill. and levies.

We expect to achieve

zero operational waste

to landfill ahead of the

2030 target.

We have achieved 23% Carbon taxes

reduction offoodwaste —_andlevies.

from 2019 baseline.
Physical risk —
increased instances
of severe weather
events.

151 estate sites have Carbon taxes

been fitted with solar and levies.

panels to date. In FY 2025

we expect a further 175

to be installed.

Target 80% of General Managers
to complete training and 90%

of inductions to have included
sustainability.

Around 18,000 people
have completed the
sustainability training
and sustainability is

planned to be integrated -

into inductions during
FY 2025.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024__ 45.


Strategic Report

Risks and uncertainties

Keeping risk under control

This section highlights the principal risks and
uncertainties that affect the Group, together with
the key mitigating activities in place to manage

those risks.

This does not represent a comprehensive

list of all of the risks that the Group faces but
focuses on those that are currently considered
to be most relevant. Please also refer to how
we link the key risks to our strategic priorities,
on page 35.

Overview

Risk managementis critical to the proper
discharge of our corporate responsibilities and
tothe delivery of shareholder value. Risk is at
the heart of everything we do as an organisation.
Therefore, the process for identifying and
assessing risks and opportunities for
improvements is an integral and inseparable
part of the management skills and processes
which are at the core of our business.

There is a formally established Risk Committee
in place which continues to meet on a quarterly
basis to review both the key risks and emerging
risks facing the business.

Key risks identified are reviewed and assessed
by the Risk Committee in terms of their
likelihood and impact and recorded on the
Group's ‘Key Risk Heat Map’, in conjunction
with associated agreed risk mitigation plans.
The processes that are used to identify
emerging risks and manage known risks are
described in the Internal Control and Risk
Management statement on pages 86 and 87.

Management support, involvement and
enforcement is fundamental to the success of
our risk management framework and members
of the Executive Committee take responsibility
forthe management of the specific risks
associated with their function. Our Group risk
register clearly outlines the alignment of each
key risk to an Executive Committee member
and identifies an ‘action owner’, to ensure
responsibilities are formally aligned.

Key risk heat map

Risk key

C1 TG) Borrowing covenants

@O Sales performance

© 5S People planning and development

OS Business continuity and crisis
management

@O Information and cyber security

OS® Wage cost inflation

@O Failure to operate safely and legally

© Cost of goods — price increases

©6 Food supply chain safety

@@ Health andlifestyle concerns

@@® Environment and sustainability

@O Enforced Government closure/
trading restrictions

@®O Introduction of carbon taxes
and levies

@OP® increased severity of extreme
weather events

Likelihood

Almost Certain

Rare

Low

Catastrophic

Impact

Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

There is arobust and transparent process in
place to provide an appropriate level of
direction and support in the identification,
assessment and management of risks across all
areas of the business which have the potential
to seriously damage our financial position,

our shareholder value, our responsibilities to
our staff and guests, our reputation and our
relationships with key stakeholders. The Board
has carried out an assessment of the Group's
emerging and principal risks, resulting in the
identification, assessment and management

of risks across all areas of the business. The
principal risks are subject to review each quarter
by the Audit Committee, which is also attended
by the Board.

Key risk heat map

The Key risk heat map below includes an
indication of the likelihood of a ‘risk event’
occurring in relation to each of the principal
risks and the expected magnitude of the
impact of each such event. The risk
assessments in the graph are after taking into
account the mitigating actions against each
of the risks.

Our three fines of detence

First

¢ Executive Committee

* Leadership group/management
* Internal controls and processes
* Internal policies and procedures
* Training

Second

¢ Financial authority limits

¢ Risk management processes
* Audit Committee

° Risk Committee

* Health and Safety Team

* Technology specialists

* Legal support

Third

* Group Assurance

* Operational Practices Team


Introduction

Strategic Report

Governance Financial Statements Other Information

k category and description
1. Borrowing covenants

There are risks that borrowing covenants are breached
because of circumstances such as:

i. achange in the economic climate leading to reduced
cash net inflows; or
ii. amaterial change in the valuation of the property portfolio.

Risk Decreasing

In July 2023 an increased bank facility of 200m was
completed. This new facility contained a covenant package
that provides increased trading headroom in the unsecured
estate.

As documented in the Going Concern note, the Directors
have assessed a base case forecast and a severe but
plausible downside scenario with headroom against all
covenants and sufficient liquidity. Therefore the overall
risk is decreasing.

High-level controls/;

.

igating activities Movement

Risk Decreasing

The Group maintains sufficient headroom against

the covenants. The finance team conducts daily cash

forecasting with periodic reviews at the Treasury

Committee (the role of which includes ensuring that

the Board Treasury Policy is adhered to, monitoring

its operation and agreeing appropriate strategies for

recommendation to the Board).

Each period the Treasury Committee meets and formally

considers compliance with financial covenants and limits

(both current and projected) for the following:

- The securitisation (Free Cashflow and EBITDA to
Debt Service).

- Nonsecuritised bank facilities.

Liquidity Policy headroom.

- Compliance with alt aspects of Board Treasury Policy.

In addition, regular forecasting and testing of covenant

compliance is performed.

A detailed assessment of the mitigating risks is included

in the Viability statement on page 53.

2. Sales performance
This risk falls into the below main categories:

Sales: There is arisk that declining sales, concerns around
consumer confidence, increased personal debt levels,
squeezes on disposable income and rising inflation
individually, together or in combination, may adversely
affect our market share and profit, reducing headroom
against securitisation tests.

Consumer and market insight: If the Group fails to
manage and develop its existing (and new) brands in tine
with consumer needs and market trends due to failure to
obtain or use sufficient insight in a timely manner, this may
lead to a decline in revenues and profits.

Pricing and market changes: If price changes are not
intelligently applied due to a lack of appreciation of market
sensitivities and elasticities, this may result in decreased
revenue and profit.

Risk Stable
Overall, this risk remains stable.

Risk Stable

Right operational and commercial team and structure

in place. Brand alignment ensures the right research

is done and is acted upon.

Daily, weekly and periodic sales reporting, monitoring
and scrutiny activity is in place.

Our Eat Drink Share panel provides robust, quick and
cost-effective research. This is our own panel of 27,000
of the Group's guests, whom we can use for research
purposes for quick and cost-effective insights.

Primary research in partnership with brand and
category teams.

Working with suppliers to tap into their research.

Each brand has its own pricing strategy.

Price promotions are in line with the agreed strategy.
Sales training for management.

Consumer and insight-led innovation process and
development for new brands.

Reduce guest complaints by improving the local
management of social media responses (e.g. TripAdvisor
responses).

Increased digital marketing activity including new loyalty
apps.

Increased activity from takeaway and delivery offerings.
Online guest satisfaction survey to collect guest feedback.
This feedback, together with the results of research
studies, is monitored and evaluated by a dedicated guest
insight team to ensure that the relevance to guests of the
brands is maintained.

Our priority is to continue to protect our team members
and guests, providing an eating-out experience which
can be enjoyed. We have very strong health and safety
practices already in place in our businesses, which we
will enhance and evolve to tackle the challenges we face.
We will be transparent with guests as to these measures
such that they can trust in us and will clearly communicate
our expectations of guests to comply with the measures
putin place.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.________ 47


Strategic Report

Risks and uncertainties continucd

R

category and description

3. People planning anddevelopment = *

The Group has a strong guest focus and so it is important
that it is able to attract, retain, develop and motivate the best
people with the right capabilities throughout the organisation.
There is a risk that, without the right people, our guest
service levels would be affected.

The external recruitment activity over the year has been
challenging due to the lack of quality candidates being
available. A further potential riskis the image of hospitality,
given the recent pandemic impact.

Retention is high amongst our Director and ‘head of
department’ populations which may lead to a perceived lack
of progression routes and hence unwanted loss of good
talent at lower levels.

Regarding retail labour, overall, there is a continued risk of

a lack of quality of internal and external pipeline for key roles
resulting in open vacancies or poor-quality appointments,
leading to poor performance, reduced quality of service
and loss of sales. There is a previous lack of consistent skills
training affecting guest satisfaction and employee
engagement and retention.

Kitchen Manager attraction and attrition continues to be the
highest concern, particularly given the decline in non-UK
applicants, decrease in internat progression and increase

in turnover which is influencing the overall risk rating.

Wage pressure (over 25s) remains an issue, as competition
for labour continues to increase.

Risk Stable

We have strong internal talent pools for anumber

of operational roles; however, it is sometimes difficult to
recruit top Operations Director talent externally due to the
competitive marketplace. Therefore, the risk remains stable.

4. Business continuity and .
crisis management

The Group relies on its food and drink supply chain and the
key IT systems underlying the business to serve its guests
efficiently and effectively. Supply chain interruption, IT
system failure or crises (such as terrorist activity or the threat
of a further disease pandemic) might restrict sales or reduce
operational effectiveness.

Risk Stable

Overall, the risk is stable. Staff have the resources and ability
to work remotely rather than rely on access to the Retail
Support Centre.

High-level controls/mitigating activities Movement
The Group makes significant investment in training Risk Stable

to ensure that its people have the right skills to perform
their jobs successfully.

Furthermore, an employee survey is conducted annually
to establish employee satisfaction and engagement,

and this is compared with other companies, as well

as previous surveys. Where appropriate, changes in
working practices are made in response to the findings
of these surveys.

Remuneration packages are benchmarked to ensure that
they remain competitive, and atalent review process is
used to provide structured succession planning. Please
also refer to the Report on Directors’ remuneration,

on pages 92 to 112.

The apprenticeship programme will also assist in
mitigating against the increasing risk in relation to
non-UK workers. Please also refer to the Chief
Executive's business review on pages 20 to 22.

Talent development and potential calibrations are
carried out biannually to anticipate and address

any risks/issues.

Risk Stable

The Group has in place crisis and continuity plans that
are reviewed and refreshed regularly.

New ways of working are in place for all Retail Support
Centre staff, to ensure when the office is temporarily
closed to employees, there is little or no impact to staff,
given that all staff have the appropriate resources
available to them in order to work remotely and

in an efficient manner.

We have assessed the risks associated with remote
working and cyber security and are confident that
those areas are suitably controlled.

Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction

Risk category and description
5. Information and cyber security

There is a risk that inadequate disaster recovery plans and
information security processes are in place to mitigate
against a system outage, or failure to ensure appropriate
back-up facilities (covering key business systems and

the recovery of critical data) and loss of sensitive data.

Given the increase in the tevel and frequency of global
cyber attacks, the likelihood of occurrence is therefore
increasing, although current IT controls and monitoring
tools are robust.

Risk of non-compliance with data protection laws is an
increasing risk for the business to ensure full compliance
remains up to date.

Risk Decreasing

Overall, the risk is decreasing due to the ongoing review
and improvement of cyber security controls. However,
the increased activity, information security and reliance
on IT systems continue to be a key focus to ensure

critical 1T systems are kept secure and tested frequently
and any vulnerabilities identified are addressed efficiently.

6. Wage cost inflation

There is a risk that increased costs associated with further
increases to the National Living Wage may adversely impact
upon overall operational costs.

Risk Stable

The immediate and future impact of National Living

Wage and wage inflation (together with the impact of the
Government's plans to increase National Insurance), is kept
under regular review with updates provided to the Executive
Committee and Remuneration Committee, as appropriate.
The assumptions on the cost headwind form part of the
business costs forecasting and assumptions with any

cost headwind risks being addressed specifically.

Strategic Report

High-level controls/mi

Governance Financial Statements

Other Information

ating activities

Areview of cyber security processes is performed ona
regular basis in order to highlight any gaps and address
any challenges. As a result, anumber of further
improvements have been made (and continue to be
made) to strengthen overall security cyber controls.

In addition, controls include:

— Thework carried out by the Group's cross-functional
Information Security Steering Group.

- Group Assurance IT reviews.

- Implementation and revision of appropriate cyber
security governance policies and procedures.

— Ongoing security awareness initiatives continue
to be undertaken.

~ Aregular cycle of penetration testing.

— Increased focus on protecting the business
against potential cyber attacks has resulted in the
implementation of additional controls to mitigate
against such risks.

— The effective implementation of a business-wide data
protection compliance programme, including training
of all relevant employees and contractors.

— Systems, processes and controls have been reviewed
and updated to ensure compliance with data
protection laws.

- Annual IT Security training is undertaken and
reported on through the MABLE Learning
Management system, with an emphasis on how to
identify and defeat any external phishing attacks.

- Annual review of cyber security technologies,
policies and procedures to ensure we stay abreast
of current developments in the {T Security threats
and trends

- Wecommission Bridewell's SOC (Security
Operations Centre) to monitor user activity across
the IT estate and to monitor and alert any incidents
raised by the SIEM (Security Incident Event
Monitoring) toolset.

- Wecommission a third-party Security Operations
Centre (SOC) to monitor user activity across the
Group to monitor and alert any incidents to MAB.

A detailed review of the risks associated with the
National Living Wage has been completed. This review
has been undertaken at a strategic level to ensure that
the Group carefully manages productivity and efficiency
across the estate.

The ongoing review of the impact, post-implementation
of the National Living Wage and forthcoming increase
to National Insurance, will continue to be monitored

and reported to the Executive Committee and where
necessary the Plc Board/Remuneration Committee.
The Group continues to work with UK Hospitality

and other agencies to engage with the Government

and the Low Pay Commission on future pay policy

and prospects.

We have successfully implemented atime and attendance
system to improve the management controls and
reporting of staff hours.

Movement

Risk Decreasing

Risk Stable

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024___ 49


Strategie Report

Risks and uncertainties continued

Risk category and description

7. Failure to operate safely and legally

A major heaith and safety failure could lead to illness,
injury or loss of life or significant damage to the Group's
or a brand's reputation.

Risk Stable
Overall, the risk continues to be stable. In particular,
allergen-related incidents and near misses have stabilised.

8. Cost of goods - price increases

Food: The cost of food for resale increases due to changes
in demand, food legislation, exchange rates and/or
production costs and uncertainty of supply, leading

to decreased profits.

Drinks: The cost of drinks for resale increases due
to changes in demand, legislation, exchange rates
and production costs, leading to decreased profits.

Utility costs: Utility costs continue to remain stable,
with only a minimal fluctuation in costs in the second half
of FY 2024.

Goods not for resale: Increases in the cost of goods not
for resale and utilities costs as a result of increases in global
demand and uncertainty of supply in producing nations can
have a significant impact on the cost base, consequently
impacting margins.

Risk Decreasing
The overall risk of inflation is easing given anumber
of factors, including:

* Easing UK infiation
* Easing utility costs
* Improved availability of labour and raw materials

Mitigation to inflation is sought where possible through
a change of supplier, products, specification, range and
an ongoing review and monitoring of energy cost
management.

High-level controls/mitigating ac Movement
* The Group maintains arobust programme of healthand _—_ Risk Stable

safety checks both within its restaurants, pubs and bars
and throughout the supply chain.

* The dedicated Safety Assurance team uses anumber
of technical partners including food technologists,
microbiologists and allergen specialists to ensure
that our food procedures are safe.

* Regular independent audits of trading sites are
performed to ensure that procedures are followed and
that appropriate standards are maintained.

* Ifabusiness is identified as underperforming in terms
of health and safety standards, it is immediately targeted
for improvement and then reassessed.

* Food suppliers are required to meet the British Retail
Consortium Global Standard for Food Safety and are
subject to regular safety and quality audits.

+ Comprehensive health and safety training programmes
are in place.

Risk Decreasing

In order to reduce the overall impact of costs increases,
the Group leverages its scale to drive competitive cost
advantage and collaborates with suppliers to increase
efficiencies in the supply chain. The fragmented nature of
the food supply industry in the world commodity markets
gives the Group the opportunity to source products froma
number of alternative suppliers in order to drive down cost.
Consideration has been given to potential areas such as
supply chain risk (e.g. customs controls on imports),
labour risk and economic disruption. Key mitigating
activities for food and drink are detailed below:

Food:

* Afood procurement strategy is in place.

* Fullreviews are carried out on key categories to
ensure optimum value is achieved in each category.

* Afull range review was completed in FY 2024 ensuring
the correct number of products and suppliers.
This is regularly reviewed.

* Regular reporting of current and projected inflation.

* Good relationships with key suppliers.

Drinks:

+ Each drinks category has a clearly defined strategic
sourcing plan to ensure the Group's scale is leveraged,
the supply base is rationalised, and consumer needs
are met.

* Good relationships with key suppliers.

* Supplier collaboration programmes are in place.

Energy:

* Ongoing review of energy purchasing policy (covering
short-term and medium-term energy purchasing).

* The Group currently spot purchases its energy
requirements and also enters into short and medium-term
energy hedges as part of the overall energy purchasing
strategy.

* Energy Cost Price & Forecast Reports are produced
and monitored.

* Installation of solar panels at sites to reduce reliance
on the grid.

+ Energy Ambassadors complete energy audits in every
business.

50 _____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction

Risk category and description

9. Food supply chain safety

Malicious or accidental contamination in the supply chain
could lead to food goods for resale being unfit for human
consumption or being dangerous to consume. This could
lead to restrictions in supply which in turn cause an increase
in cost of goods for resale and reduced sales due to
consumer fears and physical harm to guests and/or
employees.

Risk Stable
Risks facing the food supply chain safety are regarded
as stable.

10. Health and lifestyle concerns

Failure to respond to changing consumer expectations in
relation to health and lifestyle choices and our responsibility
lo facilitate those.

Risk Increasing

There is an increasing level of focus fram media and
Government on health and obesity issues. This heightened
consumer awareness has increased consumer awareness of
the health implications of their eating and drinking choices,
and it is important that we continue to evolve our offers to
facilitate consumers to make informed decisions. Failure to
meet these expectations could have both a financial and
reputational impact on the business. Therefore, this risk

is increasing.

11. Environment and sustainability

Climate change, biodiversity depletion and environmental
pollution present a risk to our ability to source products,
with food being particularly at risk.

Risk Increasing

The impact of extreme and longer-term shifts in weather
patterns, natural resource depletion and other effects of
climate change could impact the business both financially
and reputationally. These factors could disrupt our supply
chain and the ability to source products due to reduced
availability. Regulatory action to manage climate change
could result in the introduction of additional taxes or
restrictions being imposed. The business also has a
responsibility to continually aim to reduce its usage of
natural resources and its negative impact on the climate.
Therefore, this risk continues to increase.

Strategic Report

High-level controls/mi

Governance Financial Statements

Other Information

igating activities

The Group has a Safety Assurance team and uses
anumber of technical partners including food
technologists, food safety experts, microbiologists,
allergy consultants, trading standards specialists and
nutritionists.

The Group uses a robust system of detailed product
specifications.

All food products are risk rated using standard industry
definitions and assessment of the way the products are
used in the Group's kitchens. Suppliers are then risk
rated according to their products.

Each food supplier is audited at least once per year in
respect of safety and additionally in response to any
serious food safety complaint or incident.

Arobust response has been taken to manage allergens
and the associated data within the menu cycle, coupled
with a continuous review in place to ensure the controls
remain appropriate.

We monitor changing behaviour in relation to health

and lifestyle issues and adapt our brands to appeal to
changing needs ensuring that the brands remain relevant
and competitive.

We have set targets for ongoing sugar and salt reduction.
Aplanis in place to provide nutritional information for all
brands to allow customers to make informed decisions.
Please also refer to Pride in our offers, on page 38.

We have set challenging targets in key areas such as
greenhouse gas emissions, food waste, recycling and
use of plastics (see pages 38 and 39).

We have completed an exercise to determine our
baseline greenhouse gas emissions from which we have
developed a plan to deliver our ambition of Net Zero
emissions by 2040. Please also refer to our sustainability
targets on pages 38 and 39.

We are working with the World Resources Institute

on their Cool Food Pledge programme to reduce

the emissions of food supply chain links, whichis

a significant contributor to emissions globally.

Alldirect palm oil purchases continue to be sourced from
Rainforest Alliance approved suppliers. Please also refer
to our Value creation story on pages 30 to 33.

We are working with industry collaboration groups to
develop a roadmap to sourcing sustainable soy in our
supply chain.

We are developing initiatives to reduce our consumption
of natural resources, with an electricity workstream live

in the business, and gas and water in the planning phases.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024__ 51

Movement

Risk Stable

Risk Increasing

Risk Increasing


Strategie Report

Risks and uncertainties continucd

Risk category and description

12. Enforced Government closure/ :
trading restrictions

There is a risk that the business could be impacted by an
enforced Government closure or imposed severe trading

restrictions, of part or the whole of the estate, for example: .
regional and/or national and/or global pandemic, chemical

and/or terrorist activity. .
A global pandemic may have a negative impact on the .

Group's operating and financial performance and liquidity.
An outbreak of a global virus may cause severe disruptions
in the global economy which could adversely affect the

Group's business or operations, as well as the business or .
operations of third parties with whom the Group conducts

business. .
Risk Decreasing .

The frequency and nature of these risks arising are
unpredictable. However, given that Government trading
restrictions have been lifted, the associated risks to the

business have stabilised. .
13. Introduction of carbon taxes :

and levies

This risk represents the impact on operating costs of the
business both directly through taxation and indirectly
through higher input costs which would result from the
introduction of taxation and levies attributed to greenhouse
gas emissions.

Risk Stable

Qualitative assessment has identified this risk as both high in
impact and likelihood over the short to medium term. Whilst
the risk is currently assessed as stable, the introduction of a
form of carbon taxation is likely to be introduced as pressure
mounts for progress to be made against the Government
ambition to achieve Net Zero by 2050.

14. Increased severity of extreme .
weather events

This acute physical risk represents the risk to both revenue .
and the supply chain of increased severe events. Revenue
would be impacted through the interruption to trade caused

by both extremely hot weather and adverse weather such .
as rain and snow, and possible site closure as a result of

flooding. In addition, the availability of products in the

supply chain, in particular agricultural produce, could be
impacted by severe weather having an effect on product
availability and input prices.

Risk Stable

Following a qualitative assessment, which included a
high-level review of previous interruption to trade resulting
from extreme weather (as well as scientific forecasts as to
the likely increase in extreme weather events), the overall
risk is assessed as stable.

Annual! Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

High-level controls/mitigating activities

Movement

Risk Decreasing

Contingency plans are in place to review and respond to
enforced Government actions and/or severe business
disruption or trading restrictions. These should be
subject to a formal review.

Business opening and closure processes have been
updated.

Strong supply chain relationships are maintained to assist
in the event of cancelling and/or returning stock orders.
Robust processes are in place to manage Government
furlough schemes.

The Group, and in particular the Safety and Security
Team, is able to adapt quickly and respond to a change
in operational and functional processes, as a result of

a pandemic and/or business closures.

Established communication cascade and mechanisms
are in place for employees, guests and suppliers.

IT infrastructure, hardware, systems and employee
support is in place to maintain remote working.

Key financial controls have been reviewed, assessed
and updated to ensure they continue to be operated

in the event of limited and/or no access to either the
Retail Support Centre or businesses.

Ahigh-level review has been undertaken to inform the
required changes to business planning and operating
procedures.

Risk Stable

The Group is a member of the UK Hospitality
Sustainability Committee which enables us to have
foresight over potential policy changes impacting

the organisation.

The Group has developed a Net Zero strategy with
atarget date of 2040. The strategy has been developed
in partnership with an independent third party. Please
also refer to our sustainability targets, outlined on pages
38 and 39.

We have a number of initiatives underway designed to
reduce our emissions in line with our Net Zero roadmap.
The detailed plan for reduction will help to mitigate an
element of potential cost, and a target date ahead of
Government ambition will help to position the
organisation ahead of the market average. Please also
refer to our Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures, on pages 40 to 45.

Risk Stable

The weather has a high level of impact on trading levels
across the Group and therefore monitoring weather
forecasts in relation to expected trading levels is anormal
part of the financial planning of the Group.

This monitoring activity will enable the Group to identify
when patterns of increased instances of extreme
weather events begin to develop.

Inrelation to site closure due to damage to buildings, such
as during flooding, we have insurance in place to recover
the lost trade and required repairs. Our experience
during closure has meant that we have developed
strategies to close sites at short notice, such that in the
instance of extreme weather significantly impacting trade
we could close sites in order to mitigate some of the
financial losses which we would be exposed to.

To manage the risk associated with our supply chain,

we monitor and communicate with our suppliers closely
giving us foresight over potential supply issues. We also
have sufficient breadth of products and dishes across our
brands such that supply issues with one product could
be mitigated through switching to a substitute. Please
also refer to our Task Force on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures, on pages 40 to 45.

Introduction

Strategic Report Governance

Financial Statements Other Information

Compliance statements

Corporate viability disclosure

In accordance with Provision 31 of the 2018 UK
Corporate Governance Code, the Directors
have undertaken an assessment, including
sensitivity analysis, of the prospects of the Group
for a period of three years to September 2027.

Assessment period

Three years continues to be adopted as an
appropriate period of assessment as it aligns
with the Group's planning horizon in a fast
moving market subject to changing consumer
tastes in addition to economic and political
uncertainties, and is supported by three year
forecasts as approved by the Board. Beyond
this period, performance is impacted by
domestic and global political, macroeconomic
and other considerations which become
increasingly difficult to predict.

Assessment of prospects

The Group's financial planning process
comprises a detailed forecast for the next
financial period, together with a projection
for the following two financial years.

The Group's strategy seeks to provide a strong
capital base and long-term direction to protect
the viability of the business model given
prevailing and evolving market and economic
conditions. The Directors’ assessment of
longer-term prospects has been made taking
account of the current and expected future
financial position and the principal risks and
uncertainties, as detailed on pages 46 to 52
within the Annual Report.

The main trading risks facing the business
relate to uncertainty surrounding the political
and economic environment on both a domestic
and global basis manifest as variability

in consumer demand, cost headwinds and
potential supply chain disruption. Longer-term
further risk is identified around evolving
consumer demands and tastes.

Key factors also considered in the assessment
of the Group's prospects are a strong market
position built on a diverse range of brands
and offers trading from a well-positioned and
largely freehold estate, supported by capital
investment focused on development and
premiumisation of offers and an appropriate
remodel cycle. These are all anticipated to
contribute to outperformance against the
wider market.

Assessment of viability

As set out in the note to the Accounts on Going
Concern, the principal funding arrangements
of the Group consist of just under £1.2bn

of long-term securitised debt which amortises
ona scheduled profile over the next 12 years.
Securitisation covenants are tested quarterly,
both on an annual and a half year basis. In
addition the Group has an unsecured committed
facility for £200m, with financial covenants
tested half yearly, and which expires within the
three year term of this assessment, in July 2026.
The unsecured facility is currently undrawn.

Following a number of years of very
challenging trading, with the pandemic being
followed by high cost inflation (notably wages
and energy), profits have increased markedly
this year as the Group has been able to trade
throughout without restrictions, cost inflation
has abated and sales have continued to grow.
The principal short-term risks facing the
business are now therefore assessed to be
around generating further growth on this level
of demand, in addition to mitigating further
cost inflation. The Group has reviewed a
number of forecast scenarios and sensitivities
around these risks, including additional stress
testingthat hasbeencarriedoutonthe =.
Group's ability to continue in operation under
unfavourable operating conditions. In making
this assessment the Group has taken the view
that there will be no material further adverse
impact of Covid-19 (or any other pandemic).
Through the assessment period, the Group

is forecasting sales growth consistent with
current levels. Further, in the first year of the
assessment period cost inflation is expected
to be approximately 5% of the Group's cost
base, however this is expected to decline to
three to four per cent by the end of the period.

The Group's three year plan takes account

of these risks, in addition to the prevailing
economic outlook and capital allocation
decisions, alongside limited mitigating activity
such as improved operational efficiencies
(notably stock and labour management and
energy saving initiatives) to manage costs.

In the base case scenario the Group remains
within solvency covenant limits and has access
to sufficient liquidity to meet its outgoings.

Itis noted that there is a requirement to
refinance the unsecured facilities during the
assessment period, in July 2026. Itis considered
that this can be accommodated within the debt
capacity of the business given future anticipated
profitability and the strength of the creditor
relationships exhibited in previous refinancing
exercises. The resilience of this base case plan
is then assessed through the application

of forecast analysis, focused in particular

on growth of demand and levels of input cost
inflation during the current financial period as
well as on a longer-term basis. Sensitivities of
the following risks described in the Annual
Report have also been applied individually
tothe base plan.

* Declining Sales Performance (Risk event 2):
3% lower sales growth rate on average from
December 2024 to end of H1 FY 2026 and
1% lower thereafter;

* Cost of Goods Price Increases (Risk event
8): 2% increase in direct Cost of Goods
(Drink and Food) in FY 2025, and 1% in
FY 2026 and FY 2027;

* Increased Wage Cost Inflation (Risk event
6): 1% in FY 2026 and FY 2027;

* Increased utilities cost (Risk event 8):
additional £15m in FY 2025, £10m in
FY 2026 and £5min FY 2027: and

* Ascenario combining all of the above
sensitivities, with some limited mitigating
activities, which reduces operating profit
by £48m, £72m and £93m in FY 2025,

FY 2026 and FY 2027 respectively.

Liquidity and solvency based on financial
covenants (Risk event 1) on both secured debt
and unsecured facilities are assessed in all
scenarios. In all scenarios the Group continues
to remain profitable with sufficient liquidity
and no forecast covenant breaches.

Viability statement

The Directors have concluded, based upon
the extent of the financial planning assessment,
sensitivity analysis, potential mitigating actions
and current financial position that there is a
reasonable expectation that the Group will have
access to sufficient resources to continue in
operation and meet all its liabilities as they fall due
over the three year period to September 2027.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.__ 53


Strategic Report

Compliance statements continued

Non-financial and sustainability
information statement

The Group has complied with the requirements
of Section 414CB of the Companies Act 2006
by including certain non-financial information
within the report. This can be found as follows:

* Business model on pages 26 to 29.
* Information regarding the following matters
can be found on the following pages:
— Environmental matters on pages 38 to 45;
— Employees on page 31;
— Social matters on pages 30 to 33;
- Respect for human rights on pages 70,
84 and 85; and
— Anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters
on pages 84 and 85.

Where principal risks have been identified

in relation to any of the matters listed above,
these can be found on pages 46 to 52 including
a description of the business relationships,
products and services which are likely to cause
adverse impacts in those areas of risk, and

a description of how the principal risks are
managed.

* Allkey performance indicators of the
Group, including those non-financial
indicators, are on pages 36 and 37.

* The Financial review section on pages 56 to
58 includes, where appropriate, references
to, and additional explanations of, amounts
included in the accounts.

Section 172 Companies Act statement
The Directors have acted in a way that they
considered, in good faith, to be most likely to
promote the success of the Company for the
benefit of its members as a whole and in doing
so have given regard, amongst other matters,
tothe following considerations in the decisions
taken during the financial period ended

28 September 2024:

* the likely consequences of any decision
in the long term:

* the interests of the Company's employees;
* the need to foster the Company's business
relationships with suppliers, guests and

others;

* the impact of the Company's operations
onthe community and environment;

* the desirability for high standards of
business conduct; and

* theneed to act fairly as between members
of the Company.

The Board has a duty under Section 172
Companies Act 2006 to promote the success
of the Company and, in doing so, must take
account of the effect on other stakeholders of
how it manages the business of the Company,
whether these stakeholders are from within the
Company, in its Group or outside the Company
and its Group. Throughout the year the Board
has kept in mind these responsibilities as it has
supervised and monitored the business
activities and prospects of the Company and
asit has considered, and, where appropriate,
made decisions relating to strategic aspects

of the Company's affairs.

In addition, the 2018 UK Corporate
Governance Code specifically requires that
the Board should understand the views of

the Company's key stakeholders (including
employees, suppliers, customers and others)
and keep stakeholder engagement
mechanisms under review so they remain
effective. The 2018 Code also recommends
that there should be regular reporting asto how
the Board has complied with this engagement
approach in its decision-making processes and
how the interests of different shareholders
have been considered.

54 _______ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

In carrying out these functions, the Board

had regard to those stakeholders which it had
identified as being of significant importance.
These are the Company's shareholders, those
employees of the Mitchells & Butlers Group
who were likely to be affected by the activities
of the Company (including their job security
and entitlements in terms of pay, pensions and
other benefits), guests who purchase goods
and services provided by the Company,
suppliers to the Company, whether they are
external to the Mitchells & Butlers Group or
within that Group, governmental authorities
such as HMRC and regulatory bodies, the
Trustees of the Group's pension schemes,
providers of finance to the Group including its
banks and bondholders, real estate property
counterparties (whether as landlords or
tenants) and those specific entities or
individuals who are likely to be affected by
the outcome of the relevant matter falling

for consideration on acase-by-case basis.

There is a robust and transparent process

in place to provide an appropriate level of
direction and support in the identification,
assessment and management of risks across all
areas of the business which have the potential
to seriously damage our financial position,

our shareholder value, our responsibilities

to our staff and guests, our reputation and

our relationships with key stakeholders.
Established communication cascade and
mechanisms are in place for employees,
suppliers and guests: engagement with
employees is discussed on page 69 of the
Directors’ report, which sets out the various
platforms for employee communications,
facilitated by Dave Coplin, a Non-Executive
Director who acts as the ‘employee voice’;
engagement with key, critical suppliers is
addressed on page 77 of the Corporate
Governance Statement which describes the
supplier tiering process; and engagement with
guests is discussed on page 104 of the Report
on Directors’ remuneration which describes
the mechanisms for providing guest feedback.

Introduction

The Company's culture is embodied in a set of
PRIDE values of Passion, Respect, Innovation,
Drive and Engagement which underpin its key
priorities of People, Practices, Profits and
Guests. The Board observes these PRIDE
values in discharging its everyday
responsibilities in order to ensure that decisions
taken are in line with the Company's values and
objectives. High standards of business conduct
are expected, in furtherance of which the
Board has implemented a Code of Ethics,
which is fully described on pages 84 and 85

of the Corporate Governance Statement, and

a declaration of compliance with the Modern
Slavery Act 2015 (including a Supplier Code

of Conduct) is dealt with on pages 70 and 71

of the Directors’ report. Appropriate scrutiny
of the environmental impact of the Group's
activities is included in the Sustainability
section of the Strategic Report on pages 38
and 39.

Not all of those stakeholders’ interests fall

for consideration in each set of circumstances
which the Board has to consider. However,

as and when a particular matter falls for review
by the Board, it first seeks to identify those
stakeholders which are likely to be impacted by
the decision of the Board, and then the Board
discusses the respective interests of those
stakeholders as well as the consistency

(or otherwise) of the relevant proposal with
the Board's existing, or any proposed change(s)
tots, strategic plan.

Major matters considered by the Board during
the period included consideration of the UK
hospitality market as a whole, including its
strengths, weaknesses, and potential
opportunities together with the wider
macroeconomic environment; the progress
of the sustainability strategy; and the Group's
initiative in conjunction with the Social Bite
charity as part of its sustainability goals. In
considering these matters, the Board looked
not only at the position and prospects of the
Company, but also took into consideration the
wider Mitchells & Butlers Group as a whole.

Having identified the relevant stakeholders
and their interests in retation to specific matters
or particular circumstances, the Board then
assessed the relevant weighting of those
interests in considering and eventually
reaching its conclusions, whilst being mindful
of the need to comply with the Group's
obligations of its securitisation arrangements
and other financial arrangements.

Strategic Report Governance

Financial Statements Other Information

In reaching its decisions, the Board was mindful
of the need to seek to preserve the integrity of
the Company's business so as to allocate its
resources in such a way as to ensure creditors’
interests and the interests of other stakeholders
such as employees and guests were not
prejudiced.

Board papers set out the rationale for the
proposals and the relevant decisions were made
after discussion amongst the Board members
with appropriate legal, accounting, HR and
treasury input. The processes implemented by
the Board included reguiar meetings to consider
key developments as well as the provision of
training, if requested by a Director, in relation
to their responsibilities as directors of a limited
company, including the responsibilities under
Section 172 Companies Act 2006.

Specific consideration was given in the
decision-making processes implemented by
the Board to how the manner in which the
Company operated, and the specific proposals
it was asked to consider, aligned to its strategic
goals as described on pages 34 and 35 and its
agreed purpose as referred to.on page 07.

The Board also confirmed that, in discharging
its responsibilities for management,
supervision and control of the Company's
business and its affairs, it would seek to align
to the Mitchells & Butlers Group PRIDE Values
of Passion, Respect, Innovation, Drive and
Engagement as set out on page 27 of this
Annual Report.

Throughout this Annual Report we provide
examples of how we take these considerations
into account. The Board values the importance
of effective stakeholder engagement and
believes that stakeholders’ views should be
considered in its decision-making. Details of
how we engage with various stakeholders can
be found on pages 30to 33.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.


Strategic Report

Financial review

Our financial and operating performance

“On a statutory basis, profit/(loss) before tax for the
financial year was £199m (FY 2023 £03)m), on sales
of £2,610m (FY 2028 £2,503m).”

1

Jones
‘Financial Officer

FY 2024

Statutory (FY 2023 53 week)

The Group Income Statement discloses adjusted profit and earnings per share information that excludes separately disclosed items, determined by
virtue of their size or nature, to allow a more effective comparison of the Group's trading performance from one period to the next.

Last year, FY 2023, was a 53-week reporting period therefore 52-week results are additionally disclosed for year-on-year comparison purposes.

Adjusted (FY 2023 52 week)

FY 2023 FY 2024 FY 2023

ém ém £m £m
Revenue 2,610 2,503 2,610 2,459
Operating profit 300 98 312 221
Profit before tax 199 (13) 211 112
Earnings per share 25.0p (0.7p) 26.4p 15.6p
Operating margin 11.5% 3.9% 12.0% 9.0%

At the end of the period, the total estate comprised 1,726 sites in the UK and Germany of which 1,654 are directly managed.

Revenue

Total revenue of £2,610m (FY 2023 £2,503m) reflects a strong period of trading driven by sustained like-for-like sales* growth.

Like-for-like sales? in the first half increased by 7.0%, comprising an increase in like-for-like food sales? of 7.7% and of like-for-like drink sates* of 6.0%
driven by strengthening spend per head. Over the second half like-for-like sales growth was impacted, as expected, by the easing inflationary
environment as well as an unseasonably wet and cool summer and riots in some city centres during August. Volumes of food and drink were

in decline of c.1.5% across the year.

Like-for-like sales":

Weeks 1-15 Weeks 16-28 Weeks 29-42 Weeks 43-52 Weeks 1-52

Qi Q2 Q3 4 YTO

Food 8.7% 6.6% 2.6% 2.6% 5.3%
Drink 6.6% 5.3% 4.0% 3.4% 4.5%
Total 7.7% 6.1% 3.4% 3.4% 5.3%

56 ____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024 Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction

The current underlying rate of growth of
like-for-like sales*, as measured over the first
seven weeks of the new financial period,

is 4.0%. The subsequent week was adversely
impacted by comparison against Black Friday
promotional activity last year, a timing
difference that reverses a week later, resulting

in growth over the first eight weeks being 2.7%.

Total sales grew by 4.3% against last financial
year and by 6.1% on a 52-week basis.

Separatcly disclosed items

Separately disclosed items are identified due
to their nature or materiality to help the reader
form a view of overall and adjusted trading.

Within the context of the overall valuation of
the Group's freehold and long leasehold land
and buildings (as set out in Section 3 of the
notes to the financial statements), a£14m
reduction in value is recognised relating

to valuation and impairment of properties,
comprising a £4m increase in value arising from
the revaluation of freehold and long leasehold
sites, a£17m impairment of right-of-use assets
and a£1m impairment of computer software.
The £4m tax credit relates to these impairments.

Cash liow

Strategic Report Governance

Financial Statements Other Information

Other separately disclosed items include a net
profit arising on property disposals of £2m.
Refer to note 2.2 for comparative information.

Operating profit and margins"

Adjusted operating profit? was £312m (FY 2023
£221m), an increase of 41.2% on a 52-week
basis. Adjusted operating margin of 12.0% was
3.0ppts higher than last year driven by strong
like-for-like sales* growth, reduced cost
inflation and operating efficiencies. Statutory
operating profit was £300m (FY 2023 £98m)
with statutory operating profit margin of 11.5%
(FY 2023 3.9%).

The aggregate net cost headwind for the
financial year was slightly less than 3% of our
cost base of c.£2.0 billion, after some offset
from deflation in energy prices. Looking
forward, cost headwinds are now anticipated
to increase to c.£100m for FY 2025,
representing just over 5% on the cost base.
Against a generally benign backdrop of general
inflation (including food and drink inputs) by far
the most significant increase is now expected
in relation to labour costs due both to increases
in the statutory National Living Wage and in the
recently announced increase in Employer

EBITDA before movements in the valuation of the property portfolio
Non-cash share-based payment and pension costs and other

Operating cash flow before movements in working capital and additional pension contributions

Working capital movement

Pension escrow return

Pension deficit contributions

Cash flow from operations

Capital expenditure

Acquisition of Pesto Restaurants Limited
Acquisition of 3Sixty Restaurants Limited

National Insurance contributions, both of which
take place from April 2025. We anticipate that
energy costs, of which just over one half have
been bought forward, will broadly stabilise
overall with no further deflation.

Interest

Net finance costs of £99m (FY 2023 £108m)
for the financial year were £9m lower than the
same period last year. The net pensions finance
charge was £2m (FY 2023 £3m). This is
anticipated to be a credit of £7m this year,

FY 2025, following recognition of the net
surplus funding position across the schemes.

Earnings per share

Basic earnings (losses) per share, after the
separately disclosed items described above,
were 25.0p (FY 2023 earnings (0.7)p), with
adjusted earnings per share’ of 26.4p (FY 2023
15.6p on 52-week basis).

The basic weighted average number of shares
inthe period was 595m and the total number
of shares issued at the balance sheet date

was 598m.

Cash acquired on acquisition of 3Sixty Restaurants Limited

Net finance lease principal payments
Interest on lease liabilities

Net interest paid

Tax

Purchase of own shares

Other

Net cash flow before bond amortisation
Mandatory bond amortisation

Net cash flow

FY 2024 FY 2023
ém Em
444 362
10 6
454 368
15 (1)
35 -
(1) (8)
503 359
{154) (157)
(2) -
- (17)
- 5
(40) (52)
_ (7) (16)
(82) (90)
(18) (3)
(7) -
2 1
185 30
(123) (116)
62 (86)

This was a very strong period of cash generation. EBITDA, before movements in the valuation of the property portfolio increased sharply as a result
of an improved trading performance to £444m, which converted to net cash inflow for the period before bond amortisation of £185m (FY 2023
£30m) helped by a number of non-recurring items in the form of the return of historic pensions contributions from escrow, use of tax losses and timing

on working capital flows.

After all outgoings, including mandatory bond amortisation of £123m (including net impact of currency swaps), cash inflow was £62m (FY 2023

outflow £86m).

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.

57


Strategie Report

Financial review continucd

Capital expenditure

Capital expenditure of £154m (FY 2023 £157m, including £3m intangible assets) comprises £152m from the purchase of property, plant and
equipment and £2m in relation to the purchase of intangible assets.

Maintenance and infrastructure
Remodels — refurbishment
Remodels - expansionary
Conversions

Acquisitions - freehold
Acquisitions ~ leasehold

FY 2024 FY 2023

£m Number £m Number
58 67

69 170 65 127

2 8 7

10 " u n

12 4 4

3 2 1 2

Total return generating capital expenditure 96 195 90 151
154 157

Total capital expenditure

Maintenance and infrastructure spend
included investment of £9m towards our
sustainability ambitions, such as solar panels
and electrified kitchen equipment, as well
as £4m towards digital and technological
improvements. Maintenance and
infrastructure spend was slightly lower

than prior year due to reduced spend

onIT infrastructure and hardware.

During the period we have made good progress
on increasing the number of completed
investment projects, and we remain committed
to resumption of an average seven-year
refurbishment cycle across our estate, although
supply chain constraints, notably in securing
timely planning consent, continue to prove
achallenge.

Four freehold sites were acquired in the year
comprising new sites in York, Nunthorpe and
Fitzrovia and the acquisition of the freehold
of a site previously operated as leasehold in
Edinburgh. Both of the leasehold acquisitions
relate to new Alex sites in Germany.

Pensions

Both the main pensions schemes of the Group
are now substantially de-risked. The Main Plan
completed a full scheme buy-in last year, and
the Executive Plan most recently completed

a full scheme buy-out late this year. No further
employer contributions are therefore being
made to either scheme. tn the year areturn

of £35m of historic contributions was made to
the Group from amounts held in escrow with
respect to the Main Plan. A further return of
£12m, relating to the monies left in the Executive
Plan escrow account, has been received after
the balance sheet date.

One further scheme, remains. This is closed
and unfunded and has estimated liabilities
of £25m.

Over the course of the year agreement was
reached to use any surplus arising in the Main
Plan to pay for employer contributions in the
defined contribution section of that Plan.

As this is a change in the Trustee's agreed

use of the surplus compared to prior years
the full value of the surplus of £164m is now
recognised in this year's accounts as an
economic benefit to the company.

Net debt and facilities

On the back of a strong cash performance,

net debt? at the period end reduced to £1,436m,
comprised of £989m non-lease liabilities and
lease liabilities of £447m (FY 2023 £1,633m
comprised of £1,170m non-lease liabilities and
lease liabilities of £463m). This represents a
multiple of 3.2 times EBITDA over the last year
including lease liabilities (2.2 times excluding
these liabilities).

Further details of existing debt arrangements
and an analysis of net debt can be found

in Note 4 to the financial statements and at
https://Awww.mbplc.com/infocentre/
debtinformation/.

Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Going Concern

After considering forecasts, sensitivities and
mitigating actions available to management
and having regard to risks and uncertainties,
the Directors have a reasonable expectation
that the Group has adequate resources to
continue to operate within its borrowing
facilities and covenants for a period of at least
12 months from the date of signing the financial
statements. Accordingly, the financial
statements have been prepared on the going
concern basis. Full details are included

in Section 1 of the notes to the financial
statements.

Approval of the Strategic Report
Our strategic report on pages 18 to 58 has been
reviewed and approved by the Board.

‘Tim Jones
Chief Financial Officer
26 November 2024

a. The Directors use a number of alternative
performance measures (APMs) that are considered
critical to aid the understanding of the Group's
performance. Key measures are explained on pages
186 to 189 of this report.

Governance y,

ontins ban he Grup mane bt 4 a

actions, policies, practices and checisioms
aswell as the eifect of those actions
onitssiakehalders, .

Gormemocagene -
havo aban ogra
BoardlofD

IDirectorss
LS a sgentattan
sepa tra Avon) Reem em AaaeTES
feovernancesstatementy
oe
lomDirectors@remunerationy

%y

ait


Governance

Governance at a glance

The Board believes that good corporate governance is .
essential to enable us to deliver our purpose for all our

stakeholders. It remains a top priority for the Board.

The Company is committed to the principles of the 2018
Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial

Reporting Council, which sets out standards of good

practice for listed companies.

Governance highlights

Highest ever retail engagement score
(beating FY 2023's record high)

89.3

Bseepage 93

Board and Committee
meeting attendance

100%

The Board holds regular scheduled meetings
during the year and on an ad-hoc basis as and
when required. During the year eight Board
meetings were held and the attendance is set
out below. Members of the executive team
attended Board meetings as and when
appropriate.

Gender pay gap (lor the Group)

0.9%

Mean

1.7%

Median
seepage 108

Executive Directors’ Company pension
contributions were fully aligned with
that of the wider workforce (1%) on

I January 2024.

seepage 99

Attendance levels at Board and Committce meetings

Audit Remuneration Nomination

Directors who served during the year Board Committee Committee Committee
Boblvell 8(8) n/a 4(4) _ _0(0)
KeithBrowne __ 8(8) n/a n/a n/a
Amanda Brown 8(8) 4(4) 4(4) 0(0)
Dave Coplin _ _. 8 (8) 4(4) 4(4) _ 0(0)
Eddielrwin, | 8 (8) n/a n/a _ _ 0(0)
Tim Jones 8 (8) n/a n/a n/a
Josh Levy 8(8) n/a 4(4) “hla”
Jane Moriarty 8(8) 4(4) 4(4) 0(0)
Phil Urban 8(8) n/a n/a nla

re numbers in brackets in the table above confirm how many meetings each Director was eligible to attend during

the year.

60 Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Focus areas for FY 2025

Growth

* Support and oversight of the growth of the
business via our Ignite programme, to drive
cost efficiencies and increase sales; and

* Systematically enhance the amenity of our
estate through our established capital
programme.

See pages 34 and 35

Strategy
Deliver our strategic plan delivering targeted
and profitable growth.

‘See page 20

Sustainability

* Continue to deliver emissions reduction
in line with our Net Zero roadmap;

* Increase proportion of waste diverted
from landfill;

+ Decrease levels of food waste; and

* Expand charitable partnerships.

See page 22

People

* Rollout of atalent system which will further
support the development of our internal
talent pipeline;

* Evolution of our employee value
proposition; and

* Continued work on our DEl initiatives
including employee affinity groups on
ethnicity, neurodiversity and gender.

Dsce page 22

Risk
Reduce the impact of key risks facing the
business.

= See pages 46 to 52


Governance inancial Stat

Introcductio: Other Information

Board and Committee structure

The Board

Non-Executive
Directors
The Non-Executive Directors

support and constructively
challenge the executive team.

Ch Senior
Bob Ivell Independent
The Chair is accountable Direetor
to shareholders for leading the Jane Moriarty

Board and ensuring the Board The Senior Independent Director
receives timely, accurate information supports the Chair onall
totake good decisions forthe governance issues and provides
benefit of all stakeholders. communication channel
between the Chair and the
Non-Executive Directors.

y

Committees

a

© Remuneration
Committee

Audit
Committee

Chair - Jane Moriarty Chair ~ Amanda Brown

See pages }

OT

/ Nomination \

Market Disclosure

Committee Committee

Chair - Bob Ivell

| Chair - Bob Ivell

AQ See page 833

NL

Executive Dircetors

Tim Jones
(CFO)

The Board has delegated the day-to-day running of the Group to the Chief
Executive Officer. The Executive Directors make andimplement operational
decisions to run the Mitchells & Butlers business on a day-to-day basis. To support
the Chief Executive Officer in discharging his responsibilities, he is supported by
the Executive Committee.

\

The Executive Committee is responsible for ensuring that each of the Group's
businesses and functions are managed effectively and that the key performance
indicators of the Group, as approved by the Board, are achieved. The Executive
Committee, chaired by the CEO, ensures the execution of the Company's strategy
and the day-to-day management of the business. Certain other responsibilities
have been delegated to specialist committees and further details are given on
pages 83 and 84,

Board tenure for Chair and Non-Executive Directors,

The UK Corporate Governance Code states that the Chair should not remain in post
beyond nine years from the date of their first appointment to the Board and that
circumstances which are likely to impair, or could appear to impair, a Non-Executive
Director's independence include service on the Board for more than nine years from
the date of their first appointment. Of the Non-Executive Directors and Chair, four
Directors currently have less than nine years’ Board service,

Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024


Governance

Chair’s introduction
to governance

“Dear fellow shareholders, | have pleasure
in updating you on our progress in corporate

governance over the past year.”

Bob Ivell
Chair

As at 28 September 2024,

the Company had more than
50,000 employees and one

of the key roles for the Board is
to provide leadership for them
and maintain the highest
possible standards of
corporate governance.

The Company is required to report under

the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code

(the '2018 Code’). The 2018 Code places
emphasis on relationships between companies,
shareholders and stakeholders. It also promotes
the importance of establishing a corporate
culture that is aligned with the Company's
purpose and business strategy, promotes
integrity and values diversity and sets the
expectations for reporting the Board's
involvement in these areas. Some of these
aspects of the 2018 Code are reflected inthe
Strategic Report on pages 18 to 58, which

sets out the Group's strategy, progress and
performance for the year. Meanwhile, the
Board-focused corporate governance aspects
of the 2018 Code are reflected in the Corporate
Governance Statement on pages 75 to 87,
which sets out the Company’s compliance
against published governance requirements
where there is a narrative explanation asto
how the Board has approached compliance
with, or in a few limited areas divergence from,
the Code's best practice guidance.

Annual Report and Accounts 2024 Mitchells & Butlers ple

Climate change reporting requirements
continue to occupy the Board and details are
included in that section of the Strategic Report
on pages 40 to 45. Phil Urban heads our climate
change policy initiatives, and while this area
remains a responsibility of the entire Board,
the Corporate Responsibility Committee
manages and monitors the detail of the
Group's approach to this important topic.

The Board oversight of climate-related risks
and opportunities is set out on page 41 in our
climate-related disclosures.

Sales growth remained robust over FY 2024,
with consistent market outperformance. Cost
headwinds will remain a challenge for the year
ahead, particularly in relation to labour costs,
however we are well placed to continue to
manage these costs whilst keeping guest
experience at the centre of everything we do.
Guest scores remain strong and ahead of the
market, and we have delivered exceptional
people metrics during the year. Our focus
remains on delivering sales growth and
efficiency gains, through our established Ignite
and capital programmes, to deliver continued
profit growth in the year ahead.

Introduction

Our broad range of Board talent covers a variety
of professional skills, and our diverse group of
Non-Executive Directors continue to bring
much experience and challenge to the Board.

My focus will continue to be on maintaining a
strong team, with a broad range of professional
backgrounds, experience from both within our
sector and in other industries and businesses
and communication skills to drive further
improvements where possible. Froma
governance standpoint, the basic governance
arrangements already in place are unchanged
since FY 2022, with the exception of additional
procedures and reporting arrangements put

in place in order to comply with climate change
and diversity reporting requirements. Certain
aspects of the 2018 Code could not be, and
were not, complied with in FY 2024. These
deviations from the 2018 Code are fully
explained on pages 79 and 80 in the Corporate
Governance Statement in line with the ‘Comply
or Explain’ regime which forms an intrinsic part
of that 2018 Code.

Brandon ancl

Strategic Report Governance

Financial Statements Other Information

The 2018 Code states that there should be

a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of the
performance of the Board, its committees, the
chair and individual directors and that the chair
should consider having a regular externally
facilitated Board evaluation. In FTSE 350
companies this should happen at least every
three years and an externally facilitated review
of the Board's effectiveness last took place in
2018. Subsequently, the Board decided that
the interests of shareholders would be better
served by the Board focusing on the business
and consequently no external evaluation has
taken place since. The Board will review this
approach as and when it feels it necessary to do
so in the context of the circumstances in which
the Group is operating. Although there was no
formal evaluation carried out during the year,

I remain satisfied that the skills, contributions
and experience of the Board are appropriate
for the challenges faced by the Group during
the year and for the future. You can read the
Board biographies on pages 64 and 65.

The new UK Listing Rules came into effect on
29 July 2024 and replaced the previous Listing
Rules, and so alt Listing Rule references in this
Annual Report have been updated accordingly.
The remainder of this Corporate Governance
Statement contains the narrative reporting
required by the 2018 Code, the UK Listing
Rules and the Disclosure Guidance and
Transparency Rules. | hope that you find this
Corporate Governance Statement to be
informative and helpful in relation to this
important topic.

We are committed to maintaining an active
dialogue with all our shareholders, and we
continue to offer our institutional investors
access to key senior management and our
Investor Relations team. The Chair of each
of our Audit Committee and Remuneration
Committee and the Senior Independent
Director are available for dialogue with
shareholders on any significant matters in
relation to their areas of responsibility if this
is needed and you can read their reports on
pages 88 and 92 respectively.

The Annual General Meeting will be held in
January 2025 and all shareholders are welcome
to attend. For those shareholders who cannot
attend but would like to hear the proceedings,
we will also supply a telephone listen-only facility.
Full details are set out in the separate Notice of
AGM published with this Annual Report.

!look forward to the year ahead, confident

in the knowledge that the Company is led by a
highly competent, professional and motivated
team. | also look forward to the support of you,
our shareholders, as our senior management
team looks to rebuild the business and continues
to focus on driving future profit growth and
creating additional shareholder value.

Bob Ivell
Chair

- Mitchells & Butlers plc

For the Company's latest financial information
Go to www.mbplie.com/investors

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024._____ 63


Governance

Board of Directors

A strong leadership team

Our broad range of Board talent covers a variety of professional
skills, and our diverse group of Non-Executive Directors continues
to bring much experience and challenge to the Board.

Key to Committee membership

® Audit Committee

@® Remuneration Committee

@ Nomination Committee

@ Market Disclosure Committee
© Executive Committee
© Corporate Responsibility Committee

® Pensions Committee

Non-Executive Chair

@®OOOO

Phil Urban
Chie! Executive

OOO

Appointed to the Board in May 2011, Bob has
over 40 years of extensive food and beverage
experience with a particular focus on food-led,
managed restaurants, pubs and hotels. He is
currently a board member of UK Hospitality
and was previously Senior Independent
Director of AGA Rangemaster Group plc and
Britvic plc, and a main board Director of S&N
plc as Chair and Managing Director of its
Scottish & Newcastle retail division. He has

also been Chair of Carpetright plc, Regent Inns,

Park Resorts and David Lloyd Leisure Limited,
and was Managing Director of Beefeater
Restaurants, one of Whitbread's pub
restaurant brands, and a Director of The
Restaurant Group. Bob is Chair of the
Nomination Committee, the Pensions
Committee, the Market Disclosure Committee
and the Corporate Responsibility Committee.

64.

Phil joined Mitchells & Butlers in January 2015
as Chief Operating Officer and became Chief
Executive in September 2015. Phil was
previously Managing Director at Grosvenor
Casinos, a division of Rank Group and Chair
of the National Casino Forum. Prior to that,
he was Managing Director for Whitbread’s
Pub Restaurant Division, and for Scottish

& Newcastle Retail's Restaurants and
Accommodation Division. Phil has an MBA
and is a qualified management accountant
(CIMA).

Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Tim Jones
Chic Financial Officer

MOO

Tim was appointed Chief Financial Officer in
October 2010. Prior to joining the Company,
he held the position of Group Finance Director
for Interserve plc, asupport services group.
Previously, he was Director of Financial
Operations at Novar plc and held senior
financial roles both in the UK and overseas in
the logistics company, Exel plc. Tim obtained
an MA in Economics at Cambridge University.

Introduction

Amanda Brown
Non Executive Director

@@0O

Governance

Strategic Report

Keith Browne
Non-Executive Director

©

Financial Statements

Other Information

Amanda joined the Board in July 2022 as

an independent Non-Executive Director.

She is Remuneration Chair of Entain ple and
Manchester Airport Group, and was formerly
the Chief Human Resources Officer of Hiscox
Limited, and was a Non-Executive Director and
Chair of the Remuneration Committee of Micro
Focus International PLC. She previously held
senior executive roles with Whitbread Group
PLC, PepsiCo, Inc and Mars, Inc. Amandais
Chair of the Remuneration Committee.

Non Executive Director

®O©

Appointed as a Non-Executive Director

in September 2016, Keith is anominated
shareholder representative of Elpida Group
Limited, which, as part of the Odyzean Group,
is a significant shareholder in Mitchells &
Butlers. He is a Non-Executive Director of
Grove Limited, the holding company of
Barchester Healthcare Limited. Keith obtained
a Bachelor of Commerce Degree from
University College Dublin, qualified asa
chartered accountant in 1994 and subsequently
gained an MBA from University College Dublin.
After joining KPMG Corporate Finance in 1996,
he became a partner in the firm in 2001 and
Head of Corporate Finance in 2009. He retired
from the partnership to operate as an
independent Consultant in 2011.

Josh Levy
Non Executive Director

@®

Appointed as an independent Non-Executive
Director in February 2016, Dave is the Chief
Executive Officer and founder of The
Envisioners Limited. He was formerly the Chief
Envisioning Officer for Microsoft Limited, and
is an established thought leader on the role of
technology in our personal and professional
lives. For over 30 years he has worked across a
range of industries and customer marketplaces,
providing strategic advice and guidance
around the role and optimisation of technology
in modern society, both inside and outside of
the world of work. Dave is also a Non-Executive
Director of each of the Pensions and Lifetime
Savings Association and Vianet Group plc.

Jane Moriarty
Senior Independent Director

@Q®@OOW

Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in
March 2012, Eddie is anominated shareholder
representative of Elpida Group Limited which,
as part of the Odyzean Group, is a significant
shareholder in Mitchells & Butlers. Eddie is
Finance Director of Coolmore, aleading
thoroughbred bloodstock breeder with
operations in Ireland, the USA and Australia
and a Non-Executive Director of Grove
Limited, the holding company of Barchester
Healthcare Limited. He graduated from
University College Dublin with a Bachelor

of Commerce Degree and he is a Fellow of
both The Association of Chartered Certified
Accountants and The Chartered Governance
Institute.

Appointed as a Non-Executive Director

in November 2015, Josh is anominated
shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc.,
which, as part of the Odyzean Group, isa
significant shareholder in Mitchells & Butlers.
Josh is Co-Chief Executive Officer of Tavistock
Group, and amember of the Board of Directors
and Executive Committee. He also serves as
Chief Executive Officer of specialist asset-based
lender Ultimate Finance Group andisa
Non-Executive Director of the Australian
Agricultural Company, Australia's largest
integrated cattle and beef producer.

Appointed as an independent Non-Executive
Director in February 2019, Jane is aFellow

of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
Ireland, and currently a Non-Executive Director
of Babcock International Group PLC, NG Bailey
Group Limited, Quarto Group Inc., Tennants
Consolidated Limited and Nyrstar NV. Jane was
previously a senior advisory partner with KPMG
LLP. Jane is Chair of the Audit Committee.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.____ 65.


Governance

Directors’ report

The Board’s responsibilitie

ofthe Company include:

* Determining the overall business and commercial strategy;

+ Identifying the Company's long-term objectives;

* Reviewing the annual operating budget and financial plans
and monitoring performance in relation to those plans;

* Determining the basis of the allocation of capital; and

* Considering all policy matters relating to the Company's activities
including any major change of policy.

in respect

For FY 2024, the Board is reporting under the 2018 Code. Further
information is set out in the Strategic Report on pages 18 to 58 which
examines the ‘purpose’ aspect of the 2018 Code and in the Corporate
Governance Statement on pages 75 to 87, which describes the
Company's approach and practices in relation to the 2018 Code.

For the Company's tatest financial information
Go to www.mbplc.com/inoestors

The Directors present their report on the affairs of the Group and the
audited financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 28 September 2024.
The Business review and Sustainability review of the Company and its
subsidiaries are given on pages 20 to 22 and pages 38 and 39 respectively
which, together with the Corporate Governance Statement and Audit
Committee report, are incorporated by reference into this report and,
accordingly, should be read as part of this report.

Details of the Group's policy on addressing risks are given on pages 46 to
52, 86 and 87, and details about financial instruments are shown in note
4.3 to the financial statements. These sections include information about
trends and factors likely to affect the future development and
performance of the Group's businesses. The Company undertakes

no obligation to update forward-looking statements.

Key performance indicators for the Group's businesses are set out
on pages 36 and 37. ,

The Company's Directors pay due regard to the need to foster the
Company‘s business relationships with suppliers, guests and others.
Details of the Company's engagement process with various stakeholders
and different tiers of suppliers, together with the effect of such
consideration on the principal decisions taken by the Company during
the financial period, are set out in the section discussing the Company's
business model on pages 26 to 29 and in the statement made in
compliance with Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 set out

on page 54.

This report has been prepared under current legislation and guidance

in force at the year end date. In addition, the material contained on pages
18 to 58 reflects the Directors’ understanding of the requirement to
provide a Strategic Report.

66 Annual Reportand Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

This report has been prepared for, and only for, the members of the
Company asa body, and no other persons. The Company, its Directors,
employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to
any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands
it may come or who becomes aware of it and any such responsibility

or liability is expressly disclaimed.

Areas of operation

During FY 2024, the Group had activities in, and operated through, pubs,
bars and restaurants in the United Kingdom and Germany. In May 2024,
the Group acquired the entire share capital of Pesto Restaurants Ltd,

a group of 10 restaurants based in the UK. Further details are set out in
note 5.1 to the financial statements. A summary of the performance

of the business is set out on page 92.

A full list of the Company's subsidiaries and their respective country
of operation is given on page 178 of the Annual Report.

Share capital and voting rights

The Company's issued ordinary share capital as at 28 September 2024
comprised a single class of ordinary shares of which 598,057,671 shares
were in issue and listed on the London Stock Exchange (30 September
2023 597,726,859 shares). The rights and obligations attaching to the
ordinary shares of the Company are contained within the Company's
Articles of Association.

Of the issued share capital, no shares were held in treasury and the
Company's employee share trusts held 5,512,147 shares. Details of
movements in the issued share capital can be found in note 4.7 tothe
financial statements on page 174.

Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the
Company. The notice of the Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines
for exercising voting rights in relation to the resolutions to be proposed
at the Annual General Meeting.

Allissued shares are fully paid up and carry no additional obligations

or special rights. There are no restrictions on transfers of shares in the
Company, or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, other than
those which may from time to time be applicable under existing laws and
regulations and under the Articles of Association. In addition, pursuant
to the UK Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, Directors and
certain officers and employees of the Group require the prior approval

of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares of the Company.

Participants in the Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP’) may complete a Form
of Instruction which is used by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited,
the SIP Trustee, as the basis for voting on their behalf.

During the period, shares with a nominal value of £28,257 were allotted
under all-employee schemes as permitted under Section 549 of the
Companies Act 2006. No securities were issued in connection with

a rights issue during the period.

Introduction Strategic Report

The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders
that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.

Interests of the Directors and their immediate families in the issued share
capital of the Company as at the year end are shown on page 110in the
Report on Directors’ remuneration.

Dividends

No Final Dividend will be paid in respect of the financial period ended
28 September 2024 (FY 2023 nil). No Interim Dividend was paid during
the period (FY 2023 nil).

Interests in voting rights

Asat 28 September 2024, the Company was aware of the significant
holdings of voting rights (3% or more) in its shares shown in Table 1 below.

Table 1: Interests in voting rights as at 28 September 2024.

Shareholder Ordinary shares share camer

Odyzean Limited? 338,833,695 56.66% Indirect holding
Artemis Investment 29,976,671 5.01% Indirect holding
Management LLP

Lansdowne Partners 29,633,363 4.95% Indirect holding
(UK) LLP

Standard Life 29,260,403 4.89% Indirect holding
Aberdeen plc

Standard Life 170,000 0.03% Indirect holding
Aberdeen plc (rights

to recall lent shares)

a. Based on the total voting rights figure as at 28 September 2024 of 598,057,671
shares.

b. As the parent company of each of Piedmont Inc., Elpida Group Limited and
Smoothfield Holding Ltd.

Percentages are rounded to two decimal places.

On 24 October 2024, Artemis Investment Management Limited
increased its holding to 36,408,331 shares (6.08%).

Directors

Details of the Board Directors as at 26 November 2024 and their
biographies are shown on pages 64 and 65. The Directors as at

28 September 2024 and their interests in shares are shown on page 110.

In relation to the appointment and removal of Directors the Company
is governed by its Articles of Association and the Companies Act 2006
and related legislation. The powers of the Company's Directors are set
out in the Company's Articles of Association.

In accordance with the Company's Articles of Association (which are

in line with the best practice guidance of the 2018 Code) all the Directors
will retire at the Annual General Meeting and will offer themselves

for re-election.

Major shareholder Board representation

and relationship agreement

The Company's largest shareholder is Odyzean Limited (‘Odyzean’),
which holds approximately 56.66% of the Company's issued share
capital and was formed in 2021 to consolidate the shareholdings of the
Company's then three largest shareholders, Piedmont Inc. (‘Piedmont’),
Elpida Group Limited (‘Elpida’) and Smoothfield Holding Limited
(Smoothfield’) (together with Odyzean, the ‘Odyzean Group’)

in connection with the Open Offer.

Governance

Financial Statements Other Information

The Board is grateful for the significant financial commitment provided
by the Odyzean Group to the business, together with its 1,726 pubs and
restaurants, and over 50,000 UK and German employees. The Company
maintains excellent relations with the Odyzean Group, whose investment
objectives are fully aligned with those of the Group. The Odyzean Group
maintains a dialogue with the Board via their representatives on the
Board nominated by Piedmont and Elpida, all of whom are careful to
ensure that there is no conflict between their roles as representatives

of the Company's shareholders and their duty to the Company.

The Odyzean Group has representatives on the Board, nominated by
Piedmont and Elpida respectively. Piedmont's appointment rights are
formalised in the Deed of Appointment referred to in this report but there
is no equivalent agreement in place between the Company and Elpida.
The Elpida representatives were appointed with the approval of the Board
in March 2012 and September 2016. The Board has carefully considered
whether it would be appropriate to enter into a formal agreement with
Elpida that is similar to the existing agreement between the Company and
Piedmont. Having taken into account the Financial Reporting Council's
report of August 2014 ‘Towards Clear & Concise Reporting’ and the views
expressed previously by certain investor representative bodies, the Board
considers that such an agreement would be merely one of form rather
than substance and not in the interests of shareholders generally. Asa
result, the Board does not propose, currently, that the Company should
enter into such an agreement with Elpida, and Elpida has not, to date,
sought such an agreement.

Under a Deed of Appointment between Piedmont and the Company,
Piedmont has the right to appoint two shareholder Directors to the Board
whilst it owns 22% or more of the issued share capital of the Company,
and the right to appoint one shareholder Director to the Board whilst

it owns more than 16% of the Company but less than 22%. In the event
that Piedmont owns less than 16% of the Company any such shareholder
Directors would be required to resign immediately. This Deed of
Appointment also entitles Piedmont to appoint one Director to sit

on the Nomination Committee and to have a Director attend, and receive
all the papers relating to, meetings of the Remuneration Committee.

The Board confirms that the Company is able to carry on the business
it carries onas its main activity independently from Odyzean.

There is a requirement to disclose the parent and ultimate controlling
party of the Company where this is different. There is no parent or
ultimate controlling party as such of Mitchells & Butlers plc. However, as
disclosed in the table of ‘Interests in voting rights’, and the section headed
‘Major shareholder Board representation and relationship agreement’,
both onthis page, Odyzean, as the indirect holder of the separate
shareholdings of Piedmont, Elpida and Smoothfield has disclosed its
interest in 56.66% of the shares in the Company. Odyzean, however,
does not directly hold any shares in the Company on its own behalf.

Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024. 67


Governance

Directors’ report continued

Directors’ indemnity

As permitted by the Articles of Association, each of the Directors has
the benefit of an indemnity, which is a qualifying third-party indemnity
as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. The indemnity
was in force throughout the tenure of each Director during the period,
and is currently in force. The Company also purchased and maintained
throughout the period Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance in
respect of itself and its Directors and the directors of any subsidiary

of the Company. No indemnity is provided for the Company's auditor.

Articles of Association
The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution
of the shareholders of the Company.

Conflicts of interest

The Company's Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and,
if it sees fit, authorise situations where a Director has an interest that
conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company
(‘Situational Conflicts’). The Board has a formal system in place for
Directors to declare Situational Conflicts to be considered for
authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the matter being
considered. In deciding whether to authorise a Situational Conflict, the
non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the way they consider
would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the
benefit of all shareholders, and they may impose limits or conditions
when giving authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
The Board believes that the systems it has in place for reporting and
considering Situational Conflicts continue to operate effectively.

Related party transactions

Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party transactions
involving Directors or their connected persons are carried out on an
arm's-length basis and are properly recorded.

The related party transactions in FY 2024 to which the Group was party
are set out in note 5.2 to the financial statements.

Change of control provisions

There are no significant agreements which contain provisions entitling
other parties to such agreements to exercise termination or other rights
in the event of a change of control of the Company.

There are no provisions in the Directors’ or employees’ service
agreements providing for compensation for loss of office or employment
occurring because of a takeover.

The trustee of the Company's SIP will invite participants on whose behalf
it holds shares to direct it how to vote in respect of those shares, and, if
there is an offer for the shares or other transaction which would lead toa
change of control of the Company, participants may direct it to accept the
offer or agree to the transaction. The trustee of the Mitchells & Butlers
Employee Benefit Trust may, having consulted with the Company, vote
or abstain from voting in respect of any shares it holds or accept or reject
an offer relating to shares in any way it sees fit, and it may take all or any
of the following matters into account: the long-term interests of
beneficiaries; the non-financial interests of beneficiaries; the interests

of beneficiaries in their capacity as employees or former employees:

the interests of future beneficiaries; and considerations of alocal, moral,
ethical, environmental or social nature.

68 ___ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

The rules of certain of the Company's share plans include provisions
which apply in the event of a takeover or reconstruction, as set out
in Table 2 below.

Table 2: Provisions which apply in the event ofa takeover
or reconstruction

Share plan Provisionin the event of atakeover

2013 Short Term Deferred Bonus shares maybereleasedor .
Incentive Plan and 2023 exchanged for shares in the new
Short Term Deferred controlling company

Incentive Plan

2013 Sharesave Plan and Options may be exercised within six
2023 Sharesave Plan months of a change of control

Share Incentive Plan Free shares may be released or
exchanged for shares in the new
controlling company

Awards either vest having regard to
achievement of applicable underpin
conditions and, at the discretion of
the Board, time pro-rating or are
exchanged for an equivalent award

in the new controlling company
Awards either vest having regard to
achievement of applicable
performance conditions and, at the
discretion of the Board, time pro-rating
or are exchanged for an equivalent
award in the new controlling company

Restricted Share Plan

Performance Share Plan

Shareholders approved the Company's existing Directors’ remuneration
policy at the AGM in 2024 for a period of three years from the date of that
meeting. That vote, which is binding on the Company, remains in force
until 2027, and thus a new Directors’ remuneration policy will require
approval at the 2027 AGM. Further details are set out in the Report on
Directors’ remuneration.

The Company was authorised by shareholders at its AGM in 2024 to
purchase its own shares up to amaximum of 29,886,342 ordinary shares,
representing approximately 5% of its issued ordinary share capital. The
Company has not used this authority during FY 2024. The Company
intends to renew this authority at the 2025 AGM.

Additional disclosures
Other information that is relevant to the Directors’ report, and which
is incorporated by reference into this report, can be located as follows:

Page(s)
Future developments of the business 18 to 58
Research and development 26to 29
Financial instruments and financial risk management 156 and 158
Greenhouse gas emissions 71to 73
Corporate governance statement 75 to87
Employee involvement 70
Employees with disabilities 69
Non-financial reporting 18to 58
Stakeholder engagement 77
Section 172 statement 54

Introduction Strategic Report

Disclosures required pursuant to the UK Listing Rules can be found
on the following pages:

Pagels)
Information required by UK Listing Rule 6.6.1R .

_ 1. Long-term incentive schemes . 92to112
2. Allotment of shares during the period _ : 174,
3. Significant contracts : 67

_ 4. Significant related party agreements _ 6&7
5. Relationship agreement : 67

Information required by UK Listing Rule 6.6.6R
6. Directors’ interests . _ 100
7. Significant shareholders (DTR 5)  &
8. Going concern statement 58
9. Shareholder buyback authorities 68

10. Statement of corporate governance 75 to 87

11. Details of Directors’ service contracts ~ 110

12. Climate-related financial disclosures consistent 40to 45

with TCFD

13. Board diversity 78

The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414C(11) of the
Companies Act 2006, and as noted in this Directors’ report, to include
certain matters in its Strategic Report that would otherwise be required
to be disclosed in this Directors’ report. The Strategic Report can be
found on pages 18 to 58 and includes an indication of future likely
developments in the Company, details of important events and the
Company's business model and strategy.

Employment policies

The Group employed an average of 50,455 people in FY 2024 (FY 2023
49,150). Through its diversity and equality policy, the Company seeks
to ensure that every employee, without exception, is treated equally
and fairly and that all employees are aware of their responsibilities. The
Company takes harassment of any type very seriously and this year has
introduced training for all employees that clearly outlines the Company's
expectations, and what employees should do if they are subject to,

or awitness of, harassment of any type. This training also explains the
importance of diversity and inclusion in the workplace and supports our
broader DEI agenda.

Our policies and procedures fully support our disabled colleagues.
We take active measures to do so via:

* arobust reasonable adjustment policy;

* disability-specific online resources (accessible via the Group's online
recruitment system), and

* processes to ensure colleagues are fully supported.

The Group is responsive to the needs of its employees. As such, should
any employee of the Group become disabled during their time with us,
we will actively retrain that employee and make reasonable adjustments
to their working environment where possible, in order to keep the
employee with the Group. It is the policy of the Group that the
recruitment, training, career development and promotion of disabled

persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.

Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Employee engagement

Mitchells & Butlers engages with its employees on a regular basis and
in anumber of ways to suit their different working patterns and this is
discussed further in the Report on Directors’ remuneration on page 92.
Engagement includes:

* line manager briefings;

* communications forums and roadshows held by functions or brands
across the Company;

* adedicated intranet for the Retail Support Team and Retail

Management;

‘Mable’, the Mitchells & Butlers ontine learning platform;

email news alerts;

focus groups;

weekly bulletins — specifically targeted at retail house managers

and mobile workers; and

* employee social media groups.

Details of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance
of the Company are shared with all employees at the appropriate time
using the methods listed above. In line with the requirements of the 2018
Code, the Board agreed that Dave Coplin will act as a link to the Board
for employees in order to strengthen the ‘employee voice’ at the Board.
This involves attending employee forums, focus groups and providing
feedback on values and behaviours, employee development and
upskitling and ensuring that feedback is listened to and acted upon
where appropriate.

As part of this role, Dave Coplin uses the insight he has gained to provide
the Board with an employee perspective across a range of issues, which
the Board considers to be very valuable. Dave meets regularly with
senior members of the Human Resources team and is also supporting
the business in how it may utilise technology to better communicate with
employees. in addition, as amember of the Remuneration Committee
his insight is also very helpful in the context of Executive pay.

Updates on employee matters are normally presented to the
Remuneration Committee or Board at least twice a year and cover a wide
range of issues. Over the course of FY 2024 these updates have focused
on employee engagement and specifically detailed feedback from the
two engagement surveys held during the year, areview of bonus and
incentive schemes below Executive Committee level, progress against
our diversity and inclusion agenda and plans to roll out anew talent
management system that will help to support the development

of our people.

The Remuneration Committee is also informed where significant changes
are proposed to employment conditions and policies elsewhere in the
Group, or if there are important emptoyee-related projects underway.
More detail on how the Remuneration Committee takes into account
wider workforce polices and the views of employees in relation to
Executive pay can be found on page 102.

We provide opportunities for employees to give their feedback to the
Company in a number of ways, from team or shift meetings in pubs,
bars and restaurants and engagement surveys for all employees to the
Mitchells & Butlers Business Forum. Business Forum representatives
collect questions from employees across the Company and put them
to members of the Executive Committee. The questions and answers
are communicated to employees.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024_____ 69.


Governance

Directors’ report continued

The Mitchells & Butlers ‘People Promise’

Our clearly defined people promise enables us to differentiate our
employment proposition, and the diagram below illustrates in more detail
the elements of our people promise. Clearly, pay is a very important
element but other factors also play an important part of the overall value
proposition, which is known internally as our People Promise’.

Our people value opportunities for progression, challenge within their
role, fair rewards and a safe working environment. Our research has also
shown that, in normal times, unlike some industries and employers,
Mitchells & Butlers offers a number of important differentiators which
our employees value:

* Flexibility and convenience: Mitchells & Butlers has always promoted
a flexible approach to working from the frontline through to our
support centre. The Covid-19 pandemic has further demonstrated
how flexibility and convenience are ever more important factors for
employees across all employee groups.

* More job satisfaction: As part of our research, we learnt that working
for Mitchells & Butlers gave employees a strong sense of family and
that employees put a high value on the day-to-day variety of work.
This comes through very strongly in our survey results.

* Agreat atmosphere: Undoubtedly working in hospitality, especially
at the frontline, is hard work. However, we also know that it can be
great fun. Our aim at Mitchells & Butlers is to make the working
environment as fun and friendly as possible whilst ensuring that
guests receive great service.

It remains the case that employees have begun to reassess what is
important to them and their work following the Covid-19 pandemic and
now in response to cost of living pressures. In addition, other industries
have been able to demonstrate how they now can offer careers that
provide some elements of our proposition in a way not seen before,

for example through very flexible working arrangements. It is therefore
important to review and refresh our research so that our ‘People Promise’
evolves and remains relevant to current and prospective team members.

We expect our people to

(as they have since 1898!)

employer

y ppartunities for progression,
Henge. fair ri

rds & safety and security

Seve Eveqy women:

70 —______ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Share ownership

Mitchells & Butlers is keen to encourage greater employee involvement
in the Group's performance through share ownership. It operates two
HMRC approved all-employee plans, which are the Sharesave Plan (both
the 2013 and 2023 versions) and the Share Incentive Plan (which includes
Partnership shares). Further details on the plans are set out in the Report
on Directors’ remuneration on pages 92 to 112.

The Company also operates three other plans on a selective basis, which
are the Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan (both the 2013 and 2023
versions), the Restricted Share Plan and the Performance Share Plan.

During the year, the Company has remained within its headroom limits
for the issue of new shares for share plans as set out in the rules of the
above plans. The Company uses an employee benefit trust to acquire
shares in the market when appropriate to satisfy share awards in order
to manage headroom under the plan rules. A total of 2,500,000 shares
were purchased by the employee benefit trust during FY 2024.

Responsible alcohol poticy

Mitchells & Butlers operates the Challenge 21 policy in all our businesses
across England and Wales, a Challenge 25 policy in our Scottish businesses
and similar policies in Northern Ireland and Germany. The policy requires
that any guest attempting to buy alcohol who appears under the age of 21
in England, Wales or Northern Ireland (or 25 in Scotland) must provide an
acceptable form of proof of age ID to confirm that they are over 18 before
they can be served. We employ similar policies across the various regions
of Germany in order to comply with local laws.

All of these policies form part of our regular training for our employees
on their responsibilities for serving alcohol.

Political donations

The Company made no political donations during the year and intends

to maintain its policy of not making such payments. It will, however, as
aprecautionary measure to avoid inadvertent breach of the law, seek
shareholder authority at its 2025 AGM to make limited donations or incur
limited political expenditure, although it has no intention of using the
authority.

Modern Slavery Act 2015

In accordance with the requirements of the Modern Slavery Act, acopy
of the Company's Modern Slavery Act compliance statement, signed on
behalf of the Board by Phil Urban, can be accessed on the Company's
website, www.mbplc.com

Introduction Strategic Report

This statement covers the Company's commitment to operating and
conducting its business in such a way that human rights are respected
and protected. Mitchells & Butlers will not permit or condone any form
of slavery, servitude, forced or compulsory labour or human trafficking.
It clearly states how the Company is committed to ensuring that there is
no modern slavery or human trafficking in its supply chains or in any part
of its businesses and this is reflected in the Mitchells & Butlers Modern
Stavery & Human Trafficking Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct. The
statement also covers due diligence processes for slavery and human
trafficking, supply chain accountability, Company accountability
(including ethical and socially responsible conduct in the workplace),
training and information and reviewing key performance indicators to
measure how effective we have been to ensure that slavery and human
trafficking is not taking place in any part of our business and supply chain,
in terms of record keeping and actions taken to strengthen supply chain
due diligence, auditing and verification.

Phil Urban has ultimate responsibility for emptoyment-related issues
and he also oversees matters relating to human rights including the
imptementation of the Modern Slavery Act throughout the Group.

Annual General Meeting

The notice convening the Annual General Meeting is contained ina
circular sent to shareholders with this report and includes full details
of the resolutions proposed.

Auditor

KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor
of the Company and its reappointment will be put to shareholders at
the AGM.

Funding and liquidity risk

In order to ensure that the Group's long-term funding strategy is aligned
with its strategic objectives, the Treasury Committee regularly assesses
the maturity profile of the Group's debt, alongside the prevailing financial
projections and three year plan. This enables it to ensure that funding
levels are appropriate to support the Group's plans.

The current funding arrangements of the Group consist of the securitised
notes issued by Mitchells & Butlers Finance plc (and associated liquidity
facility) and £200m of unsecured committed bank facilities (increased

by £50m during the prior year). Further information regarding these
arrangements is set out on page 58 and is also included in note 4.1 to the
financial statements on page 154. The terms of the securitisation and the
bank facilities contain a number of financial and operational covenants.
Compliance with these covenants is monitored by Group Treasury.

The Group prepares a rolling daily cash forecast covering a six-week
period, a four-weekly update on six-month forward-looking cash
forecasts and an annual cash forecast by period. These forecasts

are reviewed and used to manage the investment and borrowing
requirements of the Group. A combination of cash pooling and zero
balancing agreements is in place to ensure the optimum liquidity position
is maintained. Committed facilities outside of the securitisation are sized
to ensure that the Group can meet its medium-term anticipated cashflow
requirements. Short-term cash management is optimised through
regular discussions considering projected cash inflows and outflows.

Governance

Financial Statements Other Information

During FY 2022, the Group completed the necessary amendments to
transition its financing arrangements in advance of the discontinuation of
LIBOR as a floating reference rate, replacing LIBOR with a SONIA-based
rate in respect of sterling and a SOFR-based rate in respect of US dollars.
The amendments in respect of the securitised bonds were agreed by the
Bondholders through a formal consent solicitation process and bilateral
agreements were reached with securitised swap and liquidity facility
providers (using amended reference rates consistent with those agreed
under the bonds). The unsecured committed facility was extended on

a SONIA basis in July 2023.

Going Concern

After considering forecasts, sensitivities and mitigating actions available
to management and having regard to risks and uncertainties, the
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate
resources to continue to operate within its borrowing facilities and
covenants for a period of at least 12 months from the date of signing the
financial statements. Accordingly, the financial statements have been
prepared on the going concern basis. Full details are included in Section
1 of the notes to the financial statements.

Events after the balance sheet date
There are no post-balance sheet events to report.

Greenhouse gas CGHG’) emissions statement

The Group generates GHG emissions throughout its estate of bars
and restaurants for heating, cooling, ventilation, lighting, and catering
including the refrigeration and preparation of food and drink.

Location-based GHG emissions per £m turnover have decreased by
8% in FY 2024 in comparison to FY 2023. Market-based GHG emissions
per £m turnover have decreased by 11% for the same period. Absolute
emissions for Scope 1 & 2 (location- and market- based) have decreased
by 6%. This is due to the following key factors:

1. FY 2024 contains seven fewer days when compared to FY 2023;

2. Realisation of the benefit from the efficiency measures that we have
rolled out as well as decreasing our fugitive (f-gas) emissions; and

3. Anincrease in revenue generated in FY 2024 compared to FY 2023.

We have also continued with our commitment to purchase a green,
REGO-backed supply of electricity from renewable sources in FY 2024.

Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Reportand Accounts 2024.____ 71


Governance

Directors’ report continued

Table 3: Mitchells & Butlers’ carbon reporting disclosure

Assessment parameters
Assessment year
Consolidation approach
Boundary summary
Scope

Consistency with the
financial statements

Exclusions
Emission factor data source
Assessment methodology

Materiality threshold
Estimation

Intensity threshold

FY 2024
Financial control
All bars and restaurants either owned or under operational control during FY 2024 were included.

General classifications of greenhouse gas emissions scopes based on the GHG protocol and 1SO14064-1:2006
within the context of the Group's operations are as follows:

Scope 1 - direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the Group, e.g. fuel
combustion of varying types, occurs during kitchen activity and to generate heating and domestic hot water most
commonly through natural grid supplied gas, but also some LPG (Liquefied Petroleum Gas) and oil. Real fires
fuelled by logs or coal are also used to supplement customer comfort and enhance ambience.

Scope 2 - GHG emissions from the generation of purchased electricity used during kitchen activity and for
lighting, heating, and cooling as well as from company electric vehicles.

Scope 3 - indirect emissions from activities up and down the Group's value chain but occurring from sources
not owned or controlled by the Group.

This assessment focuses on Scope 1 & 2 emissions only (Scope 3 is optional under the current regulations).
Scope 1 & 2 emissions are reported for both FY 2024 and FY 2023 on a financial year basis.

Franchise sites are excluded as they are responsible for arranging and paying for their own energy.

Alex sites in Germany are included. Emissions are based on UK average emissions per outlet multiplied by the
number of Alex sites. These sites make up the non-UK aspect of this report.

Scope 1 — Wood, charcoal, and kerosene are excluded because each of these amounts to less than 1% of total
emissions which falls below the materiality threshold.

All carbon emission factors used are sourced from the UK Government GHG conversion factors for company

reporting 2024.

Environmental Reporting Guidelines: including Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting Guidelines

March 2019.

All emission types estimated to contribute >1% of total emissions are included.

Scope 1 - Fugitive Emissions are partially estimated due to unknown gas types for some sites.

Scope 1 & 2 - Electricity and gas consumption uses a pro-rata estimate for supplies that do not have complete
data in the reporting year.

Emissions are stated in tonnes CO,e per £m revenue. This intensity ratio puts emissions into context given the scale
of the Group's activities and enables comparison with prior year performance.

Target Emissions during FY 2023 are provided for comparative purposes.

Energy efficiency action taken

During FY 2024 we continued our deployment of local renewable energy and low carbon technology sources including solar photovoltaic and air
source heat pumps. We have continued to expand the roll out of the Internet of Things (loT) solution, which involves installing remote sensors and
controllers for lighting, catering, and heating/cooling systems. Expansion of these systems will continue throughout FY 2025 and beyond.

In addition to the technological solutions adopted we have also continued to improve our staff awareness and engagement in energy use and carbon
emissions. We have a team of energy ambassadors who work across the business, who are trained to support General Managers to investigate and
resolve issues resulting in energy exceedances and to identify opportunities for optimising energy use and reducing consumption.

Commentary

Both location- and market-based reporting methodologies are used. Scope 2 location-based emissions use UK grid average emissions. Scape 2
market-based emissions account for the electricity purchased within the UK portfolio from REGO-backed sources which result in zero emissions.

For transparency we have reported two intensity ratios; a location-based ratio and a market-based ratio for both Scope 1 & 2 emissions.

72 ______ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction * Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information.

Global GHG emissions and energy use data for FY 2024.

82,311

__84,927 |

a. Intensity ratios based on the tumover for FY 2023 of £2,503m and for FY 2024 of £2,610m.

Disclosure of information to auditor : :

Having made the requisite enquiries, so far asthe Directors are aware, specifically those who are a Director at the date of approval of the Annual

Report, there is no relevant audit information (as defined by Section 418(3) of the Companies Act 2006) of which the Company's auditor is unaware
* and each Director has taken all steps that ought to have been taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that

the Company's auditor is aware of that information.

This report, which includes the Strategic Report, has been approved by the Boardand is signed on its behalf.

Andrew Freeman Andou Ficenon

Group General Counsel and Company Secretary
26 November 2024 ; :


Governance

Statement of Directors’ responsibilities in respect of the

Annual Report and Accounts

The Directors are responsible for preparing
the Annual Report and Accounts and the
Group and parent Company financial
statements in accordance with applicable
law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent
Company financial statements for each financial period. Under that law
they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance
with UK-adopted international accounting standards and applicable law
and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in
accordance with UK accounting standards and applicable law, including
FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.

Under company faw the Directors must not approve the financial
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of
the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of the Group's
profit or loss for that period. In preparing each of the Group and parent
Company financial statements, the Directors are required to:

+ select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

* make judgements and estimates that are reasonable, relevant
and reliable;

* forthe Group financial statements, state whether they have
been prepared in accordance with UK-adopted international
accounting standards;

* forthe parent Company financial statements, state whether
applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent
Company financial statements;

* assess the Group and parent Company's ability to continue as a
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern; and

* use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend
to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to cease operations,
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records
that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Company's transactions
and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position
of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are responsible
for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable

the preparation of financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them

to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud
and other irregularities.

74 Annual Report and Accounts 2024 Mitchells & Butlers ple

Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible
for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors’ report, Report on Directors’
remuneration and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with
that law and those regulations. .

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the
corporate and financial information included on the Company's website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination

of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

In accordance with Disclosure Guidance and Transparency Rule (‘DTR’)
4.1.16R, the financial statements will form part of the annual financial
report prepared under DTR 4.1.17R and 4.1.18R. The auditor's report on
these financial statements provides no assurance over whether the annual
financial report has been prepared in accordance with those requirements.

Respo statement of the Directors in respect ofthe
annual financial report
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:

* the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable
set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets,
liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; and

* the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development
and performance of the business and the position of the issuer
and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole,
together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties
that they face.

We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair,
balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary
for shareholders to assess the Group's position and performance,
business model and strategy.

‘Tim Jones
Chief Financial Officer
26 November 2024

Introduction

Strategic Report

Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Corporate governance statement

“This statement sets out our report to
shareholders on the status of our corporate

governance arrangements.”

Bob Ivell
Chair

The Board is responsible for ensuring that
the activities of the Group and its various
businesses are conducted in compliance with
the law, regulatory requirements and rules,
good practices, ethically and with appropriate
and proper governance and standards.

This includes reviewing internal controls, ensuring that there is an
appropriate balance of skills and experience represented on the Board,
compliance with the applicable UK Corporate Governance Code, which
is issued by the Financial Reporting Council and which is available at
www. frc.org.uk, and maintaining appropriate relations with shareholders
and other stakeholders.

The latest financial information for Mitchells & Butlers and its Group of
companies is included in the 2024 Annual Report and Accounts (of which
this Corporate Governance Statement forms part) and which is available
online at: www.mbplc.com/investors.

Sharcholder relations

The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the
performance and activities of the Company. The Company regularly
updates the market on its financial performance, at the half year and

full year results in May and November respectively, and by way of other
announcements as required. The content of these updates is available
by webcast on the Company's website www.mbplc.com, together
with general information about the Company so as to be available to all
shareholders. The Company has a regular programme of dialogue with
its larger shareholders which provides an opportunity to discuss, on the
basis of publicly available information, the progress of the business.

On amore informal basis, the Chair, the Chief Executive and the

Chief Financial Officer regularly report to the Board the views of

larger shareholders about the Company, and the other Non-Executive
Directors are available to meet shareholders on request and are offered
the opportunity to attend meetings with larger shareholders.

The AGM provides a useful interface with shareholders, many of whom
are also guests in our pubs, bars and restaurants. All proxy votes received
in respect of each resolution at the AGM are counted and the balance
for and against, and any votes withheld, are indicated.

At the January 2024 Annual General Meeting, the Company had two
resolutions where 20% or more of votes cast were cast against the
resolution, namely in respect of the re-election of both Bob Ivell (Chair),
and Josh Levy. These resulted in the Company featuring in the
Investment Association's public register of shareholder dissent.

Our understanding was that the vote against Bob Ivell was the result

of the composition of the Board, the perceived lack of diversity on the
Board, and the fact that he had served on the Board for 12 years. The
composition of the Board, including its gender balance, is dealt with

by the Nomination Committee on a regular basis, and the importance

of having diversity on the Board is acknowledged, including female
representation. The Board Diversity Policy and progress against that
policy are clearly explained in this Annual Report, including confirmation
that any future appointments will continue to take into account diversity,
not only in terms of gender but also in terms of the appropriate mix of
skills and experience and that all Board appointments will always be
made on merit. As regards his tenure, the Board recognises his extensive
industry experience which has been of great assistance to the Company
in addressing, amongst other things, industry pressures.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024. 75


Governance

Corporate governance statement continued

We understand that the votes against the re-election of Josh Levy were
due to insufficient independence on the Board and apparent concerns
about the presence of Mr Levy on the Remuneration Committee.

Josh Levy is a shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc., which in
turnis amember of the Odyzean Group which, as a substantial majority
stakeholder in the business, wishes to have significant representation on
the Board. The Company has explained the circumstances of Mr Levy's
presence on the Board and his committee role in detail, both in this and
previous Annual Reports.

In relation to the issues raised, and as in previous years, the Company's
response to its inclusion in that register can be found in the register itself
and onthe Company's website www.mbplc.com. That open letter in
reply to the Investment Association sets out the Company's position,
which remains as set out in the published letter.

The UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) contains best practice
recommendations in relation to corporate governance yet acknowledges
that, in individual cases, these will not all necessarily be appropriate for
particular companies. Accordingly, the Code specifically recognises the
concept of ‘comply or explain’ in relation to divergences from the Code
which reflect the specific circumstances of individual companies.

No changes to the Board were made during the year and the Board
currently consists of nine members, three of whom are independent
Non-Executive Directors (including two female independent Non-
Executive Directors). A more detailed explanation is set out on page 78.

Corporate governance arrangements during FY 202 |

In FY 2024 the Board maintained its regular set of scheduled meetings.
The details of the number of meetings of the Board and the Audit and
Remuneration Committees in the period are set out on page 60.

The Executive Committee, which is the principal operational decision-
making forum of the Group, continued with its monthly cycle of meetings
in FY 2024, and the output of its meetings was reported to the Board.
The Executive Committee addressed in particular all stakeholder
arrangements including the relationships and dialogue with employees,
shareholders, supplier arrangements and the Group's pension arrangements.

Employee wellbeing arrangements

and workplace implications

The Company has an established wellbeing strategy that encompasses
five pillars of wellbeing: social, environmental, physical, mental and
financial. Within these pillars there are a range of resources and tools
available for line managers and employees to access, including:

* our employee assistance programme which is run by the Licensed
Trade Charity. They operate afree, 24/7 confidentiat helpline and
awebsite available to all employees:

* anonline wellbeing centre that provides access to workout videos,
nutritional advice, financial wellbeing tools and mindfulness and
meditation videos and articles;

* financial wellbeing tools and support;

* mental health training available for all line managers, developed
in conjunction with the Samaritans, to assist them in supporting
their teams;

* wellbeing days and events, which are now often held virtually
and this will enable all employees to participate in various activities
and workshops; and

* menopause awareness training for employees and line managers.

76 ____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple.

Corporate governance code reporting
For FY 2024, the Company has reported under the 2018 Code. Its
requirements include:

1. enhanced board engagement with the workforce and wider
stakeholders, including describing how the Company complies with
its obligations to take into account stakeholder views pursuant to
Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006;

2. demonstration of aclear business strategy aligned with a healthy
corporate company culture;

3. ahigh-quality and diverse board composition; and

4. proportionate executive remuneration that supports the long-term
success of the business.

The Board established a Corporate Responsibility Committee in

June 2019. The purpose of this Committee is to allow more executive,
leadership and functional management involvement in key areas of
significant importance including environmental impacts of the Group's
activities, community relationships and the role of the Company in
society. The existence of this Committee demonstrates a significant
commitment to the enhancement of governance in general and matters
such as stakeholder engagement. More details of this Committee and
its membership are set out on page 83 and its Terms of Reference are
on the Company's website www.mbplc.com.

Alignment Lo the 2018 Code
As part of its alignment with the 2018 Code, the following operational
and administrative framework is in place.

1. Enhanced Board engagement with the workforce

and wider stakeholders

The 2018 Code recommends that the Board should consider wider
stakeholder views, in particular implementing arrangements for gathering
the views of the workforce. The 2018 Code permits a designated
Non-Executive Director to fill this role and in 2019 the Board designated
Dave Coplin for this role. The purpose of this appointment under the
2018 Code is to gather employee views, ensure employee views are
taken into account in Board discussions and decision-making, and
engage with the workforce to explain how executive remuneration aligns
with the Company's remuneration policy. This commenced in FY 2019
with Dave Coplin being introduced to those executive managers who
could help ensure that meetings and site visits were effective. Progress
has continued to date.

Mitchells & Butlers has an Employee Forum with elected representatives
which normally meets with the Executive Directors and members of

the Executive Committee twice a year. Dave Coplin also attends these
meetings. During FY 2024 two meetings were held in March and
September. Questions from the workforce in general are sought through
the intranet to seek areas of concern or enquiry and to enable the
Company to respond. The Employee Forum will, from time to time,

be provided with an overview of how executive pay is aligned with

the Company's strategic objectives. The Terms of Reference of the
Employee Forum reflect this. Further details on employee engagement
can be found in the Report on Directors’ remuneration on page 92.

The results of regular Board roadshows are used to update managers
on performance and the latest developments affecting the Group,

and employee feedback is included in Board papers where appropriate
as part of the decision-making process.

Introduction Strategic Report

2. Aclear business strategy aligned with a healthy corporate
company culture

In July 2018 the Financial Reporting Council published ‘Guidance on

the Strategic Report’, strengthening the link between the purpose of
the Strategic Report and the Directors’ duty under Section 172 of the
Companies Act 2006, to promote the success of the Company. The
requirement under the Companies Act 2006 is that the Strategic Report
must inform members of the Company, and help them assess, how the
Directors have performed their duty under Section 172 to promote the
success of the Company. The revised guidance encourages companies
to consider the broader matters that may impact upon the performance
of the Company over the longer term including the interests of wider
stakeholders, and it is now established Mitchells & Butlers practice

that strategic proposals put to the Company's Board meetings include
arequirement to consider the Directors’ duties under Section 172.

A detailed explanation of the manner in which the Board has discharged
its responsibilities under Section 172 is set out in the Compliance
Statements on pages 54 and 55.

The specific provisions of Section 172 require Directors to act inthe way
they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success
of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole and, in doing
so, have regard to the interests of other stakeholders. The specific
requirements of Section 172 are that Boards should consider:

+ the likely consequences of decisions in the long term;

* the interests of the Company's employees;

* the fostering of business relationships with suppliers, customers
and others;

* the impact of the Company's operations on the community and
the environment;

* the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high
standards of business conduct; and

* theneed to act fairly as between members of the Company.

The 2018 Code specifically requires that the Board should understand
the views of the Company's key stakeholders (including employees,
suppliers, customers and others) and keep stakeholder engagement
mechanisms under review so they remain effective. The 2018 Code also
recommends that there should be regular reporting as to how the Board
has complied with this engagement approach in its decision-making.
processes and how the interests of different shareholders have been
considered. The 2018 Code sets out a series of aspects to be taken into
account in demonstrating the Board has complied with its Section 172
responsibilities. These are listed below, together with Company
procedures which align Mitchells & Butlers’ corporate behaviour with
the spirit and values of the 2018 Code and how the Board has employed
its oversight of the Company's purpose. This purpose is set out in more
detail in the Strategic Report.

a. Culture

Mitchells & Butlers has in place a set of PRIDE values of Passion, Respect,
Innovation, Drive and Engagement which underpin its key priorities of
People, Practices, Profits and Guests. The Board observes these PRIDE
values in discharging its everyday responsibilities and considering
decisions and proposals and encourages all levels of the organisation
todo so.

b. Strategy

In demonstrating that the Board is promoting the success of the Company
and taking decisions with regard to their long-term impact, the Board
must ensure it has in place, and regularly reviews, its agreed strategy.

Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Developments arising from the strategy review are followed up,
documented and, on a regular basis, the Board reviews whether the
Company is operating in line with that strategy and/or there needs to be
arevision of the strategy to reflect external, and possibly internal, changes
in the dynamics of the business. Board papers refer to whether they
reflect a proposal that is aligned to, or diverges from, the agreed strategy.

Principle B and Provisions 1 and 2 of the 2018 Code require the Board to:

* describe how opportunities and risks to the future success of the
business have been considered and addressed, the sustainability of
the Company's business model and how its governance contributes
to the delivery of its strategy;

* establish the Company's purpose, values and strategy, ensure that
these and its culture are aligned and describe the activities the Board
takes to monitor and implement this culture; and

* describe the Company's approach to investing in and rewarding
its workforce.

Details of how the Board achieves these are given in the Strategic Report
on pages 18 to 58.

c. Training and awareness

There is an induction process for all Directors on appointment and

the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary is available to

all Directors, whether of the Company or any of the subsidiaries, for
consultation and guidance on matters of governance in relation to any
aspects of the affairs of any part of the Group. As circumstances or new
areas develop, whether in the operations of the business or externally,
appropriate training will be considered to ensure that each Director

is involved in decision-making and oversight with the benefit of the
correct amount of knowledge as to what is relevant for consideration.

The induction process ensures that Directors are aware of, and
understand, the requirements under Section 172. Nevertheless,

all subsidiary Directors have received a comprehensive guide to provide
training below Board level in relation to Section 172 requirements,
focusing on how such considerations should be documented in the
future, to ensure a proper understanding of what needs to be considered
and what evidence is required to be presented when putting proposals
tothe Board.

Ongoing training and guidance on their responsibilities continues to be
provided to subsidiary company Directors.

d. Information

Board paper procedures now contain specific references to the factors
referred to in Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006, so they can be
brought to the Board's attention where appropriate.

e. Policies and processes

The business has an existing comprehensive suite of policies and
processes across a wide spectrum of its operations and practices
and these are updated, revised and re-communicated regularly.

f. Stakeholder engagement

Engagement with the workforce is addressed above and engagement
with guests is dealt with through the Guest Health initiatives and this

is explained in our Value Creation story on pages 30 to 33. Engagement
with key, critical suppliers is addressed through the supplier segmentation
tiering process where we consult with suppliers on a regular basis. This
varies from monthly interaction to annual reviews, depending on where
the supplier appears on the Company's tier 1 to tier 4 ranking (which is

a multi-factor process involving criticality, volume, spend size and
availability of substitute products).

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024_____ 77


Governance

Corporate governance statement continucel

3. Board composition and diversity

a. Board composition

The Board is currently comprised of nine members whose biographies are outlined on pages 64 and 65. These are the Chair, Chief Executive and
Chief Financial Officer, three independent Non-Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors. Two independent Non-Executive Directors,
representing 22% of the Board's Directors, are female, one of whom (Jane Moriarty) is also the Senior Independent Director. The Chair, Bob Ivell,
has served on the Board since May 2011. None of the Directors are from a minority ethnic background (as defined in the UK Listing Rules).

The shareholder representative Non-Executive Directors are nominated by Piedmont and Elpida, who, together with Smoothfield, are subsidiaries
of Odyzean, the Company's largest shareholder, which holds approximately 57% of the Company's issued share capital. Further information relating
tothe Odyzean Group and the specific nomination rights held by Piedmont and Elpida is set out on page 67.

The Board acknowledges that the Chair's period of tenure on the Board does not meet the best practice recommendations of the UK Corporate
Governance Code and the level of Board diversity does not meet the targets set out in the UK Listing Rules and, whilst this overall composition of the
Board remains a matter for continuous review, it should be noted that in the prospectus published by the Company on 22 February 2021 in connection
with the Open Offer, the Company confirmed that the Odyzean Group had indicated that it: (a) would disregard specific corporate governance
requirements around tenure; (b) intended to review the composition of the Board, which may result in less focus on compliance with UK Corporate
Governance Code recommendations in the future; and (c) the time and cost devoted by the senior management team to public company matters
should be reduced, The Company has received no indication of a change in approach on these issues from the Odyzean Group.

The composition of the Board and executive management is set out in the following tables as required by UKLR 22.2.30R(2). The underlying
information was collected directly from the relevant individuals. Executive managements classed as the Executive Committee, which includes
two Board members.

Gender identity and sex

Number of senior

positions onthe Numberin Percentage of
Percentage of Board (CEO, CFO, executive executive
Number of Board members theBoard __SiDandChair) _management__ management
Men 78 3 7 70
Women 22 1 3 30
Ethnic background
Number of senior
positions on the Numberin _Percentage of
Percentage of Board (CEO, CFO executive executive
Number of Board members theBoard —_SiDandChair) __management__—_ management
White British or other White (including minority-white groups) 100 4 10 100
Mixed/multiple ethnic groups : - - - -
Asian/Asian British - - - -
Black/African/Caribbean/Black British - - - -
Other ethnic group - - - -

Not specified/prefer not to say - - - -

b. Board diversity

Principle J of the 2018 Code states that boards are encouraged to ‘promote diversity of gender, social and ethnic backgrounds, cognitive and personal
strengths’ through their appointments and succession planning. The purpose is to ensure that there is a balance of views from different genders and
other experiences and skill sets around the board table so that decision-making can be made with good oversight of all relevant factors.

Dave Coplin has been identified by the Board as the Director responsible for oversight of the Company's diversity and inclusion arrangements. The
Company has had a Board Diversity Policy in place for some time, but during FY 2019 it was also agreed that talent pipeline presentations to the Board
should include the extent to which diversity aspects have been taken into account in development plans/recruitment, and that ethnicity and disability
reporting should be addressed, to the extent that the Company has reliable data. Talent pipeline presentations were put on hold during Covid-19
restrictions, but resumed in FY 2021 and continued in FY 2022, FY 2023 and FY 2024.

Gender Pay Gap datais already overseen by the Remuneration Committee and details are set out on page 108 of the Report on Directors’ remuneration.

78 _____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategic Report

A. Proportionate executive remuneration
This is dealt with on page 108 of the Report on Directors’ remuneration.

Corporate governance

The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.

The Board considers that the Company has complied throughout the
year ended 28 September 2024 with all the Provisions and best practice
guidance of the 2018 Code except certain specific aspects related to
Chair's tenure, Board composition, the constitution of a Board Committee,
effectiveness reviews and executive pension contributions. This Corporate
Governance Statement addresses the areas where, for reasons specific
to Mitchells & Butlers, there are divergences from the 2018 Code as
described below.

The Audit Committee report and Nomination Committee report, which
are set out on pages 88 to 91 and page 83 respectively of the Annual
Report, also form part of this Corporate Governance Statement and
they should all be considered together.

The Board recognises the importance of good corporate governance
in creating a sustainable, successful and profitable business and details
are set out in this statement of the Company's corporate governance
procedures and application of the principles of the 2018 Code. There
are, however, a small number of areas where, for reasons specifically
related to the Company, the detailed Provisions of the 2018 Code were
not fully complied with in FY 2024, These areas are kept under regular
review. A fundamental aspect of the 2018 Code is that it contains best
practice recommendations in relation to corporate governance yet
acknowledges that. in individual cases, these will not all necessarily

be appropriate for particular companies. Accordingly, the 2018 Code
specifically recognises the concept of ‘comply or explain’ in relation

to divergences from it.

Compliance with the Code

Except for the matters which are explained below (in line with the
‘comply or explain’ concept), the Company complied fully with the
Principles and Provisions of the 2018 Code throughout the financial
period in respect of which this statement is prepared (and continues
todo so as at the date of this statement).

Explanation for non-compliance with parts of the Code

The current Board consists of the two Executive Directors and the Chair,
the three Independent Non-Executive Directors and three representative
directors of the Odyzean Group which holds approximately 57% of the
issued share capital. The Board does not currently intend to change this
arrangement and believes that, despite not strictly complying with the
2018 Code, the current structure strengthens corporate governance

as it is both representative of the Company's shareholder base and
demonstrates the Odyzean Group's ongoing commitment and support
to the overall strategy and management of the Company.

The assessment of the composition of the Board and its Committees
and the Chair's tenure should be considered in the context of the
explanation already set out under the heading of ‘Board composition
and diversity’ on page 78.

During the year, there were five separate areas of divergence from full
compliance with the 2018 Code, as set out below by reference to specific
paragraphs in the 2018 Code.

Governance Financial Statements Other Information

1. Chair’s tenure (Provision 19)
Provision 19 of the 2018 Code states:

“The chair should not remain in post beyond nine years from the date
of their first appointment to the board. To facilitate effective succession
planning and the development of a diverse board, this period can be
extended for a limited time, particularly in those cases where the chair
was an existing non-executive director on appointment. A clear
explanation should be provided.”

Bob Ivell was appointed to the Board in May 2011 and, as such, his
appointment extended beyond the normal nine year tenure, which
expired in May 2020. The Board had already reviewed this in advance
in 2019 and concluded that it was appropriate that he should remain
in place as Chair.

Mrlvell's extensive industry experience and his involvement with such
influential bodies as UK Hospitality, have been of great assistance to

the Company in addressing the ongoing challenges of energy prices,
inflationary cost pressures, the demanding trading environment and
dampened consumer confidence. The requirement for a stable and
experienced Board in such circumstances, and it being an inappropriate
time for the Board to be considering changes in the existing arrangements,
meant that no further consideration was given in FY 2024 to Provision 19
of the 2018 Code, in relation to Bob Ivell’s Chair tenure. This will remain
the case while the Company continues to deal with the rebuilding

of its business.

2. Composition of thé Board (Provision 11)

Throughout the year, Provision 11 of the 2018 Code, which requires that
at least half the board, excluding the chair, should be non-executive
directors whom the board considers to be independent, was not complied
with. Accordingly, this had consequential implications on the composition
of the Remuneration Committee.

The Board does not comply fully with the requirement for at least half of
its members to be independent, due to the presence of three shareholder
representatives on the Board, representing members of the Odyzean
Group. These shareholders maintain a dialogue via their representatives
on the Board, all of whom are careful to ensure that there is no conflict
between that role and their duty to the Board and other shareholders.

The members of the Odyzean Group made extremely significant
investments in the Company and currently hold approximately 57%

of the Company's issued share capital. The Board considers their
investment objectives to be fully aligned with those of the Group and

of other shareholders. The Board maintains excellent relations with its
major shareholders and considers their commitment to be a significant
factor in the ongoing stability of the Board, particularly as a result of their
strong support of the Board's long-term strategy, including the recent
Ignite initiatives. Their continued investment and presence on the Board
adds value as the Group works towards common goals, and in pursuit

of the Company's published strategy. In particular, the members of the
Odyzean Group have been very supportive of the Board's actions when
the Company had to deal with the forced closure of the business during
the Covid-19 pandemic, followed by the need for an Open Offer in FY
2021, which they subscribed for in full. Their respective representatives
continued to offer valuable advice and experience while the Board
considered options in the face of such unprecedented circumstances.

The Board intends to continue to work closely with the representatives
of its major shareholders to further the interests of the Company. The
Company is not aware of any changes being proposed to the shareholder
representative profile of the Board in the immediate future.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024_______ 79


Governanee

Corporate governance statement continued

3. Constitution of Committees

Throughout FY 2024, the Company had (and continues to have) fully
functioning Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees as
required by the 2018 Code.

Remuneration Committee (Code Provision 32)

The Remuneration Committee is not fully compliant with the relevant
Provisions of the 2018 Code. Provision 32 of the 2018 Code specifies
that the Remuneration Committee should consist of independent
Non-Executive Directors and the Remuneration Committee included the
presence of a representative of a major shareholder who is amember of
the Odyzean Group. As set out on page 67, under the terms of the Deed
of Appointment between the Company and Piedmont, Piedmont is
entitled to have a Director attend, and receive all the papers relating to,
meetings of the Remuneration Committee. The Board has, inthe
circumstances, agreed that Mr Levy should be amember of the
Committee. The Board has carefully considered the implications of this
arrangement and has concluded that it constitutes a valid exception
under the ‘comply or explain’ regime of the 2018 Code, in that the
shareholder concerned is committed to the progression and growth of
the Company, has made a substantial financial commitment and is fully
supportive of the Group's strategy. All the shareholder representatives
have significant commercial and financial experience and make a
substantial contribution to the Committees and the Group remains fully
committed to working with them on matters affecting the Group and its
activities in the future.

4. Effectiveness Reviews (Provision 21)
As reported on page 63, the Chair has kept the skills, contributions and
experience of the Board members under close review throughout FY 2024.

Provision 21 requires that there should be a formal and rigorous annual
evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees, the Chair
and individual Directors; that the Chair should consider having a regular
externally facilitated board evaluation; that in FTSE 350 companies this
should happen at least every three years; and that the external evaluator
should be identified in the annual report and a statement made about
any other connection it has with the company or individual directors.
None of these evaluations took place in FY 2024 and the Board will
consider if it is appropriate to carry out any such evaluations, in FY 2025.

The information required by Disclosure Guidance and Transparency
Rule (‘DTR’) 7.1 is set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 88 to
91. The information required by DTR 7.2 is set out in this Corporate
Governance Statement, other than that required under DTR 7.2.6 which
is set out in the Directors’ report on pages 66 to 73.

5. Executive pension contributions (Code provision 38)
During part of FY 2024, the Company was not fully compliant with
Provision 38 of the 2018 Code which sets out that pension contribution
rates for executive directors should be aligned with those available to the
wider workforce. In 2020 the Company put in place a phased strategy to
address this non-compliance, pursuant to which any increase in the base
pay of Executive Directors would be entirely offset by an equivalent
reduction in their cash equivalent pension contributions until such
pension contributions were aligned with the wider workforce. Full
compliance with Provision 38 was achieved during FY 2024, at which
time the pension allowance paid to all Executive Directors reduced to 4%,
in line with the wider workforce. This is consistent with the approach the
Company previously communicated in its remuneration policy. This will
no longer be an area of non-compliance in FY 2025.

80 ____. Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Board composition

The Board started the year with nine Directors and the table on page 81
lists the composition of the Board during the year. There were no changes
to the Board during FY 2024. No further significant changes to the
leadership and oversight of the Group by its Board and its Committees
are currently being considered.

‘The Board

The Board is responsible to all stakeholders, including its shareholders,
for the strategic direction, development and control of the Group.

It approves strategic plans and annual capital and revenue budgets.

It reviews significant investment proposals and the performance of past
investments and maintains oversight, supervision and control of the
Group's operating and financial performance. It monitors the Group's
overall system of internal controls, governance and compliance and
ensures that the necessary financial, technical and human resources are
in place for the Company to meet its objectives. Our website includes

a schedule of matters which have been reserved for the main Board.

During FY 2024 there were eight Board meetings. There were also four
meetings of the Audit Committee, four meetings of the Remuneration
Committee and the Nomination Committee did not meet. The table in
the Governance at a Glance section on page 60 shows attendance levels
at the Board and Committee meetings held during the year; the numbers
in brackets confirm how many meetings each Director was eligible to
attend during the year.

Full attendance was recorded for all Directors in respect of all Board
and Committee meetings held during FY 2024, but where Directors
are unable to attend a meeting (whether of the Board or one of its
Committees), they are provided with all the papers and information
relating to that meeting and are able to discuss issues arising directly
with the Chair of the Board or Chair of the relevant Committee. There
are eight Board meetings currently planned for FY 2025.

The Company Secretary's responsibilities include ensuring good
information flows to the Board and between senior management and the
Non-Executive Directors. The Company Secretary is responsible, through
the Chair, for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters
and for assisting the Directors with their professional development.

This includes regular corporate governance and business issues updates,
as wellas the use of operational site visits and the provision of external
courses where required. The Company Secretary facilitates a
comprehensive induction for newly appointed Directors, tailored to
individual requirements and including guidance on the requirements of,
and Directors’ duties in connection with, the 2018 Code and the
Companies Act 2006 as well as other relevant legislation.

The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter
reserved for the Board.

Introduction Strategic Report

Directors

Governance Financial Statements Other Information

The following were Directors of the Company during the year ended 28 September 2024:

Date of change of

Directors who served during the year Date appointed role
Bob Ivell Independent Non-Executive Director* 09/05/11 14/07/11
Interim Chair? 14/07/11 26/10/11

Executive Chair ae _ 26/10/11 12/11/12

Non-Executive Chair 12/11/12 -

Amanda Brown Independent Non-Executive Director 04/07/22 -
Keith Browne? Non-Executive Director 22/09/16 -
Dave Coplin Independent Non-Executive Director 29/02/16 -
Eddie Irwin? Non-Executive Director 21/03/12 -
Tim Jones Chief Financial Officer 18/10/10 -
Josh Levy‘ Non-Executive Director 13/11/15 -
Jane Moriarty Independent Non-Executive Director 27/02/19 25/01/22
Senior Independent Director 25/01/22 -

Phil Urban Chief Executive 27/09/15 -

a. Independent while in the role specified.
b. Nominated shareholder representative of Elpida.
c. Nominated shareholder representative of Piedmont.

At the start of the year, the Board was made up of seven male and
two female Directors and there were no changes during the year,
meaning that at the year end, the Board consisted of seven male and
two female Directors.

The Executive Directors have service contracts. The Chair and each of
the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment. Copies of the
respective service contracts or letters of appointment of all the members
of the Board are available on the Company's website. In addition, they
are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during
normal business hours and at the place of the Annual General Meeting
from at least 15 minutes before, and until the end of, the meeting.

At the Company's forthcoming Annual General Meeting in 2025 all the
Directors will be required to stand for annual re-election, in accordance
with the Company's Articles of Association. Their biographical details as
at 26 November 2024 are set out on pages 64 and 65, including their main
commitments outside the Company. In addition, Provision 18 of the 2018
Code requires that the papers accompanying the resolutions to elect or
re-elect directors, set out the specific reasons why the individual director's
contribution is, and continues to be, important to the Company's
long-term sustainable success and this information is included in

the Notice of Meeting.

Provision 15 of the 2018 Code states that full-time executive directors
should not take on more than one non-executive directorship in a FTSE
100 company or other significant appointments. The Mitchells & Butlers
policy is that Executive Directors may be permitted to accept one
external Non-Executive Director appointment with the Board's prior
approval and as long as this is not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
During FY 2024, neither of the Executive Directors held any such external
directorship, nor did they hold any other significant appointments, as
adirector or otherwise, and that remains the case as at the date of this
Annual Report.

Division of responsibilities between Chair

and Chief Executive

In accordance with Provision 9 of the 2018 Code, the roles of Chair
and Chief Executive should not be exercised by the same individual.

The division of responsibilities between the Chair and the Chief Executive
is clearly established as required by Principle G of the 2018 Code and
these are set out in writing and have been agreed by the Board. In
particular, it has been agreed in writing that the Chair shall be responsible
for running the Board and shall provide advice and assistance to the Chief
Executive. He also chairs the Nomination Committee, is amember of the
Remuneration Committee and attends, by invitation, meetings of the
Audit Committee. He also chairs the Market Disclosure Committee,
Corporate Responsibility Committee, the Property Committee and

the Pensions Committee.

Itis also agreed in writing that the Chief Executive has responsibility for
all aspects of the Group's overall commercial, operational and strategic
development. He chairs the Executive Committee (details of which
appear on page 84) and attends the Nomination, Remuneration and
Audit Committees by invitation, not necessarily for the entirety of such
meetings depending upon the subject matter. He is also a member of
the Market Disclosure Committee, the Property Committee and the
Pensions Committee.

The segregation of responsibilities between the Chair and the Chief
Executive is set out in the Company's Corporate Governance Compliance
Statement, which is available on our website, www.mbplc.com.

Allother Executive Directors (currently just the Chief Financial Officer)

and all other members of the Executive Committee report to the
Chief Executive.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024_______ 81


Governance

Corporate governance statement continucd

Chair

Provision 9 of the 2018 Code provides that the Chair should, on
appointment, meet the independence criteria set out in Provision 10
of the 2018 Code. Bob Ivell met these independence criteria

on appointment.

Bob Ivell was appointed to the role of Executive Chair on 26 October
2011 on the departure of the then Chief Executive and reverted to the
role of Non-Executive Chair on 12 November 2012.

The Chair ensures that appropriate communication is maintained with
shareholders. He ensures that all Directors are fully informed of matters
relevant to their roles. An explanation of the Board's view on the Chair's
tenure is set out on page 79.

With effect from 1 January 2025, the Chair's fee will remain unchanged.

Chief Executive

Phil Urban was appointed Chief Executive on 27 September 2015. He has
responsibility for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for
the executive management of the Group.

Senior Independent Director
Jane Moriarty was appointed Senior Independent Director on
25 January 2022.

The Senior Independent Director supports the Chair in the delivery of the
Board's objectives and ensures that the views of all major shareholders
and stakeholders are conveyed to the Board. Jane Moriarty is available
to all shareholders shoutd they have any concerns if the normal channels
of Chair, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer have failed to resolve
them, or for which such contact is inappropriate.

All Directors have the ability to raise any relevant views which they have
with the Senior Independent Director if they feel this is needed.

Non-Executive Directors
The Company has experienced Non-Executive Directors on its Board.

Josh Levy was appointed to the Board as a representative of one of the
Company's largest shareholders, Piedmont, a member of the Odyzean
Group, and was therefore not regarded as independent in accordance
with the 2018 Code. ,

Eddie Irwin and Keith Browne were appointed to the Board as
representatives of another of the Company's largest shareholders,
Elpida, which is also a member of the Odyzean Group, and were therefore
not regarded as independent in accordance with the 2018 Code.

There are currently three independent Non-Executive Directors on the
Board: Dave Coplin, Jane Moriarty and Amanda Brown.

82 —___ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers pic

Other than their fees, and reimbursement of taxable expenses which
are disclosed on page 109, the Non-Executive Directors received no
remuneration from the Company during the year.

There will be no increase in the fees of the Non-Executive Directors in
January 2025. This applies to the base fee, the fee paid to Non-Executive
Directors for chairing a Committee, the role of Senior Independent
Director, and the fee paid to Dave Coplin for his role as the Board
representative for ‘employee voice’.

When Non-Executive Directors are considered for appointment,

the Board takes into account their other responsibilities in assessing
whether they can commit sufficient time to their prospective directorship.
On average, the Non-£xecutive Directors spend two to three days per
month on Company business, but this may be more depending on the
circumstances from time to time.

Board information and training

All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers circulated
in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at those meetings, in
addition to receiving minutes of previous meetings. Their understanding
of the Group's business is enhanced by business specific presentations
and operational visits to the Group's businesses. Separate strategy
meetings and meetings with senior executives and representatives

of specific functions, brands or business units are also held throughout
the year.

The training needs of Directors are formally considered on an annual
basis and are also monitored throughout the year with appropriate
training being provided as required, including corporate social
responsibility and corporate governance as well as the environmental
impacts of the Company's activities.

Independent advice

Members of the Board may take independent professional advice in the
furtherance of their duties and the Board has agreed a formal process for
such advice to be made available.

Members of the Board also have access to the advice and services of the
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Company's legal
and other professional advisers and its external auditor.

The terms of engagement of the Company's external advisers and its
external auditor are regularly reviewed by the Group General Counsel
and Company Secretary.

Committees .

The Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Responsibility
Committees have written terms of reference approved by the Board,
which are available on the Company's website www.mbplc.com. Those
terms of reference are each reviewed annually by the relevant Committee
to ensure they remain appropriate.

Audit Committee

Details of the Audit Committee and its activities during the year are
included in the Audit Committee report on pages 88 to 91 which is
incorporated by reference into this statement.

Remuneration Committee
Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities during the year
are included in the Report on Directors’ remuneration on pages 92 to 112.

Introduction Strategic Report

Nomination Committee

The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating, for the
approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board. It is also
responsible for succession planning for the Board and the Executive
Committee and reviewing the output of the Board effectiveness review.
|n compliance with the disclosure requirements of Provision 23 of the
2018 Code, there is an ongoing process of review of the make-up of the
Board and for Board succession, which is carried out by the Nomination
Committee and led by the Chair. The Nomination Committee engages
external search agencies when required and ensures that all candidates
are identified and assessed against pre-determined criteria. Gender
balance is dealt with by the Nomination Committee on a regular basis
and includes assessment of gender balance at senior management level.

The following were members of the Nomination Committee during
the year:

Appointment Member at

date 28/09/24

Bob Ivell (Chair) 11/07/13 Yes
Amanda Brown 04/07/22 Yes
Dave Coplin 29/02/16 Yes
Eddie Irwin 11/07/13 Yes
Jane Moriarty 27/02/19 Yes

In accordance with the disclosure requirement in Provision 23 of the
2018 Code, as at the date of this report, the gender balance for those in
the senior management team and their direct reports was split as to 44%
fernale and 56% male. For this purpose, the senior management team
comprises the Executive Committee.

The gender balance of the Executive Committee (which includes two
Board members) is 70% male and 30% female. Further information on the
Executive Committee is given on page 84.

The Nomination Committee agrees the importance of having diversity on
the Board, including female representation and individuals with different
experiences, skill sets and expertise, so asto maintain an appropriate
balance within the Company and on the Board. There were no meetings
of the Nomination Committee in FY 2024. When appointments are
made, its members are consulted about and support the approach

to diversity across the Board.

Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group

and Board Diversity Policy

The Company has a Diversity and Inclusion Steering Group which
examines the implementation of diversity within the Group. As referred
toon page 78, Dave Coplin has been identified by the Board as the
Director with responsibility for oversight of the Company's Diversity
and Inclusion arrangements.

The Board has approved a Board Diversity Policy, which was reviewed
and approved in October 2022. The key statement and objectives of that
policy are as follows:

Statement:

The Board recognises the benefits of diversity. Diversity of skills,
background, knowledge, international and industry experience, and
gender, amongst many other factors, will be taken into consideration
when seeking to appoint anew Director to the Board. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, all Board appointments will always be made on merit.

Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Objectives:

* The Board should ensure an appropriate mix of skills and experience
to ensure an optimum Board and efficient stewardship. All Board
appointments will be made on merit while taking into account
individual competence, skills and expertise measured against
identified objective criteria {including consideration of diversity).

* The Board should ensure that it comprises Directors who are
sufficiently experienced and independent of character and judgement.

* The Nomination Committee will continue to review what steps and
recruitment processes are appropriate for achieving diversity on the
Board with due regard being given to the recommendations set out
in the Davies Report, the Hampton-Alexander Review and the 2018
Code. These will be reviewed on an annual basis.

Progress against the policy:

The Board continues to monitor progress against this policy. In terms

of Board diversity, at the start and end of FY 2024 there were nine Board
Directors, of which two were female (22%). Any future appointments will
always be made on merit and will continue to take into account diversity,
not only in terms of gender, but also in terms of the appropriate mix of
skills and experience. The assessment of the composition of the Board
and its Committees and the Chair's tenure should be considered in the
context of the explanation already set out under the heading of ‘Board
composition and diversity’ on page 78.

The Company has an Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Policy (last updated
in September 2024), which applies in relation to employees of the
Mitchells & Butlers Group, and which can be found in the Value Creation
story on page 31. The aim of the policy is to promote equal opportunities
in employment regardless of age, disability, gender reassignment,
marital or civil partner status, pregnancy or maternity, race (including
colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin), religion or belief, sex,

or sexual orientation.

A detailed description of the duties of the Nomination Committee is set
out within its terms of reference which can be viewed at www.mbplc.
com/investors/business-conduct/board-committees/

Market Disclosure Committee

The EU Market Abuse Regulation (‘MAR’) which took effect in July 2016,
brought about substantial changes relating to announcements of material
information about the Company and its affairs, and relating to dealings

in shares or other securities by Directors and other senior managers,
including tighter controls on permitted ‘dealings’ during closed periods
and the handling of information relating to the Company. MAR requires
companies to keep a list of people affected and the previous compliance
regime and timeframe were enhanced.

Asaresult, a formal standing Committee of the Board was established,
the Market Disclosure Committee, which comprises the Chair, the Chief
Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and an independent Non-
Executive Director.

Corporate Responsibility Committee

A Corporate Responsibility Committee was established in June 2019
and its purpose is to allow more executive, leadership and functional
management involvement in matters of corporate responsibility and
sustainability. Its Terms of Reference are on the Company's website
www.mbplc.com.

The Corporate Responsibility Committee comprises Bob Ivell (Chair),
Eddie Irwin, Jane Moriarty, Dave Coplin and Amanda Brown. The Chief
Executive, Phil Urban, is invited to attend regularly.

Amulti-disciplinary operational and functional steering committee has

been identified and tasked with carrying out first level oversight of the
work plan and roadmap approved by the Committee in FY 2021.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024___ 83.


Governance

Corporate governance statement continucd

Property Committee

The Property Committee reviews property transactions which have
been reviewed and recommended by the Portfolio Development
Committee, without the need for submission of transactions to the full
Board. The Property Committee agrees to the overall strategic direction
for the management of the Group's property portfolio on a regular basis
and may decide that a particular transaction should be referred to the
Board for consideration or approval. The Property Committee comprises
Bob Ivell (Committee Chair), Phil Urban, Tim Jones, Josh Levy,

Keith Browne, Jane Moriarty, Amanda Brown and Gary John.

Pensions Committee

The Board has established a Pensions Committee to supervise and
manage the Company's relationship with its various pension schemes
and their trustees.

The Pensions Committee members are Bob lvell (Committee Chair),
Tim Jones, Phil Urban, Keith Browne and Josh Levy.

Throughout FY 2024 the work of the Pensions Committee focused on
preparations for the buyout and wind up of the Executive Plan, which

is due to complete in late 2024. The Committee also monitored the
performance of the Mitchells & Butlers Pension Plan which moved to

a full buy-in with Standard Life during FY 2023. The current position on
both plans has substantially eliminated all remaining pensions risk in the
Group and pension deficit contributions in respect of both plans have
now ceased.

Executive Committee

The Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive,
consists of the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives,
namely Gary John (Group Property Director), Susan Martindale (Group
HR Director), Andrew Freeman (Group General Counsel and Company
Secretary), Chris Hopkins (Commercial and Marketing Director) and
David Briggs, Susan Chappell, David Gallacher and Anna-Marie Mason
(the Divisional Directors). Gary John has made the decision to retire

in early 2025 and Nick Pinney will take on the role of Group Property
Director as of 17 February 2025.

The Executive Committee ordinarily meets, on average, 12 times per year
and has day-to-day responsibility for the running of the Group's business.

It develops the Group's strategy and annual revenue and capital budgets
for Board approval. It reviews and recommends to the Board any
significant investment proposals. This Committee monitors the financial
and operational performance of the Group and allocates resources
within the budgets agreed by the Board. It considers employment issues,
ensures the Group has an appropriate pool of talent and develops senior
management workforce planning and succession plans.

Anote of the actions agreed by, and the principal decisions of, the
Executive Committee, is supplied to the Board for information in order
that Board members can keep abreast of operational developments.

General Purposes Committee

The General Purposes Committee comprises any two Executive
Directors or any one Executive Director together with a senior officer
from an agreed and restricted list of senior executives. It is always
chaired by an Executive Director. It attends to business of aroutine
nature and to administrative matters, the principles of which have been
agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate Committee.

84. ___ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Portfolio Development Committee

The executive review of property transactions and capital allocation to
significant property matters such as site remodel and conversion plans
and the Company's real estate strategy is carried out by the Portfolio
Development Committee. This is not a formal Board Committee but
comprises the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group
Property Director, and the Group General Counsel and Company
Secretary. It has delegated authority to approve certain transactions
up to agreed financial limits and, above those authority levels, it makes
recommendations to the Board or the Property Committee.

Treasury Committee

The treasury operations of the Mitchells & Butlers Group are operated
on acentralised basis under the control of the Group Treasury
department. Although not a formal Board Committee, the Treasury
Committee, which reports to the Chief Financial Officer but is subject
to oversight from the Audit Committee and, ultimately, the Board,

has day-to-day responsibility for:

* liquidity management;

* investment of surplus cash;

* funding, cash and banking arrangements;

* interest rate and currency risk management;

* guarantees, bonds, indemnities and any financial encumbrances
including charges on assets; and +

* relationships with banks and other market counterparties such
as credit rating agencies.

The Treasury Committee also works closely with the Finance
Department to review the impact of changes in relevant accounting
practices and to ensure that treasury activities are disclosed
appropriately in the Company's accounts.

The Board delegates the monitoring of treasury activity and compliance to
the Treasury Committee. It is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness
of treasury policies and making proposals for any changes to policies or in
respect of the utilisation of new instruments. The approval of the Board,
or a designated committee thereof, is required for any such proposals.

Code of ethics

The Company has implemented business conduct guidelines describing
the standards of behaviour expected from those working for the Company
in the form of acode of ethics (the ‘Ethics Code’). The Ethics Code was
re-communicated to all employees in FY 2024 to ensure it was kept
clearly in focus. Its aim is to promote honest and ethical conduct
throughout our business. The Ethics Code requires:

* compliance with all applicable rules and regulations that apply to the
Company and its officers including compliance with the requirements
of the Bribery Act 2010:

¢ the ethical handling of actual or apparent conflicts of interest
between internal and external, personal and professional
relationships; and

* that any hospitality from suppliers must be approved in advance
by appropriate senior management, with a presumption against
its acceptance.

Introduction Strategic Report

The Company takes a zero tolerance approach to bribery and has

developed an extensive Bribery Policy which is included in the Ethics Code.

The Ethics Code requires employees to comply with the Bribery Policy.

The Company also offers an independently-administered, confidential
whistleblowing hotline for any employee wishing to report any concern
that they feel would be inappropriate to raise with their line manager.
All whistleblowing allegations are reported to, and considered by, the
Executive Committee and a summary report (with details of any major
concerns) is supplied to, and considered by, the Audit Committee

at each of its meetings. .

Principle € and Provision 6 of the 2018 Code require the Board to be
clear how its approach to whistleblowing has changed from an Audit
Committee-led approach to a Board-led approach. Although the Audit
Committee continues to receive regular reports on whistleblowing
activity, each set of full Board papers also includes, as part of the report
from the Group Risk Director, the number and assessment of any
whistleblowing reports received and, where relevant, the actions taken
in respect of reports which are, on investigation, found to be credible.

Governance Financial Statements Other Information

The Board takes regular account of social, environmental and ethical
matters concerning the Company through regular reports to the Board
and presentations to the Board at its strategy meetings.

Directors’ training includes environmental, social and governance
(‘ESG’) matters and the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring
that Directors are made aware of and receive regular training in respect
of these important areas. The Chief Executive, Phil Urban, is ultimately
responsible for ESG matters, which includes climate change reporting,
which is dealt with in the next section.

Climate change reporting

1. Reporting

Current mandatory reporting and disclosure requirements

The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (‘TCFD') was
established by the Financial Stability Board in 2015 and published its final
report in June 2017. The report sets out 11 recommended disclosures
under four pillars to promote better disclosure and these are set out below:

TCFD: four recommendations and eleven recommended disclosures

Recommendations
Governance Strategy

Disclose the organisation's Disclose the actual and potential
governance around climate- impacts of CRO on the

related risks and opportunities
(‘CRO’).

organisation's businesses,
strategy, and financial planning

where such information is material.

Risk Management

Disclose how the organisation
identifies, assesses and manages
climate-related risks.

Metrics and Targets

Disclose the metrics and targets
used to assess and manage
relevant CRO where such
information is material.

Recommended Disclosures
(a) Describe the Board's (a) Describe the CRO the (a) Describe the organisation's (a) Disclose the metrics used by
oversight of CRO. organisation has identified over processes for identifying and the organisation to assess CRO

{b) Describe management's role

in assessing and managing CRO.

the short, medium and long term.

(b) Describe the impact of CRO
on the organisation's businesses,
strategy and financial planning.

(c) Describe the resilience of the
organisation's strategy, taking
into consideration different
climate-related scenarios,
including a 2°C or lower scenario.

in line with its strategy and risk
management process.

(b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2
and, if appropriate, Scope 3
greenhouse gas (‘GHG’)
emissions and the related risks.
(c) Describe the targets used by
the organisation to manage CRO
and performance against targets.

assessing climate-related risks.

(b) Describe the organisation's
processes for managing
climate-related risks.

(c) Describe how processes
for identifying, assessing and
managing climate-related risks
are integrated into the
organisation's overall risk
management.

For FY 2024 the Company has continued to monitor climate-related risks and opportunities, in relation to TCFD and to oversee the delivery of strategy
to manage and measure the identified risks and opportunities as described in the FY 2023 disclosure. The results of this are set out on pages 40 to 45

of the Strategic Report.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024 _____ 85.


Governance

Corporate governance statement continued

UK Listing Rules

}» Climate-related disclosure UK Listing Rule 6.6.6R(8) is a continuing
obligation for listed commercial companies in annual reports for periods
commencing on or after 1 January 2021 and thereafter, and requires
companies to disclose:

* whether they have made disclosures consistent with the four
recommendations and 11 recommended disclosures set out in
section C of the TCFD Final Report in their annual financial report;

* where these disclosures can be found in the annual report; and

* a‘comply or explain’ obligation to explain:

—_ ifthey have not included disclosures consistent with all of the
TCFD's recommendations and/or recommended disclosures,
which disclosures they have not included and the reasons for
not including them; and/or

— why they have included some or all of the disclosures ina
document other than their annual report.

Where not all required TCFD disclosures have been provided, in addition
to explaining why, the annual report also needs to explain:

* the timeframe for compliance; and
* the steps the company is taking or plans to take to achieve compliance.

Institutional investor requirements

Institutional investors expect all listed companies to be reporting against
all four TCFD pillars and want those disclosures to be meaningful and will
be instructing their clients accordingly in relation to voting. They also
expect companies to include a statement in their annual report that the
directors have considered material climate-related matters when
preparing and signing-off the company’s accounts.

2. Actions taken by the Company

Executive ownership

The Board tasked Phil Urban with spearheading the Company's
approach to tackling climate change reporting across the organisation
since he also chairs the Executive Committee so can ensure focus

at Executive Committee level.

Strategy

The Board is mindful of the business impacts relevant to the sector,
and due consideration of such is included when considering changes
made across the business in relation to climate change obligations.
Going forward, this important issue will continue to form part of the
considerations taken into account by the Board when it is evaluating
strategic decision and investment priorities. Capital expenditure
proposals submitted to the Board include appropriate details on
such aspects.

Governance

Climate change issues are discussed at Board level and the Board has
specifically requested the Corporate Responsibility Committee to focus
on €SG/sustainability matters. The Company's required climate
response/transformation is a feature of agendas, with priority being
given to ensuring enough time is dedicated to the discussion. The
Corporate Responsibility Committee approved, and recommended to
the Board, the Group's sustainability roadmap through which it identified
and agreed howto manage climate-related issues. These initiatives were
first addressed in FY 2022 when TCFD compliance became compulsory
for the Company and is ongoing.

86 —-___ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Risk and scenario analysis

During FY 2022, the Company developed a rigorous climate change
scenario impact analysis. In FY 2023 we reassessed all of the climate-
related risks identified in the FY 2022 process, as well as an analysis of
any emerging risks. The established risk assessment framework was.
used to assess the materiality of climate risks. Climate risk analysis is

now part of the ongoing risk management process, with identified risks
reviewed at risk committee meetings as well as the opportunity to present
any emerging risks. No additional climate risks have been added to the
register during FY 2024.

The Audit Committee is tasked with ensuring it is satisfied that the
scenarios are sufficiently challenging, diverse and relevant, and also
ensuring through this process and the Risk Committee that its risk
monitoring activity appropriately addresses climate change risks for
the Company. Further details are set out on pages 40 to 45 of the
Strategic Report.

Information, reporting and assurance

The Board considers it good practice to assess whether climate-related
management information is robust and fit for purpose. Pages 40 to 45

of the Strategic Report set out the extent to which the Group relies on
external data, and the emissions table on page 73 of the Directors’ report
relies on external expertise, which is reviewed internally, and that is
considered by the Board to be reliable and credible.

The Risk Committee considers the findings of reporting reviews such

as the FRC's climate change thematic review and during the year we have
enhanced our climate reporting by adding quantitative analysis to our
climate-related financial risks. An independent review was conducted by
our internal auditors of the policies and processes in place to support the
analysis and monitoring of energy-related initiatives. There is currently
no external assurance to which the Company's metrics are subjected,
but this aspect is being actively considered by the Risk Committee.

The Board is responsible for the Company's internal risk management
system, in respect of which more details can be found in the ‘Risks and
uncertainties’ section of this report, and in the following section of
this statement.

Internal control and risk management

The Board has carried out a robust assessment of the Company's
emerging and principal risks. The Board has completed its assessment,
and has presented a description of its principal risks, what procedures
are in place to identify emerging risks, and an explanation of how these
are being managed or mitigated, on pages 46 to 52.

The Board has overall responsibility for the Group's system of internal
control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness. In order
to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the procedures
necessary to apply the 2018 Code for the period under review and tothe
date of approval of the Annual Report. Such procedures are in line with
the Financial Reporting Council's ‘Guidance on Risk Management,
Internal Control and Related Financial and Business Reporting’ and

are regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee.

The key features of the Group's internal control and risk management
systems include:

* Processes, including monitoring by the Board, in respect of:

i. financial performance within a comprehensive financial planning,
accounting and reporting framework;

ii. strategic plan achievement;

iii. capital investment and asset management performance, with
detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment reviews; and

iv. consumer insight data and actions to assess the evolution of brands
and formats to ensure that they continue to be appealing and relevant
tothe Group's guests.

Introduction Strategic Report

* Anoverall governance framework including:

i. clearly defined delegations of authority and reporting lines;

ii. acomprehensive set of policies and procedures that employees
are required to follow; and

iii, the Group's Ethics Code, in respect of which an annual confirmation
of compliance is sought from all corporate employees.

* The Risk Committee, a sub-committee of the Executive Committee,
which assists the Board, the Audit Committee and the Executive
Committee in managing the processes for identifying, evaluating,
monitoring and mitigating risks. The Risk Committee, which continues
to meet regularly, is chaired by the Group General Counsel and
Company Secretary and comprises Executive Committee members
and other members of senior management from a cross-section
of functions.

The primary responsibilities of the Risk Committee are to:

i. advise the Executive Committee on the Company's overall risk
appetite and risk strategy, taking account of the current and
prospective operating, legal, macroeconomic and financial
environments;

ii. advise the Executive Committee on the current and emerging
risk exposures of the Company in the context of the Board's overall
risk appetite and risk strategy:

iii, promote the management of risk throughout the organisation;

iv. review and monitor the Company's capability and processes to
identify and manage risks:

v. consider the identified key risks faced by the Company and new

and emerging risks and consider the adequacy of mitigation plans

in respect of such risks; and

where mitigation plans are regarded to be inadequate, recommend

improvement actions.

Vi.

The Group's risks identified by the processes that are managed by the
Risk Committee, are described in the ‘Risks and uncertainties’ section
on pages 46 to 52.

More details of the work of the Risk Committee are included in the Audit
Committee report on pages 88 to 91.

* Examination of business processes on arisk basis including reports
from the internal audit function, known as Group Assurance, which
reports directly to the Audit Committee.

The Group also has in place systems, including policies and procedures,
for exercising control and managing risk in respect of financial reporting
and the preparation of consolidated accounts. These systems, policies
and procedures:

i. govern the maintenance of accounting records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions;

ii. require reported information to be reviewed and reconciled,
with monitoring by the Audit Committee and the Board; and

iii. provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (‘IFRS’)
or UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, as appropriate.
Please also refer to the Statement of Directors’ responsibilities
ivespect of the Annual Report and Accounts, on page 74.

Governance Financial Scatements Other Information

In accordance with the 2018 Code, during the year the Audit Committee
completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the Group's risk
management and internal control systems, including financial, operational
and compliance controls.

The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate,
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, itcan

only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss. In that context, in the opinion of the Audit
Committee, the review did not indicate that the system was ineffective
or unsatisfactory. To the extent that weaknesses in internal controls were
identified, the Audit Committee reviewed the audit findings, together with
the remedial action plans that were put in place, and sought confirmation
that all actions were closed out in a timely manner. Through this process,
material audit findings were presented to the Audit Committee,

the necessary follow-up reviews were completed and the results were
reported to the Audit Committee, to ensure appropriate mitigation plans
had been actioned. Please refer to the Audit Committee report, on pages
88to 91.

The Audit Committee is not aware of any change to this status up to the
date of approval of this Annual Report.

With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure
against every risk to the fullest extent. The Group regularly reviews both
the type and amount of external insurance that it buys with guidance
from an external independent broker, bearing in mind the availability of
such cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved
and the mitigation which insurance might provide.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024________ 87


Governanee

Audit Committee report

“On behalf of the Board, | present the report of the Audit Committee
for the financial period ended 28 September 2024.”

dane Moriarty
Chair of the Audit Committee

Introduction

During recent years, as the purpose and
effectiveness of external and internal audit
procedures has come under increasing public
scrutiny, the Committee has ensured it has
maintained an appropriate level of engagement
with the Chief Financial Officer and the Group
Risk Director, other key individuals and their
teams who collectively provide an appreciation
and rigorous insight into how the Group
functions and reports. The Committee is

very grateful for the insight these interactions
provide and this, in turn, significantly assists
the Committee in executing its oversight role
and ensuring confidence in reporting to the
wider Board.

88

Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Engagement with external auditors, internal auditors

and other third-party advisers

The Committee continued to engage formally, regularly and at an
appropriate level of detail with our external auditors, internal auditors
{also externally resourced) and other third-party advisers as necessary.
This has enabled the Committee to maintain an appropriate understanding
of how our auditors and advisers interact and test our comprehensive
risk functions. The Committee's engagement during the auditing and
advisory process enables it to convey confidence in their collective
fieldwork conclusions.

The Committee also ensured that the Group provided adequate resources
to ensure that any additional non-audit services required during the year
were obtained, where necessary, and the Financial Reporting Council's
(‘FRC’) evolving reporting requirements were adhered to.

Effectiveness of internal controls and Group assurance

and risk function

The above efforts provided the Committee with a clear and detailed
understanding of the principal financial and operational risks throughout
the period (please also refer to the Group's risks and uncertainties,
detailed on pages 46 to 52). The Committee continued to focus on
challenging the effectiveness of internal controls, the robustness of
assurance and risk management processes and in assessing the
importance of, and acting as required upon, all reported information
received from our external and internal auditors and third-party advisers.

The Committee remains committed to maintaining an open and
constructive dialogue on relevant audit matters with all shareholders.
Therefore, should you have any comments or questions on any aspects
of this report, or indeed the wider financial statements, may | respectfully
ask you to please email myself, care of Adrian Brannan, Group Risk
Director, at company.secretariat@mbplc.com

Intreduction

Remit and membership ofthe Audit Committee

The main purpose of the Audit Committee is to review and maintain
oversight of the Group's corporate governance, particularly with respect
to financial reporting, internal control and risk management. The Audit
Committee's responsibilities also include:

* reviewing the processes for detecting fraud, misconduct and internal
control weaknesses;

* reviewing the effectiveness of the Group Assurance function; and

* overseeing the relationship with the external and internal auditors
and other third-party advisers.

At the date of the 2024 Annual Report, the Audit Committee comprised
three independent Non-Executive Directors: Jane Moriarty (Chair of the
Audit Committee), Amianda Brown and Dave Coplin. In accordance with
2018 Code Provision 24 the Board considers that Jane Moriarty has
significant, recent and relevant financial experience. Biographies of all
of the members of the Audit Committee, including a summary of their
respective experience, appear on pages 64 and 65.

The Audit Committee met at least quarterly during FY 2024. In each
case, appropriate papers were distributed to the Committee members
and other invited attendees, including, where and to the extent
appropriate, representatives of the external audit firm, the internal
Group Assurance function and other third-party advisers.

When appropriate, the Audit Committee augments the skills and
experience of its members with advice from internal and external audit
professionals, for example, on matters such as developments in financial
reporting. Audit Committee meetings are also attended, by invitation,
by other members of the Board including the Chair of the Company,

the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer, the Group General
Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group Risk Director and
representatives of the external auditor, KPMG LLP. The Audit Committee
also has the opportunity to meet privately with the external auditor

not less than twice a year, without any member of management present,
in relation to audit matters.

The remuneration of the members of the Audit Committee is set out
in the Report on Directors’ remuneration on page 109.

Summary terms of reference

Acopy of the Audit Committee's terms of reference is publicly available
within the Investor section of the Group's website: www.mbplc.com/
pdf/audit_committee_terms.pdf

The Audit Committee's terms of reference were approved by the
Committee and adopted by the Board in 2013. Those terms of reference
specifically provide that they will be reviewed annually. They have been
reviewed and updated as appropriate each year since and no changes
were felt to be needed when they were reviewed in September 2024.
Accordingly, in FY 2024 no material changes were made to the terms of
reference of the Audit Committee, but the work of the Audit Committee
will be kept under review with the expectation that any such matters
which come to light are included in the next annual review.

Strategic Report

Governance Financial Statements Other Information

The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to review any activity
within the business. It is authorised to seek any information it requires
from, and require the attendance at any of its meetings of, any Director,
any member of management and any employees, who are expected to
co-operate with any request made by the Audit Committee.

The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to obtain, at the Group's
expense, external legal or other independent professional advice and
secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant experience and
expertise, if it considers this necessary.

The Chair of the Audit Committee reports to the Board meeting
following each Committee meeting on the Committee's work and
the Board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting.

The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to:

* reviewthe Group's public statements on internal control, risk
management and corporate governance compliance;

* reviewthe Group's processes for detecting fraud, misconduct
and control weaknesses and to consider the Group's response
to any such occurrence;

* review management's evaluation of any change in internal controls
over financial reporting:

* reviewwith management, and the external auditor, Group financial
statements required under UK legislation before submission to
the Board;

* establish, review and maintain the role and effectiveness of the
internal audit function, Group Assurance and the risk function,
whose objective is to provide independent assurance over the
Group's significant processes and controls, including those in
respect of the Group's principal risks;

* assume direct responsibility for the appointment, compensation,
resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the external auditor,
including review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness;

© pre-approve non-audit work to be carried out by the external auditor
and the fees to be paid for that work, together with the monitoring
of the external auditor's independence;

* oversee the process for dealing with complaints received by the
Group regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing
matters and any confidential, anonymous submission by employees
of concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters;
and

+ adopt and oversee a specific Code of Ethics for all employees which
is consistent with the Group's overall statement of business ethics.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024._______ 89


Governance

Audit Committee report continucc

Key activities of the Audit Committee

Audit matters are reviewed at quarterly Audit Committee meetings
throughout the year at which detailed reports are presented for review.
The Audit Committee commissions reports from external advisers, the
Group Risk Director or Group management, either after consideration
of the Group's key risks or in response to developing issues.

During the year, in order to fulfil the roles and responsibilities of the
Audit Committee, the following matters were considered:

* the suitability of the Group's accounting policies and practices;

* half year and full year financial results;

* the scope and cost of the external audit;

* the external auditor's full year report;

* the reappointment of the external auditor, KPMG LLP;

* anynon-audit work carried out by the auditor and trends in the
non-audit fees in accordance with the Committee's policy to ensure
the safeguarding of audit independence;

* the co-ordination of the activities and the work programmes
of the internal and external audit functions;

* the arrangements in respect of Group Assurance including its
resourcing, external support, the scope of the annual internal audit
plan for FY 2024, the level of achievement of that plan and the scope
of the annual internal audit plan for FY 2025;

* periodic internal control and assurance reports from Group
Assurance;

* the Group's risk management framework for the identification
and control of key risks, its risk and assurance mitigation plan
and the annual assessment of effectiveness of controls;

* review of the Corporate Viability Disclosure on page 53;

* compliance with the Group's Code of Ethics;

* corporate governance developments;

* the status of material litigation involving the Group; and

* reports on allegations made via the Group's whistleblowing.
procedures and the effectiveness of these procedures,
including a summary of reports received during FY 2024.

Disclosure of significant and other judgements

The Audit Committee has reviewed the key judgements applied in the
preparation of the consolidated financial statements, which are described
in the relevant accounting policies and detailed notes to the consolidated
financial statements on pages 127 to 179.

The Audit Committee's review included consideration of the following
areas and key accounting judgements:

* Going concern -— the headroom on the covenants across both
the secured and unsecured estates and group liquidity, have been
reviewed in detail by management and assessed by the Audit
Committee. The Corporate Viability Disclosure is on page 53.

* Property, plant and equipment valuation - the assumptions
used by management to value the long leasehold and freehold estate
including: estimated fair maintainable trading levels; brand multiples
and use of spot valuations, to ensure a consistent valuation
methodology is in place. The revaluation methodology is determined
by using management judgement, with advice taken from third-party
valuation experts.

90 —_____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

* Impairment of short leasehold properties and right-of-use
assets — Short leasehold properties, right-of-use assets, allocated
corporate assets and unlicensed land and buildings are held at cost
less depreciation and impairment. Impairment includes management
judgement to determine site level profit and cashflow forecasts, and
the appropriate allocation of overhead costs to those cashflows.

In addition, the value in use calculation includes estimations of the
discount rate and long-term growth rate.

* Separately disclosed items — judgement is used to determine those
items which should be separately disclosed to allow an understanding
of the adjusted trading performance of the Group. Separately
disclosed items are explained and analysed in note 2.2 of the financial
statements on page 131. This judgement includes assessment of
whether an item is of sufficient size or of a nature that is not consistent
with normal trading activities.

* Pension — judgement is used to determine the value of pension
surplus that has been recognised estimating the expected value
of the surplus to the Company.

Effectiveness of internal audit

The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the
effectiveness of the Group's internal audit function. The Audit
Committee meets regularly with management and with the Group Risk
Director and the internal auditor to review the effectiveness of internal
controls and risk management and receives reports from the Group Risk
Director on a quarterly basis.

During each financial period, the Audit Committee completes its annual
review of the effectiveness of the Group's system of internal controls and
internal audit function, including financial, operational, compliance and
risk management systems.

The annual internal audit plan is approved by the Audit Committee and is
kept under review on a regular basis, by the Group Risk Director, in order
to reflect the changing business needs and to ensure new and emerging
risks are considered. The Audit Committee is informed of any
amendments made to the internal audit plan on a quarterly basis. The FY
2024 internal audit plan was developed through a review of formal risk
assessments, in conjunction with the Risk Committee and the Executive
Committee, together with consideration of the Group's key business
processes and functions that could be subject to audit.

Asimilar approach has been employed in relation to the FY 2025 internal
audit plan. The principal objectives of the internal audit plan for FY 2024
were, and remain for FY 2025:

* to provide confidence that existing and emerging key risks are being
managed effectively;

*  toconfirm that controls over core business functions and processes
are operating as intended; and

*  toconfirm that major projects and significant business change
programmes are being adequately controlled.

Findings from all audit reports issued by the Group Assurance function
are reviewed by the Audit Committee. Internal audit recommendations
are closely monitored from implementation through to closure via

a recommendation tracking system, which efficiently assists the overall
monitoring of internal audit recommendations to ensure these are
successfully implemented in a timely manner. A summary of the status
of the implementation of internal audit recommendations is made every
period to the Executive Committee and Board and quarterly to the
Audit Committee.

Introduction Strategic Report

Risk management framework

As disclosed in the ‘Risk and uncertainties’ section on pages 46 to 52
the Risk Committee continues to meet on a quarterly basis to review
the key risks facing the business. Membership of the Risk Committee,
which includes representation from each of the key business functions,
is detailed below:

* Group General Counsel and Company Secretary (Chair of the
Risk Committee}

Chief Financial Officer

Commercial and Marketing Director

Divisional Director (Operations)

Group HR Director

Director of Business Change & Technology

Group Risk Director

Head of Legal

Head of Safety

oo ee eeve

Key risks identified are reviewed and assessed ona quarterly basis in
terms of their likelihood and impact, and are measured on the Group's
‘Key Risk Heat Map’, in conjunction with associated risk mitigation plans.
In addition, the Risk Committee review includes an assessment of the
material relevance of emerging risks and the continued relevance of
previously identified risks. During FY 2024, Risk Committee meetings
continued to include a cross-functional, detailed review of the Group's
key risks. This process continues to prove to be effective and adds value
tothe continued development and progression of the Group's approach
to evaluating new and existing risks, supported by robust mitigation
plans.

Actions arising from Risk Committee meetings are followed up by the
Group Risk Director. The Audit Committee reviews the Risk Committee
minutes in addition to undertaking a quarterly review of the Group's
‘Key Risk Heat Map’.

Confidential reporting

The Group's whistlebtowing policy enables staff, in confidence, to raise
concerns about possible impraprieties in financial and other matters and
to do so without fear of reprisal. Details of the policy are set out in the
Group's Code of Ethics. The Audit Committee receives quarterly reports
on whistleblowing incidents and remains satisfied that the procedures

in place are satisfactory to enable independent investigation and follow
up action of all matters reported. The Board also receives a report on
whistleblowing in the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary's
regular report to Board meetings.

External auditor appointment

Following shareholder and Board approval, KPMG LLP was appointed
as the auditor in 2022, following a formal tender process in 2020 to
ensure the continued objectivity, independence and value for money of
the statutory audit. KPMG LLP is therefore responsible for undertaking
the FY 2024 audit.

The Audit Committee has considered the guidance in relation to rotation
including the proposed transition rules which will be considered when
recommending the appointment of the auditor in future years. The Group
has complied throughout FY 2024 with the provisions of The Statutory
Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory
Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee
Responsibilities) Order 2014.

Governance

Financial Seacements Other Information

External auditor’s independence

The external auditor should not provide non-audit services where it
might impair their independence or objectivity to do so. The Audit
Committee has established a policy to safeguard the independence

and objectivity of the Group's external auditor. That policy was reviewed
in FY 2024 and a copy of it is appended to the Audit Committee's terms
of reference and is available on the Group's website.

Pursuant to that policy, services that have been pre-approved by the
Audit Committee (i.e. covenant reporting) do not exceed in any year
more than 70% of the average audit fee paid to that audit firm over the
past three years, unless prior approval has been obtained from the FRC.

The Audit Committee remains confident that the objectivity and
independence of the external auditor are not in any way impaired by
reason of the non-audit services which they provide to the Group.

That policy also includes an extensive list of services which the audit firm
may not provide or may only provide in very limited circumstances where
the Group and the audit firm agree that there would be no impact on the
impartiality of the external audit firm.

Details of the remuneration paid to the external auditor, and the split
between audit and non-audit services, are set out in note 2.3 of the
financial statements on page 134.

External audit annual assessment

The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualification, expertise,
resources and independence of the Group's external auditor and the
overall effectiveness of the audit process. The Chief Financial Officer,
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, Chair of the Audit
Committee and Group Risk Director meet with the external auditor to
discuss the audit, significant risks and any key issues included on the
Audit Committee's agenda during the year.

Inthe prior year, the FY 2022 audit of Mitchells & Butlers plc by KPMG
was reviewed by the FRC's Audit Quality Review team (‘AQR’) as part of
the FRC’s annual inspection of audit firms. There were no ‘key findings’
reported in the inspection and one ‘other finding’ was reported in
relation to historical data used in the valuation of the freehold estate.
KPMG agreed a proposed action with the FRC in relation to this and have
confirmed that this has been incorporated into planned procedures going
forward. The Committee was pleased to note that the AQR identified an
area of good practice in relation to the robust challenge of management's
property valuation model.

Fair, balanced and understandable statement

One of the key governance requirements of the Annual Report and
Accounts is for the report and accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair,
balanced and understandable, and that they provide the information
necessary for shareholders to assess the Group's position, performance,
business model and strategy. Therefore, upon review of the financial
statements, the Audit Committee and the Board have confirmed that
they are satisfied with the overall fairness, balance and clarity of the
Annual Report and Accounts, which is underpinned by the following:

* review of the formal review processes at all levels to ensure the
Annual Report and Accounts are factually correct;

"* clear guidance being issued to all contributors to ensure a consistent

approach; and
* formal minutes of the Year End Working Group comprised of relevant
internal functional representatives and appropriate external advisers.

Jane Moriarty
Chair of the Audit Committee
26 November 2024

Mitchells & Butlers pte Annual Report and Accounts 2024.______ 91


Governance

Report on Directors’

remuneration

“Tam pleased to present the Directors’ Remuneration Report in respect
of the financial period which ended on 28 September 2024.”

Amanda Brown
Chair ofthe Remuneration Committee

10.0% L7%

Like-for-Like Sales Growth Average market
outperformance over
the year

4.51 895.3

Record guest review scores —_ Best ever employee

engagement score

(52 week basis) |
Adjusted Operating Profit*

Annual Report and Accounts 2024 Mitchells & Butlers ple

Dear Sharcholder,

1am pleased to present this year's Directors’ Remuneration Report on
behalf of the Remuneration Committee (‘the Committee’). The report
provides context and insight into our pay arrangements for Executive
Directors and Non-Executive Directors, including the assessment of
FY 2024 performance and pay. The report, together with this letter,
will be put to an advisory vote at the 2025 AGM.

The Committee was delighted that our new remuneration policy was
approved at the 2024 AGM with 95% of shareholders voting in favour
of the policy. As noted in last year's report my aim as Committee Chair
is to engage constructively with shareholders and the engagement with
all stakeholders as part of the review process was very encouraging.
The Committee was also pleased that the 2023 Report on Directors
Remuneration received the support of 99% of our shareholders.

Background and business context

The hospitality industry continues to operate in an extremely challenging
environment of cost inflation, a tight labour market and low consumer
confidence. As a result, the sector has seen a number of venues close
yet, despite these challenges, the industry has remained resilient and
optimistic. In this context, Mitchells & Butlers’ performance over FY 2024
has been exceptionally strong. Like-for-like sales? increased by 5.3% and
outperformed the market consistently throughout the year. Costs have
been well controlled and mitigation of significant cost pressures (such as
employment costs) has been proactive via our Ignite initiatives. Margins
have improved and Adjusted Operating Profit is ahead of expectations.

Introduction Strategic Report

lam also very pleased that, as well as delivering excellent financial
results, we have performed strongly across all stakeholder measures,
clearly demonstrating the link between engaged employees, satisfied
guests and improved sales and profitability. Our business scorecard
includes non-financial measures that encompass Guest Health,
Employee Engagement and Safety; all three of these areas delivering
record high scores in 2024.

As well as our direct operating measures, the business has also made

a positive impact on the environment and the community. Last year

| made specific reference to the progress being made against our
sustainability targets and it is encouraging that this good progress has
continued. Overalt our emissions have reduced by 14% from the 2019
baseline, 98% of our operational waste is diverted from landfill and our
food waste has been reduced by 23% from the 2019 baseline. We are
also very proud of our partnership with Social Bite, ahomelessness
charity, and in particular our involvement in their Jobs First Programme
which helps to provide long-term job opportunities.

Looking ahead, we consider the business to be well positioned to
outperform the sector, and our priorities are to continue to grow sales
whilst seeking further opportunities to improve efficiency. Once again,
key to this success will be our Ignite programme and work has already
begun on anew round of initiatives. This combined with our capital plan,
portfolio of brands and estate locations, gives the Board confidence

in the prospects for the business in the coming year.

Further detail on the performance of the business over the year can
be found in the Chief Executive's business review on pages 20 to 22.

Remuncration in FY 202 -

Annual Bonus

Financial measures - Adjusted Operating Profit

(outcome 70% out of 70%)

The financial targets for FY 2024 were set at atime when the outlook

for the financial period once again remained highly uncertain with a
wide range of macroeconomic factors continuing to impact the business.
These included stubbornly high inflation, geo-political instability, most
notably from the war in Ukraine, and an uncertain cost outlook
particularly in relation to employment, food and energy costs.

The financial target set for FY 2024 at the start of the year was considered
by the Committee to be challenging when taking into account all of the
relevant factors at the time the targets were agreed. The main drivers of
cost inflation were anticipated to be labour costs followed by drink, food
and logistics. Energy costs were forecast to fall over the year, although
this reduction was contingent on the outlook for energy pricing
remaining favourable. An on-target performance would have required
sales growth of at least 5% and for the net cost headwinds of c£65m to be
offset through improved margins and efficiencies.

Actual sales across the period were £2,610m, an increase of 6.1%.
On alike-for-like basis sales increased by 5.3%". Our sales performance
continued to outperform the market? consistently over the year.

Adjusted Operating Profit? across the period was £312m; an increase of
41% on the prior period on a 52-week basis, and near the top of the range
of consensus forecasts which had already been increased through the
year. This performance was significantly ahead of the budget set at the
start of the year (£269m), and reflected not only the strong sales
performance over the year, but also an improvement in margins which
recovered at a faster pace than expected. This improvement in margins
was driven in large part by our programme of Ignite initiatives, combined
with well controlled costs across the business.

a. The Directors use a number of alternative performance measures (APMs)
that are considered critical to aid the understanding of the Group's performance.
Key measures are explained on pages 186 to 189 of this Report.

b. As measured by the CGA Business Tracker.

Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Non-financial measures — (outcome 30% out of 30%)

The non-financial measures encompass Guest Health, Employee
Engagement and Safety, forming an important part of the annual

incentive plan. Bonus can only be earned if 97.5% of the Adjusted
Operating Profit target is achieved.

Guest Health performance is measured as a combination of online
review scores and guest complaints. Over the period our online review
scores have averaged 4.51, representing a best ever score for this
measure. Very good progress has also been made on guest compiaints,
which are measured as a ratio of complaints received for every 1,000
meals served. Again, performance has been strong in this area building
on progress made across FY 2023 with just 0.60 complaints for every
1,000 meals served. This combined performance has resulted in
amaximum payment for the guest element.

Employee engagement is measured at two points during the year. In the
summer employees are invited to complete a comprehensive survey,
‘YourSay’, and this is supplemented by a shorter pulse survey in February.
This year around 70% of employees completed a survey and the overalt
score across the two surveys was 85.3, arecord high for employee
engagement, and an increase of almost three points on the prior year
score, resulting in a maximum payment for this element.

Anew measure of safety was introduced in FY 2024 that encompasses
four areas of safety: Food Hygiene (as measured by the National Food
Hygiene Raliny System), Food Practices, Allergens and Fire Safety.

The measure assesses the percentage of our businesses that have scored
at least a 4 or 5 rating in each of the elements in a combined score. The
target set at the start of the year was for an overall performance of 96.2%
of all ratings to be at a4 or 5, The year end performance was 97.3%
resulting in an on target/maximum payment for this element.

Final Bonus Outcome

In determining the final bonus outcome, the Committee considered
the wider performance of the Group across the financial period as part
of its overall quality of earnings assessment. The outcome is reflective
of avery strong performance, both relative to our expectations and to
the sector as a whole and a faster than expected recovery of profits,
driven by particularly strong sales growth in the first half of the year
underpinned by improving margins.

The strong performance over the year has been achieved whilst

also investing in pay and other benefits to support our employees,
particularly at the frontline, which was especially important given the
very real cost of living pressures that continued particularly in the first
part of the year, when interest rates remained high and energy costs
were yet to fall.

We are proud of the performance over the year, which was achieved
through hard work and in a manner which is consistent with the
experience of all stakeholders, including that of our employees and
customers as evidenced above.

In taking all these factors into account, the Committee was satisfied that
the overall formulaic outcome against our targets was consistent with
our performance over the year and as such no discretion was exercised
when determining the resultant annual bonuses. As a result of this
review of performance, bonuses of 100% of base pay (100% of the
maximum) were awarded to our CEO and CFO respectively.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.___ 93.


Governance

Report on Directors’ remuneration continued

The information below summarises the FY 2024 annual bonus performance for our Executive Directors.

Maximum Threshold
Adjusted operating profit 70% £255.5m
Guest health* 15% 0
Review Score
Complaint Ratio
Employee engagement 10% 81.5
Safety : Ey 96.2%
Total 100%

* Combines guest review scores and complaints see page 103 for more details.

FY 2022 RSP Vesting

During FY 2022, share awards were made to Phil Urban and Tim Jones
under the Restricted Share Plan (‘RSP’) to the value of 100% of their
respective salaries.

Vesting of the RSP was subject to the satisfactory assessment of
performance against three qualitative underpins, discussed in further
detail on page 105. The Committee is satisfied that these have been
met and, as such, the 2022 RSP award will vest on 28 November 2024.

In addition, the Committee reviewed whether the Executive Directors
might unduly benefit from a windfall gain on these awards, taking into
consideration a number of factors including the strong underlying
business performance, the current share price compared with the share
price at the time of the grant (236p) and share price movements prior to
the award and over the performance period. After careful consideration
the Committee concluded that participants will not benefit froma
windfalt gain on the FY 2022 RSP awards and therefore has determined
that no adjustment is required.

Remuneration for FY 2025

Fixed Pay (Base Pay, Pensions and Benefits)

In reviewing Executive Director salaries, the Committee took account of
market positioning and the level of increases applied to Executive Directors
in other organisations but most importantly felt that the increases applied
to Executives should be below that of other colleagues and especially
those in frontline positions.

Overall pay increases have been 8.9% over the year with hourly paid
frontline employees who are typically the lowest paid employees in the
group, seeing the largest increases.

With effect from 1 January 2025 Phil Urban’s salary will increase
to £625,725 (3%) and Tim Jones's to £523,250 (3%).

Executive Directors pension contributions remain aligned with that
of the wider workforce at 4%.

There are no changes to the benefits available to Executive Directors.

94. Annual Report and Accounts 2024 Mitchells & Butlers ple

Target Maximum Outcome Achieved
£269m £277m 70%
" Actual: £312m
t 2 15%
. Actual: 2
82.5 83.5 10%
. Actual: 85.3
96.2% 96.2% 5%
Actual: 97.3%
100%

Annual Bonus

The Committee believes that the annual bonus scheme for FY 2024 was
successful in driving the right behaviours across the business, and as
such has determined that the annual bonus scheme for FY 2025 will be
unchanged. The maximum opportunity will remain at 100% of salary
for our Executive Directors.

Performance Share Plan (PSP’) award FY 2025 to FY 2027
APSP award is due to be made in respect of the FY 2025 to FY 2027
performance period. The new PSP was introduced last year and no
changes are proposed to the opportunity level or the measures and
weightings for Executive Directors.

Therefore, the overall opportunity for Executive Directors will remain at
200% of base salary and the measures and weightings (as a percentage
of maximum) will apply as follows: Operating Cashflow (70%), Earnings
Per Share (‘EPS’) growth (20%), and a sustainability measure based on
reduction in Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions (10%). Full details of the proposed
performance measures and targets are set out on page 106.

Inconclusion, FY 2024 has been a very strong year and the Committee

is satisfied that the Remuneration Policy approved at the 2024 AGM

is operating as intended and supports appropriate outcomes for the
performance of the business over the year, whilst being cognisant of the
wider economic context including appropriate governance considerations.

The remainder of the report sets out in more detail our overall approach
to Executive Remuneration, and how this aligns to the strategy of the
business and the interests of our stakeholders. t look forward to your
continued engagement and feedback and hope you will join the Board
in supporting our FY 2024 outcomes at the 2025 AGM.

Amanda Brown
Chair of the Remuneration Committee
26 November 2024

Governance

Report on Directors’ remuneration continued

Remuneration at a glance

FY 2024 Performance
Remuneration key:
HE Base pay HB Benefits HB Pension HB Annual bonus WME Long-term incentives

The following ‘Remuneration at a Glance’ section provides a short summary that demonstrates that our overall approach to Executive Remuneration
has been and continues to be measured, well balanced and appropriate.

Summary of Executive Directors’ Total Remuneration

The charts below set out the CEO and CFO earnings history from 2016 onwards, the latter being the first full year Phil Urban was in place as CEO.

Phil Urban Tim Jones
Chicl'Executive Chief Financial Officer
(£°000) oa ae (£000)

£1,392

£613 _£624
£39 £91
£15 @ £15

£515 £526 £465 £524

£22626 TE rico SO

£15 eis @ £4

£ £624

£553 maT

wae Se wer)
£15

£468 9 £534

£425 £391 £447
2016 «2017, 2018 = 2019S 2020-2021. 2022-2023

£509
2016 «2017/2018» 2019 2020, 2021S 2022 = 2023

Appropriateness of remuneration decisions

The Committee continued to review the appropriateness of remuneration decisions, and in particular variable remuneration outcomes. In doing so,
it considered overall business performance as well as the wider experience of our key stakeholders, namely our customers, colleagues, supplier
partners and shareholders, and our wider communities. Balancing the needs of all our stakeholders continues to be at the heart of our purpose.

In particular, the Committee considered the following factors throughout the year in determining remuneration decisions:

Key stakeholder Factors considered by the Committee

Customers * Year-on-year improvements in Guest Health Scores

* Very strong safety scores and focus on allergens
The number of eligible employees receiving a bonus payout in the year
Number of apprentices in learning
Investments in pay and benefits, including the introduction of a Wagestream to improve financial wellbeing
Health and wellbeing initiatives including mental health support in conjunction with the Samaritans
. Establishing of employee network groups to support our diversity and inclusion agenda
Suppliers * Close working relationships maintained during supply chain challenges

* Accreditations e.g. Tier 3 Business Benchmark on Farm Animal Welfare rating
Shareholders * Sales performance consistently ahead of the market

* Strong profit growth and improved cashflow performance

* Continued to pay down debt
Community * Work with Social Bite

+ Strategic charity partnership with Shelter

Colleagues

ee eee

96 ____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategic Report

Governance

ee

Financial Stacements Other Information

How Executive Directors are building towards shareholding requirement

The table below shows the current shareholding as a percentage of base pay, what the shareholding as a percentage of base pay would be once
unvested shares not subject to further performance conditions are released (such as deferred bonus shares), and then the shareholding taking into
account unvested shares that are subject to performance conditions. Shareholdings are calculated based on the average share price over the final
three months of the financial period; for FY 2024 this was 299.7p (FY 2023 219.8p).

Phil Urban (Current salary £607,500)

1.250%

Tim Jones (Current salary £508,000)

200%

© Owned shares

} Current shareholding | Shareholding requirements
@ Outstanding unvested shares not subject to further performance conditions

© Outstanding unvested shares subject to further performance conditions/underpins

Mitchells & Butlers’ remuneration principles

When determining Executive Director remuneration policy, the
Remuneration Committee addresses each of the factors under Provision
40 of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code and these are also
reflected in our principles:

Shareholder alignment
A high proportion of reward is delivered in the form of equity, ensuring
Executives have strong alignment with shareholders.

Competitive

Providing reward that promotes the long-term success of the business
whilst enabling the attraction, retention and motivation of high-calibre
senior Executives.

Performance-linked

A significant proportion of an Executive Director's reward is linked
to performance, with a clear line of sight between the outcomes
of the business and the delivery of shareholder value.

Straightforward
The remuneration structure is simple to understand for participants and
shareholders, and is aligned to the strategic priorities of the business.

These same principles apply throughout the organisation and are
adapted as appropriate for specific employee groups with a different
emphasis on certain principles in comparison to Executive Directors.
This is illustrated in the table on page 101 which sets out remuneration
below Executive Director level. :

For senior management, a much greater proportion of the overall reward
package is performance-linked and therefore is variable and at risk,
whereas for our hourly paid colleagues a greater weighting applies

to the competitive and straightforward principles as these factors are
more important to the attraction and retention of these employees.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024


Governance

Report on

Directors’ remuneration continucel

Alignment of Executive pay to strategy

The table below sets out how the three strategic priorities of the business align to Executive remuneration:

Strategic priority

Link te Executive remuneration

Buildinga

balanced business

Instilling a

commercial

culture

Driving an
innovation
agenda

more Strong operating performance supports
the delivery and sustainability of the capital

plan and estate optimisation.

Amore balanced business delivers brands
and food and drink offers in an
environment that guests want to enjoy.

High-quality engaged teams are
fundamental to the success of any
business.
more Acommercial culture improves controls,
efficiency, purchasing and pricing, driving
both improved cashflow and operating
performance.
Commercial decisions must be guest-
focused and benefit from the input
of customer feedback.
Developing and evolving a commercial
culture requires high levels of employee
engagement and business awareness.
Innovation at small and large scale is an
engine for improved sales and, therefore,
cash and profit generation.

Guests’ expectations continue to increase,
demanding higher standards of service and
digital capability.

Innovation involves change, and delivery
of change requires strong employee
engagement.

Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Adjusted Operating Profit delivery isthe main
component of the annual bonus plan.

Operating Cashflow supports cumulative cash
generation to enable debt repayment whilst EPS
incentivises profit recovery.

The Guest Health element of the annual bonus plan
provides a strong indicator of the success of each
business. There is a clear correlation between strong
Guest Health performance and sales performance.
The engagement element of the annual bonus plan
measures how our teams feel about working for
Mitchells & Butlers, and, in turn, the service they
provide to guests.

Adjusted Operating Profit delivery is the main
component of the annual bonus plan.

Cashflow is the main component of the PSP.

The Guest Health metric quickly demonstrates where
decisions are right or wrong and Executives are
incentivised to react.

The employee engagement element of the annual
bonus plan supports and underpins the development
of culture.

Adjusted Operating Profit delivery isthe main
component of the annual bonus plan.

Operating Cashflow and EPS make up the majority

of the PSP performance assessment.

The Guest Health element of the annual plan provides
valuable actionable feedback and incentivises action.

The employee engagement element of the annual
bonus plan incentivises action to maintain and improve
employee engagement.

Annual
Bonus PSP

CE)

Oo © 8G © © ©

Governance

Introduction Strategic Report

Financial Statements

Other Information

Overview of remuneration policy and its implementation
for FY 2025

The key elements of our remuneration policy are shown below, along with details of how we plan to implement the policy specifically for 2025 and if
any of the elements impact on future remuneration.

Base pay

Benefits

Pension

Short-term
incentives

Long-term
incentives

Shareholding
requirement

Policy 2025 2026 2027 2028

Increases infine withwider workforce, [i>

except for exceptional circumstances.

Benefits normally include (but are
not limited to) private healthcare,

life assurance, annual health check,
employee assistance programme,
use of a Company vehicle or cash
equivalent, and discounts on food
and associated drinks purchased

in our businesses. Private healthcare
is provided for the Executive, spouse
or partner and dependent children.
Executive Directors’ contributions
aligned with the wider workforce
pension rate (currently 4% of salary).

Normal maximum of 100% of salary.

At least 50% of performance
conditions to be based on financial
measures, the remainder based on
non-financial or personal business
objectives.

50% of the award to be deferred as
shares and released in two equal
tranches, after 12 and 24 months.
Normal maximum of 200% of salary,
exceptional maximum of 250%

of salary.

Me

Performance will be measured over
no less than three financial years.

At least 70% of the award will

be based on the achievement of
financial measures, the remainder
based on non-financial, strategic
or ESG measures.

Vesting after three years, witha
two-year holding period post-vesting.
250% of salary for the CEO; 200% of
salary for all other Executive Directors.

wa

All Executive Directors are required to
maintain shareholding requirements
in full for two years post-cessation.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.

Implementation for 2025
Effective Effective %
Base pay 1Jan 2024 Ian 2025_ increase
PhilUrban 607,500 625,725 3.0
Timjones 508,000 523,250 3.0
Average
employee 8.9 73-9
increase % (actual) (projected)

In line with FY 2024.

Unchanged
Phil Urban: 4% of salary.

Tim Jones: 4% of salary.

The following maximum opportunities
will apply in FY 2025 (unchanged).

Phil Urban: 100% of salary.

Tim Jones: 100% of salary.

The following maximum opportunities
will apply in FY 2025 (unchanged).

Phil Urban: 200% of salary.

Tim Jones: 200% of salary.
Performance measures for FY 2025 are:
Operating Cashflow - (70%)

Adjusted EPS - (20%)
Sustainability (Scope 1,2 &3) ~ (10%)

Atstart of Atstart of
Base pay FY 2024 FY 2025
Phil Urban 148% 246%
Tim Jones 133% 229%

99


Governance

Report on Directors’ remuneration continued

Illustrations of remuneration policy

The charts below show an estimate of the remuneration that could
be received by Executive Directors under the remuneration policy.
The charts also show the impact of a 50% increase in share price
onthe LTIP outcome.

Chief Executive
£3,168,654
£2,542,929 | 19.75%

£1,919,000
£1,604,342

£1,578,000

£665,754

FY 2023
Actual

FY 2024
Actual

Maximum Maximum
+50% Share
price gain
Share price gain m™ Long-term incentives
@™ Short-termincentives @™ Fixed pay

Minimum — On-target

Chief Financial Officer

£2,653,180

£2,129,930 19.8% |:

£1,609,000

£1,345,055

£1,324,000
49.1% 39.4%
9%

£560,180 19.5%

Minimum —On-target

FY 2023
Actual

FY 2024
Actual

Maximum = Maximum
+50% Share
price gain

Share price gain ™ Long-term incentives
@ Short-termincentives Mm Fixed pay

100_______ Annual Report and Accounts 2024 Mitchells & Butlers ple

The performance scenarios demonstrate the proportion of maximum
remuneration which would be payable in respect of each remuneration
element at each of the performance levels. In developing these
scenarios, the following assumptions have been made:

Minimum

Only the fixed elements of remuneration are payable. The fixed element
consists of base salary, benefits and pension. Base salary is the salary
effective from 1 January 2024. Benefits are based on actual FY 2024
figures and include company car, healthcare and taxable expenses.
Pension is aligned with the rate available to the wider workforce (4%).

On-target
In addition to the minimum, this reflects the amount payable for on-target
performance under the short- and long-term incentive plans:

* 50% of maximum (50% of base salary for the Chief Executive and
Chief Financial Officer) is payable under the short-term incentive
plan; and

* 50% of maximum (100% of base salary for the Chief Executive
and Chief Financial Officer) is payable under the PSP.

Maximum
In addition to the minimum, maximum payment is achieved under both
the short- and long-term incentive plans such that:

* 100% of base salary is payable under the short-term incentive plan
for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer; and

* 200% of base salary for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial
Officer is payable under the PSP.

Share price gain
This shows the impact a 50% increase in the share price would have
onthe maximum PSP outcome.

Introduction Scrategie Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information

How our policy caseades to colleagues and_.
workforce engagement

Remuneration below Executive Director level
The table below demonstrates how the key elements of Executive pay align with the wider workforce:

EEE LL [ )

Job Group
(Number of employees) Base pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives All-employee share plans
Executive Directors (2) Pay broadly around Bonus schemes for all Measures andtargetsfor  Allemployeescan
Executive Committee (8) _‘ mid-market levels. schemes align tothe long-termincentive plans _ participate in any of the
Senior management , business scorecard. consistent for all all-employee share
(c. 40) Overall, increases - participants. schemes, subject to
——____-___-__~-— (in percentage terms) The majority of bonus —_—_—_—__\\\— qualifying service,
Retail Support Centre consistent across all opportunity is linked to building a stake in
(c.1100) salaried employee groups. financial performance. the business.
Retail managers (c. 5,500) _ ee |
Retail team members Pay set inline with market Our pay approachis aimed at providing regular and
{c. 41,000) requirements and closely —_ predictable earnings through competitive base pay

monitored. for our retail team members. This is valued more highly

than variable pay elements by retail team members and
Base pay for many is in line with our ‘competitive’ and ‘straightforward’
employees is ahead of remuneration principles.

the statutory minimums.

Many employees benefit
from tips and service
charges, and inline

with the Employment
(Allocation of Tips)

Act 2023 100% of these
earnings are passed on
to employees.

Workforce engagement
We welcome and encourage feedback from employees on a broad range of topics including business improvement, engagement and remuneration.
This feedback is gathered in a number of ways throughout the year as shown in the illustration below:

Remuneration Committee

Employee survey CEO roadshows Employee forum Overview of pay and Nominated
policy decisions Non-Executive
Outcomes reviewed The CEO and CFO hold Elected representatives Director
by the Remuneration regular roadshows that have direct access to the Committee members
Committee and taken allow both support Executive Committee are updated on ANon-Executive
into account when centre colleagues and as part of the forum employee terms and Director (Dave Coplin)
setting remuneration General Managers an and where necessary conditions and made has been appointed to
policy. opportunity to discuss Executive remuneration aware of significant engage with employees
business issues and matters are brought changes to policie: and report back to the
provide feedback. to the attention and other pay-relaled Board. Dave Coplin
of the Remuneration matters. is amember of the
Committee Chair Remuneration
Committee

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.______ 104


Governance

Report on Directors’ remuneration continucd

The Committee is regularly updated on pay and conditions applying
to Group employees alongside other workforce-related matters.

Where significant changes are proposed to employment conditions
and policies elsewhere in the Group, or there are important employee-
related projects underway, these are highlighted for the attention of the
Committee at an early stage. Over the course of FY 2024, these updates
have again focused on employee engagement, a review of bonus and
incentive schemes below Executive Committee level, progress against
our diversity and inclusion agenda and plans to roll out anew talent
management system that will help to support the development of

our people.

The Committee takes into account the base pay review budget applicable
to other employees when considering the pay of Executive Directors. The
Committee considers a broad range of reference points when determining
policy and pay levels. These include external market benchmarks as well
as internal reference points. Any such reference points are set

in an appropriate context and are not considered in isolation.

Obtaining and understanding the views of our employees, including

in relation to Executive Remuneration, is an important consideration for
the Committee when developing and operating our overall approach to
remuneration across Mitchells & Butlers. In addition to our approach to
communicating with our employees, we also welcome feedback and all
employees are invited to take part in our employee engagement surveys.
These provide all employees with an opportunity to give anonymous
feedback on a wide range of topics of interest or concern to them.

The Committee reviews these results and any significant concerns over
remuneration would be considered separately by the Committee and,
if appropriate, taken into account when determining the remuneration
approach and its implementation.

102________ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

‘An employee forum is normally held twice every year, which gives

an opportunity for employees to ask questions of senior management
via elected representatives, and which from FY 2020 has been attended
by Dave Coplin. In 2024, two forums were held in March 2024 and
September 2024. The Executive team finds these forums very valuable,
as the format allows for a more in-depth discussion and understanding
that is not possible through other channels such as surveys.

In addition, in his role as the nominated Non-Executive Director, Dave
Coplin undertakes a number of activities ranging from visits to our
businesses to meet and discuss issues with employees, to focus groups
with specific employee groups. Dave meets regularly with members of
the Human Resources team and is also supporting the business in how
it may utilise technology to better communicate with all employees,

in particular through the deployment of anew employee app.

The views of employees in relation to Executive remuneration have been
sought in the past and this issue was not proved to be an area of interest
or concern for employees at this time. Our engagement survey hasa
section that allows employees to anonymously raise any concerns they
may have on any matter, and in 2024 there were over 27,000 comments
recorded, none of which related to senior management pay.

Introduction Strategic Report

Annual report on remuneration

Governance

Financial Statements

Other Information

This section details the remuneration payable to the Executive and Non-Executive Directors (including the Company Chair) for the financial period
ended 28 September 2024 and how we intend to implement our remuneration policy for FY 2025. This report, along with the Chair's annual

statement, will be subject to a single advisory vote at the 2025 AGM.

Pay outcomes

The tables and related disclosures set out on pages 103 to 110 on Directors’ remuneration, deferred annual bonus share awards (‘STDIP'), PSP and RSP
share options, Share Incentive Plan, Save as You Earn Plan (‘SAYE") and pension benefits have been audited by KPMG LLP where explicitly indicated.

Executive Directors’ remuneration

The table below sets out the single figure remuneration received by the Executive Directors during the reporting year and prior year.

Executive Directors (audited by KPMG)

Pension-
Taxable Short-term related Long-term Total Total Total
Basic salaries benefits? incentives benefits incentives Othe remuneration fixed pay variable pay
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY oY
2024 2023-2024 2023 —-2024_~—=«2023—« 2024 «2023, ~——-2024 «2023-2024 —2023 2024 2023 2024 2023-2024 ~—-2023
PhilUrban 599 581 15 15 599 552 26 40 680 390 2.5 3 1,921.5 1581 642.5 639 1,279 942
TimJones 501 486 16 16 501 462 22 34 569 326 2 2 =1,611 1,326 541 538 1,070 788
Sub-total
Executive
Directors 1,100 1,067 31 31 1,100 1,014 48 74 1,249 716 4.5 5 3,532.5 2,907 1,183.5 1,177 2,349 1,730

a. Taxable benefits for the year comprised car allowance, healthcare and taxable expenses.
b. Based on the value of supplements paid in lieu of contributions to the Company Scheme.

c. The value of the RSP vesting is based on the average share price in the last three months of the financial period (299.7p) multiptied by the number of shares vesting. The FY 2023

figure has been restated to reflect the actual value on vesting based on share price of 224.4p.
d. Includes free shares awarded under the SIP.

Annual bonus

Details of the measures and targets applying to the 2024 annual bonus plan are set out below*:

Threshold - 95% Maximum - 103%

of Target Target of Target Outcome
(of salary (%of salary (of salary (of salary
payable) payable) payable) payable)
Adjusted Operating Profit £255.5m £269m £277m £312m?
(70%) (52 weeks) (7.5%) (35%) (70%) (70%)
Outcome
Calculation of outcome (% of salary
@ Threshold Ml Target Ml Performance (Score) (% of salary payable) payable)
Guest Health (15%) Each element is scored 1 if better than target,
Oif between threshold and target,
and -1 if below threshold.
Social Media Score + Ifthe sum of these scores is +2 then 2
maximum bonus is paid (15%). (15%)
* Ifthe sum of these scores is +1 then an
Complaints Ratio on-target payment would be made (7.5%).
iu + Ifthe sum of these scores is O then threshold
bonus is paid (3.75%).
Threshold Target Maximum Outcome
(% oF salary (Sof salary (of salary (of salary
payable) payable) payable) payable)
Employee Engagement 81.5 82.5 83.5 85.3
(1096)? (2.5%) (5%) (10%) (10%)
Combined Safety Score 96.2% 97.3%
(5%) (5%) (5%)
a. The measures, targets and outcomes are not audited.
b. Payout is ona straight-line basis between points.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024 103


Governance

Report on Directors’ remuneration continucd

Financial measures

Adjusted Operating Profit (Qutcome 70% out of 70%)

The financial targets for FY 2024 were set at a time when the outlook for the financial period once again remained highly uncertain with a wide range
of macroeconomic factors continuing to impact the business. These included stubbornly high inflation, geo-political instability, most notably from
the war in Ukraine, and an uncertain cost outiook particularly in relation to employment, food and energy costs.

The financial target set for FY 2024 at the start of the year was considered by the Committee to be challenging when taking into account all of the
relevant factors at the time the targets were agreed. The main drivers of cost inflation was anticipated to be employment costs followed by drink,
food and logistics. Energy costs were forecast to fall over the year although any reduction was contingent on the outlook for energy pricing remaining
favourable. An on-target performance would have required sales growth of at least 5% and for the net cost headwinds of c. £65m to be offset through
improved margins and efficiencies.

Actual sales across the year were £2,610m, an increase of 6.1% and c.£25m ahead of budget. On alike for like basis sales increased by 5.3%. Our sales
performance continued to outperform the market’ consistently across the year.

1 As measured by the CGA Business Tracker.

Adjusted Operating Profit across the period was £312m; an increase of 41% on the prior period on a 52 week basis, and near the top of the range of
consensus forecasts which had already been increased through the year. This performance was significantly ahead of both the target set at the start

of the year (£269m) and the performance required to for a maximum payout (£277m). This reflected not only the strong sales performance over the
year but also an improvement in margins which recovered at a faster pace than expected. This improvement in margins was driven in large part by our .
programme of Ignite initiatives combined with well controlled costs across the business.

Non-financial measures
The non-financial measures encompass Guest Health, Employee Engagement and Safety, and form an important part of the annual incentive plan.
Bonus can only be earned if 97.5% of the Adjusted Operating Profit target is achieved.

Guest Health (15% out of 15%)

Guest Health performance is measured as a combination of online review scores and guest complaints. Over the year our online review scores have
averaged 4.51, representing a best ever score for this measure. Very good progress has also been made on guest complaints, which are measured
asa ratio of complaints received for every 1,000 meals served. Again, performance has been strong in this area building on progress made across
FY 2023, with just 0.60 complaints for every 1,000 meals served in FY 2024. This combined performance has resulted in a maximum payment for
the guest element.

Employee Engagement (10% out of 10%)

Employee engagement is measured at two points during the year. Inthe summer employees are invited to complete a comprehensive survey,
“YourSay’, and this is supplemented by a shorter pulse survey in February. This year around 70% of employees completed a survey and the overall
score across the two surveys was 85.3, a record high for employee engagement and an increase of almost three points on the prior year score,
resulting in amaximum payment for this element.

Safety (5% out of 5%)

Anew measure of safety was introduced in FY 2024 that encompasses four areas of safety, Food Hygiene (as measured by the National Food Hygiene
Rating System), Food Practices, Allergens and Fire Safety. The measure assesses the percentage of our businesses that have scored at least a4 or 5
rating in each of the elements in a combined score. The target set at the start of the year was for an overall performance of 96.2% of all ratings to be

at a 4 or 5. The year end performance was 97.3% resulting in an on target/maximum payment for this element.

Overall outcome
The total bonus awarded to Executive Directors is 100% of salary, resulting in bonus payments of £598,731 and £500,750 to Phil Urban and Tim Jones
respectively.

In line with our policy, half of any bonus award will be deferred into shares under the Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan (‘STDIP’), which will be

released in two equal amounts after 12 and 24 months. Bonus Share awards are subject to continued employment. These shares must be retained
until the shareholding requirement is met and are subject to a post-cessation holding period.

104.____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Long-term incentives vesting during the year
FY 2022-24. RSP vesting
During FY 2022 share awards were made to Phil Urban and Tim Jones under the terms of the RSP to the value of 100% of their respective salaries.

Awards were subject to a performance underpin, meaning that the Committee took into account the following factors (amongst other things)
when determining whether to exercise its discretion to adjust the number of shares vesting:

Underpin condition Commentary
* ifany adjustments have been made to No adjustments were made to any bonus outcomes during the vesting period.
annual bonus outcomes for each of the
three years covered by the vesting period The approval of any annual bonus payout is subject to a robust quality of earnings assessment
for awards under the RSP; that considers all aspects of scorecard performance and a range of other performance factors
to determine if the annual bonus outcome was consistent with overall business performance.
This annual assessment is then used as a basis to assess performance against these factors over
the course of the RSP vesting period.
* whether there has been material damage There were no issues that caused material damage to the reputation of the Company.
tothe reputation of the Company (in such
circumstances, responsibility and hence any
adjustments to the level of vesting may be
allocated collectively or individually to
participants); and
* that the business has a stable and The Board believes that the business continues to have a stable capital structure.
appropriate capital structure in place
following the cessation of restrictions on
trade due to the Covid-19 pandemic that
enables the recovery of the business and
execution of the Company's strategic
priorities.

Therefore, having reviewed each underpin condition, the Committee determined that awards should vest in full.

Long-term incentive awards made during FY 202-4
An award for FY 2023/25 was made to the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer in January 2024 in accordance with the rules of the PSP
and within the remuneration policy approved at the January 2024 AGM.

The performance condition has three independent elements: Operating Cashflow (70%); Earnings Per Share (‘EPS’) growth (20%); and a sustainability
measure based on reduction in Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions (10%).

The Committee undertook a thorough review of the performance measures and targets that will apply and disclosed this in last years report.
For completeness these are summarised in the table below:

Weighting (% of
FY 2024 - 2026 PSP performance conditions maximum) Threshold Maximum
Operating Cashflow (£m) 70% 1,296 1,368
EPS Growth (% CAGR) 20% 21.4 25.9
Sustainability — reduction in Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions tCOze 10% -53,619 -53,619
Full details of awards made to Executive Directors under the PSP are set out below (audited by KPMG):
Market price
Nil Cost Options per share used
awarded during Basis of award todetermine Actual/
the year to (of basic Award the award planned Latest Face value*
Executive Directors 28/09/24 _annual salary) date (pF __vesting date lapse date? £
Phil Urban j oo 467,307 200° «31/1/24 260 Nov26  Feb2027 ‘1,215,933
Tim Jones 390,769 200 31/1/24 260 Nov 26 Feb 2027 ‘1,016,781

Total 858,076 2,232,714

a. Market price is the average of the middle market quotations on the three days prior to the award being made.

b. The date on which vested shares will lapse if not exercised.

c. Face value is the maximum number of shares that may vest (excluding any dividend shares that may accrue) multiplied by the middle market quotation of a Mitchells & Butlers
share on the day the award was made (260. 2p).

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024. ___105.


Governance

Report on Directors’ remuneration continucd

All-employee SIP
The table below shows the awards made to Directors under the free share element of the SIP during the year (audited by KPMG).

SIP
‘Shares Market price
awarded Market price per share
during pershare Normal at normal Lapsed
the year Award at award vesting vesting date during
Executive Director 10 28/9/24 date ) date (o} period
PhilUrban : / 862 ——2/7/24 287 27/7 nia =
Tim Jones 700 2/7/24 287 2/7/27 n/a =
Total 1,562

Directors’ entitlements under the Partnership Share element of the SIP are set out as part of the Directors’ interests table on page 110.

Exceutive Directors: Implementation of remuneration policy in FY 2025

Fixed Pay (Base Pay, Pensions and Benefits)

The current level of inflation is putting pressure on pay increases. Overall pay increases have been 8.9% over the year with hourly paid frontline
employees who are typically the lowest paid employees in the Group, seeing the largest increases.

With effect from 1 January 2025 Phil Urban's salary will increase to £625,725 (3%) and Tim Jones's to £523,250 (3%).

The pension allowance paid to Executive Directors remains at 4%, in line with the general workforce.

There are no changes to the benefits available to Executive Directors.

Annual Bonus

The Committee believes that the annual bonus scheme for FY 2024 was successful in driving the right behaviours across the business and as such has

determined that the annual bonus scheme for FY 2025 will be the same and will be structured as follows:

* The maximum earnings opportunity will remain at 100% of base salary.
* Adjusted Operating Profit will continue to account for 70% of the overall opportunity.

The remaining 30% of the annual bonus plan will be allocated against the business scorecard as follows:
— 15% for Guest Health (reputation.com scores and guest complaints).

- 10% for employee engagement.

- 5% for overall safety performance.

* The non-financial elements will only be payable if a threshold level of financial performance is achieved. For FY 2025 this will be unchanged
at 97.5% of Adjusted Operating Profit.

Targets are not being disclosed on the basis that they are considered commercially sensitive but will be disclosed in next year's report.
Executive Directors are also aware that the Committee may take into account other factors when assessing if any bonus may be paid as part of our
established quality of earnings assessment. In particular this assessment will review the overall financial performance of the Group over the year

to ensure that any payout resulting from the approach to target setting above, is consistent with overall performance across the year.

Performance Share Plan (PSP’) award FY 2025 to FY 2027
APSP award is due to be made in respect of the 2025-2027 performance period.

The Committee has undertaken a thorough review of the performance measures that will apply and these are summarised in the table below:

Weighting (%of
2025 - 2027 PSP performance conditions maximum) Threshold Maximum
Operating Cashflow (£m) . . 70% 1,370 1,448
“EPS Growth (% CAGR) ° ; : "20% 41 69
Sustainability - reduction in Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions tCO,e 10% -41,891 -41,891

Additional remuneration disclosures
Payment for loss of office
No payments for loss of office were made in the year ended 28 September 2024.

Payments to past Directors
No payments were made to any past Directors in the year ended 28 September 2024.

106. Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers plc


Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information

‘Total shareholder return trom September 2014 to September 2024 (rebased to 100)
This graph shows the value, by 28 September 2024, of £100 invested in Mitchells & Butlers plc on 28 September 2014, compared with the value
of £100 invested in the FTSE 250 and the FTSE Alll Share Travel and Leisure indices.

250

200

n 1 1 L L Ll 1 1 L
0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024

= Mitchells & Butlers pic FTSE 250 — FTSE All Share Travel and Leisure Source: Datastream (Thomson Reuters)

CEO earnings history

Year ended 26/09/15 24/09/16 30/09/17__29/09/18 28/09/19 _-26/09/20__—-25/9/21__—24/9/22_—_—~30/9/23_ 28/09/24
Phil Urban .

Single figure remuneration (£000) - 613 770 819 1,684 553, 627 810 =: 1,573 1,921.5
Annual bonus outcome (% of max} 7 - 28 39 82 - - 33 95 100
LTIP vesting outcome (% of max) - - - - 47.5 - - = 100 100
Alistair Darby

Single figure remuneration (£000) 878 - - - - a - -

Annual bonus outcome (% of max) - - - - - - - -

LTIP vesting outcome (% of max) 19.0

t
'
1
'
1
'
i}

Pay ratios

The table below sets out the Chief Executive pay ratio at the median, 25th and 75th percentiles for 2024. Datais also presented for 2018 as
Mitchells & Butlers has disclosed the pay ratio between the Chief Executive and the median pay of other employees for the last six years, despite
not needing to comply with this requirement until the 2020 Annual Report.

Chief Executive pay ratio

Financial period ‘Method P25 (lower quartile) P5O(median) P75 (upper quartile)
2024 . Option C 92:1 92:1 87:1
2023 Option C 86:1 82:1 78:1
2022 . - ; Option c 53:1 47 : 45:1
2021 / ; ae . 7 Option C _ 414 38:1 36:1
2020 an _ . OptionC 71 | 35:1 35:1
20190 a 8 Option 12010 112:1 _ 106:1
2018 ; ; Optionc ei 581 52:1

The lower quartile, median and upper quartile employees were calculated based on full-time equivalent base pay data as at 28 September 2024.
This calculation methodology was selected as the data was felt to be the most accurate way of identifying the best equivalents of P25, P50 and P75
and, therefore, the most accurate measurement of our pay ratios. Of the three allowable methodologies under the legislation, this method is classed
as ‘Option C’. Option A was considered but given the high tevels of team member turnover, it was felt more appropriate to adopt the approach set
out above. ,

The employee pay data has been reviewed and the Committee is satisfied that it fairly reflects the relevant quartiles given the very large proportion
of hourly paid team members employed by Mitchells & Butlers (c. 85% of the total workforce). The three representative employees used to calculate
the pay ratios are hourly paid and the base pay elements were calculated using a full-time equivalent hourly working week of 35 hours. Hourly paid
employees do not participate in the annual bonus plan or long-term incentive plan and in most cases do not have any taxable benefits. Employee pay
does not include earnings from tips and service charges, from which many employees benefit. The calculations are based on the single figure
methodology and exclude the value of any awards under the free share element of the SIP.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024. 107


Governance

Report on Directors’ remuneration continued

Pay details for the individuals are set out below:

ChiefExecutive P25 (lower quartile) P50 (median) P75 (upperquartile)

(6) ) (é) (é)

Salary 598,731 20,402 20,821 21,148
Total pay 1,919,044 20,826 20,833 21,298

On a total pay basis, the ratio of workforce pay to the Chief Executive's total pay has increased, reflecting the higher levels of variable pay from
the annual bonus plan and the vesting under the RSP. The Committee believes that the ratio is broadly consistent with that of other organisations in
the hospitality and retail sectors. The overall trend in the median ratio aligns with the movement in the single total figure of remuneration over time.

Hourly-paid employees do not participate in the annual bonus plan, whereas salaried employees do participate in an annual bonus plan (c. 5,450
employees). The median pay ratio is consistent with pay and progression policy for UK employees. More broadly, pay in the hospitality sector is lower
than many other sectors and this will be an influencing factor in the overall pay ratio, despite significant increases in pay rates over the last few years.

Gender Pay Gap
The 2024 mean Gender Pay Gap for the Group is 5.9% (2023, -1.7%) and the median Gender Pay Gap is 1.7% (2023, 0.6%). The mean bonus gap
is 25.5% (2023, 24.3%) and the median bonus gap is 0.0% (2023, 26.3%).

Year-on-year change in remuneration of Directors compared Lo an average employee

2024 2023 2022 2021
Salary/ Salary/ Salary/ Salary/

Fees _Bonus _ Benefits Fees __Bonus _ Benefits Fees Bonus _ Benefits Fees Bonus _Benefits
Average employee 9.7% 7.0% -4.5% 8.7% 422.3%  -6.3% 5.6% 32.2% -14.0% 1.2% 81.6% 6.3%
Executive Directors _
Phil Urban 3.0% 8.5% 0.0% 6.5% 202.9% 4.3% 2.2% 100.0% 3.1% 0.00% 0.00%  -1.4%
Tim Jones 3.0% 8.4% 2.6% 6.5% 203.0% 2.2% 2.2% 100.0% 5.9% 0.00% 0.00% -3.3%
Non-Executive
Directors
Bob Ivell -0.9% - 16.7% 4.8% - 180.0% 0.0% 0.0%  -60.4% 0.0% 0.0% -25.4%
Eddie Irwin -0.9% - - 4.8% - - 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0%
Dave Coplin 0.9% - 36.1% 4.8% — 967.9% 0.0% 0.0% -93.2% 0.0% 0.0% -74.0%
Josh Levy 0.9% - - 4.8% - - 0.0% 0.0% -100.0% 0.0% 0.0% 225.1%
Keith Browne 0.9% - - 4.8% - - 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% -59.2%
Jane Moriarty 0.9% — 98.2% 8.7% - 197.3% 34.8% 0.0% -54.3% 245% 0.0% 443.9%
Amanda Brown -0.9% - - 354.0% - - 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% n/a n/a n/a

Salaries and fees are based on rates at the year end date on a full time equivalent (‘FTE’) basis. Hourly paid employees do not participate in any bonus
scheme and in most cases are not eligible for taxable benefits. The figures shown for these elements are based on the year-on-year change for eligible
employees.

The figures for Executive Directors do not include LTIP awards or pension benefits that are disclosed in the single figure table. The benefit figures for
Non-Executive Directors relate to taxable expenses as detailed in the single figure table on page 109. The small decrease in fees for Non-Executive
Directors in FY 2024 is due to FY 2023 being a 53 week year.

Relative importance of spend on pay £m
Figures shown for wages and salaries consist of all earnings, including bonus. In FY 2024, £3m (0.35%) was paid to Executive and Non-Executive
Directors (2023 £2.9m (0.36%)).

1,000

-87.5%
1 8

0 Wages and salaries* Principal taxes** Pension deficit contributions Debt service

MFY 2024 MFY 2023 =“ Fromnote 2.3 tothe consolidated financial statements. ** Business Rates, Corporation Tax, Employer's NI.
There were no shareholder dividends or share buybacks in FY 2023.

108. Annual Report and Accounts 2024 Mitchells & Butlers ple


Introduction Strategie Report Governance Financial Statements Other tnformation

Fees for external directorships
No external non-executive directorships were held by either Executive Director during the year to 28 September 2024.

Chair and Non-Executive Directors
Non-Executive Directors (audited by KPMG)
The table below set out the single figure remuneration received by the Non-Executive Directors during the reporting year and prior year.

Taxable Short-term Pension- Long-term Total Total Total
Fees benefits* incentives telated benefits incentives Other remuneration fixed pay variable pay
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
Bob Ivell 295 298 2022S =. se = -  - - 297 300 297 300 - Oe
Eddie Irwin 5555 - - - =e 55 55 5555
Josh Levy 55 55 (OS OS - - 2 5 ~ 5 = 555 555 55.5 555 - =
Dave Coplin 6 6 1 05 - = ee - - = = 6 065 6 695 - oe
Keith Browne 55 55 - + - - - = - - - = 55 55 5S 55 - -
Jane Moriarty 82 83 3 1 - - - + - oe - = 85 84 85 84 > -
AmandaBrown 68 = 691 - = = - - - - 8 0 6 7” - =
Sub-total
Non-Executive
Directors 678 6847.5 S -  - - - - -  - = 685.5 689 685.5 689 -

Total Executive

Directors and

Non-Executive

Directors 1,778 1,751 38.5 36 1,100 1,014 48 #74 =#1,249 /16 45 5 4218 3596 1,869 1,866 2,349 1,730

a. Taxable benefits for Non-Executive Directors include cash payments made or accounted for by the Company relating to the reimbursement of expenses (and the value
of personal tax on those expenses).

Non-Executive Directors: Implementation of remuneration policy in FY 2025
The Chair's fee and those of the Non Executive Directors were increased in January 2022. No increase will apply in 2025.

Directors’ sharcholdings and share interests

PRSP, RSP, PSP, STDIP and SAYE

The table below sets out details of the Executive Directors’ outstanding awards under the PRSP, RSP, PSP, STDIP and Sharesave (‘SAYE’)
(audited by KPMG).

Number of Number of

shares at Granted Lapsed Exercised shares at

30 September during the during the duringthe -28September

Executive Director Scheme 2023 period period period 2024
Phil Urban PRSP 89,483 - 89,483 - -
RSP 813,107 - - 173,807 639,300

PSP - 467,307 - - 467,307

STDIP 68,152 121,496 - 34,076 155,572

SAYE 7,031 - - - 7,031

Total 977,773 588,803 89,483 207,883 1,269,210

Tim Jones PRSP 52,382 - 52,382 - -
RSP 680,332 - - 145,407 534,925

PSP - 390,769 - , - 390,769

STDIP 57,027 101,677 - _ 28,514 130,190

SAYE - - = - -

Totat 789,741 492,446 52,382 173,921 1,055,884

Gains made by the Executive Directors in relation to share options during FY 2024 were nil.

Directors’ interests
Executive Directors are expected to hold Mitchells & Butlers shares in line with the shareholding guideline set out in the approved remuneration policy.

This requires the Chief Executive to accumulate Mitchells & Butlers shares to the value of a minimum of 250% of salary (200% of salary for the
CFO) through the retention of shares arising from share schemes (on a net of tax basis) or through market purchases. Phil Urban's shareholding at
28 September 2024 was 246% of his basic annual salary (2023 148%) and as aresult Phil Urban has not met the shareholding guideline at this time.
Tim Jones's shareholding was 229% of his basic annual salary (2023 133%) and as a result Tim Jones has met the shareholding guideline.
Shareholdings are calculated based on the average share price over the final three months of the financial period; for FY 2024 this was 299.7p

(FY 2023 219.8p). In line with the remuneration policy, no shares can be sold until the guideline is met and post-cessation holding requirements
are in place.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024 _____109.


Governance

Report on Directors’ remuneration continued

The interests of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 30 September 2023 and 28 September 2024 are as set out below (audited

by KPMG):
Unvested
Wholly-owned shares shares with Unvested options Unvested options Vested but
without performance performance Unvested shares without without performance with performance unexercised Total

conditions* conditions _ performance conditions? conditions* conditions/underpins* options shares/options

2024 2023-2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 20232024 2023 2024 2023
Executive
Directors .
Phil Urban 499,599 388,139 - - 155,572 68,152 7,031 7,031 1,106,607 902,590 - - 1,768,809 1,365,912
Tim Jones 387,597 294,259 - = 130,180 57,027 - - 925,694 732,714 - - 1,443,471 1,084,000
Non- : ‘
Executive
Directors . .
Bob Ivell 17,222 17,222 - - - - - - - - - - 17,222 17,222
Eddie Irwin 43,833 43,833 - - - - - - - - - - 43,833 43,833
Dave Coplin 6,000 6,000 - - - - - - - - - - 6,000 6,000
Josh Levy - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Keith Browne - - -  - - - - - - - - = - -
Jane Moriarty - - - = - - - - - - - - - -
Amanda Brown - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Total 954,251 749,453 - - 285,752 125,179 7,031 7,031 2,032,301 1,635,304 - - 3,279,335 2,516,967

a. Includes Free Shares and Partnership Shares granted under the SIP.

b. Deferred bonus awards granted under the STDIP.

c. Options granted under the Sharesave as detailed in the table on page 109.
d. Options granted under the RSP or PSP as detailed in the table on page 109.

Directors’ shareholdings (shares without performance conditions) include shares held by persons closely associated with them.

The above shareholdings are beneficial interests and are inclusive of Directors’ holdings under the Share Incentive Plan (both Free Share and

Partnership Share elements).

Phil Urban and Tim Jones acquired 107 and 108 shares respectively under the Partnership Share element of the Share Incentive Plan between the end of
the financial period and 26 November 2024. There have been no changes in the holdings of any other Directors since the end of the financial period.

None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any subsidiary or in debenture stocks of the Company or any subsidiary.

The market price per share on 28 September 2024 was 302p and the range during the year to 28 September 2024 was 199p to 317p per share.

The Executive Directors as a group beneficially own 0.1% of the Company's shares.

Service contracts and Letters of Appointment
Executive Directors
Details of the service contracts of Executive Directors are set out below.

Notice period Minimum notice Compensation on
Director Contract start date Unexpired term from Company period from Director change of control
Phil Urban? 27/09/15 Indefinite 12 months 6 months No
Tim Jones 18/10/10 Indefinite 12 months 6 months No

a. Phil Urban became Chief Executive and joined the Board on 27 September 2015. His continuous service date started on 5 January 2015, the date on which he joined the

Company as Chief Operating Officer.

NO _____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategic Report

Non-Executive Directors

Non-Executive Directors, including the Company Chair, do not have
service contracts but serve under letters of appointment which provide
that they are initially appointed until the next AGM when they are
required to stand for election. In line with the Company's Articles of
Association, all Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, will stand
for re-election at the 2025 AGM. This is also in line with the provisions of
the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code. Non-Executive Directors’
appointments are terminable without notice and with no entitlement to
compensation. Payment of fees will cease immediately on termination.

Copies of the individual letters of appointment for Non-Executive
Directors and the service contracts for Executive Directors are available
at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours
and on our website. Copies will also be available to shareholders to view
at the 2025 AGM.

Mitchells & Budlers Remuneration Committee

Committee terms of reference

The Committee's terms of reference were reviewed and updated in 2019
to take account of the 2018 UK Corporate Governance Code.

The Committee's main responsibilities include:

* determining and making recommendations to the Board on the
Company's Executive remuneration policy and its cost;

* taking account of all factors necessary when determining the
remuneration policy, the objective of which is to ensure that the policy
promotes the long-term success of the Company;

* determining the individual remuneration packages of the Executive
Directors and other senior Executives (including the Group General
Counsel and Company Secretary and all direct reports to the Chief
Executive) and, in discussion with the Executive Directors, the
Company Chair;

+ having regard to the pay and employment conditions across
the Company when setting the remuneration of individuals under
the remit of the Committee; and

* aligning Executive Directors’ interests with those of shareholders by
providing the potential to earn significant rewards where significant
shareholder value has been delivered.

Committee membership and operation
Committee members and their respective appointment dates are
detailed in the table below.

Date of appointment to

Name the Committee
Amanda Brown? 4 July 2022
Boblvell — Wuly 2013
Dave Coplin® 29 February 2016.
Josh Levy . - 20 July 2017
Jane Moriarty? 27 February 2019

a. Independent Non-Executive Directors.

Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Committee activity during the year
During the year the Committee met four times.

Key remuneration items considered over the year were as follows:

October 2023 Remuneration Policy _

Salary Review
PSP Targets
Remuneration Policy 7
2023 Bonus — Confirmation of outcome
2021 RSP Vesting outcome

Final approval of PSP Targets

Divisional Directors’ FY 2024 bonus
Employee Update .

All Employee Share Schemes approval
Governance Update ;

2025 Annual Bonus Plan structure
Executive Pay Benchmarking
Employee engagement

November 2023

April 2024

September 2024

Advice to the Committee

The Committee received advice from PwC LLP (‘PwC’) during the year.
PwC were appointed following a competilive tender process during
2018. PwC are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code
of Conduct and any advice received is governed by that Code. Total fees
payable in respect of remuneration advice to the Committee in the
reporting year totalled £38,000° and were charged ona time and
materials basis.

Advice was also received from the Company's legal advisers, Freshfields
Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, on the operation of the Company's employee
share schemes and on corporate governance matters. Clifford Chance
LLP also provided advice in relation to pension schemes.

The Committee is satisfied that the advice received from its advisers was
objective and independent and that the PwC engagement partner and
the team that provide remuneration advice to the Committee do not have
any connections that may impair their independence.

Members of management including Susan Martindale, the Group HR
Director, and Craig Provett, the Director of Compensation and Benefits,
are invited to attend meetings on remuneration matters where appropriate.
They are not present when matters affecting their own remuneration
arrangements are discussed. The Company Chair does not attend Board
or Committee meetings when his remuneration is under review.

Phil Urban and Tim Jones were present at meetings where the Company's
long-term and short-term incentive arrangements and share schemes
were discussed. However, each declared an interest in the matters under
review and did not vote on their own arrangements.

b. Fees are shown net of VAT. 20% VAT was paid on the advisers’ fees shown above.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024____ I


Governance

Report on Directors’ remuneration continucd

Previous AGM voting outcomes
At the last AGM (held on 23 January 2024), a resolution on the annual report on remuneration was subject to an advisory vote.

The table below sets out details of this advisory vote at the 2024 AGM, and also the outcome of the vote on our remuneration policy at the 2024 AGM:

Votes cast Votes fort % Votes against % — Voteswithheld®
Approval of annual report on remuneration —.., 535,078,717 530,322,991 _ 99.11 4,755,726 0.89 45,033
Approval of remuneration policy at 2024 AGM 535,062,052 509,875,972 95.29 25,186,080 471 61,730

a. The ‘For’ vote includes those giving the Company Chair discretion.
b. A vote withheld is not a vote in law and is not counted in the calculation of the votes ‘For’ or ‘Against’ the resolution.

Votes ‘For’ and ‘Against’ are expressed as a percentage of votes cast.

The Board was pleased with the very high levels of support for both the new policy and the annual report on remuneration.
The Directors’ Remuneration Report has been approved by the Board of Mitchells & Butlers plc.

Amanda Brown

Chair of the Remuneration Committee
26 November 2024

NZ ______ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

ae

a
Slam Gependentlauciitorsy e popitogtiie)
member souMitchell SIS utler ipl
B (Groupiucomesstatementy
WB Geary sete oh ema TENTS

qo Geemptestsnco das -
WS Ganparnsacnt a

Stoutgete Rep Cenc ame io x

i, Financial Statements

x

|
i
I

a Sy a

on

Nmiestodipamiittned Gnade) 32 Satter d-Copmtaremeeand
Bremen

MAN CiDRICOStsy .
i SAmRICorowings :
£1? BS ectionBlbsBasissoprepacation £1 SOMA PEinancecoststandiincomed
60 Sadten 3 Results\togielpe riod] POCMAG IE anc alist uientsy
3 Omalbscementalanalysis WS 4ONendein .
130) Aa Sepmrerly dndbrad nem W 48am
43 P28 Reve nuctandoper ating’ ostsy BZ Be topo baie, Dasedipay men tsa
DB) AA trate WW APRgty :
W ASerategp per dee RIZCRSectionpsmOthegnotes ial
BS 8BSect OnBedo peratiotassetsancalabilities} s ZOMOUEACQuisitionsy
OM Maropertyaplactencequiprent Wr Sask)
1 I2lems : SSBB ISU sic anletan associates)
W aSinpammat viitchellssy Keompany]
GD ASRovsiow eee S2BNoteMote Mitchell SSiButlensplg
fasseisy ye


Financial Statements

Independent auditor’s report to the
members of Mitchells & Butlers ple

1. Our opinion is unmodified

We have audited the financial statements of Mitchells & Butlers plc
(“the Company”) for the 52 week period ended 28 September 2024
which comprise the Group Income Statement, the Group Statement of
Comprehensive Income, the Group and Company Balance Sheets, the
Group and Company Statements of Changes in Equity, the Group cash
flow statement and the related notes, including the accounting policies
within notes 1 to 5.3 of the Group financial statements and notes 1 to 10
of the Company financial statements.

In our opinion:

* the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the
Group's and of the parent Company's affairs as at 28 September
2024 and of the Group's profit for the 52 week period then ended;

* the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in
accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards;

* the parent Company financial statements have been properly
prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including
FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework and

* the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

14. Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Basis for opinion :
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)*) and applicable law. Our responsibilities are
described below. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion. Our audit opinion is
consistent with our report to the audit committee.

We were first appointed as auditor by the shareholders on 25 January
2022. The period of total uninterrupted engagement is for the 3 financial
periods ended 28 September 2024. We have fulfilled our ethical
responsibilities under, and we remain independent of the Group in
accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical
Standard as applied to listed public interest entities. No non-audit
services prohibited by that standard were provided.

Overview

Materiality: £24m (2023:£23m)

Group financial 0.46% (2023: 0.48%) of total assets
statements as awhole

Coverage 94% (2023:82%) of Group profit

before tax

92% (2023: 91%) of Group Total
assets

vs 2023

Valuation of the freehold and 3)
long leasehold restaurant and
pub estate

Recoverability of parent ©
Company investment in

subsidiaries

Key audit matters

Recurring risks


Introduction

Strategic Report

Governance Financial Statements Other Information

2. Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in the audit of the financial statements and include
the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) identified by us, including those which had the greatest
effect on: the overall audit strategy; the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team. We summarise below
the key audit matters, in decreasing order of audit significance, in arriving at our audit opinion above, together with our key audit procedures to
address those matters and, as required for public interest entities, our results from those procedures. These matters were addressed, and our results
are based on procedures undertaken, in the context of, and solely for the purpose of, our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming
our opinion thereon, and consequently are incidental to that opinion, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

Valuation of the
freehold and long
leasehold restaurant
and pub estate

(£4,260 million; 2023:
£3,933 million)

Refer to page 90

(Audit Committee Report)
and pages 140-142 (of the
financial disclosures).

The risk

Our respor

Subjective estimate

The Group holds its freehold
and long leasehold property
estate at fair value, witha
revaluation taking place as at
each balance sheet date. We
determined that the valuation
of the Group's property estate
is a major source of estimation
uncertainty.

The valuation involves the
determination of estimates,
most notably the fair
maintainable trade (FMT) and
applicable trading multiples by
brand and location.

These estimations are
inherently subjective and small
changes in the assumptions
used to value the Group's
estate could have a potential
range of reasonable outcomes
greater than our materiality for
the financial statements as a
whole and possibly many
times that amount. The
financial statements (note 3.1)
disclose the sensitivity
estimated by the Group.

Business risks related to audit
risks include:

* Economic environment
(cost inflation) and
consumer changes (post
COVID-19 demographic
changes) have led to
increased uncertainty of
future performance based
on historic trends.

* Capital market sentiment of
the sector remains in
recovery and the sector has
been trading below its
historical levels, leading toa
deficit between market
capitalisation and asset
carrying value of the Group
as awhole.

We performed the tests below rather than seeking to rely on any of the Group's
controls because the nature of the balance is such that we would expect to obtain
audit evidence primarily through the detailed procedures described.

Our procedures included:

Assessing valuation approach:

We met with the Group's external valuers and the relevant Group management to
critically assess the valuation assumptions and methodology used in valuing the
properties and the market evidence used by the valuers to support their
assumptions. We also obtained an understanding of the relevant Group
management's involvement in the valuation process to assess whether appropriate
oversight had occurred.

Assessing valuer’s credentials:
We critically assessed the independence, professionat qualification, competence
and experience of the internal and external valuers engaged by the Group.

Sensitivity analysis:
We considered sensitivities to the overall valuation from changes to fair maintainable
trade and to valuation multiples.

Benchmarking assumptions:

We challenged the key assumption (being FMT and multiple), with the assistance of
our own valuation specialists, for a sample of properties by making a comparison to
market comparable data.

Comparing assumptions

We compared the sum of discounted cash flows to the Group's market capitalisation
toassess the reasonableness of those cash flows which were consistent with those
used to help inform our assessment of FMT.

Assessing inputs:
We agreed observable inputs used for a sample of assets in the valuation to source
documentation.

Assessing outputs:

We evaluated and challenged the output of the valuations through the identification
of higher risk assets with the assistance of our own valuation specialists by
comparing to similar asset performance.

Assessing transparency:
We critically assessed the adequacy of the Group's disclosures in relation to the
valuation of the estate and the sensitivity of changes in key assumptions.

Our results:
We found the valuation of the freehold and long leasehold restaurant and pub estate
to be acceptable (2023: acceptable).

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024___ 15

Financial Statements

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers ple continucel

2. Key audit matters: our assessment of risks of material misstatement coniinied

Recoverability of
parent Company’s
investment in
subsidiaries

(£1,966 million; 2023:
£1,866 million)

Refer to note 5 on page
184 of the financial
disclosures.

The

Low risk high value

The carrying amount of the
parent Company's
investments in subsidiaries
represents 71% (2023: 74%) of
the Company's total assets.
Their recoverability is not a
high risk of misstatement or
subject to significant
judgement. However, due to
their materiality in the context
of the parent Company
financial statements, this is
considered to be the area that
had the greatest effect on our
overall parent Company audit.

Our response

We performed the tests below rather than seeking to rely on any of the parent
Company's controls because the nature of the balance is such that we would expect
to obtain audit evidence primarily through the detailed procedures described.

Our procedures included:

Pest of detail:
We compared the carrying amount of all investments with the relevant subsidiaries’
draft balance sheet to identify whether their net assets, being an approximation of
their minimum recoverable amount, are in excess of their carrying amount and
assess whether those subsidiaries have historically been profit-making.

Comparing valuations:

For the investments where the carrying amount exceeds the net asset value, we
compared the carrying amount of the investment to the directors’ assessment of
value in use.

Benchmarking assumptions:

We assessed and challenged the key assumptions in the value in use calculations
through comparison to industry forecasts and other externally derived data. We
compared the sum of the discounted cash flows to the Group's market capitalisation
and Group's net assets to assess the reasonableness of those cash flows.

Our results:
We found the parent Company's conclusion that there is no impairment of its
investments in subsidiaries to be acceptable (2023: acceptable).

We continue to perform procedures over going concern. However, given the Company's trading performance, we consider the risk of material
uncertainty to be remote and hence we have not assessed this as one of the most significant risks in our current year audit and, therefore, it is not
separately identified in our report this year.

116 _______ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers plc

Introduction Strategic Report

Governance Financial Statements Other Information

3. Our application of materiality and an overview of the
scope of'our audit

Materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole was set at

£24 million (2023: £23 million), determined with reference toa
benchmark of total assets, of which it represents 0.46% (2023: 0.48%)
which we consider to be appropriate given the sector in which the entity
operates; the majority of total asset value is in the pub estate and these
assets act as security for the Group's securitised borrowings and will
therefore be a focus of users of the accounts.

Materiality for the parent Company financial statements as a whole was
set at £18.7 million (2023: £18.7 million), determined with reference toa
benchmark of parent Company total assets, of which it represents 0.68%
(2023: 0.74%).

In line with our audit methodology, our procedures on individual account
balances and disclosures were performed to a lower threshold,
performance materiality, so as to reduce to an acceptable level the risk
that individually immaterial misstatements in individual account balances
add up to a material amount across the financial statements as a whole.

Performance materiality was set at 75% (2023: 75%) of materiality for the
financial statements as a whole, which equates to £18 million (2023:
£17.2 million) forthe Group and £14 million (2023: £13.8 million) for the
parent Company. We applied this percentage in our determination of
performance materiality because we did not ot identify any factors
indicating an elevated level of risk.

In addition, we applied materiality of £17 million, to Group revenue and
cash and cash equivalents (2023: £16.4 million to Group revenue), for
which we believe misstatement of lesser amounts than materiality for the
financial statements as a whole could reasonably be expected to
influence the Company's members’ assessment of the financial
performance of the Group.

We agreed to report to the Audit Committee any corrected or
uncorrected identified misstatements exceeding £1.2 million (2023:
£1.15 million), in addition to other identified misstatements that
warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.

Group total assets

Group profits before tax

Of the Group's 6 (2023: 6) reporting components, we subjected 5 (2023:
5) to full scope audits for group purposes and 1 (2023: 1) to specified
tisk-focused audit procedures. The latter were not individually financially
significant enough to require a full scope audit for group purposes, but
did present specific individual risks that needed to be addressed. We
conducted reviews of financial information (including enquiry) at a
further 42 (2023: 41) non-significant components as these components
are not quantitively or qualitatively significant.

The components within the scope of our work accounted for the
percentages illustrated below.

We subjected 1 (2023: 1) components to specified risk-focused audit
procedures over borrowings, derivative financial instruments, cash and
cash equivalents, deferred tax asset, finance costs, finance income and
cash flow hedges.

For the residual components, we performed analysis at an aggregated
group level to re-examine our assessment that there were no significant
risks of material misstatement within these.

The scope of the audit work performed was predominately substantive
as we placed limited reliance upon the Group's internal control over
financial reporting.

Group total assets
£5,245 million
(2023: £4.802 million)

Group materiality
£24 million
(2023: £23 million)

£24m
Whole financial statements
materiality (2023: £23m)

£18m

Whole financial statements
performance materiality
(2023: £17.2m)

£€21.6m

Range of materiality at 5
components (£12m-£21.6m)
(2023: £11.5m-£20.7m)

£1.2m

Misstatements reported to the
audit committee (2023:
£1.15m)

@ Group total assets
O Group materiality

Group revenue

@ Full scope for group audit purposes 2024

O Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2024

© Full scope for group audit purposes 2023

© Specified risk-focused audit procedures 2023
Residual components

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.___ 17

Financial Statements

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers ple continue

4. The impact of climate change in our audit
In planning our audit, we considered the potential impacts of climate
change on the Group's business and its financial statements.

The Group has set out its target to achieve zero greenhouse gas
emissions by 2040, for Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions, zero operation waste
to landfill by 2030 and to reduce food waste by 50% by 2030 (from FY
2019 baselines).

However, whilst the Group has set targets to be carbon neutral by 2050,
the consequences, in terms of investment, of the gross cost of this
transition, how the demand might be impacted by the price increases
needed to recover these costs and the longer term changes in customer
behaviour are still being assessed, as the Group considers how it will
work towards meeting these targets.

As part of our audit we have performed a risk assessment, including
making enquiries of management, reading board meeting minutes and
applying our knowledge of the Group and sector in which it operates to
understand the extent of the potential impact of climate change risk on
the Group's financial statements. Taking into account the nature of the
business, we have not assessed climate related risk to be significant to
our audit this financial year. There was no impact on our key audit
matters.

We also read the Group's disclosure of climate related information in the
front half of the annual report and considered consistency with the
financial statements and our knowledge gained from our financial
statement audit work.

5. Going concern

The directors have prepared the financial statements on the going
concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate the Group or the
Company or to cease their operations, and as they have concluded that
the Group's and the Company's financial position means that this is
realistic. They have also concluded that there are no material
uncertainties that could have cast significant doubt over their ability to
continue as a going concern for at least 12 months from the date of
approval of the financial statements (“the going concern period”).

We used our knowledge of the Group, its industry, and the general
economic environment to identify the inherent risks to its business
model and analysed how those risks might affect the Group's financial
resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern
period. The risks that we considered most likely to adversely affect the
Group's available financial resources and metrics relevant to debt
covenants over this period were:

* Maintenance of sales growth in the face of pressure on consumer
spending power

* Future outlook for cost inflation specifically in food costs, drink costs,
energy prices and wages and salaries.

We also considered less predictable but realistic second order impacts,

such as global political developments, supply chain disruptions and
government policy that could affect demand in the Group's markets.

Ng ___ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

We considered whether these risks could plausibly affect the liquidity
and covenant compliance in the going concern period by assessing the
directors’ sensitivities over the level of available financial resources and
covenant thresholds indicated by the Group's financial forecasts taking
account of severe, but plausible adverse effects that could arise from
these risks individually and collectively.

Our conclusions based on this work:

* we consider that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is
appropriate;

* wehave not identified, and concur with the directors’ assessment
that there is not, a material uncertainty related to events or conditions
that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the
Group's or Company's ability to continue as a going concern for the
going concern period;

* we have nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to the
directors’ statement in note 1 to the financial statements on the use of
the going concern basis of accounting with no material uncertainties
that may cast significant doubt over the Group and Company's use of
that basis for the going concern period, and we found the going
concern disclosure in note 1 to be acceptable; and

« therelated statement under the Listing Rules set out on page 53 is
materially consistent with the financial statements and our audit
knowledge.

However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as
subsequent events may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with
judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the above
conclusions are not a guarantee that the Group or the Company will
continue in operation.

G6. Fraud and breaches of laws and regulations - ability
to detect

Identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement
due to fraud

To identify risks of material misstatement due to fraud (‘fraud risks’)
we assessed events or conditions that could indicate an incentive or
pressure to commit fraud or provide an opportunity to commit fraud.
Our risk assessment procedures included:

*  Enquiring of directors, the audit committee, internal audit and
inspection of policy documentation as to the Group's and parent
Company's high-level policies and procedures to prevent and detect
fraud, including the internal audit function, and the Group's and
parent Company's channels for ‘whistleblowing’, as well as whether
they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud.

* Reading Board, audit committee, risk and remuneration committee
meeting minutes.

* Considering remuneration incentive schemes and performance
targets for directors and other management.

* Using analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected
relationships.

* Considering the existence of any significant unusual transactions.

We communicated identified fraud risks throughout the audit team and
remained alert to any indications of fraud throughout the audit.

Introduction Strategie Report

As required by auditing standards, and taking into account possible
pressures to meet profit targets, our overall knowledge of the control
environment, we perform procedures to address the risk of management
override of controls, in particular the risk that Group and component
management may be in a position to make inappropriate accounting
entries and the risk of bias in accounting estimates and judgements such
as the valuation of the estate and impairment assumptions. On this audit
we do not believe there is a fraud risk related to revenue recognition
because Group revenue is generated predominantly through the
operation of pubs. This revenue contains no significant judgements and
is comprised of a large number of small, simple transactions that are
received in cash or credit card receivables at the point of sale. Therefore
there is limited opportunity for management to manipulate or to
fraudulently post the volume of transactions that would be required to
have a material impact on revenue.

We did not identify any additional fraud risks.
We performed procedures including:

* Identifying journal entries and other adjustments to test for all full
scope components based on risk criteria and comparing the identified
entries to supporting documentation. These included those posted
by senior finance management/those posted to unusual accounts
related to revenue, cash and borrowings, operating costs/other
expenses, seldom used accounts and those that move costs out
of EBITDA.

¢ Evaluated the business purpose of significant unusual transactions.

¢ Assessed whether the judgements made in making accounting
estimates are indicative of a potential bias.

Identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement due
to non-compliance with laws and regulations

We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be
expected to have a material effect on the financial statements from our
general commercial and sector experience, and through discussion with
the directors and other management (as required by auditing standards),
and from inspection of the Group's regulatory and legal correspondence
and discussed with the directors and other management the policies and
procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations.

As the Group is regulated, our assessment of risks involved gaining an
understanding of the control environment including the entity's
procedures for complying with regulatory requirements.

We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team
and remained alert to any indications of non- compliance throughout
the audit.

The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial
statements varies considerably.

Financial Statements Other Information

Governance

Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the
financial statements including financial reporting legislation (including
related companies legislation), distributable profits legislation, pension
legislation and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of
compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures

on the related financial statement items.

Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations where
the consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on
amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through
the imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Group's licence to
Operate. We identified the following areas as those most likely to have
such an effect: licensing regulations, responsible drinking regulations,
planning and building legislation, health and safety, data protection laws,
anti-bribery, employment law, recognising the nature of the Group's
activities. Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to
identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry

of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory

and legal correspondence, if any. Therefore if a breach of operational
regulations is not disclosed to us or evident from relevant
correspondence, an audit will not detect that breach.

We discussed with the audit committee matters related to actual or
suspected breaches of laws or regulations, for which disclosure is not
necessary, and considered any implications for our audit.

Context of the ability of the audit to detect fraud or breaches of
law or regulation

Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk
that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the
financial statements, even though we have properly planned and
performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards. For
example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations
is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements,
the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing
standards would identify it.

In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-
detection of fraud, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls. Our
audit procedures are designed to detect material misstatement. We are
not responsible for preventing non-compliance or fraud and cannot be
expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.__ 19

Financial Statements

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Mitchells & Butlers ple continued

7. We have nothing to report on the other information in the
Annual Report

The directors are responsible for the other information presented in the
Annual Report together with the financial statements. Our opinion on
the financial statements does not cover the other information and,
accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly
stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so,
consider whether, based on our financial statements audit work, the
information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the
financial statements or our audit knowledge. Based solely on that work
we have not identified material misstatements in the other information.

Strategic report and directors’ report
Based solely on our work on the other information:

* we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report
and the directors’ report;

* inour opinion the information given in those reports for the financial
year is consistent with the financial statements; and

* inouropinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with
the Companies Act 2006.

Directors’ remuneration report

In our opinion the part of the Directors’ Remuneration Report to be
audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies
Act 2006.

Disclosures of emerging and principal risks and longer-term
viability

We are required to perform procedures to identify whether there is a
material inconsistency between the directors’ disclosures in respect of
emerging and principal risks and the viability statement, and the financial
statements and our audit knowledge.

Based on those procedures, we have nothing material to add or draw
attention to in relation to:

* the directors’ confirmation on page 86 that they have carried out a
robust assessment of the emerging and principal risks facing the
Group, including those that would threaten its business model, future
performance, solvency and liquidity:

* the Risks and Uncertainties disclosures describing these risks and
how emerging risks are identified, and explaining how they are being
managed and mitigated; and

* the directors’ explanation in the viability statement of how they have
assessed the prospects of the Group, over what period they have
done so and why they considered that period to be appropriate, and
their statement as to whether they have a reasonable expectation that
the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities
as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any
related disclosures drawing attention to any necessary qualifications
or assumptions.

120_______ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Weare also required to review the viability statement, set out on page 53
under the Listing Rules. Based on the above procedures, we have
concluded that the above disclosures are materially consistent with the
financial statements and our audit knowledge.

Our work is limited to assessing these matters in the context of only the
knowledge acquired during our financial statements audit. As we cannot
predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may
result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were
reasonable at the time they were made, the absence of anything to
réport on these statements is not a guarantee as to the Group's and
Company’s longer-term viability.

Corporate governance disclosures

We are required to perform procedures to identify whether there is a
material inconsistency between the directors’ corporate governance
disclosures and the financial statements and our audit knowledge.

Based on those procedures, we have concluded that each of the
following is materially consistent with the financial statements and our
audit knowledge:

¢ the directors’ statement that they consider that the annual report and
financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and
understandable, and provides the information necessary for
shareholders to assess the Group's position and performance,
business model and strategy:

* the section of the annual report describing the work of the Audit
Committee, including the significant issues that the audit committee
considered in relation to the financial statements, and how these
issues were addressed; and

+ the section of the annual report that describes the review of the
effectiveness of the Group's risk management and internal control
systems.

We are required to review the part of the Corporate Governance
Statement relating to the Group's compliance with the provisions of the
UK Corporate Governance Code specified by the Listing Rules for our
review. We have nothing to report in this respect.

8. We have nothing to report on the other matters on which
we are required Lo report by exception

Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if,

in our opinion:

* adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent
Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or

* the parent Company financial statements and the part of the
Directors’ Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement
with the accounting records and returns; or

* certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not
made; or

* we have not received all the information and explanations we require
for our audit.

We have nothing to report in these respects.

Introduction Strategic Report

9. Respective responsibilities

Directors’ responsibilities

As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 74, the
directors are responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements
including being satisfied that they give a true and fair view; such internal
control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error; assessing the Group and parent Company's ability
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related
to going concern; and using the going concern basis of accounting unless
they either intend to liquidate the Group or the parent Company or to
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditor's
report. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can
arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.

A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRC's
website at www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities.

The Company is required to include these financial statements in an
annual financial report prepared under Disclosure Guidance and
Transparency Rule 4.1.17R and 4.1.18R. This auditor's report provides no
assurance over whether the annual financial report has been prepared in
accordance with those requirements.

10. ‘The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe

our responsibilities

This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our
audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law,
we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
Company and the Company's members, asa body, for our audit work,
for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Simon Haydn-Jones

(Senior Statutory Auditor)

for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants

One Snowhill

Snowhill Queensway

Birmingham

B46GH ‘

26 November 2024

Financial Statements

Governance

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.

Other Information

121

Financial Statements

Group income statement
For the 52 weeks ended 28 September 2024.

2024 2023
52 weeks S3weeks
Before Before
separately Separately separately Separately
disclosed disclosed disclosed disclosed
items items? Total items items* Total
Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue _ 24,23 2610 839 2,610 2508 2,503
Operating costs before depreciation,
amortisation and movements in the
valuation of the property portfolio 2.2,2.3 (2,168) - (2,168) (2,145) - (2,145)
Share in associates’ results 3.7 - _ - 1 - 1
Net profit arising on property disposals 2.2,2.3 = 2 2 - 3 3
EBITDA? before movements in the
valuation of the property portfolio 442 2 444 359 3 362
Depreciation, amortisation and movements
inthe valuation of the property portfolio 2.2,2.3 (130) (14) (144) (133) (131) (264)
Operating profit/(loss) 312 (12) 300 226 (128) 98
Finance costs 4.2 (109) - (109) (116) - (116)
Finance income 42 10 - 10 8 - 8
Net pensions finance charge 4.2.45 (2) = (2) (3) = GB)
Profit/(loss) before tax a 27 (12) 199 115 (128) (13)
Tax (charge)/credit 2.2, 2.4 (54) 4 (50) (19) 28 9
Profit/(loss) for the period 157 (8) 149 96 (100) (4)
Earnings/(loss) per ordinary share oe,
—Basic a 25 26.4p 25.0p 16.1p (0.7p)
— Diluted 2.5 26.2p 24.8p 16.1p (0.7p)

a. Separately disclosed items are explained and analysed in note 2.2.

b. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and movements in the valuation of the property portfolio. The Directors use a number of alternative performance

measures (APMs) that are considered critical to aid the understanding of the Group's performance. Key measures are explained on pages 186 to 189 of this Report.

The notes on pages 127 to 179 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

All results relate to continuing operations.

Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple


Introduction Strategie Report Governance Financial Statements — Other Information

Group statement of comprehensive income
For the 52 weeks ended 28 September 2024.

2024 2023
52.weeks 53 weeks
Notes ém ém
Profit/(loss) for the period 149 (4)
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit orloss: _ 7 _ a _
Unrealised gain/(loss) on revaluation | of the property portfolio _ ee . 31 254 (78)
Remeasurement of pension li fiability oo _ 4. 5. 166 A
Tax relating to items not reclassified 2.4 (116) 5
304 (29)

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: _

Tax relating to items that may ‘be reclassified _ oO : 2.4 6 ~ 6)

(17) 15
Other comprehensive income/(expense) after tax 287 (14)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the period 436 (18)

The notes on pages 127 to 179 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024. 123


Financial Statements

--——

Group balance sheet
28 September 2024.

2024 2023
Notes £m ém

Assets
Goodwill and other intangible assets 3.6 20 7
Property, plant and equipment 3.1 4,419 4,086
Right-of-use assets 3.2 307 327
Finance lease receivables 3.2 11 11
Other receivables 3.4 - 47
Pension surplus 45 164 -
Deferred tax asset 24 3 4
Derivative financial instruments 43 19 33
Total non-current assets 4,943 4,525
Inventories 3.4 27 2
Trade and other receivables 3.4 98 123
Finance lease receivables 3.2 1 1
Derivative financial instruments 43 - 2
Cash and cash equivalents 44 176 126
Total current assets 302 277
Total assets 5,245 4,802
Liabilities
Pension liabilities 45 q) (1)
Trade and other payables 3.4 (482) (491)
Current tax liabilities (1) (2)
Borrowings 41 (143) (144)
Lease liabilities 3.2 (33) (33)
Derivative financial instruments 4.3 (2) =
Total current liabilities (662) (671)
Pension liabilities 45 (24) (21)
Other payables 3.4 (8) -
Borrowings 4.1 (1,041) (1,186)
Lease liabilities 3.2 (414) (430)
Derivative financial instruments. 43 (27) {7)
Deferred tax liabilities 2.4 (491) (348)
Provisions 3.5 (12) (9)
Total non-current liabilities (2,017) (2,001)
Total liabilities (2,679) (2,672)
Net assets 2,566 2,130
Equity
Called up share capital 47 51 51
Share premium account 47 357 357
Capital redemption reserve 47 3 3
Revaluation reserve 47 1,143 951
Own shares held 47 (9) (5)
Hedging reserve 47 (21) (4)
Translation reserve 47 14 14
Retained earnings 1,028 763
Total equity 2,566 2,130

The notes on pages 127 to 179 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

The consolidated financial statements were approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 26 November 2024.

They were signed on its behalf by:

.

Tim Jone are <5 nat

Chief Financial Officer

124._______ Annual Report. and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction

Strategie Report

Governance

Financial Statements

Group statement of changes in equity
For the 52 weeks ended 28 September 2024

Other Information

Called Share Capital Own

upshare premium redemption Revaluation shares Hedging Translation —_—&Retained Tota!

capital account reserve reserve held reserve reserve _ earnings equity

ém ém Em Em ém £m £m ém ém

At 24 September 2022 51 357, 31009 ~SSt«GS*SY (20) 15 733,143
Loss for the period ot - - = - - - (4) (4)
Other comprehensive (expense)/income - - - (58) - 16 (1) 29 (4)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income - - - (58) - 16 (1) 25 (18)

Credit in respect of share-based payments = = = = = = = 5 5

At 30 September 2023 51 357 3 951 (5) (4) 14 763 2,130

Profit for the period oe. - - - - - - - 149 149

Other comprehensive income/(expense) - - - 192 - (17) - 112 287

Total comprehensive income/expense) ss — - - 192 - (17) - 261 436
Purchase of shares - - ae > (7) - - - (7)

Release of shares ee - - - - 3 - - (3) -

Credit in respect of share-based payments - - - - - - - 6 6

Tax on share-based payment - - - - = = - 1 1

At 28 September 2024 51 357 3 1,143 (9) (21) 14 1,028 2,566

The notes on pages 127 to 179 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024. 125


Financial Statements

Group cash flow statement

For the 52 weeks ended 28 September 2024. :

2024 2023
52 weeks 53weeks
Notes £m ém
Cash flow from operations
Operating profit . 300 98
Add back/(deduct):
Movement in the valuation of the property portfolio 2.2 14 131
Net profit arising on property disposals 2.2 (2) (3)
Loss on disposal of fixtures, fittings and equipment - 2
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 23 92 93
Amortisation of intangibles 2.3 4 4
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 23 34 36
Cost charged in respect of share-based payments 4.6 7 5
Administrative pension costs 45 5 5
Share of associates results 37 - (1)
Settlement of pre existing lease contracts 2.2 - 3
Fair value gain on associate 2.2 = 6)
Operating cash flow before movements in working capital and
additional pension contributions 454 368
Increase in inventories (1) (2)
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 44 (42)
Increase in trade and other payables 8 44
Decrease in provisions (1) (1)
Additional pension contributions 45 a) (8)
Cash flow from operations 503 359
Interest payments? (96) (95)
Interest receipts/(payments) on interest rate swaps* 3 (7)
Interest receipts on cross currency swap* 7 7
Interest payments on cross currency swap* (5) (4)
Other interest paid —lease liabilities 44 (17) (16)
Borrowing facility fees paid - {2)
Interest received 9 9
Tax paid 18) (3)
Net cash from operating activities 386 248
Investing activities
Acquisition of 3Sixty Restaurants Limited 5.1 - (12)
Acquisition of Pesto Restaurants Ltd 5.1 (2) -
Purchases of property, plant and equipment (152) (154)
Purchases of intangible assets (2) (3)
Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 1 3
Finance lease principal repayments received 1 1
Net cash used in investing activities (154) (165)
Financing activities . . .
Purchase of own shares 47 (7) ~-
Repayment of principal in respect of securitised debt® 4.4 (128) _ (121)
Principal receipts on currency swap? 44 21 21
Principal payments on currency swap? 44 (16) (16)
Cash payments for the principal portion of lease liabilities . 4.4 (41) (53)
Repayment of other borrowings . . qa). -
Short-term financing of employee advances 2 -
Net cash used in financing activities (170) (169)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents . . 62 (86)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning ofthe period = . . 44 103 190
Foreign exchange movements . (1) (1)
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 44 164 103

a. Interest paid is split to show gross payments on the interest rate and cross currency swaps.
b. Principal repayments on securitised debt are split to show repayments relating to the cross currency swap.

The notes on pages 127 to 179 form an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

126, Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple


Introduction Strategic Report

Financial Statements

Governance Other Information

Notes to the consolidated financial statements

Section 1] - Basis of preparation

General information

Mitchells & Butlers plc (the Company) is a public timited company limited
by shares and is registered in England and Wales. The Company's shares
are listed on the London Stock Exchange. The address of the Company's
registered office is shown on page 192.

The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries (the Group)
and the nature of the Group's operations are set out in the Strategic
Report on pages 18 to 58.

The Group is required to prepare its consolidated financial statements
in accordance with UK-adopted International Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.

The Group's accounting reference date is 30 September. The Group
draws up its consolidated financial statements to the Saturday directly
before or following the accounting reference date, as permitted

by section 390 (3) of the Companies Act 2006. The period ended

28 September 2024 includes 52 trading weeks and the comparative
period ended 30 September 2023 includes 53 trading weeks.

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the
historical cost basis as modified by the revaluation of freehold and long,
leasehold properties, pension obligations and financial instruments.

The Group's accounting policies have been applied consistently.

Going concern

The Group's business activities, together with the factors likely to affect
its future development, performance and position are set out in the
Strategic Report on pages 18 to 58. The financial position of the Group,
its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also
described within the Financial Review on pages 56 to 58.

Note 4.3 to the consolidated financial statements includes the Group's
objectives, policies and processes for managing capital; its financial risk
management objectives; details of its financial instruments and hedging
activities; and, its exposures to credit and liquidity risks. As highlighted

in note 4.1 tothe consolidated financial statements, the Group's financing
is based on securitised debt and unsecured borrowing facilities.

The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these
financial statements after assessing the impact of identified principal risks
and their possible adverse impact on financial performance, specifically
revenue and cash flows throughout the going concern period, being

12 months from the date of signing of these financial statements.

The Group's primary source of borrowings is through nine tranches of
fully amortising loan notes with a gross debt value of just under £1.2bn
as at the end of the year. These are secured against the majority of the
Group's property and future income streams. The principal repayment
period varies by class of note with maturity dates ranging from 2028 to
2036. Within this financing structure there are two main covenants: the
level of net worth (being the net asset value of the securitisation group)
and, FCF to DSCR. As at 28 September 2024 there was substantial
headroom on the net worth covenant. FCF to DSCR represents the
multiple of Free Cash Flow (being EBITDA less tax and required capital
maintenance expenditure) generated by sites within the structure to
the cost of debt service (being the repayment of principal, net interest
charges and associated fees). This is tested quarterly on both a trailing
two quarter and a four quarter basis.

The Group also has a committed unsecured credit facility of £200m,

with a negative pledge in favour of participating banks and an expiry
date in July 2026. At the balance sheet date there were no drawings

under this facility. This facility has two main financial covenants, based
on the performance of the unsecured estate: the ratio of EBITDAR to rent
plus interest (at a minimum of 1.25 times) and Net Debt to EBITDA (to be
no more than 3.0 times), both tested on a half-yearly basis (for the prior
four quarters).

In the year ahead the main uncertainties facing the Group are considered
tobe the maintenance of sales growth in the face of pressure on consumer
spending power, and the rate of cost inflation. The outlook for these is
uncertain and will depend on a number of factors including consumer
confidence, global political developments, supply chain disruptions and
government policies.

The Directors have reviewed the financing arrangements against a base
case forward trading forecast in which they have considered the Group's
current financial position. This forecast assumes mid single digit growth
in sales across the year. Cost inflation is assumed to remain at broadly
similar levels to the previous financial period with the marked exception
of energy costs, which are assumed to be stable with no further deflation
from recent historic peaks, and labour costs, which include provision

for increased levels of Employers National Insurance contributions from
April 2025. As a result, an overall net increase of approximately five
percent across the cost base of the business of approximately £2bn

is expected. Under this base case the Group is able to stay within
securitisation and committed facility financial covenants and maintains
sufficient liquidity.

The Directors have also considered a severe but plausible downside
scenario covering adverse movements against the base forward forecast
in both sales and cost inflation in which some mitigation activity is taken
including lower capital expenditure on site remodel activity and a flex
down of labour and site costs in line with reduced sales. In this scenario
sales are assumed to remain marginally in growth but at three percent
below the base case forecast. Unmitigated cost inflation is also higher

in the areas of food and energy. In this downside scenario the Group is
again able to stay within securitisation and committed facility financial
covenants, whilst maintaining sufficient liquidity.

Furthermore, the Directors have considered a reverse stress test analysis,
to review the headroom below which trading could fall beyond the
downside scenario before the earlier of financial covenants becoming
breached, or available liquidity becoming insufficient. This analysis
indicates that on consistent cost assumptions, sales would be able to fall by
approximately 5% beyond the downside case throughout the assessment
period before financial covenants were breached, when tested at Q4 FY
2025 being the last full testing period within the 12 month going concern
assessment period. In this scenario the Group would still have sufficient
available liquidity.

After due consideration of these factors, the Directors therefore believe
that it remains appropriate to prepare the financial statements on a going
concern basis.

Areview of longer-term viability is provided on page 53 which assesses

the Group's ability to continue in operation and to meet its liabilities as
they fall due over a longer, three year period.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.__127

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd
Section | - Basis of preparation continued

Basis of consolidation

The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial
statements of Mitchells & Butlers plc (‘the Company’) and entities
controlled by the Company (its subsidiaries).

Control is achieved when the Company:

* has the power over the investee;

* is exposed, or has rights, to variable return from its involvement
with the investee; and

+ hasthe ability to use its power to affect its returns.

The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts
and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the
three elements of control listed above.

When the Company has less than a majority of voting rights of an
investee, it considers that it has power over the investee when the voting
rights are sufficient to give it the practical ability to direct the relevant
activities of the investee unilaterally. The Company considers all relevant
facts and circumstances in assessing whether or not the Company's
voting rights in an investee are sufficient to give it power, including:

* the size of the Company's holding of voting rights relative to the size
and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders;

* potential voting rights held by the Company, other vote holders
or parties;

* rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and

* any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the
Company has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the
relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made,
including voting patterns at the previous shareholders’ meetings.

Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Company obtains control
over the subsidiary and ceases when the Company loses control of the
subsidiary. Specifically, the results of the subsidiaries acquired or disposed
of during the period are included in the Group income statement from
the date the Company gains control until the date when the Company
ceases to control the subsidiary.

The financial statements of the subsidiaries are prepared for the same
financial reporting period as the Company, with the exception of Pesto
Restaurants Ltd which is prepared to 29 September 2024 (see note 5.3).
Intercompany transactions, balances and unrealised gains and losses on
transactions between Group companies are eliminated on consolidation.

128_______ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Foreign currencies

Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rates
ruling on the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional
currency at the relevant rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet
date. Foreign exchange differences arising on translation are recognised
in the Group income statement. Non-monetary assets and liabilities

are measured at cost using the exchange rate on the date of the initial
transaction.

The consolidated financial statements are presented in pounds sterling
(rounded tothe nearest million), being the functional currency of the
primary economic environment in which the parent and most
subsidiaries operate.

On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Group's overseas
operations are translated into sterling at the relevant rates of exchange
tuling at the balance sheet date. The results of overseas operations

are translated into sterling at average rates of exchange for the period.
Exchange differences arising from the translation of the results and the
retranslation of opening net assets denominated in foreign currencies
are taken directly to the Group's translation reserve. When an overseas
operation is sold, such exchange differences are recognised in the Group
income statement as part of the gain or loss on sale.

The results of overseas operations have been translated into sterling at
the weighted average euro rate of exchange for the period of £1 = €1.15
(2023 £1 = €1.16), where this is a reasonable approximation to the rate
at the dates of the transactions. Euro and US dollar denominated assets
and liabilities have been translated at the relevant rate of exchange at the
balance sheet date of £1 =€1.20 (2023 £1 =€1.15) and £1 = $1.34

(2023 £1 = $1.22) respectively.

New and amended IFRS Standards that are effective for the
current period

The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and International
Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) have issued the
following standards and interpretations which have been adopted by the
Group in these consolidated financial statements for the first time with
no material impact.

Effective date

1 January 2023

Accounting standard

Amendments to IAS 1 and IFRS
Practice Statement 2 (Disclosure
of Accounting Policies)

Amendments toiAS 8(Definition 1 January 2023
of Accounting Estimates)

Amendments tolAS 12(Deferred 1 January 2023
Tax related to Assets and Liabilities

arising from a Single Transaction)

IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023

Introduction Strategic Report

Governance Financial Statements — Other Information

New and revised IFRS Standards in issue but not

yet eflective

The IASB, IFRIC and the International Sustainability Standards Board
(ISSB) have issued the following standards and interpretations which
could impact the Group, with an effective date for financial periods
beginning on or after the dates disclosed below:

Accounting standard Effective date
Amendments to IFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2024
(Lease Liability ina Sale and

Leaseback)

Amendments to |AS 7 1 January 2024

Presentation of Financial
Statements (Classification of
liabilities as Current or Non-
Current and Non-current
Liabilities with Covenants)

Amendments to IAS 7 Statement
of Cash Flows and IFRS 7 Financial
Instruments (Disclosures —
Supplier Finance Arrangements)

1 January 2024

IFRS S1 General Requirements for
Disclosure of Sustainability-
related Financial Information

IFRS $2 Climate-related
Disclosures

Amendments to IAS 21 The
Effects of Changes in Foreign
Exchange Rates (Lack of
Exchangeability)

1 January 2024

1 January 2024

1 January 2025

Amendments to IFRS 9 Financial
Instruments and IFRS 7 Financial
Instruments: Disclosures
(Amendments to the Classification
and Measurement of Financial
Instruments)

1 January 2026

Annual improvements to IFRS
Accounting Standards -
Amendments to:

¢ IFRS 1 First-time Adoption
of International Financial
Reporting Standards;

* IFRS 7 Financial instruments:
Disclosures and it's
accompanying Guidance
on implementing IFRS 7;

* IFRS 9 Financial Instruments;

* IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial
Statements; and

* IAS7 Statement of Cash flows

IFRS 18 Presentation and
Disclosure in Financial Statements

1 January 2026

1 January 2027

The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the standards listed
above will have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements
in future periods. With respect to IFRS 18, the Group is still assessing the
potential impact of this standard on presentation and disclosures.

Critical accounting judgements and key sources
ofestimation uncertainty

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires
management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions in the
application of accounting policies that affect reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, income and expense.

Estimates and judgements are periodically evaluated and are based on
historical experience and other factors including expectations of future
events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
Actual results may differ from these estimates.

Judgements and estimates for the period remain largely unchanged

from the prior period, with the additional area of judgement around the

recognition of pension surplus (see note 4.5).

Significant accounting estimates:

The significant accounting estimate with a significant risk of a material

change to the carrying value of assets and liabilities within the next year

in terms of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, is:

+ Fair value of freehold and long leasehold properties ~ see note 3.1

Other areas of judgement are described in each section listed below:

* Determination of items that are separately disclosed - see note 2.2

* Impairment review of short leasehold properties and right-of-use
assets — see note 3.3

* Recognition of pension surplus — see note 4.5

Other sources of estimation uncertainty are described in:

* Impairment review of short leasehold properties and right-of-use
assets — see note 3.3

Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024._____129

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

Section 2 - Results for the period

2.1 Segmental ana

Accounting policies

Operating segments

IFRS 8 Operating Segments requires operating segments to be based on the Group's internal reporting to its Chief Operating Decision Maker
(CODM). The CODM is regarded as the Chief Executive together with other Board members. The Group trades in one business segment (that of
operating pubs and restaurants) and the Group's brands meet the aggregation criteria set out in Paragraph 12 of IFRS 8. Economic indicators assessed
in determining that the aggregated operating segments share similar economic characteristics include: expected future financial performance;
operating and competitive risks; and return on invested capital. As such, the Group reports the business as one reportable business segment.

The CODM uses EBITDA and operating profit before interest and separately disclosed items as the key measures of the Group's results on an
aggregated basis.

Geographical segments

Substantially all of the Group's business is conducted in the United Kingdom. In presenting information by geographical segment, segment
revenue and non-current assets are based on the geographical location of customers and assets.

Geographical segments

UK Germany Total
2024 2023 2024 2023 2024 2023
S2weeks S3weeks 52 weeks 53 weeks 52 weeks S3weeks
ém Em ém £m £m Em
Revenue - sales to third parties 2,493 2,387 117 116 2,610 2,503
Segment non-current assets* 4,706 4,442 51 46 4,757 4,488

a. Includes balances relating to intangibles, property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, nance lease receivables and non-current other receivables.
2.2 Separately disclosed items

Accounting policy

In addition to presenting information on an IFRS basis, the Group also presents adjusted profit and earnings per share information that excludes
separately disclosed items and the impact of any associated tax. Adjusted profit measures are presented excluding separately disclosed items as
we believe this provides management, investors and other stakeholders with useful additional information about the Group's performance and
supports a more effective comparison of the Group's trading performance from one period to the next. Adjusted profit and earnings per share
information is used by management to monitor business performance against both shorter-term budgets and forecasts but also against the
Group's longer-term strategic plans.

Judgement is used to determine those items which should be separately disclosed. This judgement includes assessment of whether an item
is of sufficient size or of a nature that is not consistent with normal trading activities.

Separately disclosed items are those which are separately identified by virtue of their size or incidence.

Accounting judgements

Judgement is used to determine those items which should be separately disclosed to allow an understanding of the adjusted trading performance
of the Group. This judgement includes assessment of whether an item is of sufficient size or of a nature that is not consistent with normal trading
activities.

Separately disclosed items are identified as follows:

* Arefund in relation to the settlement of a long-standing claim with HMRC regarding gaming duty was separately disclosed in prior periods
due to its size on initial recognition.

*  Profit/(loss) arising on property disposals — property disposals are disclosed separately as they are not considered to be part of adjusted trade
performance and there is volatility in the size of the profit/(foss) in each accounting period.

* Movementin the valuation of the property portfolio - this is disclosed separately, due to the size and volatitity of the movement in property
valuation each period, which can be partly driven by movements in the property market and discount rate where impairment reviews are
completed. This movement is also not considered to be part of the adjusted trade performance of the Group and would prevent comparability
between periods of the Group's trading performance if not separately disclosed.

* Costs associated with acquisitions - all costs directly associated with acquisition of subsidiaries, including in the prior period fair value
adjustment to the associate carrying value and settlement of pre-existing lease contracts, within the Group are reported separately due to the
nature of the transaction as they are not considered to be part of the adjusted trade performance of the Group.

180________ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategie Report Governance Financial Statements — Other Information

The items identified in the current period are as follows:

2024 2023
52 weeks S3 weeks
Notes Em £m
Separately disclosed items
Gaming machine settlement a - (1)
Fair value adjustment to investment in 3Sixty Restaurants Limited b - 5
Settlement of pre-existing lease contracts on acquisition of 3Sixty Restaurants Limited c - (3)
Costs associated with the acquisition of 3Sixty Restaurants Limited d (1)

Total separately disclosed items recognised within operating costs : - -
Net profit arising on property disposals : 2 3

Movementin the valuation of the property portfolio:

— Impairment credit/(charge) arising from the revaluation of freehold and long leasehold properties e 4 (110)
— Net impairment of short leasehold and unlicensed properties f - (6)
— Net impairment of right-of-use assets g (17) (14)
— Net impairment of computer software h q) -
—Net impairment of goodwill i - (1)
Net movement in the valuation of the property portfolio (14) (131)
Total separately disclosed items before tax (12) (128)
Tax credit relating to above items 4 28
Total separately disclosed items after tax (8) (100)

a. During prior periods £19m was received from HMRC, relating to VAT on gaming machine income for the period 2005 to 2012, including interest. An estimate of £20m for the

amount receivable was recognised in the 52 weeks ended 25 September 2021 as a separately disclosed item. As a result, the shortfall of £1m was recognised in the prior period.

During the prior period, on 18 June 2023 the Group acquired the remaining 60% of share capital of 3Sixty Restaurants Limited, after having a 40% interest since April 2018.

Asa result of this acquisition achieved in stages, the Group has applied the principtes of IFRS 3 and remeasured the 40% interest to fair value at acquisition (see note 5.1

for further details).

c. Asa result of the acquisition of 3Sixty Restaurants Limited in the prior period, a loss was recognised at acquisition for the settlement of pre-existing lease contracts, due to the

terms of the contracts being below market terms (see note 5.1 for further details).

d. Relates to integration costs, restructuring costs and legal and professional fees incurred in the prior period acquisition of 3Sixty Restaurants Limited.

. The impairment arising from the Group's revaluation of its freehold and long leasehold pub estate comprises an impairment charge, where the carrying values of the properties
exceed their recoverable amount, net of a revaluation surpius that reverses past impairments. See note 3.1 for further details.

f. Impairment of short leasehold and unlicensed properties where their carrying values exceed their recoverable amounts, net of reversals of past impairments. See note 3.3
for further details.

. Impairment of right-of-use assets where their carrying values exceed their recoverable amounts, net of reversals of past impairments. See note 3.3 for further details.

. Impairment of computer software where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount. See note 3.3 for further details.

i. tmpairment of goodwill where the carrying value exceeds the recoverable amount. See note 3.3 for further details.

Le

©

xo

2.3 Revenue and operating costs

Accounting policies

Revenue recognition

Revenue is measured based on the consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in a contract with acustomer and excludes amounts
collected on behalf of third parties. The Group recognises revenue when it transfers control of a product or service to a customer.

Revenue - food and drink

The majority of revenue comprises food and drinks sold in the Group's outlets. Revenue is recognised when control of the goods has transferred,
being at the point the customer purchases the goods at the outlet or on ordering through a delivery partner. Payment of the transaction price is
due immediately at the point the customer makes a purchase at the outlet, or on agreed terms where purchases are made through third-party
delivery partners. Revenue excludes sales-based taxes, and is net of any coupons and discounts.

Revenue - services

Revenue for services mainly represents income from gaming machines, hotel accommodation and rent receivable from unlicensed and leased
operations. Revenue for gaming machines and hotel accommodation is recognised at the point the service is provided and excludes sales-based
taxes and discounts.

Rental income is received from operating leases where the Group acts as lessor for a number of unlicensed and leased operations. Income from
these leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.____ 131

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd
Section 2 - Results for the period continued

2.3 Revenue and operating costs vontinucd
Accounting policies continued
Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging separately disclosed items but before investment income and finance costs.

Supplier incentives

Supplier incentives and rebates are recognised within operating costs as they are earned. The accrued value at the reporting date is included

in other receivables.

Government grants

Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Group will comply with the conditions attaching to them and

that the grants will be received.

Government grants are recognised in the income statement on a systematic basis over the periods in which the Group recognises as expenses

the related operating costs for which the grants are intended to compensate.

Apprenticeship incentives

The Group is entitled to claim £1,000 for each apprentice employed, where they are aged 16 to 18, or under 25 and meet certain other criteria.

Government grants
The impact of grants received on the income statement is as follows:
; 2024 2023
52 weeks 53 weeks
Government grant scheme Income statement tine impact £m ém
Apprenticeship incentives Revenue - other - 1
Total Government grants received - 1
Revenue
Revenue is analysed as follows:
2024 2023
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m ém
Food j a 1,385 1323
Drink 1,132 1,092
Services . : 93 87
Other - Apprenticeship incentives - 1
2,610 2,503

Revenue from services includes rent receivable from unlicensed properties and leased operations of £9m (2023 £9m).

Food and drink revenue includes £18m in respect of gift card redemptions, which was recorded within deferred income at the prior period end.

132 ______ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategie Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Operating costs
Operating costs are analysed as follows:
2024 2023
52 weeks S3weeks
ém im
Raw materials and food and drink consumables recognised as an expense* 670 673
Changes in inventory of finished goods and work in progress (2) (2)
Employee costs oo 946 878
Hire of plant and machinery . .. 23 23
Property operating lease costs? ; . a 1 8
Utility costs . . . . . 107 161
Business rates ‘ . _. 77 86
Other pub costs . 271 257
Other central costs 65 61
Operating costs before depreciation and amortisation 2,168 2,145
Net profit arising on property disposals Q) (3)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 3.1) 92 93
Depreciation of right-of-use assets (note 3.2) 34 36
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 3.6) 4 4
Net movement in the valuation of the property portfolio (note 2.2) 14 131
Depreciation, amortisation and movements in the valuation of the property portfolio 144 264
Total operating costs 2,310 2,406
a. Supplier incentives are included as a reduction to the raw materials and consumables expense. These are not disclosed separately as the value is immaterial.
b. Property operating lease costs include service charge, insurance and turnover rents.
Employee costs
2024 2023
52 weeks SB weeks
ém £m
Wages and salaries 852 795
Share-based payments (note 4.6) . 7 5
Social security costs . 68 61
Pensions (note 4.5) 19 17

Total employee costs : 946 878
The four-weekly average number of employees including part-time employees was 49,249 retail employees (2023 48,003) and 1,206 support
employees (2023 1,147).

Information regarding key management personnel is included in note 5.2. Detailed information regarding Directors’ emoluments, pensions,
long-term incentive scheme entitlements and their interests in share options is given in the Report on Directors’ remuneration in the information
labelled as audited by KPMG on pages 92 to 112.

Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024. 133,

Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd
Section 2 - Results for the period continued

2.3 Revenue and operating costs ci!
Auditor remuneration

2024 2023
52 weeks 53 weeks
ém ém

Fees payable to the Group's auditor for the: :
— audit of the consolidated financial statements 0.4 0.3
~ audit of the Company's subsidiaries’ financial statements 0.6 0.6
Total audit fees? 1.0 0.9
Total fees 1.0 0.9

a. Auditor's remuneration of £0.9m (2023 £0.8m) was paid in the UK and £0.1m (2023 £0.1m) was paid in Germany.
Non-audit fees payable to the Group's auditor in the current period totalled £10k (2023 £6k).
2.4 Taxation

Accounting policies

The income tax (charge)/credit represents both the income tax payable, based on profits/(losses) for the period, and deferred tax andis calculated
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the income statement
because it excludes items of income or expense which are not taxable. Income taxis recognised in the income statement except when it relates

to items that are charged or credited in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the income tax is also charged or credited
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.

Deferred tax

Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the financial
statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profits and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.

Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, except where the
Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable
future. Deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences associated with such investments and interests are only recognised to
the extent that it is probable that there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benefits of the temporary differences and they
are expected to reverse in the foreseeable future.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that
sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.

Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled, or the asset realised based on tax

laws and rates that have been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. The amount of deferred tax recognised is based on the expected
manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities.

134________ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategie Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Taxation - Group income statement

2024 2023
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m ém
Currenttax: _. .

— Corporation tax (16) (5)
Total current tax charge . . (16) (5)
Deferred tax:

— Origination and reversal of temporary differences (33) 1

— Effect of changes in UK tax rate -

— Amounts under-provided in prior periods (1) -
Total deferred tax (charge)/credit * ‘ (34) 14
Total tax (charge)/credit in the Group income statement (50) 9
Further analysed as tax relating to: .

Profit before separately disclosed items (54) (19)
Separately disclosed items 4 28
Total tax (charge)/credit in the Group income statement (50) 9

The standard rate of corporation tax applied to the reported profit/(loss) is 25.0% (2023 22.0%).

The tax charge (2023 credit) in the Group income statement for the period is in line with (2023 higher than) the standard rate of corporation tax
in the UK. The differences are reconciled below:

2024 2023
52 weeks 53 weeks
ém ém

Profit/(loss) before tax 199 (13)
Taxation (charge)/credit at the UK standard rate of corporation tax of 25.0% (2023 22.0%) (50)
Expenses not deductible (3) (1)
Permanent benefits 4
Tax crédit in respect of change in UK tax rate -
Effect of different tax rates of subsidiaries in other jurisdictions - 1)
Adjustments in respect of prior periods (1) -
Total tax (charge)/credit in the Group income statement (50) 9
Taxation for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in those jurisdictions.

2024 2023

52 weeks 53 weeks
£m ém

Deferred tax in the Group income statement:
Accelerated capital allowances (14) (14)
Unrealised losses on revaluations - 28
Tax losses - UK (15) -
Tax losses — Interest Restriction (7) -
Retirement benefit obligations : 1 -
Share-based payments . . oo. 1 -
Total deferred tax (charge)/credit in the Group income statement (34) 14

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024. 135


Financial Statements
Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd

Section 2 - Results for the period continued

2.4. Taxation continued

‘Taxation - other comprehensive income ‘
2024 2023
52 weeks S3 weeks
ém £m
Deferred tax:
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: .
— Unrealised (gains)/losses due to revaluations — revaluation reserve . (74) _18
~ Unrealised gains due to revaluations — retained earnings ; - (4)
— Remeasurement of pension liability . (42) (9)
(116) 5
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:_ _ _ ee .
— Cash flow hedges ~ - a” 6 (5)

in other compreh

Tax relating to items recognised directly in equity

2024 2023
S2 weeks 53 weeks
ém ém
Deferredtax: —_ _ ee ee eee
— Tax credit related to share-based payments 1 -
Taxation - Group balance sheet
The deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised in the Group balance sheet are shown below:
2024 2023
£m

Deferred tax assets: .
Retirement benefit obligation (note 4.5)
Derivative financial instruments

Tax losses - UK

Share-based payments

Right-of-use assets wee. _. ee. . oe . _
Tax losses — Interest restriction

Total deferredtax assets _ : — : 52 “72-

Deferred tax lial ilities:
Accelerated capital allowances

_ (86) 72)

Rolled over and held over gain . ee anne (164) (164)
Unrealised gains on revaluations . (251) __ (176)
Depreciated non-qualifying assets _— _ 4) A)
Retirement benefit obligation (note 4.5) : (35) -

Total deferred tax liabilities — : _ (540) ~ {41 6)
Total (488) (344)

At 28 September 2024, the Group has netted off deferred tax assets of £49m (2023 £68m) with deferred tax liabilities where there is a legally
enforceable right to settle on a net basis. Deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset and disclosed in the Group balance sheet as follows:

2024 2023
Em £m

Deferred tax assets (after offsetting) 3 4

Deferred tax liabilities (after offsetting) (491) (348)

Net deferred tax liability (488) (344)

Annual Report and Accounts 2024 Mitchells & Butlers ple


Introduction Strategie Report Governance Financial Statements — Other Information

Unrecognised tax allowances
At the balance sheet date the Group had unrecognised tax allowances of £81m in respect of unclaimed capital allowances (2023 £90m) available
for offset against future profits.

A deferred tax asset has not been recognised on tax allowances with a value of £20m (2023 £22m) because it is not certain that future taxable profits
will be available in the company where these tax allowances arose against which the Group can utilise these benefits. These tax credits can be carried
forward indefinitely.

Factors which may affect future tax charges

The Group is within the scope of the OECD Pillar Two (Global Minimum Tax) model rules. The legislation has been substantively enacted in the UK
and Germany, being the jurisdictions in which the Group operates. The rules will be effective for the Group from the accounting period commencing,
29 September 2024. Initial assessments indicate that Pillar Two income taxes will not be material to the Group, with the effective tax rate in the UK and
Germany both exceeding the 15% global minimum tax rate by some margin. The Group will continue to work on evaluating the final impact of both
the calculations and the reporting requirements through FY 2025.

For the year to 28 September 2024, the Group has applied the IAS 12 mandatory exception to recognising and disclosing information about deferred
tax assets and liabilities related to Pillar Two income taxes.

2. rnings/(oss) per share

Basic earnings per share (EPS) has been calculated by dividing the profit for the period by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue
during the period, excluding own shares held by employee share trusts.

For diluted earnings per share, the weighted average number of ordinary shares is adjusted to assume conversion of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.

Adjusted earnings per ordinary share amounts are presented before separately disclosed items (see note 2.2) in order to allow an understanding
of the adjusted trading performance of the Group.

The profits used for the earnings per share calculations are as follows:

2024 2023
52. weeks S3weeks
ém im

Profit/(loss) for the period a 149 (4)
Separately disclosed items, net of tax 8 100
Adjusted profit for the period? 157 96

a. Adjusted profit and adjusted EPS are alternative performance measures (APMs) and are considered critical to aid understanding of the Group's performance. These measures.
are explained on pages 186 to 189 of this report.

The number of shares used for the earnings per share calculations are as follows:

2024 2023
52 weeks S53 weeks
million million
Basic weighted average number of ordinary shares . 595 595
Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares:
— Contingently issuable shares 5 =
Diluted weighted average number of shares 600 595
2024 2023
52 weeks SB weeks
pence pence
Basic earnings/(loss) per share ;
Basic earnings/(loss) per share : : 25.0p _ (0.7p)
Separately disclosed items net of tax per share 1.4p 16.8p
Adjusted basic earnings per share* 26.4p 16.1p
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share on, 7 a . oo,
Diluted earnings/(loss) per share . . : 24.8p _ (0.7)p
Adjusted diluted earnings per share* 26.2p 16.1p

a. Adjusted profit and adjusted EPS are alternative performance measures (APMs) and are considered critical to aid understanding of the Group's performance. These measures
are explained on pages 186 to 189 of this report.

At 28 September 2024, 1,486,595 (2023 7,323,559) other share options were outstanding that could potentially dilute basic EPS in the future but were
not included in the calculation of diluted EPS as they are anti-dilutive for the periods presented.

Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024___137


Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuccl

Section 3 - Operating assets and liabilities

3.1 Property, plant and equipment

Accounting policies

Property, plant and equipment

The majority of the Group's freehold and long leasehold licensed land and buildings, and the associated landlord's fixtures, fittings and equipment
(i.e. fixed fittings) are revalued annually and are therefore held at fair value less depreciation. Tenant's fixtures and fittings (i.e. loose fixtures)
within freehold and long leasehold properties, are held at cost iess depreciation and impairment.

Short teasehold buildings (leases with an unexpired lease term of less than 50 years), unlicensed land and buildings and associated fixtures,
fittings and equipment are held at cost less depreciation and impairment.

Land and buildings include leasehold improvements on long and short leases. All land and buildings are disclosed as a single class of asset within
the property, plant and equipment table, as we do not consider the short leasehold and unlicensed buildings to be material for separate disclosure.

Non-current assets held for sale are held at their carrying value or their fair value less costs to sell where this is lower.

Depreciation

Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis to write off the cost less residual value over the estimated useful life
of an asset and commences when an asset is ready for its intended use. Expected useful lives and residual values are reviewed each period
and adjusted if appropriate. No adjustments have been made in the period.

Freehold land is not depreciated.

Freehold and long leasehold buildings are depreciated so that the difference between their carrying value and estimated residual value is written
off over 50 years from the date of acquisition. The residual value of freehold and long leasehold buildings is reassessed each period and is
estimated to be equal to the fair value determined in the annual valuation and therefore no depreciation charge is recognised.

Short leasehold buildings, and associated fixtures and fittings, are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life and the unexpired
term of the lease.

Fixtures, fittings and equipment have the following estimated useful lives:

Information technology equipment 3to7 years
Fixtures and fittings 3to 20 years

At the point of transfer to non-current assets held for sale, depreciation ceases. Should an asset be subsequently reclassified to property, plant
and equipment, the depreciation charge is calculated to reflect the cumulative charge had the asset not been reclassified.

Disposals
Profits and losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are calculated as the difference between the net sales proceeds and the carrying
amount of the asset at the date of disposal.

Revaluation

The revaluation, performed at 28 September 2024, is determined via annual third-party inspection of 20% of the sites with the aim that all sites
are individually valued approximately every five years. The valuation utilises estimates of fair maintainable trade (FMT) and valuation multiples.
The revaluation determined by the annual inspection was carried out in accordance with the RICS Valuation — Global Standards 2022 which
incorporate the International Valuation Standards and the RICS Valuation — Professional Standards UK (the ‘Red Book’) assuming each asset

is sold asa fully operational trading entity.

Properties are valued as fully operational entities, to include fixtures and fittings but excluding stock, tenant's fixtures and fittings and personal
goodwill.

The 80% of the freehold and long leasehold estate which is not subject to a third-party valuation in the period is instead revalued internally

by management. The Group's external valuer provides advice to management in relation to their internal valuation. This valuation is performed
using estimates of FMT, together with the same valuation multiples as those applied by the external valuer. Sites impacted by expansionary capital
investment in the preceding twelve months are reviewed for impairment only, based on estimated annualised post-investment FMT against the
carrying value of the asset. Where the value of land and buildings derived purely from a multiple applied to the FMT misrepresents the underlying
asset value, a spot valuation is applied.

Surpluses which arise from the revaluation exercise are included within other comprehensive income (in the revaluation reserve) unless they are
reversing a revaluation deficit which has been recognised in the income statement previously; in which case an amount equal toa maximum of
that recognised in the income statement previously is recognised in the income statement. Where the revaluation exercise gives rise to a deficit,
this is reflected directly within the income statement, unless it is reversing a previous revaluation surplus against the same asset; in which case
an amount equal to the maximum of the revaluation surplus is recognised within other comprehensive income (in the revaluation reserve).

138 ____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements — Other Information

Impairment

Short leaseholds, unlicensed properties and fixtures and fittings are reviewed on an outlet basis for impairment if events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Further details of the impairment policy are provided in the impairment
note 3.3. .

Accounting judgements

Revaluation of freehold and long leasehold properties

The revaluation methodology is determined, with advice from CBRE, independent chartered surveyors, and incorporates management
judgement where appropriate. The application of a valuation multiple to the FMT of each site is considered the most appropriate method for
the Group to determine the fair value of freehold and long leasehold licensed land and buildings.

In the current and prior period, judgement has been applied to establish the basis of FMT that a willing third-party buyer would assume. The
estimation of FMT is derived from the individual profit and loss accounts of pubs and restaurants and is inclusive of the centrally recorded trading
margins earned by the Group but exclusive of certain head office costs. This represents the Group's best view of the value that would be attributed
by other reasonably efficient operators. In the current period FMT reflects the reported site performance. In the prior period the prevailing reported
profits were negatively impacted by high and sustained cost inflation, notably in food and energy price increases driven by the Ukraine conflict.
However the inflationary pressures were not expected to fully impact on site valuations and as such, FMT was determined to include an
adjustment to reported profit margins.

Where sites have been impacted by expansionary capital investment in the preceding twelve months, the FMT has been determined by estimating
annualised post-investment operating profit with reference to post-investment forecasts.

For the purposes of the valuation, and in order to group together properties of a similar nature, groupings by brand are applied for which standard
multiples have been established through third-party inspections of 20% of the freehold and long leasehold licensed property estate. Judgements
are applied in assessing multiples on the basis of market evidence of transaction prices and nature of the overall offer within the local market, with
specific consideration given to geographical location, ancillary revenue such as accommodation sales fram bedrooms and lease terms for long
leasehold sites.

Further judgement is required when a spot valuation is applied where the property value derived purely from a multiple applied to the FMT
misrepresents the underlying asset value with consideration given to the level of trade and location characteristics.

Significant accounting estimates

Revaluation of freehold and long leasehold properties

The application of the valuation methodology requires two significant estimates: the estimation of valuation multiples, which are determined via
third-party inspections; and an estimate of FMT.

Inthe prior period adjustments were made to pub and restaurant trading margins to reflect the margin impacts of cost inflation which were
expected to persist into the level of FMT used by third-party, reasonably efficient operators in arriving at a transaction price. The impact of inflation
across drink and food, labour, energy and other pub operating costs compared to pre Covid was assessed and adjusted individually. In aggregate
approximately 2.5% of the total margin reduction reported in the prior period against pre Covid trade was expected to recover in the short to
medium term and was included in estimated FMT. In the current period, costs have stabilised such that the Group's external valuer now considers
that the current level of reported site profitability is representative of the FMT that a third-party, reasonably efficient operator would include in
arriving at atransaction price.

The estimation of valuation multiples is derived from the vatuers knowledge of market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties. In the
current period the multiples adopted are mostly in line with the prior period other than a slight easing for some parts of the premium end of the market.

There is considered to be a significant risk that an adjustment to either of these assumptions could lead to a material change in the property
valuation within the next year.

Asensitivity analysis of changes in valuation multiples and FMT, in relation to the properties to which these estimates apply, is provided on
page 148. The carrying value of properties to which these estimates apply is £4, 260m (2023 £3,933m).

Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024._139

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd

Section 3 - Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.1 Property, plant and equipment continued
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment can be analysed as follows:

Landand Fixtures, fittings
buildings and equipment Total
ém

ém £m
Cost or valuation
At24 24 September 2022 _ 2022 _ 3,831 923 4,754
Acquired through business combinations (note 5.1) . i: _ 26 __.3 29
Additions _ 36S 15
Disposals* _ en 7 (938) (100)
Netc decrease from |property revaluation _ eee ___ (186) = 186)
Impairment of short I short leasehold properties 7 __ : a __ 5) (6)
Exchange differences ~ = (1) a)

942 4,641_

At30September 2023

Acquired throug . Te ee
Additions _ . “131 --- 163
Disposals 77 —=T nn ee
Net increase from property revaluation _ __ _ _ —_ TT we ee 28
Net impairment of shortleasehold properties © Tt
Exchange differences : Z — a) a) (2)

Accumulated depreciation

At 24September 2022

Provided during the period _ 8
Disposals? _ 6) (92). (97)
Exchange differences __ = qa) qd)
At 30 September 2023 . oe . 8 475 5S
Provided during the period 4 88 92
Disposals ee. _. oT a 06) (108)
Exchange differences = qa) io)
At 28 September 2024 82 456 538
Net book vale
At 28 September 2024 __ 3,914 505. 4,419
At 30 September 2023 3,619 467 4,086
At 24 September 2022 3,751 443 4,194

a. Includes assets which are fully depreciated and have been removed from the fixed asset register.
Land and buildings include leasehold improvements on long and short leases with a net book value of £314m (2023 £294m).

Certain assets with a net book value of £44m (2023 £39m) owned by the Group are subject toa fixed charge in respect of liabilities held
by the Mitchells & Butlers Executive Top-Up Scheme (MABETUS).

Included within property, plant and equipment are assets with a net book value of £3,697m (2023 £3,446m), which are pledged as security
for the securitisation debt and over which there are certain restrictions on title. Further details of the securitisation are provided in note 4.1.

Cost at 28 September 2024 includes £14m (2023 £16m) of assets in the course of construction.

Annual Reportand Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Revaluation of freehold and long leasehold properties

The fair value has been determined by estimations of FMT and brand valuation multiples. In the current period, FMT is reflective of reported profits.
Consideration has been given to location, quality of the pub restaurant and recent market transactions in the sector in assessing property multiples
and multiples have been reduced in some areas to reflect a softening of demand at the top end of the market. In the prior period adjustments were
made to reported site profits in assessing FMT, to reflect trading margin impacts of cost inflation pressures present at the time and considered by
prospective third-party market participants to not be reflective of passing transaction prices. The cost inflation pressures were most notably on food,
tabour, energy and other pub operating costs.

Sensitivity analysis
Changes in the FMT, or the multiple could materially impact the valuation of the freehold and long leasehold properties, and as ssuch they are both
considered to be significant estimates in the current period.

FMT

In the current period, FMT has increased by 6% over the prior period's adjusted FMT, excluding the sites with investment in the current period

which are only assessed for impairment. Given trading has now normalised following the disruption caused by the Covid pandemic in 2020, and there
is amore stable inflationary environment, a return to pre Covid FMT movements is considered to be within range of reasonably possible outcomes.
Over the three years reported prior to Covid the average movement in the FMT of the revalued estate was 1%. Assuming multiples remain stable,

it is estimated that a 1% reduction in the FMT would generate an approximate £37m reduction in the valuation. A 1% increase in the FMT is estimated
to generate an approximate £36m increase in the valuation. The sensitivity does not apply to sites with spot valuations as these valuations are
independent of reported operating profits. Any change to the spot valuations would not be material.

Multiples

Valuation multiples are determined at an individual brand level. Over the last three financial periods, the weighted average brand multiple has moved
by an average of 0.1, which is consideréd to be within the range of reasonably possible outcomes for future movements in multiples. It is estimated
that a0.1 reduction in the multiple would generate an approximate £42m reduction in the valuation. A 0.1 increase to the multiple is estimated to
generate an approximate £41m increase in the valuation.

Impairment review

Short leasehold and unlicensed properties (comprising land, buildings, fixtures, fittings and equipment) which are not revalued to fair market value,
are reviewed for impairment as described in the impairment note 3.3. Anet impairment of £nil (2023 £6m) has been recognised against short
leasehold and unlicensed properties in the period.

Revaluation and impairment recognised
Current period valuations have been incorporated into the consolidated financial statements and the resulting revaluation adjustments have been
taken to the revaluation reserve or Group income statement as appropriate.

The impact of the revaluations/impairments described above is as follows:

2024 2023
52 weeks 53 weeks
ém ém
Group income statement
Revaluation deficit charged as an impairment ; (120) (162)
Reversal of past revaluation deficits 124 52
Total impairment reversal/(charge) arising from the revaluation . 4 (110)
Impairment of short leasehold and unlicensed properties (note 3.3) . . (7) (11)
Reversal of past impairments of short leasehold and unlicensed properties (note 3.3) 7 5
Net impairment of short leaseholds and unlicensed properties _ an - _ ©
Total impairment reversal/(charge) recognised in the income statement : 4 “16)
Group statement of other comprehensive income . . — : . .
Unrealised revaluation surplus an . . ee 356 ‘162
Reversal of past revaluation surplus (102) (238)
Total movement agnis din other mprehensive i income OE 254 (76)
Net increase/(decrease) in property, plant and equipment a Se sg (192)

The valuation techniques are consistent with the principles in IFRS 13 and use significant unobservable inputs such that the fair value measurement
of each property within the portfolio has been classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.____ 14

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continuccl

Section 3 - Operating assets and liabilities continucd

3.1 Property, plant and equipment cortinuccl

The number of pubs included in the revaluation and the resulting valuation of these properties is reconciled to the total value of property, plant and

equipment below.

Fixtures,

Land and fittings and Net book
buildings equipment value*
Number of pubs £m ém £m
28 September 2024 .
Freehold properties 1,336 3,572 399 3,971
Long leasehold properties 92 257 32 289
Total revalued properties __ 1,428 . : 3,829 431 4,260
Short leasehold properties 65 57 122
Unlicensed properties 15 2 7
Other non-pub assets 1 5 6
Assets under construction 4 10 14
Total property, plant and equipment 3,914 505 4,419
Fixtures,
Land and fittings and Net book
Number of buildings equipment value®
pubs £m fm ém
30 September 2023
Freehold properties 1,330 3,298 368 3,666
Long leasehold properties 94 236 31 267
Total revalued properties 1,424 3,534 399 3,933
Short leasehold properties 58 55 113
Unlicensed properties _ _ 16 2 18
Other non-pub assets 1 5 6
Assets under construction 10 6 16
Total property, plant and equipment 3,619 467 4,086

a. The carrying value of freehold and long leasehold properties based on their historical cost is £2,58im and £180m respectively (2023 £2,S03m and £171m).

The tables below show, for revalued properties, the number of pubs that have been valued within each fair maintainable trade and multiple banding:

Valuation multiple applied to fair maintainable trade

Over 10 times _9to1Otimes _—«StoItimes _—7toBtimes Under 7 times Total
28 September 2024
Number of pubs in each fair maintainable trade banding:
<£200k p.a. 129 52 141 139 22 483
£200k to£360k p.a. 12 87 163 76 29 367
> £360kp.a. 53 126 265 78 56 578
194 265 569 293 107 1,428
Valuation multiple applied to fair maintainable trade
Over 10times 9 to 10times 8109 times 7toBtimes Under 7 times Total
30September 2023, .
Number of pubs in each fair maintainabletrade banding: . _. woe an
<£200kpa nn: re 174 179 7 495
£200kto£360kp.a. | . oe _, 0. 116 205 _ 80 . 14 425 —
> £360kp.a. 53 112 264 51 24 504
146 270 643 310 55 1,424

Movements in valuation multiples between financial periods are the result of changes in property market conditions. The average weighted multiple

is 8.7 (2023 8.7).

142 Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple


Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Capital commitments

2024 2023
£m ém

Contracts placed for expenditure on property, plant and equipment not provided for in the consolidated
financial statements 18 12

3.2 Leases
Leases - Group as lessee

Accounting policies
The Group assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease, at inception of the contract.

The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability with respect to all lease arrangements in which it is the lessee, except
for short-term leases (defined as leases with a lease term of twelve months or less), leases containing variable lease payment terms that are linked
to the revenue generated from leased pubs and leases of low value assets (such astablets and personal computers, small items of office furniture
and telephones). For these leases, the Group recognises the lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the
lease unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased assets are consumed.

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the future lease payments unpaid at the lease commencement date, discounted
by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot be readily determined, the lessee uses its incremental borrowing rate. Lease payments
included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise:

* Fixed lease payments (including in substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives receivable; and
* Lease payments that depend on an index or rate, initially measured using the index or rate at the commencement date.

The lease liability is subsequently measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability (using the effective interest
method) and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made.

The Group remeasures the lease liability (and makes a corresponding adjustment to the related right-of-use asset) whenever:

* The lease term has changed or there is a significant event or change in circumstances resulting in a change in the assessment of exercise
of abreak option, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease payments using a revised discount rate.

* The lease payments change due to changes in an index or rate or a change in expected payment under a guaranteed residual value, in which
case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease payments using an unchanged discount rate (unless the lease payments
change is due to achange in a floating interest rate, in which case a revised discount rate is used).

* Alease contract is modified and the lease modification is not accounted for as a separate lease, in which case the lease liability is remeasured
based on the lease term of the modified lease by discounting the revised lease payments using a revised discount rate at the effective date
of the modification.

The right-of-use assets comprise the initial measurement of the corresponding lease liability, adjusted for any advance payments made
at or before lease commencement, less any lease incentives received and any initial direct costs (including lease premiums).

Whenever the Group incurs an obligation to restore the underlying asset to the condition required by the terms
and conditions of the lease, a dilapidations provision is recognised and measured under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent
Assets. To the extent that the costs relate to a right-of-use asset, the costs are included in the related right-of-use asset.

Right-of-use assets are depreciated over the remaining committed lease term ona straight-line basis. Right-of-use assets are tested annually
for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.

Right-of-use assets are subsequently remeasured for any changes in lease term and future committed rental payments.

For short-term leases (lease term of twelve months or less), and leases of low-value assets (such as personal computers and office furniture),
the Group recognises a lease expense on a straight-line basis, directly in the income statement, as permitted by IFRS 16.

Impairment of right-of-use assets

Right-of-use assets are tested for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, as described in the policy in the impairment
note 3.3.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024___143.

Financial Statements '

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd

Section 3 - Operating assets and liabilities continued!

3.2 Leases continucc
Right-of-use assets
Right-of-use assets can be analysed as follows:

Land and
buildings Cars Total
ém £m £m
568 6 574
6 = 6
Add tions* _. . 32. 4 36_
Disposals | __ : 7, - (12)
Foreign currency movements —~ (2) - (2)
AtBOSeptember2023 SS CsC‘“‘C;SSCO#C#*#™*;*;*™*C*~C~‘“S:‘CS*S*t™S __ 592 70 602
Acc ired through business combinations (note 5.1) _ ~~ . _ 7 = Zz

Additions* "

Disposals _ _. _.
Foreign currency movements

At 28 September 2024

Accumulated depreciation « and d impairment

At 24Se 4 September 2022 _ oe 3 235
Provided J during the peri period ee I 36
Disposals oe = (10)
Impairment - 14
At30 September 2023 ; . 271 4 275
Provided during the period ee ; 32 2 34.
Disposals _. ee (10) (2) (12)
Impairment ee an a Wo
Foreign currency movements a) = a)
At2@September2024.OCsC<“‘*‘“‘*~‘*~‘“‘s‘“s~‘C<CSst*t 8G
Netbookvalue woe —— wa ee
At 28 September 2024 299 8 307
At 30 September 2023 Z a 321 6 327
At2aSeptember2022.—~*~“‘éCUW#CO*#*~‘#SNSCSCNNOWOWOOOWOOUWUUUUUUUUU336—~O~“*‘“*‘ SSC

a. Additions to right-of-use assets include new leases, increases in dilapidation provisions and lease extensions or cent reviews relating to existing leases.

Some of the property leases in which the Group is lessee contain variable lease payment terms that are linked to the revenue generated from the
leased pubs. Variable payment terms are used in contracts to link rental payments to pub cash flows and reduce fixed costs. The total value of variable
lease payments charged to the income statement in the current period is£3m (2023 £2m).

Impairment review of right-of-use assets

Right-of-use assets are reviewed for impairment by comparing site recoverable amounts to their carrying values. Impairment is considered at a
cash-generating unit level. A net impairment of £17m (2023 £14m) has been recognised against right-of-use assets in the period. Details of the
impairment review at a cash-generating unit level are disclosed in note 3.3.

Annual Report and Accounts 2024 Mitchells & Butlers ple


Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements — Other Information

Lease liabilities
A maturity analysis of the undiscounted future lease payments used to calculate the lease liabilities is shown below.

2024 2023
ém ém

Amounts payable under lease liabilities
Due within one year : . , 50 — 49
Due between one and two years : i ° 50" 52
Due between two and three years 46 51
Due between three and four years 490 42
Due between four and five years 40 47
Due between five and ten years 166 160
Due between ten and fifteen years 103 115
Due between fifteen and twenty years 56 66
Due between twenty and twenty five years 16 18
Due between twenty five and thirty years 11 11
Due after thirty years 78 79
Total undiscounted lease liabilities 665 690
Less: impact of discounting (218) (227)
Present value of lease liabilities 447 463
Analysed as:
Current lease liabilities — principal amounts due within twelve months 33 33
Non-current lease liabilities — principal amounts due after twelve months 414 430

447 463

Leases - Group as lessor

Accounting policy
The Group enters into lease agreements as alessor with respect to some of its properties. The properties are operated as either licensed
or unlicensed businesses by the tenants.

Leases for which the Group isa lessor are classified as finance or operating leases. Whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the
risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee, the contract is classified as a finance lease. All other leases are classified as operating leases. When
the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for the head lease and the sub-lease as two separate contracts. The sub-lease is classified as

a finance or operating lease by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease.

Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct costs incurred
in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis
over the lease term.

Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised as receivables at the amount of the Group's net investment in the leases. Finance

lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Group's net investment outstanding
in respect of the leases.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024._____45.

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucc

Section 3 - Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.2 Leases continued
Group as lessor - Finance lease receivables
A maturity analysis of the undiscounted future lease payments receivable used to calculate the finance lease receivable is shown below.

2024 2023

ém ém
Amounts receivable under finance leases
Due within one year 1 1
Due between one and two years . 1 1
Due between two and three years - 1 1
Due between three and four years . 1 1
Due between four and five years . . . 1 2
Due after five years : 9 9
Total undiscounted lease payments receivable : 14 15
Less: unearned finance income ; (2) (3)
Present value of lease payments receivable 12 12
Net investment in the leases is analysed as:
Current finance lease receivables — amounts due within 12 months 1 1
Non-current finance lease receivables — amounts due after 12 months W a

12 12

The Directors of the Group estimate the loss allowance on finance lease receivables at the end of the reporting period at an amount equal to lifetime
expected credit loss (ECL). None of the finance lease receivables at the end of the reporting period is past due. The Directors of the Group have
recognised a finance lease receivable impairment of £nil in the current period (2023 fnil).

There has been no change in the estimation techniques or significant assumptions made during the current reporting period in assessing the
impairment for finance lease receivables.

Group as lessor - Operating leases
The Group leases a small proportion of its licensed and unlicensed properties to tenants. The majority of lease agreements have terms of 50 years or
less and are classified as operating leases. Where sublet arrangements are in place, future minimum lease payments and receipts are presented gross.

Total future minimum lease rental receipts under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows:

2024 2023

£m £m

Due within one year 7 10
Due between one and two years 6 9
Due between two and three years 5 8
Due between three and four years 4 7
Due between four and five years 4 6
Due after five years 18 35
44 75

The total value of future minimum sub-lease rental receipts included above is £2m (2023 £4m).

146_______ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Intreduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements — Other Information

3.3 Impairment

Accounting policies

Impairment - Property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, computer software and goodwill

As described in the property, plant and equipment policy (note 3.1), the lease accounting policy (note 3.2) and the goodwill policy (note 3.6),
impairment reviews are considered at a cash-generating unit level, with this being an individual outlet.

The carrying value of assets for an individual outlet comprise the property, plant and equipment value, the associated right-of-use asset and

any attributable goodwill, together with an allocation of central asset values (property, plant and equipment, right-of-use asset and computer
software). At each balance sheet date, the Group assesses whether there is any indication that the carrying value of assets for individual outlets
may be impaired. If any such impairment indicator exists then an impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying value of the outlet
exceeds its recoverable amount, which is determined as the higher of the value in use, or fair value less costs to sell for each outlet. Any resulting
impairment relates to sites with poor trading performance, where the output of the value in use calculations are insufficient to justify their current
net book value. Changes in outlet earnings or cash flows, the discount rate applied to those cash flows, or the estimate of fair value less costs

of disposal could give rise to an additional impairment loss.

Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount,
but only so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss
been recognised for the asset in prior periods. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. An impairment reversal

is only recognised where there is a change in circumstances or favourable events since the last impairment test impacting estimates used to
determine recoverable amounts, not where it results from the passage of time.

Accounting judgements

Impairment review of cash-generating units — property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, computer software and goodwill
For the individual outlet level impairment review, judgement has been applied to determine the most appropriate site level profit and cash flow
forecasts based on the Group forecast for FY 2025 to FY 2027 that was in place at the balance sheet date.

Management apply judgement when allocating overhead costs to site cash flows, with an overhead allocation being made only for those
costs that can be directly attributable to a site on a consistent basis. Judgement is applied in the allocation of corporate level assets to individual
cash-generating units, based on relative profitability.

Other sources of estimation uncertainty

Impairment review of cash-generating units - property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, computer software and goodwill
The impairment review requires two key sources of estimation uncertainty in calculating the value in use: the estimation of forecast cash flows
for each site and the selection of an appropriate discount rate. The discount rate is applied consistently to each cash-generating unit.

A sensitivity of changes in forecast cash flows and the discount rate is provided on page 148. The carrying vaiue of assets to which these estimates
apply is £442m (2023 £452m).

Impairment review of cash-generating units, comprising property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets, computer
software and goodwill
Recoverable amount is determined as the higher of the value in use, or fair value less costs to sell for each outlet.

Value in use calculations use forecast trading performance pre-tax cash flows, for years 1 to 3. These include steady increases to revenue and costs.
. Inthe short to medium term, over the three year forecast period, no allowances have been made for any potential impact activity related to climate

change, other than continued maintenance and infrastructure spend on existing sustainability projects,:as the impacts of this on future cash flows
or capital expenditure cannot yet be reasonably estimated or allocated to cash-generating units.

The forecast cash flows are discounted by applying a pre-tax discount rate of 11.00% (2023 11.00%) and a long-term growth rate of 2.0% from year 4
(2023 2.0%). The long-term growth rate is applied to the net cash flows and is based on up-to-date economic data points.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.___ 147

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd

Section 3 - Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.3 Impairment continued
In summary, the carrying value of the cash-generating units and impairment charges and reversals recognised against those cash-generating units is
as follows:

Impairment Impairment Net

Carrying vatue charges reversals impairment

2024 2024 2024 2024

Note im ém ém ém

Short leasehold properties : . , 31, 122 (7) 7 . -
Right-of-use assets : 3.2 307 (29) 12 (17)
Software 3.6 6 (1) - qa)

Goodwill 3.6 7 - = -
442 (37) 19 (18)

Impairment Impairment Net

Carrying value charges reversals impairment

2023 2023 2023 2023

Note £m ém £m £m
Short leasehold properties 3.1 113 (11) 5 (6)
Right-of-use assets 3.2 327 (27) 13 (14)

Software 3.6 10 - - -
Goodwill 3.6 2 q) > (1)
452 (39) 18 (21)

Sensitivity analysis
Changes in forecast cash flows or the discount rate could impact the impairment charge recognised against the cash-generating units, and corporate
level assets. .

Forecast cash flows

The forecast pre-tax cash flows used in the value in use calculations are site level forecasts determined from the Group forecast for FY 2025

to FY 2027 that was in place at the balance sheet date. For short leasehold sites and freehold/long leasehold sites with ROU or goodwill assets,
should future cash flows decline by 1%, this would result in an increase of £2m to the net impairment charge recognised.

Discount rate

The pre-tax discount rate applied to the forecast cash flows is derived from the Group's post-tax weighted average cost of capital (WACC).
The assumptions used in the calculation of the Group's WACC are benchmarked to externally available data. A single discount rate is applied
to all cash-generating units. Over recent periods, the discount rate used in impairment reviews has moved by c.1.0%. For short leasehold sites
and freehold/tong leasehold sites with ROU or goodwill assets, an increase of 1.0% in the discount rate would result in an increase of £7mto
the net impairment charge recognised.

3.4 Working capital
Inventories

Accounting policy
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is calculated using the weighted average method.

Inventories can be analysed as follows:

2024 2023
ém ém

Goods held for resale 27 25
Trade and other receivables

Accounting policy

Trade receivables are initially recognised at transaction price and other receivables are initially recognised at fair value. Subsequently, these assets
are measured at amortised cost. This results in their recognition at nominal value less an allowance for any doubtful debts. The allowance for
doubtful debts is recognised based on management's expectation of losses without regard to whether an impairment trigger happened or not
(an ‘expected credit loss’ model). The Group always measures the loss allowance for trade receivables using the simplified model at an amount
equal to lifetime ECL. Loss allowance for other receivables is measured either at twelve months or lifetime ECL depending on whether the credit
risk has increased significantly since initial recognition (see financial assets impairment policy in note 4.3).

148__ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statement

Trade and other receivables can be analysed as follows:

Current

2024 2023
ee,
Trade receivables 13 17
Other receivables 16 16
Prepayments 27 32
Other financial assets? 30 58
Defined benefit pension blocked accounts? 12 -
Tota! trade and other receivables 98 123
Non-current

2026 2023

ém ém

Defined benefit pension blocked accounts? - 47

a. Other financial assets relate to cash collateral provided by a swap counterparty (see note 4.3).

b. Contributions to the MABEPP scheme have been paid into a blocked account since the scheme buy-in that took place during the year ended 24 September 2022 and are expected
to be repaid following the buy-out (2023 £12m in respect of the MABEPP blocked account and £35m in respect of the MABPP blocked account, since repaid) - see note 4.5 for
further details.

Alltrade, lease and other receivables are non-interest bearing. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade receivables and other
receivables approximately equates to their fair value. A provision for expected credit loss of £2m (2023 £3m) has been recognised against trade
and other receivables.

Credit risk is considered in note 4.3.

Trade and other payables

Accounting policy
Trade and other payables are initially recognised at fair value and recognised subsequently at amortised cost.

Trade and other payables can be analysed as follows:

Current
2024 2023
£m £m
Trade payables 114 100
Other taxation and social security 99 100
Accrued charges 186 182
Deferred income 34 29
Other payables 19 22
Other financial liabilities? 30 58
Total trade and other payables 482 491
Non-current
2024 2023
ém ém
Other payables? 8 =

a. Other financial liabilities relate to cash collateral provided by a swap counterparty (see note 4.3).
b. Non-current other payables relate to contingent consideration payable following the acquisition of Pesto Restaurants Ltd (see note 5.1).

Current trade and other payables are non-interest bearing. The Directors consider that the carrying amount of trade and other payables
approximately equates to their fair value.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.__149

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

Section 3 - Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.5 Provisions

Accounting policy

Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events; it is more likely than not that
an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation; and the amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are measured using the
Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet date and are discounted to present value where
the effect is material.

‘Onerous property provisions represent the expected unavoidable losses on onerous and vacant property leases and comprise the net lease
commitment (fixed service charges) not expected to be covered by operating revenue after all other operating costs. The provision is catculated
ona site by site basis with a provision being made for the remaining committed lease term, where a lease is considered to be onerous. Other
contractual dilapidations costs are also recorded as provisions as appropriate.

Provisions
The provision for unavoidable losses on onerous property leases has been set up to cover fixed service charge payments of vacant or loss-making
properties.

The provision for dilapidation costs has been set up to cover the estimated future dilapidation claims from landlords on leases that are within five years
of expiry.

Provisions can be analysed as follows:

Onerous property Dilapidation Total property

provisions provisions provisions

ém fm Em

At 24 September 2022 3 6 9

Provided in the period 1 2 3
Utilised in the period (2) - (2)
Released in the period = q) mo)

At 30 September 2023 oe, 2 7) 9

Provided in the period : 2 4 6
Utilised in the period (2) - (2)
Released in the period - a) a)

At 28 September 2024 ; 2 10 12

150_______ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements — Other Information

3.6 Goodwill and other intangible assets

Accounting policies

Business combinations and goodwill

Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration for each acquisition is measured
at the aggregate of the fair values of assets given and liabilities incurred or assumed by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree.
Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement as incurred.

At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value, except that:

+ deferred tax assets or liabilities and liabilities or assets related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised and measured in accordance
with IAS 12 Income Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits (revised) respectively; and

* assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-Current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued
Operations are measured in accordance with that standard.

Intangible assets acquired in a business combination and recognised separately from goodwill are initially recognised at their fair value at the
acquisition date.

Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree,

and the fair value of the acquirer's previously held equity interest in the acquiree over the net of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities
assumed at the acquisition date. If, after reassessment, the net of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date
exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer's
previously held interest in the acquiree, the excess is recognised immediately in the income statement as a bargain purchase.

When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration
arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition date fair value and included as part of the contingent consideration
transferred in a business combination. Changes in fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments

are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill. Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise
from additional information obtained during the ‘measurement period’ (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) about facts

and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date.

The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments
depends on how the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not re-measured at subsequent
reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration that is classified as an asset or a liability
is re-measured at subsequent reporting dates, at fair value, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognised in the income statement.

When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group's previously-held interests in the acquired entity is re- measured to its acquisition
date fair value and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the income statement. Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to
the acquisition date that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss, where such treatment
would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of.

If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Group
reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional amounts are adjusted during the
measurement period, or additional assets or liabilities are recognised, to reflect new information obtained about facts and circumstances

that existed as of the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognised as of that date.

Goodwill is not amortised, but is reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that

the carrying value may be impaired. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group's cash-generating units
expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. The impairment review requires management to consider the recoverable value

of the business to which the goodwill relates, based on either the fair value less costs to sell or the value in use. Value in use calculations require
management to consider the net present value of future cash flows generated by the business to which the goodwill relates. Fair value less costs
to sell is based on management's estimate of the net proceeds which could be generated through disposing of that business. If the recoverable
amount of the cash-generating unit is less than the carrying amount of the unit, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount
of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement and is not subsequently reversed.

On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.

Computer software

Computer software and associated development costs, which are not an integral part of a related item of hardware, are capitalised as an intangible
asset and amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful life. The period of amortisation ranges between three and seven years with the
majority being three years.

Brands

Brand intangible assets recognised on acquisition are amortised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives (20 years) within operating
costs. Brand intangibles are reviewed for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024 ___ 15

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd

Section 3 - Operating assets and liabilities continued

3.6 Goodwill and other intangible assets continucc
Intangible assets
Intangible assets can be analysed as follows:

Computer
Goodwill Brands software Total
£m £m ém ém

Cost . . . _ .
At 24 September 2022 oe a 70 = 20 27
Acquired through business combinations(note5.1) od 5 Coot. 6
Additions . : oo . - - 4 . 4
Disposals = = (6) (6)
At 30 September 2023 _ 8 5 18 31
Acquired through business combinations (note 5.1) 5 2 - 7
Additions - - 2 2
Disposals - = (3) (3)
At 28 September 2024 . 13 7 17 37
Accumulated amortisation and impairment :
At 24 September 2022 5 - 8 13
Amortisation during the period ; - - 4 4
Impairment 1 - - 1
Disposals - ~ (4) (4)
At 30 September 2023 6 - 8 _ 14
Amortisation during the period . : - - 4 4
Impairment _ a . . - - 1 1
Disposals = = (2) (2)
At 28 September 2024 : 6 - 11 7
Net book value
At 28 September 2024 7 7 6 20
At 30 September 2023 : 2 5 10 7
At 24 September 2022 2 - 12 14

Goodwill and brands
With the exception of goodwill, there are no intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. All amortisation charges have been expensed through
operating costs.

Brand intangibles have been recognised as part of business combinations (see note 5.1). Brand intangibles are amortised over their estimated useful
lives and have an average remaining useful life of 20 years.

Impairment review
All goodwill was recognised as part of business combinations. Goodwill has been allocated to cash-generating units, being individual outlets, to test
for impairment. An impairment charge of £nil (2023 £1m) has been recognised in the current period.

Computer software has been allocated to cash-generating units, being individual outlets, to test for impairment. An impairment charge of £1m (2023
£nil) has been recognised in the current period.

Further details of the impairment review are provided in note 3.3.

The carrying values of acquired brands are subject to impairment review if changes in events or circumstances give indication the brand value
may be impaired, of which there have been none in the current period.

152 Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple


Introduction Legic Report Governance Financial Statements — Other Information

7 Associates

Accounting policy

An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture.
Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control
over those policies.

The results, assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these financial statements using the equity method of accounting, except
when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale
and Discontinued Operations.

Under the equity method, an investment in an associate is accounted for using the equity method from the date on which the investee becomes
an associate. On acquisition of the investment in an associate, any excess of the cost of the investment over the Group's share of the net fair value
of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the investee is recognised as goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount of the investment.
If after reassessment the Group's share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities are in excess of the cost of the investment, this
is recognised immediately in profit or loss in the period in which the investment is acquired.

The requirements of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets are applied to determine whether it is necessary to recognise any impairment loss with
respect to the Group's investment in an associate. When necessary, the entire carrying amount of the investment (including goodwill) is tested
for impairment in accordance with IAS 36 asa single asset by comparing its recoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value less costs
of disposal) with its carrying amount. Any impairment loss recognised forms part of the carrying amount of the investment. Any reversal of that
impairment loss is recognised in accordance with iAS 36 to the extent that the recoverable amount of the investment subsequently increases.

The Group discontinues the use of the equity method from the date when the investment ceases to be an associate, or when the investment is
classified as held for sale. When the Group retains an interest in the former associate and the retained interest is a financial asset, the Group
measures the retained interest at fair value at that date and the fair value is regarded as its fair value on initial recognition in accordance with IFRS 9.
The difference between the carrying amount of the associate at the date the equity method was discontinued, and the fair value of any retained
interest, and any proceeds from disposing of a part interest in the associate is included in the determination of the gain or loss on disposal of the
associate. In addition, the Group accounts for all amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to that associate on
the same basis as would be required if that associate had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if a gain or loss previously
recognised in other comprehensive income by that associate would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities,
the Group reclassifies the gain or loss from equity to profit or loss when the equity method is discontinued.

When the Group reduces its ownership interest in an associate but the Group continues to use the equity method, the Group reclassifies to profit
or loss the proportion of the gain or loss that had previously been recognised in other comprehensive income relating to that reduction in ownership
interest if that gain or loss would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities.

When a Group entity transacts with an associate of the Group, profits and losses resulting from the transactions with the associate are recognised
in the consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the associate that are not related to the Group.

The nature of the activities of all of the Group's associates is trading in pubs and restaurants, which are seen as complementing the Group's operations
and contributing to the Group's overall strategy.

Associates can be analysed as follows:

Em
Cost
At 24 September 2022 6.
Share in associates results - . 1
Fair value adjustment as a result of business combination (note 2.2) . . . . 5
Disposal of associate as a result of business combination (12)

At 30 September 2023 : a . : ; : . . : : =
Share in associates results -

At 28 September 2024 SO - oe . oe

The carrying value of associates of Enil (2023 Enil) relates to Fatboy Pub Company Limited. Details of this associate are provided in note 5.2.

3Sixty Restaurants Limited is no longer recognised as an associate and has been consolidated as a subsidiary from 18 April 2023, the date on which
control passed to the Group.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.__153

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd

Section 4. - Capital structure and financing costs

A.1 Borrowings

Accounting policy

Borrowings, which include the Group's secured loan notes, are stated initially at fair value (normally the amount of the proceeds) net of issue costs.
Thereafter they are stated at amortised cost using an effective interest basis. Finance costs, which are the difference between the net proceeds
and the total amount of payments to be made in respect of the instruments, are allocated over the term of the debt using the effective interest
method. Borrowing costs are not attributed to the acquisition or construction of assets and therefore no costs are capitalised within property,
plant and equipment.

Borrowings can be analysed as follows:

2024 2023
£m £m

Current . .
Securitised debt*® . oo. : 130 123
Unsecured revolving credit facilities : q) (2)
Overdrafts* 12 23
Other borrowings* 2 -
Total current 143 144
Non-current
Securitised debt*® ; 1,041 1,186.
Total borrowings 1,184 1,330

a. Further details of the assets pledged as security against the securitised debt are given on page 140.

b. Stated net of deferred issue costs.

c. At 28 September 2024 the amount of £1m (2023 £2m) represents unamortised issue costs.

d. The overdraft is within a cash pooling arrangement. In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are presented net of this overdraft (see note 4.4).
e. Short-term financing of employee advances.

2024 2023
£m £m

Analysis by year of repayment
Due within one year or on demand 143 144
Due between one and two years 157 164
Due between two and five years 458 435
Due after five years 426 587
Total borrowings 1,184 1,330

Securitised debt

On 13 November 2003, the Group refinanced its debt by raising £1,900m through a securitisation of the majority of its UK pubs and restaurants
owned by Mitchells & Butlers Retail Limited. On 15 September 2006 the Group completed a further debt (‘tap’) issue to borrow an additional £655m
and refinance £450m of existing debt at lower cost.

The loan notes consist of ten tranches as follows:

Principal outstanding

Initial Principal Effective § ——

principal repayment interest 28 September 30 September
borrowed period {all by rate 2024 2023 Expected
Tranche Em interest instalments) % £m Em WAL?
AIN . 200 | Floating 2011 to 2028 6.61° 62 . 75 2 years
A2 ; ; 550 Fixed-5.57% 2003 to 2028 5.72 112 _ 136 2years
A3N a. 250 Floating 2011 to 2028 6.69 77 93° years
Aa S170 Floating -2016to2028 «= 6.37 75 © 89 years
AB . B25 Floating -2020t02032, (6.28 260276 ‘Sears
Bis ; _. ., 380 Fixed-5.97% 2003 to 2023 6.12, - _ 5 Oyears
B2 oe / 350 Fixed-6.01% —_-2015to 2028 6.12 — 205 (240 2years
a ; . 200 Fixed-6.47% — 2029t0. 2030 6.56 200 _ 200 S years
c2 . a 50 Floating 2033 to 2034 _ 647 : 500 | 50 9 years
01 110 Floating _ 2034to 2036 6.68° 110 110" years

2,555 1,151 1,274

a. Expected weighted average life (WAL) assumes no early redemption in respect of any loan notes.

b. After the effect of interest rate swaps.

c. A3N notes are US$ notes which are shown as translated to sterling at the hedged swap rate. Values at the period end spot rate are £96m (2023 £127m). Therefore the exchange
difference on the A3N notes is £19m (2023 £34m).

d. The B1 loan notes were fully repaid during the current period in accordance with the documented repayment schedule.

154._______ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategie Report Governance Financial Statements — Other Information

Principal outstanding above is reconciled to the principal outstanding and carrying value of securitised debt as disclosed on page 155 as follows.

2024 2023
£m ém
Principal outstanding — a... 1,151 1,274
A3N US$ notes exchange difference 19 34
Principal outstanding at spot rate . _ 1,170 1,308
Deferred issue costs _ _. a mad) 2)
Accrued interest 2 3

Carrying value at end of period 1,171 1,309

The notes are secured on the majority of the Group's property and future income streams therefrom. All of the floating rate notes are hedged using,
interest rate swaps which fix the interest rate payable.

Interest and margin is payable on the floating rate notes as follows:

Tranche Interest Margin
AIN ; ; 3 month SONIA 0.57%
A3N _.. , 3month SOFR 0.71%
A4 ; : . 3 month SONIA 0.69%
AB oo. 3 month SONIA 0.72% |
c2 3 month SONIA 1.99%

D1 ; 3 month SONIA 2.24%

The overall cash interest rate payable on the loan notes is 6.3% (2023 6.3%) after taking account of interest rate hedging and the cost of the financial
guarantee provided by Ambac Assurance UK Limited (Ambac). Ambac acts as a guarantor of the Group's obligations to repay interest and principal
onthe loan notes. In the event that the Group is unable to pay such amounts the guarantee is limited to the Class A1N, A3N, A4 and Class AB note
holders only.

The securitisation is governed by various covenants, warranties and events of default, many of which apply to Mitchells & Butlers Retail Limited,

the Group's main operating subsidiary. There are two main financial covenants, being the level of net assets and free cash flow (FCF) to debt service.
FCF to debt service represents the multiple of cash generated by sites within the structure to the cost of debt service. This is tested quarterly on both
atrailing two quarter and a four quarter basis. There are additional covenants regarding the maintenance and disposal of securitised properties and
restrictions on its ability to move cash, by way of dividends for example, to other Group companies. Further details of the covenants are provided

in the going concern review on pages 127 to 128.

At 28 September 2024, Mitchells & Butlers Retail Limited had cash and cash equivalents of £91m (2023 £54m). Of this amount £2m (2023 £4m),
representing disposal proceeds, was held on deposit in an account over which there are anumber of restrictions. The use of this cash requires
the approval of the securitisation trustee and may only be used for certain specified purposes such as capital enhancement expenditure and
business acquisitions.

The carrying value of the securitised debt in the Group balance sheet is analysed as follows:

2024 2023

. £m ém

Principal outstanding at beginning of period ae _. 1,308 1,448
Principal repaid during the period ek . (128) (121)

Net principal receipts on cross currency swap . . 5 5
Exchange on translation of dollar loan notes (15) (24)

Principal outstanding at end of period - 1,170 1,308
Deferred issue costs a. .. qa) (2)

Accrued interest ; 2 3

Carrying value at end of period 1,171 1,309
Liquidity facility

Under the terms of the securitisation, the Group holds a liquidity facility of £295m provided by two counterparties.

The amount drawn at 28 September 2024 is Enil (2023 nil).

Unsecured revolving credit facilities

The Group holds a single unsecured committed revolving credit facility of £200m, which expires on 20 July 2026. The amount drawn at

28 September 2024 is Enil (2023 Enil).

There are covenants on the unsecured revolving credit facilities relating to the ratio of EBITDAR to rent plus interest and net debt to EBITDA based

on the performance of the unsecured estate. Further details of the covenants are provided in the going concern review on pages 127 and 128.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024. 155


Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd
Section 4 - Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.2 Finance costs and income

2024 2023
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Finance costs
Interest on securitised debt . (79) (89)
Interest on other borrowings . - (13) — (11)
Interest on lease liabilities a7) (16)
Total finance costs (109) (116)
Finance income . . : z ; .
Interest receivable — cash 10 8
Net pensions finance charge (note 4.5) _ SC (2) (3)

4.3 Financial instruments

Accounting policies
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group's balance sheet when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions
of the instrument.

Financial assets

All financial assets are recognised or derecognised on a trade date where the purchase or sale of a financial asset is under a contract whose terms
require delivery of the financial asset within the timeframe established by the market concerned. Financial assets are initially measured at fair value,
plus transaction costs, except for those financial assets classified as at fair value through profit or loss, which are initially measured at fair value.

Debt instruments that meet the following conditions are measured subsequently at amortised cost:

* the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows; and
* the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the
principal amount outstanding.

By default, all other financial assets are measured subsequently at fair value through profit or loss (FV TPL).
The classification depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.

Impairment of financial assets
The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses (ECLs) on financial assets, where applicable. The amount of expected credit
losses is updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition of the respective financial asset.

The Group adopts the simplified approach detailed in IFRS 9 for trade receivables and finance lease receivables and therefore recognises lifetime
ECL on these assets. The expected credit losses on these financial assets are estimated using a provision matrix based on the Group's historical
credit loss experience, adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of both the current
as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date, including time value of money where appropriate.

For all other financial assets, the Group recognises lifetime ECL when there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition.
However, if the credit risk on the financial asset has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measures the loss allowance
for that financial instrument at an amount equal to twelve-month ECL.

Lifetime ECL represents the expected credit losses that will result from all possible default events over the expected life of a financial instrument.
In contrast, twelve-month ECL represents the portion of lifetime ECL that is expected to result from default events on a financial instrument that
are possible within twelve months after the reporting date.

Definition of default
The Group considers financial assets to be in default when information developed internally or obtained from external sources indicates that
a debtor is unlikely to pay its creditors, including the Group. in full (without taking into account any collateral held by the Group).

Credit-impaired financial assets

At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether financial assets are credit-impaired. A financial asset is ‘credit-impaired’ when one or more
events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.

156___ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Write-off policy

The Group writes off a financial asset when there is information indicating that the debtor is in severe financial difficulty and there is no realistic
prospect of recovery. Financial assets written off may still be subject to enforcement activities under the Group's recovery procedures, taking
into account legal advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss.

Measurement and recognition of expected credit losses

The measurement of expected credit losses is a function of the probability of default, loss given default (i.e. the magnitude of the loss if there
is a default) and the exposure at default. The assessment of the probability of default and loss given default is based on historical data adjusted
by forward-looking information. As for the exposure at default, for financial assets, this is represented by the assets’ gross carrying amount

at the reporting date.

For financial assets, the expected credit lossis estimated as the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the Group in accordance
with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to receive, discounted at the original effective interest rate.

if the Group has measured the toss allowance for a financial asset at an amount equal to lifetime ECL in the previous reporting period,
but determines at the current reporting date that the conditions for lifetime ECL are no longer met, the Group measures the loss allowance
at an amount equal to twelve-month ECL at the current reporting date, except for assets for which the simplified approach was used.

The Group recognises an impairment gain or loss in profit or loss for all financial assets with a corresponding adjustment to their carrying amount
through a loss allowance account.

Derecognition of financial assets

The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial
asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group does not retain substantially all the risks
and rewards of ownership but continues to control a transferred asset, the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated
liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset,

the Group continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.

On derecognition of a financial asset measured at amortised cost, the difference between the asset's carrying amount and the sum of the
consideration received and receivable is recognised in profit or loss.

Financial liabilities
The Group has financial liabilities relating to borrowings, for which the accounting policy is provided in note 4.1. Other financial liabilities
are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.

All financial liabilities are measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method or at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL).

Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group's obligations are discharged, cancelled or expired. The difference
between the carrying amount of the financial liability discharged and the consideration paid and payable is recognised in profit or loss.

Effective interest method

The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating finance charges over the relevant
period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows (including all fees and points paid or received that
form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) over the expected life of the debt instrument,
or where appropriate, a shorter period, to the amortised cost of a financial liability. Finance charges are recognised on an effective interest basis
forall debt instruments.

Derivative financial instruments
The Group enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks, including
interest rate and currency swaps.

Derivative financial instruments are initially measured at fair value on the contract date and are remeasured to fair value at each reporting date.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument,
in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.

A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as a financial
liability. Derivatives are not offset in the financial statements unless the Group has both the current legal right to offset and intention to settle

ona net basis or realise simultaneously. A derivative is presented as anon-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the
instrument is more than twelve months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within twelve months. Other derivatives are presented as
current assets or current liabilities.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.__15'

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd

Section 4 - Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.3 Financial instruments ccs innied

Accounting policies continued
Hedge accounting
The Group designates its derivative financial instruments, i.e. interest rate and currency swaps, as cash flow hedges.

At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Group documents the relationship between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, along
with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and
on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged
item attributable to the hedged risk, which is when the hedging relationships meet all of the following hedge effectiveness requirements:

* there is an economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument;

+ the effect of credit risk does not dominate the value changes that result from that economic relationship; and

* the hedge ratio of the hedging‘elationship is the same as that resulting from the quantity of the hedged item that the Group actually hedges
and the quantity of the hedging instrument that the Group actually uses to hedge that quantity of hedged item.

If a hedging relationship ceases to meet the hedge effectiveness requirement relating to the hedge ratio but the risk management objective for
that designated hedging relationship remains the same, the Group adjusts the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship (i.e. rebalances the hedge)
so that it meets the qualifying criteria again.

Cash flow hedges

The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognised in other
comprehensive income and accumulated under the heading of hedging reserve, limited to the cumulative change in fair value of the hedged
item from inception of the hedge.

Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when
the hedged item affects profit or loss, in the same line as the recognised hedged item. This transfer does not affect other comprehensive income.
Furthermore, if the Group expects that some or all of the loss accumulated in the hedging reserve will not be recovered in the future, that amount
is immediately reclassified to profit or loss.

Hedge accounting is discontinued only when the hedging relationship ceases to meet the qualifying criteria (after rebalancing, if applicable).

This includes instances when the hedging instrument expires or is sold or terminated. The discontinuation is accounted for prospectively. Any gain
or loss recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the hedging reserve at that time remains in equity and is reclassified to profit
or loss when the forecast transaction occurs. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in the
hedging reserve is reclassified immediately to profit or loss.

Financial risk management

Financial risk is managed by the Group's Treasury function. The Group's Treasury function is governed by a Board Approved Treasury Policy
Statement which details the key objectives and policies for the Group's treasury management. The Treasury Committee ensures that the Treasury
Policy is adhered to, monitors its operation and agrees appropriate strategies for recommendation to the Board. The Treasury Policy Statement is
reviewed annually, with recommendations for change made to the Board, as appropriate. The Group Treasury function is operated as a cost centre
and is the only area of the business permitted to transact treasury deals. It must also be consulted on other related matters such as the provision

of guarantees or the financial implications of contract terms.

An explanation of the Group's financial instrument risk management objectives and strategies is set out below.

The main financial risks which impact the Group result from funding and liquidity risk, credit risk, capital risk and market risk, principally as a result
of changes in interest and currency rates. Derivative financial instruments, principally interest rate and foreign currency swaps, are used to manage
market risk. Derivative financial instruments are not used for trading or speculative purposes.

Funding and liquidity risk

In order to ensure that the Group's long-term funding strategy is aligned with its strategic objectives, the Treasury Committee regularly assesses
the maturity profile of the Group's debt, alongside the prevailing financial projections. This enables it to ensure that funding levels are appropriate
to support the Group's plans.

The current funding arrangements of the Group consist of the securitised notes issued by Mitchells & Butlers Finance pic (and associated liquidity
facility) along with an unsecured committed revolving credit facility of £200m. The terms of the securitisation and the revolving credit facilities contain
various financial covenants. Compliance with these covenants is monitored by Group Treasury. The Group also has uncommitted credit facilities of
£5m, together with short-term financing in respect of employee advances (£2m).

The Group prepares a roiling daily cash forecast covering a six week period and an annual cash forecast by period. These forecasts are reviewed

ona daily basis and are used to manage the investment and borrowing requirements of the Group. A combination of cash pooling and zero balancing
agreements are in place to ensure the optimum liquidity position is maintained. The Group maintains sufficient cash balances or committed facilities
outside the securitisation to ensure that it can meet its medium-term anticipated cash flow requirements.

158___ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements — Other Information

The maturity table below details the contractual undiscounted cash flows (both principal and interest), based on the prevailing period end interest
and exchange rates, for the Group's financial liabilities, after taking into account the effect of interest rate and currency swaps (which are settled
gross) and assumes no early redemption in respect of any loan notes. As such these amounts will not always reconcile to amounts disclosed in the
Group Balance Sheet.

Within Oneto Twoto Threeto Fourto More than
oneyear two years three years four years five years five years Total
£m £m ém ém £m ém
28 September 2024 . ee .
Securitised debt — loan notes (201) 198) (198) (198) (192) (496) (1,483)
Derivative financial liabilities (settled net) 2 4 |) @B) |) (7) (22)
Derivative financial asset receipts 24 __ 24° _ 24 24 6 = 102_
Derivative financial asset payments (20) (20) (20) (20) (5) - (85)
Fixed rate: Securitiseddebt ___ 199) (198) (198) (197) (193) (503) (1,488)
Lease liabilities ~ _ 650) (50) (46) (49) (40) (430) (665)
Trade payables oe. a 14) ~~
Otherpayables
Accruedcharges 186)
Other financial liabilities (30)

30 September 2023

Sequtiseddebt-loanndies 0H

Derivative financial liabilities (settlednet) => __ (2) 2) (2)

Derivative financial asset ‘receipts. 27 _ 7 . 27 27 27 7d
Derivative financial asset payments (21) (20) (20) (20) (20) (5) (106)
Fixed rate: Securitised debt _ oe (200) (199) (198) (198) (196) (697) (1,688)
Leaseliabilities __ ; __ (32) (51) (42) __ (47) (449)

Trade payables a = : - = =

Other payables De Le

Accrued charge (182)
Other financial liabilities (58) = - - = _

Credit risk

The Group Treasury function enters into contracts with third parties in respect of the investment of surplus funds and derivative financial instruments
for risk management purposes. These activities expose the Group to credit risk against the counterparties. To mitigate this exposure, Group Treasury
operates policies that restrict the general investment of surplus funds and the entering into of derivative transactions to counterparties that have

a minimum credit rating of ‘A’ (long-term) and ‘A1'/‘P1/'F1' (short-term). Where ratings subsequently drop below the policy minimum additional
approval is sought from the Board to retain the position, or action is taken to move to a higher rated counterparty. The minimum long-term rating of
any Group counterparty during the year was ‘A’. The amount that can be invested or transacted at various ratings levels is restricted under the policy.
Counterparties to derivative financial instruments may also be required to post collateral with the Group where their credit rating falls belowa
predetermined level. At the period end a collateral amount of £30m (2023 £58m) is held by the Group and is recognised as an other financial asset
and other financial liability in the balance sheet.

To minimise credit risk exposure against individual counterparties, investments and derivative transactions are entered into with a range of
counterparties. The maximum investment exposure with any counterparty during the year was £49m (2023 £50m). The Group held investments
with ten counterparties during the year (2023 eleven). The Group Treasury function reviews credit ratings, as published by Moody's, Standard &
Poor's and Fitch Ratings, current exposure levels and the maximum permitted exposure at given credit ratings, for each counterparty on a daily basis.
Any exceptions are required to be formally reported to the Treasury Committee on a four-weekly basis.

Trade receivables and other receivables mainly represent amounts due from tenants of unlicensed properties, amounts due from Group suppliers
and cash collateral deposits held by third parties. Credit exposure relating to tenants is ordinarily considered to be low risk, with an expected lifetime
credit loss calculated at the period end to reflect the risk of irrecoverable amounts. To minimise credit risk new tenants are assessed using an external
credit rating system before they are approved for tenancy. Credit exposure is reduced for the amounts due from Group suppliers as the Group holds
offsetting amounts in trade and other payables that are due to some of these suppliers. Credit risk on cash collateral deposits held by third parties are
considered to be low credit risk as they are held with reputable banking institutions by third parties.

Mitchells & Butlers pte Annual Report and Accounts 2024. 159


Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd

Section 4. - Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.3 Financial instruments continucd

The Group’s maximum credit exposure at the balance sheet date was:

12-month Lifetime
FVTPL ECL ECL Total
ém £m ém ém
28 September 2024: ,
Cash and cash equivalents? - 164 - 164
Trade receivables? _ _ - 13 13
Other receivables? _. . 16 - 16
Other financial assets : - _ 30 - 30
Defined benefit pension blocked account _ - 12 - 12
Finance lease receivables‘ - 1 11 12
Derivatives 19 - - 19
30 September 2023: Le
Cash and cash equivalents? _. - 103 - 103
Trade receivables? . - - 17 17
Other receivables? - 16 - 16
Other financial assets . wc. 58 - 58
Defined benefit pension blocked account ee. - 47 - 47
Finance lease receivables¢ . Ce - - 12 12
Derivatives i 35 ~ = 35

a. Cash and cash equivalents as presented in the cash flow statement. This is presented net of an overdraft within a cash pooling arrangement, to which the Group has alegal right
of offset.

b. Trade receivables and other receivables are shown net of an expected credit loss allowance, as shown in note 3.4.

c. Finance lease receivables expected credit loss allowance is immaterial, as described in note 3.2.

Capital management

The Group's capital base is comprised of its net debt (analysed in note 4.4) plus total equity (disclosed on the face of the Group balance sheet).

The objective is to maintain a capital base which is sufficiently strong to support the ongoing development of the business as a going concern, including
the amenity, and cash flow generation of the pub estate. By keeping debt and headroom against its debt facilities at an appropriate level, the Group
ensures that it maintains a strong credit position, whilst maximising value for shareholders and adhering to its covenants and other restrictions
associated with its debt (see note 4.1). In managing its capital structure, from time to time the Group may realise value from non-core assets, buy back
or issue new shares, initiate and vary its dividend payments and seek to vary or accelerate debt repayments. The Group's policy is to ensure that the
maturity of its debt profile supports its strategic objectives. The Board considers the latest covenant compliance, headroom projections and projected
balance sheet positions periodically throughout the period, based on the advice of the Treasury Committee which meets on a four-weekly basis.

The Treasury Committee is chaired by the Group Treasurer and monitors Treasury performance and compliance with Board-approved policies.

The Group Chief Financial Officer is also a member of the Committee.

Total capital at the balance sheet date is as follows:

2024 2023
£m £m
Netdebtexcludingleases(note4.4) 00 989 1,170
Totalequity 2,566 2,130
Total capital 3,555 3,300

Market risk
The Group is exposed to the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of its financial instruments will fluctuate because of changes in market prices.
Market risk comprises foreign currency and interest rate risk.

Foreign currency risk

The most significant currency risk the Group faces is in relation to the class A3N floating rate notes. At issuance of these notes, the Group entered into
across currency interest rate swap to manage the foreign currency exposure resulting from both the US$ principal and initial interest elements of the
notes. The A3N notes have a carrying value of £96m (2023 £127m) and form part of the securitised debt (see note 4.1).

Sensitivity analysis

Further to the step-up on the A3N notes on 15 December 2010, the Group has additional foreign currency exposure as a result of the increase in US$
finance costs. A movement of 10% in the US$ exchange rate would have Enil (2023 £nil) impact on the reported Group profit and £16m (2023 £12m)
impact on the reported Group equity.

The Group has no significant profit and loss exposure as a result of retranslating monetary assets and liabilities at different exchange rates. As the
Group is predominantly UK-based and acquires the majority of its supplies in sterling, it has no significant direct currency exposure from its operations.

160_______ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategie Report Governanee Financial Statements Other Information

Interest rate risk

The Group has a mixture of fixed and floating interest rate debt instruments and manages the variability in cash flows resulting from changes in
interest rates by using derivative financial instruments. Where the necessary criteria are met, the Group minimises the volatility in its consolidated
financial statements through the adoption of the hedge accounting provisions permitted under IFRS 9. The interest rate exposure resulting from the
Group's £1.2bn securitisation is largely fixed, either as a result of the notes themselves being issued at fixed interest rates, or through a combination
of floating rate notes against which effective interest rate swaps are held, which are eligible for hedge accounting.

A number of the Group's financial instruments were initially issued with LIBOR as their interest reference rate. The Group completed the necessary
amendments to transition its financing arrangements in advance of the discontinuation of LIBOR as a floating reference rate, replacing LIBOR witha
Sterling Overnight Index Average (SONIA) based rate in respect of sterling and a Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) based rate in respect of
US dollars. The amendments in respect of the securitised bonds were agreed by the Bondholders through a formal consent solicitation process and
bilateral agreements were reached with securitised swap providers (using amended reference rates consistent with those agreed under the bonds).
All sterling-based facilities and agreements referencing Sterling LIBOR transitioned in prior periods to reference SONIA, plus a credit adjustment
spread of 11.93 basis points to maintain an economically equivalent position, for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2022. The facilities
previously referencing US dollar LIBOR transitioned to SOFR plus 26.161 basis points for periods commencing on or after 1 July 2023.

As part of the transition, all of the Group's hedge relationships were reviewed and these continue to be highly effective. Hedge documentation was
updated in accordance with the reliefs permitted in the amendments to IFRS 9, designating the new interest reference rate in both the hedged item
and the hedging instrument. As a result of the transition, there was no impact on the amounts recognised in the income statement or statement

of other comprehensive income.

There has been no change to interest rate exposure in the current period. This is consistent with the Group Treasury policy on interest rate
management.

Sensitivity analysis

The sensitivity analysis below has been calculated based on the Group's exposure to interest rates for both derivative and non-derivative instruments
as at the balance sheet date. A 1% movement is used when reporting interest rate risk internally to key management personnel and represents
management's assessment of this reasonably possible change in interest rates.

For floating rate liabilities, which are not hedged by derivative instruments, the analysis has been prepared assuming that the liability outstanding at
the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole period. For interest income the analysis assumes that cash and cash equivalents and other cash
deposits that were held in interest bearing accounts at the balance sheet date were held for the whole period.

. The Group's sensitivity to a 1% increase in interest rates is detailed below:

2024 2023

£m
Interest income? 1 2
Interest expense” - =
Profit impact 1 2
Derivative financial instruments (fair values)« 40 31
Total equity 41 33

a. Represents interest income earned on cash and cash equivalents and other cash deposits (these are defined in note 4.1).
b. The element of interest expense which is not matched by payments and receipts under cash flow hedges which woutd otherwise offset the interest rate exposure of the Group.
¢. The impact on total equity from movements in the fair value of cash flow hedges.

Derivative financial instruments

Cash flow hedges

Changes in cash flow hedge fair values are recognised in the hedging reserve in equity to the extent that the hedges are effective. The cash flow
hedges detailed below have been assessed as being highly effective during the period and are expected to remain highly effective over the remaining
contract lives. The following amounts have been recognised during the period:

2024 2023

52 weeks 53weeks

£m £m
Losses arising during the period _ . (34) (9)
Reclassification adjustments for losses included in profit or loss within finance costs 11 30
(23) 21

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024._______ 16]

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

Section 4 - Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.3 Financial instruments continued

Cash flow hedges — securitised borrowings

The nominal and carrying values of cash flow hedges at the balance sheet date, together with the changes in fair value of cash flow hedges during the
period, are shown below.

Carrying amount of Changes in fair
Nominal amount hedging instrument value used for
ofhedging ——_—S————CSC lc lating hedge:
instrument Assets Liabilities ineffectiveness
£m £m ém £m
2024 . .
Interest rate risk . 7 ;
— 10interest rate swaps . . 633 - (29) (22)
Foreign exchange risk ; . a
— Cross currency swap 77 19 - (16)
2023
Interest rate risk
— 10 interest rate swaps 693 - (7) 21
Foreign exchange risk

— Cross currency swap ; 93 35 - (24)

The cash flows on the interest rate swaps occur quarterly, receiving a floating rate of interest based on SONIA plus a credit adjustment spread of 11.93
basis points, and paying a fixed rate of 4.78% (2023 4.81%). The contract maturity dates match those of the hedged item. No hedge ineffectiveness on
the interest rate swaps was recognised in profit or loss in the current or prior period.

The cash flows on the cross currency swap occur quarterly, receiving a floating rate of interest based on SOFR and paying a floating rate of interest at
SONIA plus a credit adjustment spread of 11.93 basis points in sterling. The ineffectiveness on the cross currency swaps due to foreign currency basis
spread was immaterial in both the current and prior period.

The cash flows arising from interest rate swap positions on the same counterparty may be settled as a net position. The cross currency interest rate
swap is held under a separate agreement and cash movements for this instrument are settled individually. In the event of default, the interest rate
swaps and cross currency swaps with counterparty B may be settled net, as shown below.

The position at 28 September 2024 is as follows.

Positions that
could be net in
Positions netted Balance sheet _ balance sheet Overall net
Gross position in balance sheet Position but are not exposure
im fim £m im ém
Counterparty A — interest rate swaps (13) - (13) - (13)
Counterparty B — interest rate swaps (16) - (16) 19 3
Net interest rate swaps (29) - (29) 19 (10)
Counterparty B — cross currency swap liability (78) 78 - - -
Counterparty B-cross currency swap asset 97 (78) 19 (19) -
Net cross currency swap 7 . . 19 - 49 (19) -

Total (0) (10) - (10)

162______ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information

The position at 30 September 2023 was as follows.

Positions that
could be net in

Positionsnetted Balancesheet_ _balance sheet Overall net

Gross position  inbalance sheet position but are not exposure

£m ém £m £m £m

Counterparty A — interest rate swaps . (3) - (3) - (3)
Counterparty B — interest rate swaps (4) = (4) 35 31
Net interest rate swaps (7) - (7) 35 28
Counterparty B — cross currency swap liability (94) 94 - - -
Counterparty B - cross currency swap asset 129 (94) 35 (35) =
Net cross currency swap 35 - 35 (85) -
Total 28 - 28 - 28

Fair values of derivative financial instruments
The fair values of the derivative financial instruments were measured at 28 September 2024 and may be subject to material movements in the period
subsequent to the balance sheet date. The fair values of the derivative financial instruments are reflected on the balance sheet as follows:

Oerivative financial instruments - fair value

Non-current Current Current Non-current

assets assets liabilities liabilities Total
ém ém ém Em ém
Derivatives at fair value designated in cash flow hedges:
~ Interest rate swaps - - (2) (27) (29)
= Cross currency swap 19 - - = 19
28 September 2024 19 - (2) (27) (10)
30 September 2023 33 2 - (7) 28

Reconciliation of movements in derivative values
The tables below detail changes in the Group's derivatives, including both cash and non-cash changes where appropriate. Changes in the Group's
borrowings are disclosed in the net debt reconciliation in note 4.4.

Movements in derivative values for the 52 weeks ended 28 September 2024 are represented by:

A A
30 September Cash Fairvalue 28 September
2023 movements movements 2024
£m £m £m ém
Cash flow hedges 28 (4) (34) (10)
Total derivatives 28 (4) (34) (10)
Movements in derivative values for the 53 weeks ended 30 September 2023 are represented by:
At : At
24 September Cash Fairvalue 30 September
2022 movements movements 2023
£m £m £m fm
Cash flow hedges , 31 a) (2) 28
Share options 1 - qa) -
Total derivati 32 (1) (6) 28

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024___163

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

Section 4 - Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.3 Finangial instruments continucd
Fair value of financial assets and liabilities
The fair value and carrying value of financial assets and liabilities by category is as follows:

2024 2023
Carrying value Fairvalue Carrying value Fair value
ém £m £m ém
Financial assets at amortised cost:
— Cash and cash equivalents (note 4.4) 176 176 126 126
~ Trade receivables (note 3.4) 13 13 17 17
— Other receivables (note 3.4) . 16 16 16 16
— Other financial assets (note 3.4) . 30 30 58 _ 58
— Defined benefit pension blocked account (note 3.4) 12 12 47 47
— Finance lease receivables (note 3.2) 12 12 12 12
259 259 276 276
Financial assets — derivatives at FVTPL:
~— Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships (note 4.3) 19 19 35 35
19 19 35 35
Financial liabilities at amortised cost:
— Borrowings (note 4.1) _. (1,184) (1,084) (1,330) (1,162)
~ Lease liabilities (note 3.2) (447) (447) (463) (463)
— Trade payables (note 3.4} (114) (114) (100) (100)
- Accrued charges (note 3.4) (186) (186) (182) (182)
- Other payables (note 3.4) (27) (27) (22) (22)
— Other financial liabilities (note 3.4) (30) (30) (58) (58)
(1,988) (1,888) (2,155) (1,987)
Financial liabilities - derivatives at FVTPL:
— Derivative instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships (note 4.3) {29) (29) (7) (7)

Borrowings have been valued as Level 1 financial instruments, as the various tranches of the securitised debt have been valued using period end
quoted offer prices. As the securitised debt is traded on an active market, the market value represents the fair value of this debt. The fair value of
interest rate and currency swaps is the estimated amount which the Group could expect to pay or receive on termination of the agreements.
Other financial assets and liabilities are either short term in nature or their book values approximate to fair values.

Fair value of derivative financial instruments

The fair value of the Group's derivative financial instruments is calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows of each instrument at an
appropriate discount rate to a ‘mark to market’ position and then adjusting this to reflect any non-performance risk associated with the counterparties
tothe instrument.

IFRS 13 Financial Instruments requires the Group's derivative financial instruments to be disclosed at fair value and categorised in three levels
according to the inputs used in the calculation of their fair value:

* Level 1 instruments use quoted prices as the input to fair value calculations;
* Level 2 instruments use inputs, other than quoted prices, that are observable either directly or indirectly;
* Level 3 instruments use inputs that are unobservable.

The table below sets out the valuation basis of derivative financial instruments held at fair value by the Group:

Level 1 level 2 Level 3 Total
Fair value at 28 September 2024 £m £m £m £m
Financial assets: .
Currency swaps . -. 19 - 19
Financial liabilities: :
Interest rate swaps - (29) = (29)
= (10) = (10)

164____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements = Other Information —~

Level 1 Level2 Level 3 Total
Fair value at 30 September 2023 £m Em £m £m
Financial assets:
Currency swaps Cee = 35 = 35
Financial liabilities: . — . ee
Interest rate swaps. ° : = (7) = (7)
- 28 - 23

4.A-Net debt

Accounting policies

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank and in hand and other short-term highly liquid deposits with an original maturity at acquisition
of three months or less. Cash held on deposit with an original maturity at acquisition of more than three months is disclosed as other cash deposits.
In the cash flow statement, cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part

of the Group's cash management.

Net debt

Net debt comprises cash and cash equivalents, cash deposits net of borrowings, discounted lease liabilities, derivatives hedging securitised
debt and short-term financing for advances to employees. Net debt is presented on aconstant currency basis, due to the inclusion of the fixed
exchange rate component of the cross currency swap (as described in note 4.3). Cash flows on the interest rate and cross currency swaps are
shown within interest paid in the Group cash flow statement.

Net debt
2024

Note tm
Cashandcashequivalents . a A -
Overdraft ; 41 (12)
Cash and cash equivalents as presented in the cash flow statement? ee. 164
Securitised debt 7 _ -_ ; 4] (1,171) (1,309)
Unsecured revolving credit facility ee ~ 44 1
Derivatives hedging securitised debt __. oo 419 _ 340
Short-term financing of employee advances‘ ° : 41 (2) =
Net debt excluding leases _ 7 __ . (989) (1,170)
Lease liabilities 3.2 (447) (463)
Net debt including leases (1,436) (1,633)

a. Cash and cash equivalents, in the cash flow statement, are presented net of an overdraft within a cash pooling arrangement relating to various entities across the Group.
b. Represents the element of the fair value of currency swaps hedging the balance sheet value of the Group's US$ denominated A3N loan notes. This amount is disclosed

separately to remove the impact of exchange movements which are included in the securitised debt amount. Derivatives hedging debt restates the US$ debt at $1.675:£1.
c. Advances to employees is a borrowing from Wagestream.

Movement in net debt excluding leases

2024 2023
52 weeks S3weeks
ém fim
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents , _ 62 (86)
Add back cash flows in respect of other components of net debt: _. j
Principal repayments on securitised debt 128 121
Principal receipts on cross currency swap - oo ___ 2) (21)
Principal payments on cross cu rrency / swap ” 16 16
Short-term financing of employee advances (2) =
Decrease in net debt arisingfromcash flows __ 183 30
Movement in capitalised debt issue costs net of accrued interest ) a)
Decrease in net debt excluding leases 182 29
Opening net debt excluding leases (1,170) (1,198)
Foreign exchange movements on cash q) (1)
Closing net debt excluding leases (989) (1,170)

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024___165

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd

Section 4 - Capital structure and financing costs continued

AA Net debt continued
Movement in lease liabilities:

2024 2023
52 weeks 53 weeks
£m £m
Opening lease liabilities (463) (481)
Acquired through business combinations (note 5.1) () (5)
Additions* . (28) (35)
Interest charged during the period (note 4.2) a7) (16)
Repayment of principal 41 53
Payment of interest 7 16
Disposals 7 4
Foreign currency movements 1 1
Closing lease liabilities (447) (463)
a. Additions to lease liabilities include new leases and lease extensions or rent reviews relating to existing leases.
The movement in net debt including leases for the 52 weeks ended 28 September 2024 is represented by:
At Cash flow Non-cash Foreign At
30 September movements movements currency 28 September
2023 intheperiod == intheperiod == movements 2024
ém ém ém £m £m
Securitised debt (1,309) 128 - 10 (1,171)
Derivatives hedging securitised debt 34 (5) - (10) 19
(1,275) 123 - - (1,152)
Revolving credit facilities 2 - ta) - 1
Short-term financing - (2) - - (2)
Lease liabilities? (463) 58 (43) 1 (447)
Total liabilities arising from financing activities (1,736) 179 (44) 1 (1,600)
Cash and cash equivalents 103 62 _- qd) 164
Net debt including leases (1,633) 241 (44) - (1,436)
a. Cash movements of £58m relate to £41m repayment of principal on lease liabilities and £17m of interest paid on lease liabilities.
The movement in net debt including leases for the 53 weeks ended 30 September 2023 is represented by:
A Cash fow Non-cash Foreign At
24 September movements movements currency 30 September
2022 inthe period inthe period movements + 2023
£m Em £m ‘£m £m
Securitised debt (1,447) 121 (3) 20 (1,309)
Derivatives hedging securitised debt 59 (5) - (20) 34
(1,388) 116 (3) - (1,275)
Revolving credit facilities - 2 - - 2
Lease liabilities* (481) 69 (52) 1 (463)
Total liabilities arising from financing activities . (1,869) 187 (55) 1 (1,736)
Cash and cash equivatents 190 (86) - (1) 103
Net debt including leases (1,679) 101 (55) - (1,633)

a. Cash movements of £69m relate to £53m repayment of principal on tease liabilities and £16m of interest paid on tease liabilities.

166. Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple .


Introduction Strategie Report Governance Financial Statements | Other [nformation

4.5 Pensions

Accounting policy

Retirement and death benefits have been provided for eligible employees in the United Kingdom principally by the Mitchells & Butlers Pension
Pian (MABPP) and the Mitchells & Butlers Executive Pension Plan (MABEPP). These plans are funded, HMRC approved, occupational pension
schemes with defined contribution (DC) and defined benefit (DB) sections.

In the current period, the defined contribution members within MABEPP were transferred to MABPP. Following this, in September 2024, the
defined benefit liabilities within MABEPP were bought out with Legal & General Assurance Society Limited. This means there are no liabilities
within MABEPP at the year end and so the defined benefit liabilities at the year end relate to the funded MABPP, together with an unfunded
unapproved pension arrangement (the Executive Top-Up Scheme, or MABETUS) in respect of certain individuals who were previously members
of MABEPP. The assets of the plans are held in self-administered trust funds separate from the Company's assets.

The plans operate under the UK regulatory framework and are governed by Trustee Boards composed of member-nominated and independent
Trustee Directors. The Trustee Directors make investment decisions and set the required contribution rates based on independent actuarial
advice and consultation with the Company.

Inaddition, Mitchells & Butlers plc also provides a workplace pension plan in line with the Workplace Pensions Reform Regulations. This automatically
enrols all eligible workers into a Qualifying Workplace Pension Plan.

Actuarial surplus((liabilities) are the present value of the fair value of the schemes’ assets less the defined benefit obligation. The defined benefit
obligation has been calculated using the projected unit credit method. This is based on a number of financial assumptions and estimates, the
determination of which may be significant to the balance sheet valuation.

Apension surplus is recognised where there is an expectation of future economic benefit to the company. In the current period, the Trustees
of MABPP resolved that any surplus arising in MABPP can be used to pay for the employer contributions to the defined contribution section

of MABPP. Since this is a change in the Trustee's agreed use of the MABPP surplus compared to previous years, the accounting surplus is being
recognised in full in this year's accounts, with the full value of the surplus of £164m expected to be an economic benefit to the Company. This
economic benefit has been determined over the future lifetime of the DC section of the pian, in particular on the basis that this section remains
open to new members in its current form, and therefore will continue to remain active for the foreseeable future. In prior periods no actuarial
surplus has been recognised as the Company did not have an unconditional right to recover any surplus from the pension plans.

There is no current service cost as all defined benefit schemes are closed to future accrual. The net pension finance charge, calculated by applying
the discount rate to the pension deficit or surplus at the beginning of the period, is shown within finance income or expense. The administration
costs of the schemes are recognised within operating costs in the income statement.

Remeasurement comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of minimum funding requirements, and the return on schemes' assets are
recognised immediately in the balance sheet with a charge or credit to the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which they occur.

Curtailments and settlements relating to the Group's defined benefit plans are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the
curtailment or settlement occurs. “

For the defined contribution arrangements, the charge against profit is equal to the amount of contributions payable for that period.

Measurement of'scheme assets and liabilities

MABEPP - buy-out

The Trustees of MABEPP bought-out the liabilities of the plan with Legal and General Assurance Society Limited on 20 September 2024, through
converting the overall bulk annuity policy (held by the Trustees as an investment since 2021) into individual policies in members’ own names. As part
of this process, a separate decision was made in August 2024 by the Company to convert the buy-in policy into a buy-out, which was independent of,
and not related to, the initial decision in December 2021 to purchase a buy-in policy.

As aresult of the decision to buy-out, which relieves the Company of primary responsibility for the obligation, this event has been treated asa
settlement of an equal and opposite amount on both the assets and liabilities, such that the net impact is a zero cost. Since the buy-out was close
tothe Company's year end, the settlement calculation has been calculated using the year end assumptions (the key assumptions of which are
set out below).

The intention is for MABEPP to be wound-up over the course of the next twelve months.

A £3mcash surplus remaining in MABEPP at the year end has been recognised as it will transfer to MABPP on the wind up of the scheme
and recovered from future DC scheme contributions in line with the MABPP surplus.

Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024.__ 167

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd

Section 4 - Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.5 Pensions continued

MABPP — buy-in policy transaction

During the prior period the Trustees of the MABPP entered a Bulk Purchase Agreement (‘BPA’) with Standard Life. The resulting policy was set

up to provide the plan with sufficient funding to cover all known member benefits of the scheme. As in the prior period the following considerations
remain applicable:

* the employer is not relieved of primary responsibility for the obligation. The policy simply covers the benefit payments that continue to be payable
by the scheme;

* the contract is effectively an investment of the scheme;

* the contract provides the option to convert the annuity into individual policies, which would transfer the obligation to the insurer (known as a
“buy-out"). Whilst this course of action may be considered in future, this is not a requirement and a separate decision will be required before any
buy-out proceeds. The Company had not made a decision, and has still not made a decision, to move to buy-out; and

* the Trustee and insurer continue to progress a data cleanse project. An adjustment has been made tothe assets held by the MABPP to allow
for £6m additional premium, which is the current best estimate of the true-up premium payable to the insurer once the data cleanse project is
completed. This is based on the current status of the data cleanse project, and may be updated in future as this progresses to allow for any further
changes, including the potential impact of the recent Virgin Media legal case.

MABPP - recognition of actuarial surplus

Over the course of 2024, the Trustees of MABPP resolved that any surplus arising in MABPP can be used to pay for the employer contributions

to the defined contribution section of MABPP. In connection with this, before the buy-out of MABEPP occurred in September 2024, the defined
contribution members within MABEPP were moved across to MABPP, along with the remaining surplus funds from the MABEPP (with the exception
of £3m which remains in MABEPP and which will transfer to MABPP on the wind up of the scheme), to enable future employer contributions for them
to be met out of the surplus in the MABPP. Since this is a change in the Trustee's agreed use of the MABPP surplus compared to previous years, the
accounting surplus is being recognised in full in this year’s accounts, with the full value of the surplus of £164m (including the £3m remaining within
MABEPP until the wind up of the scheme) expected to be an economic benefit to the Company. This economic benefit has been determined over the
future lifetime of the DC section of the plan, in particular on the basis that this section remains open to new members in its current form, and therefore
will continue to remain active for the foreseeable future. In prior periods no actuarial surplus has been recognised as the Company did not have

an unconditional right to recover any surplus from the pension plans.

Actuarial valuation

The actuarial valuations used for IAS 19 (revised) purposes are based on the results of the latest full actuarial valuation carried out as at 31 March 2022,
which completed in December 2022, and updated by the schemes’ independent qualified actuaries to 28 September 2024. Schemes’ assets are stated
at market value at 28 September 2024 and the liabilities of the schemes have been assessed as at the same date using the projected unit method.

IAS 19 (revised) requires that the schemes’ liabilities are discounted using market yields at the end of the period on high-quality corporate bonds.

The principal financial assumptions have been updated to reflect changes in market conditions in the period and are as follows. Whilst the Executive
Plan bought out all it's liabilities with Legal & General during the period, the assumptions applicable to the Executive Plan have been used in the
settlement calculation given it's proximity to the year end date.

2024 2023
Main plan _ Executive plan Mainplan Executive plan
Discount rate 5.1% 5.1% 5.7% 5.7%
Pensions increases — RPI max 5% 3.0% 3.0% 3.1% 3.1%
Inflation rate - RPI 3.2% 3.2% 3.3% 3.3%

The discount rate is based on ayield curve for AA corporate rated bonds which are consistent with the currency and estimated term of retirement
benefit liabilities.

To determine the RPI assumption the gilt implied inflation yield curve has been used, reflecting the duration of the Plan's cash flows, and adjusting
for an assumed inflation risk premium.

The mortality assumptions were reviewed following the 2022 actuarial valuation, although for MABETUS a member-specific analysis has been
carried out in 2024 to set a more appropriate mortality assumption due to the unique membership make-up (previously the MABETUS life
expectancies were set equal to those used in the Executive Plan). A summary of the average life expectancies assumed is as fotlows:

2024 2023
Main plan — Executive plan MABETUS Mainplan Executive plan MABETUS
years years years years years years
Male member aged 65 (current life expectancy) 20.9 22.9 24.3 20.9 22.9 _ 22.9
Male member aged 45 (life expectancy at 65) 22.3 24.3 25.9 22.3 24.3 24.3
Female member aged 65 (current lifeexpectancy) _ : 23.8 24.7 27.7 233.8 24.7 24.7
Female member aged 45 (life expectancy at 65) 25.2 26.1 28.9 25.2 26.1 26.1

168__ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategie Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Minimum funding requirements
The results of the 2022 actuarial valuation, which was completed in December 2022, show a marginal surplus. As a result of the 2022 actuarial
valuation, the Company subsequently agreed a revised schedule of contributions for both the MABPP and MABEPP schemes.

For the MABEPP, the agreement confirms that from December 2022, payments into the "Blocked Account” that commenced after completion
of the buy-in transaction in 2021 have been suspended.

Forthe MABPP, contributions since December 2022 were made into a “Blocked Account”. As the scheme is in surplus, in the current period the
Trustee agreed to return in full the balance of £36m in the blocked account to the Company, which the Company had recognised within non-current
receivable in the prior period.

Asa result, the remaining Blocked Account for MABEPP is recognised within current other receivables (note 3.4) as recovery of this amount is expected.
The amount recognised as at 28 September 2024 is £12m (2023 £47m; £12m in respect of the MABEPP blocked account and £35m in respect of the
MABPP blocked account, since repaid — both shown within non-current other receivables).

Asaresult of the above changes, the resulting net pension asset as at 28 September 2024 is £139m, which represents £164m surplus in relation
to MABEPP and MABPP, with aliability of £25m relating to MABETUS.

Sensitivity to changes in actuarial assumptions

The sensitivities regarding principal actuarial assumptions, assessed in isolation, that have been used to measure the scheme liabilities are set out
below. These are considered to be reasonable sensitivities based on the average movement over the last three financial periods. There was no
change in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity analysis from the prior period.

Increase/

(decrease)

in actuarial

surplus

2024

2024 £m

0.5% increase in discount rate 2
0.2% increase in inflation rate . @)

Additional one year decrease to life expectancy 1

Increase/

(decrease)

in actuarial surplus

2023

2023 £m

1.9% increase in discount rate 4
0.3% increase in inflation rate . : (2)

Additional one year decrease to life expectancy =

The sensitivity analysis presented above may not be representative of the actual change in the defined benefit obligation as it is unlikely that the
changes in assumptions would occur in isolation of one another as some of the assumptions may be correlated. In presenting the above sensitivity
analysis, the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been calculated using the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting
period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation liabilities recognised in the statement of financial position.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024 __169

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued

Section 4.- Capital structure and financing costs continued

4.5 Pensions continuccl

Principal risks and assumptions

Following the MABEPP buy-out the principal risks and assumptions apply to the MABPP and MABETUS schemes which are not exposed to any
unusual, entity specific or scheme specific risks. Whilst there are general risks as set out below, they have been mitigated in the MABPP due to the
impact of the buy-in.

inflation - The majority of the plans’ obligations are linked to inflation. Higher inflation will lead to increased liabilities which is offset by the MABPP
holding the BPA with Standard Life.

interest rate - The plans’ liabilities are determined using discount rates derived from yields on AA-rated corporate bonds. A decrease in corporate
bond yields will increase plan liabilities though this will be offset by the MABPP holding the BPA with Standard Life.

Mortality — The majority of the plans’ obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the members and their partners, so any increase in life
expectancy will result in an increase in the plans liabilities, although this will be offset by the MABPP holding the BPA with Standard Life.

Asset returns — The main asset held by the MABPP is the BPA with Standard Life, with other assets invested in a diversified portfolio of equities,
bonds and other assets. Volatility in the non-BPA asset values will lead to movements in the net deficit/surplus reported in the Group balance sheet
for the plans which in addition will also impact the pension finance charge in the Group income statement.

Amounts recognised in respect of defined benefit schemes
The following amounts relating to the Group’s defined benefit and defined contribution arrangements have been recognised in the Group income
statement and Group statement of comprehensive income.

2024 2023
52 weeks S3weeks
Group income statement £m fm
Operating profit:
Employer contributions (defined contribution plans) (note 2.3) (19) (17)
Administrative costs (defined benefit plans) (5) (5)
Charge to operating profit (24) (22)
Finance costs: . .
Net pensions finance income on actuarial surplus . 6 14
Additional pensions finance charge due to asset ceiling/minimum funding (8) (17)
Net finance charge in respect of pensions (2) (3)
Total charge (26) (25)
2024 2023
52 weeks SB weeks
Group statement of comprehensive income ém ém
Return on scheme assets and effects of changes in assumptions ; 16 (153)
Movement in pension liabilities recognised due to asset ceiling/minimum funding 150 195
Remeasurement of pension liabilities 166 42
2024 2023
Group balance sheet ém Em
Fair value of schemes’ assets 1,238 1,434
Present value of schemes liabilities (1,099) (1,313)
Actuarial surplus in the schemes . 139 121
Additional liabilities recognised due to asset ceiling/minimum funding = (143)
Total pension asset/(liabilities)* 139 (22)
Associated deferred tax (liability)/asset (note 2.4) (35) 5

a. The total net pension asset of £139m (2023 £22m liability) is presented as a pension asset of £164m, made up of anet asset from the two funded plans, and liabilities of £25m_
(2023 £22m), presented as a £1m current liability (2023 £1m) and a £24m non-current liability (2023 £21m).

170________ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introcluction Strategie Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information

The movement in the fair value of the schemes’ assets in the period is as follows:

Schemes’ assets

2024 2023
ém £m
Fair value of schemes’ assets at beginning of period _ _ 1,434 1,699

Interest income _ 79 88
Remeasurement gainK{loss):

— Loss on schemes’ assets (excluding amounts included in net finance charge) _ (277)
Additional employer contributions . 8
Benefitspaid (79),

Administration costs
Settlements
At end of period 1,238 1,434

~ ee ee -— 9).

Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligation are as follows:

Defined benefit obligation

2024 2023
&m ém

Present value of defined benefit obligation at beginning of period i. _ (1313) 4,
Interestcost, ee ee LL

Benefitspaid oo eee eee
Remeasurement losses: _.
of changesin demographic assumptions
of changes in financial assumptions

—Effect of experience adjustments
Settlements

At end of period? (1,099) (1,313)

———

a. The defined benefit obligation comprises £25m (2023 £22m) relating to the MABETUS unfunded plan and £1,074m (2023 £1.291m} relating to the funded plans.
The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation is 13 years (2023 13 years).

The major categories and fair values of assets of the MABPP and MABEPP schemes at the end of the reporting period are as follows. All assets are
held by the MABPP other than £3m cash in the MABEPP.

2024 2023
im ém
Cashand equivalents
Pooledinvestmentfunds:
_zRealestatedebt_ _ _ 16 23_
Debtinstruments: __ . ae ee
—~Securedincomedebt 82
Forward foreign exchange contracts _ ie 1
MABPP insurance policies _ __ 1,058 983
MABEPP insurance policy - 281

Fair value of assets . 1,238 1,434

The actual investment return achieved on schemes’ assets over the period was a profit of 12.9% (2023 loss of 12.0%), which represented a gain
of £180m (2023 loss of £189m).

Cash and cash equivalents are classified as Level 1 instruments. Forward foreign exchange contracts are classified as Level 2 instruments. Real estate
debt and secured income debt are classified as Level 3 instruments.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024. m


Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd

Section 4 - Capital structure and financing costs continucd

4.6 Share-based payments

Accounting policy

The Group operates a number of equity-settled share-based compensation plans, whereby, subject to meeting any relevant conditions,
employees are awarded shares or rights over shares. The cost of such awards is measured at fair value, excluding the effect of non market-based
vesting conditions, on the date of grant. The expense is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period and is adjusted for the estimated
effect of non market-based vesting conditions and forfeitures, on the number of shares that will eventually vest due to employees leaving the
employment of the Group. Fair values are calculated using either the Black-Scholes, Binomial or Monte Carlo simulation models depending

on the conditions attached to the particular share scheme.

Sharesave plan options granted to employees are treated as cancelled when employees cease to contribute to the scheme. This results in an
accelerated recognition of the expense that would have arisen over the remainder of the original vesting period.

Schemes in operation
The net charge recognised for share-based payments in the period was £7m (2023 £5m).

The Group had six equity-settled share schemes (2023 five) in operation during the period: the Performance Share Plan (PSP); the Restricted Share
Plan (RSP); the Performance Restricted Share Plan (PRSP); Sharesave Plan (SAYE); Share Incentive Plan (SIP) and Short Term Deferred Incentive
Plan (STDIP).

The vesting of all awards or options is generally dependent upon participants remaining in the employment of a participating company during the
vesting period. Further details on each scheme are provided in the Report on Directors’ remuneration on pages 92 to 112.

The fair value of awards under the Performance Share Plan, the Restricted Share Plan, the Share Incentive Plan and the Short Term Deferred incentive
Plan are equal to the share price on the date they are granted as there is no price to be paid and employees are entitled to Dividend Accrued Shares

to the value of ordinary dividends paid or payable during the vesting period. There was no award under the RSP in the current period, as this scheme
has been replaced by the PSP. The fair value of options granted under these schemes is shown below.

Fair value of options granted

2024 2023
Share Incentive Plan 282.5p 228.0p
Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan 229.0p 134.6p
Performance Share Plan 260.2p -
Restricted Share Plan - 134.6p

The following table sets out weighted average information about how the fair value of the Sharesave Plan option grants were calculated.

2024 2023
Sharesave Sharesave
Plan Plan
Valuation model “Black-Scholes Black-Scholes
Weighted average share price 282.5p 228.0p
Exercise price 278.0p 211.0p
Expected dividend yield - -
Risk-free interest rate 4.13% 4.30%
Volatility* 43.1% 42.2%
Expected life (years)? 3.5 41
Weighted average fair value of grants during the period 110.2p 94.1p

a. The expected volatility is determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Company's share price commensurate with the expected term of the options and share awards.
b. The expected life of the options represents the average length of time between grant date and exercise date.

Scheme movements in the period
The tables below summarise the movements in outstanding options during the period for each scheme.

Weighted average

Number of shares exercise price

2024 2023 2024 2023

Sharesave Plan m m P P
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 5.6 57 _ 219.5 223.5
Granted 1.8 2.0 278.0 211.0
Forfeited . . . (0.7) (1.1) 220.8 228.7
Expired (0.1) (1.0) 223.2 216.0
Outstanding at the end of the period 6.6 5.6 235.4 219.5
Exercisable at the end of the period - - - =

Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple


Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information

The outstanding options for the sharesave plan scheme had an exercise price of between 199.0p and 278.0p (2023 between 199.0p and 256.0p)
and the weighted average remaining contract life was 2.7 years (2023 3.1 years). The number of forfeited shares in the period includes 369,713
(2023 744,873) cancellations.

Sharesave plan options were exercised on arrange of dates. The average share price through the period was 260.0p (2023 174.9p).

Number of shares
2024 2023
Share Incentive Plan = i
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 2.2 21
Granted 0.3 03
Exercised (0.2) (0.2)
Outstanding at the end of the period 2.3 2.2
Exercisable at the end of the period 1.5 14

Options under the Share Incentive Plan are capable of remaining within the SIP trust indefinitely while participants continue to be employed.

Number of shares

2024 2023
Restricted Share Pian m m
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 4.8 2.4
Granted - 2.4
Exercised (1.0) -
Forfeited (0.1) -
Outstanding at the end of the period 3.7 48

Exercisable at the end of the period = =

The weighted average remaining contract life of the RSP options was 0.8 years (2023 1.5 years).

Number of shares

2024 2023

Performance Share Plan m m
Outstanding at the beginning of the period - -
Granted 2.7 -
Outstanding at the end of the period 2.7 -

Exercisable at the end of the period - -

The weighted average remaining contract life of the PSP options was 2.2 years.

Number of shares
2024 2023
Performance Restricted Share Plan m m.
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.5 18
Expired (0.5) (1.3)
Outstanding at the end of the period = 0.5

Exercisable at the end of the period - =

The weighted average remaining contract life of the PRSP options was nil years (2023 0.1 years).

Number of shares

2024 2023

STDIP m m
Outstanding at the beginning of the period 0.1 -
Granted 0.3 0.1
Outstanding at the end of the period 0.4 0.1

Exercisable at the end of the period - -

The weighted average remaining contract life of the STDIP options was 0.6 years (2023 0.7 years).

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024. 173.


Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd
Section 4.- Capital structure and financing costs continucd
A.7 Equity

Accounting policies
Own shares

The cost of own shares held in employee share trusts and in treasury are deducted from shareholders’ equity until the shares are cancelled,
reissued or disposed of. Where such shares are subsequently sold or reissued, the fair value of any consideration received is also included

in shareholders’ equity.

Dividends

Dividends proposed by the Board but unpaid at the period end are not recognised in the financial statements until they have been approved

by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. Interim Dividends are recognised when paid.

Scrip Dividends are fully paid up from the share premium account. They are accounted for as an increase in share capital for the nominal value

of the shares issued, and a resulting reduction in share premium.

2024 2023
Number of Number of

Called up share capital shares Em shares £m
Allotted, called up and fully paid

Ordinary shares of 8°%ap each

At start of period 597,726,859 51 597,383,363 51
Share capital issued? : 330,812 - 343,496 -
At end of period 598,057,671 51 597,726,859 51

a. During the period, the Company issued 330,812 (2023 343,496) shares at nominal value under share option schemes, for consideration of £28,257 (2023 £29,340).

All of the ordinary shares rank equally with respect to voting rights and rights to receive Ordinary and Special Dividends. There are no restrictions

onthe rights to transfer shares.
Details of options granted under the Group's share schemes are contained in note 4.6.

Dividends
There were no dividends declared or paid during the current or prior period.

Share premium account

The share premium account represents amounts received in excess of the nominal value of shares on issue of new shares. Share premium of fnil

(2023 Enil) has been recognised on shares issued in the period.

Capital redemption reserve

The capital redemption reserve movement arose on the repurchase and cancellation by the Company of ordinary shares during prior periods.

Revaluation reserve

The revaluation reserve represents the unrealised gain generated on revaluation of the property estate with effect from 29 September 2007.

It comprises the excess of the fair value of the estate over deemed cost, net of related deferred taxation.

174.____ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction epic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information

Own shares held
Own shares held by the Group represent the shares in the Company held by the employee share trusts.

During the period, the employee share trusts acquired 2,500,000 shares at a cost of £7,137,350 (2023 nil shares at a cost of Enil) and subscribed
for 302,420 shares (2023 339,240) at a cost of £nil (2023 Enil). The employee share trusts released 1,280,727 (2023 195,457) shares to employees
onthe exercise of options and other share awards for a total consideration of £2,833,597 (2023 fnil). The 5,512,147 shares held by the trusts

at 28 September 2024 had a market value of £17m (2023 3,990,454 shares held had a market value of £9m).

The Company has established two employee share trusts:

Share Incentive Plan (‘SIP') Trust

The SIP Trust was established in 2003 to purchase shares on behalf of employees participating in the Company's Share Incentive Plan. Under this
scheme, eligible employees are awarded free shares which are normally held in trust for a holding period of at least three years. After three years, the
shares may be transferred or sold by the employee but would be subject to income tax and National Insurance contributions. After five years the shares
may be transferred to or sold by the employee free of income tax and National Insurance contributions. The SIP Trust buys the shares in the market

or subscribes for newly issued shares with funds provided by the Company. During the holding period, dividends are paid directly to the participating
employees. At 28 September 2024, the trustees, Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited, held 2,285,174 (2023 2,235,495) shares in the Company.

Of these shares, 1,127,251 (2023 1,112,099) shares are available to employees, 1,131,504 (2023 1,112,172) shares have been awarded to employees
but are still required to be held within the S{P Trust until the three year holding period has expired, and the remaining 26,419 (2023 11,224) shares

are unallocated.

Employee Benefit Trust (‘EBT’)

The EBT was established in 2003 in order to satisfy the exercise or vesting of existing and future share options and awards under the Restricted Share
Plan, Performance Restricted Share Plan, Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan and the Sharesave Plan. The EBT purchases shares in the market or
subscribes for newly issued shares, using funds provided by the Company, based on expectations of future requirements. Dividends are waived by the
EBT. At 28 September 2024, the trustees, Apex Group Fiduciary Services Limited, were holding 3,226,973 (2023 1,754,959) shares in the Company.

Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedging instruments related
to hedged future cash flows.

Translation reserve
The translation reserve is used to record exchange differences arising from the translation of the consolidated financial statements of foreign subsidiaries.

Retained earnings
The Group's main operating subsidiary, Mitchells & Butlers Retail Limited, had retained earnings under FRS 101 of £2,384m at 28 September 2024
(2023 £2,227m). Its ability to distribute these reserves by way of dividends is restricted by the securitisation covenants (see note 4.1).

Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024. 175


Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd

Section 5 - Other notes

5.1 Acquisitions

On 14 May 2024, the Group acquired the entire share capital of Pesto Restaurants Ltd, a group of ten restaurants based in the UK, for consideration
which will be determined over two payments and partly contingent on future performance of the business. The consideration will be no more than
£15mand has been assessed at £12m for the purposes of calculation of goodwill under IFRS 3.

The amounts recognised in respect of identifiable assets and liabilities relating to the acquisition were as follows.

Fair value on
acquisition
ém
Land and buildings 7
Right-of-use assets 7
Brand intangible 2
Cash and cash equivalents 2
Trade and other payables (3)
Lease liabilities (5)
Borrowings (1)
Deferred tax liability (2)
Net identifiable assets of Pesto Restaurants Ltd 7
Goodwill 5
Fair value of assets and liabilities 12
Consideration:
Initial cash consideration 4
Contingent consideration 8
Total consideration 12
Initial cash consideration 4
Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired (2)
Net cash outflow on acquisition 2

Goodwill of £5m has arisen on the acquisition of Pesto Restaurants Ltd primarily through the benefits that will be gained from cost synergies that
will be obtained on joining the Group and future conversions of other Group outlets.

The brand intangible has been fair valued by reference to an estimated royalty income based on forecast cash flows for Pesto Restaurants Ltd
over the expected useful life of 20 years.

Contingent consideration of £8m is shown as anon-current liability within other payables (see note 3.4). Contingent consideration is payable

to the previous owners of Pesto Restaurants Ltd, at alevel dependent on the financial performance of that business over the 12 months ending

27 September 2025, and not to exceed £15m. it has been measured at its fair value at the acquisition date based on trading forecast and discounted
at arisk-free rate.

Contingent consideration is measured in line with the Group's accounting policy for business combinations (see note 3.6). It will be re-measured at
subsequent reporting dates, as anon-measurement period adjustment, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognised in the income statement.

Pesto Restaurants Ltd has contributed £8m to revenue and £1m to the Group's operating profit for the period between acquisition date and the
balance sheet date. If Pesto Restaurants Limited had been included asa subsidiary since the start of the financial period, it would have contributed
£20m revenue and £2m to the Group's operating profit.

Inthe prior year the Group completed the acquisition of 3Sixty Restaurants Limited. In August 2018, the Group acquired 40% of the share capital
of 3Sixty Restaurants Limited for £4m, together with a put and call option that would enable the Group to purchase the remaining 60% share capital
at a future date. On 18 April 2023, the Group exercised the call option, resulting in the acquisition of the remaining 60% of share capital of 3Sixty
Restaurants Limited, for £17m, with the purchase completing on 18 June 2023. The date of the option exercise, 18 April 2023, was considered

to be the date at which control passed to the Group, and therefore consolidation took place from that date.

176__ Annual Report and Accounts 2024 Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements — Other Information

Fair value on

acquisition

ém

Consideration: : .

Cash consideration for purchase of the remaining 60% interest 7
Less: cash and cash equivalents acquired (5)
Net cash outflow on acquisition 12
Plus: Fair value of the existing 40% interest at acquisition 12
Less: settlement of pre-existing contracts (3)

Net consideration 21

At acquisition, the carrying value of the investment in 3Sixty Restaurants Limited of £7m was revised to fair value of £12m, with a gain of £5m
recognised as a separately disclosed item within the income statement (see note 2.2).

In addition, the pre-existing property leases that existed between the Group and 3Sixty Restaurants Limited were treated as settled at the acquisition
date, with a resulting £3m loss recognised as a separately disclosed item within the income statement (see note 2.2).

5.2 Related party transactions

Key management personnel

Employees of the Mitchells & Butlers plc Group who are members of the Board of Directors or the Executive Committee of Mitchells & Butlers plc are
deemed to be key management personnel. It isthe Board who have responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.

Compensation of key management personnel of the Group:

2024 2023
S2weeks 53weeks
ém Em
Short-term employee benefits 7 6

Movements in share options held by the Directors of Mitchells & Butlers plc are summarised in the Report on Directors’ remuneration in the
information labelled as audited by KPMG on pages 92 to 108.

Associate companies

The Group held a number of property lease agreements with its associate companies, 3Sixty Restaurants Limited and Fatboy Pub Company Limited.
As disclosed in note 5.1, 3Sixty Restaurants Limited was acquired during the prior period and from 18 April 2023 is treated as a subsidiary under
control of the Group. Disclosures below for 3Sixty Restaurants Limited relate to the period up to 18 April 2023 only.

The Group has entered into the following transactions with the associates:

3Sixty Restaurants Limited Fatboy Pub Company Limited
2024 2023 2024 2023
S2weeks S3weeks 52 weeks 53 weeks
£000 £000 £000 £000
Rent charged - 640 128 100
Sales of goods and services - 419 12 4
- 4,059 140 104

The balance due from Fatboy Pub Company at 28 September 2024 was £14,000 (2023 £10,000), net of a provision of fnil (2023 £179,000).

Related parties

During the period, Mitchells & Butlers Retail Limited entered an option arrangement with Tottenham Hotspur Football Co Limited (THFC), a related
party, to sell the company’s leasehold interest in a trading site. THFC paid an agreed amount to the company under the option agreement. Should the
option under the option agreement be exercised, THFC would pay a further amount to acquire the site at the fair market value at the time the option
agreement was entered into.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.___ 177

Financial Statements

Notes to the consolidated financial statements continucd

Section 5 —- Other notes continued

5.3 Subsidiaries and associates
Subsidiaries
Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated on consolidation.

Mitchells & Butlers plc is the ultimate controlling party and the beneficial owner of all of the equity share capital, either itself or through subsidiary
undertakings, of the following companies:

Country of Registration

Name of subsidiary incorporation ‘Number * Nature of business
Principal operating subsidiaries

Mitchells & Butlers Retail Limited England and Wales 00024542 Leisure retailing
Mitchells & Butlers Retail (No. 2) Limited England and Wales 03959664 Leisure retailing
Ha Ha Bar & Grill Limited England and Wales 06295359 Leisure retailing
Orchid Pubs & Dining Limited England and Wales 06754332 Leisure retailing
ALEX Gaststatten Gesellschaft mbH & Co KG_ Germany Leisure retailing
Pesto Restaurants Ltd EnglandandWales 05162378 Leisure retailing
Midco 1 Limited England and Wales 05835640 Property leasing company
Mitchells & Butlers Leisure Retail Limited England and Wales 01001181 Service company
Mitchells & Butlers Germany GmbH" Germany Service company
Mitchells & Butlers Finance plc England and Wales 04778667 Finance company
Other subsidiaries

Mitchells & Butlers (Property) Limited? England and Wales 01299745 Property management
Standard Commercial Property Developments Limited England and Wales 00056525 Property development
Mitchells & Butlers Holdings (No.2) Limited? England and Wales 06475790 Holding company
Mitchells & Butlers Holdings Limited? England and Wales 03420338 Holding company
Mitchells & Butlers Leisure Holdings Limited? England and Wales 02608173 Holding company
Mitchells & Butlers Retail Holdings Limited . England and Wales 04887979 Holding company
Ego Restaurants Holdings Limited England and Wales 06425958 Non-trading
Old Kentucky Restaurants Limited England and Wales 00465905 Trademark ownership
Mitchells & Butlers (IP) Limited? England and Wales 04885717 Dormant
Mitchells & Butlers Retail Property Limited*> England and Wales 06301758 Non-trading,
Mitchells and Butlers Healthcare Trustee Limited? England and Wales 04659443 Healthcare trustee
ALEX Gaststatten Immobiliengesellschaft mbH‘ Germany Property management
ALL BAR ONE Gaststatten Betriebsgesellschaft mbH* Germany Leisure retailing
ALEX Alsterpavillon Immobilien GmbH & Co KG* Germany Property management
ALEX Alsterpavillon Management GmbH‘ Germany Management company
ALEX Gaststatten Management GmbH* Germany Management company
Miller & Carter Gaststatten Betriebsgeselischaft mbH* Germany Leisure retailing
Browns Restaurant (Brighton) Limited4 England and Wales 01564302 Dormant
Browns Restaurant (Bristol) Limited® England and Wales 02351724 Dormant
Browns Restaurant (Cambridge) Limited¢ England and Wales 01237917 Dormant
Browns Restaurant (London) Limited? _ England and Wales 00291996 Dormant
Browns Restaurant (Oxford) Limited? . England and Wales 01730727 Dormant
Browns Restaurants Limited? . _ Englandand Wales | 01001320 _ Dormant
Lander & Cook Limited4 . : England and Wales 11160005 Dormant
3Sixty Restaurants Limited® England and Wales 07540663 Holding company

a. Shares held directly by Mitchells & Butlers ple.

b. These companies are exempt from the requirement to prepare individual audited financial statements in respect of the 52 week period ended 28 September 2024 by virtue
of sections 479A and 479C of the Companies Act 2006.

c. The German subsidiary companies are consolidated on the basis of their reporting period, being the year ending 30 September 2024 {2023 30 September 2023).

d. These companies are exempt from the requirement to prepare and file individual financial statements in respect of the 52 week period ended 28 September 2024 by virtue
of sections 394A and 448A of the Companies Act 2006. .

e. 3Sixty Restaurants Limited ceased trading during the year following the hive-up of its business and assets to Mitchells & Butlers Retail (No. 2) Limited, its parent company.

All companies registered in England and Wales operate within the United Kingdom. The registered office for these companies is 27 Fleet Street,
Birmingham, 83 UP.

All companies registered in Germany operate solely within Germany. The registered office for these companies is Adolfstrasse 16, 65185 Wiesbaden.

178 Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple


Introduction Strategie Report vernance

Financial Statements = Other Information

Associates
Details of the Company’s associates, held indirectly, are as follows:
Country of Proportion of
incorporation and ownership Proportion of voting
Name of associate Registered office operation Country of operation Nature of business interest % power interest %
Fatboy Pub Ampney House, Falcon Close, England and
Company Limited Quedgeley, Gloucester, GL2 4LS Wales United Kingdom _Leisure retailing 25 25

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024.___179

Financial Statements

c Bee oe anne

Mitchells & Butlers ple Company financial statcnients

Company balance sheet

28 September 2024
2024 2023
Notes £m ém
Non-current assets
Investments in subsidiaries 5 1,966 1,866
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 6 384 430
Pension surplus 4 164 ~
Deferred tax asset 9 - 10
2,514 2,306
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 6 206 205
Cash and cash equivalents 47 21
253 226
Current liabilities
Pension liabilities 4 (1) (1)
Borrowings 8 (4) (23)
Trade and other payables 7 (427) (315)
(432) (339)
Non-current liabilities
Pension liabilities 4 (24) (21)
Deferred tax liabilities 9 (31) -
(55) (21)
Net assets 2,280 2,172
Equity
Called up share capital 10 51 51
Share premium account 10 357 357
Capital redemption reserve 3 3
Own shares held 10 (9) (5)
Retained earnings 1,878 1,766
Total equity 2,280 2,172

The Company reported aloss for the 52 weeks ended 28 September 2024 of £16m (53 weeks ended 30 September 2023 loss of £16m).
The Company financial statements were approved by the Board and authorised for issue on 26 November 2024.

They were signed on its behalf by:

.

Tim dones An SG. ont

Chief Financial Officer lvA-
The accounting policies and the notes on pages 182 to 185 form an integral part of these Company financial statements.

Registered Number: 04551498

180. Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple


Introduction

Strategic Report

Governance

Company statement of changes in equity

For the 52 weeks ended 28 September 2024

Financial Statements — Other Information

Capital Own

Share Share redemption shares Retained Totat

capital premium reserve held earnings equity

£m £m Em £m £m £m

At 24 September 2022 51 357 3) 1744. 2,150
Loss after taxation . = - ot - (16) (16)
Remeasurement of pension liability - - an - "| a2 . 420
Deferred tax on remeasurement of pension liability - - = ; - (9) (9)

Total comprehensive income - - oo, - 7 17

Credit in respect of employee share schemes - - = - 5 5

At 30 September 2023 51 357 3B (5) _ 1,766 2,172
Lossaftertaxation = - - 7 (16) (16)

_ Remeasurement of pension liability = - ~ - 166 166
Deferred tax on remeasurement of pension liability - - - - (42) (42)
Total comprehensive income - - ~ ot 108 108
Purchase of own shares - - - oY ~ (7)
Release of own shares - - - 3 (3) -.

Credit in respect of employee share schemes - - - 7 7

At 28 September 2024 51 357 3 (9) 1,878 2,280

Details of each reserve are provided in note 4.7 to the consolidated financial statements.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024. 181

Financial Statements

Notes to the Mitchells & Butlers ple
Company financial statements

1. Basis of preparation

Basis of accounting

These Company financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ as issued
by the FRC.

As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to IFRS 2
Share-based Payments, requirements of iFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, presentation of acash flow statement, IAS 36 Impairment of
Assets, standards not yet effective and IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated
financial statements.

The Company financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention. The Company's accounting policies have been applied
ona consistent basis to those set out in the relevant notes to the consolidated financial statements.

Share options and share awards are granted to employees of the Mitchells & Butlers Group, by the Company. The Company accounts for share-based
payments, in line with the policy disclosed in note 4.6 of the consolidated financial statements. The Company's income statement charge in respect of
share-based payments represents the charge for options of employees of the Company. Other companies within the Group are recharged an amount
relating to their employees.

Going concern
The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements, as described in section 1 of the consolidated financial
statements.

Accounting judgements and sources of estimation uncertainty

The accounting judgements and estimates of the Company are considered alongside those of the Group. The key judgements and sources of
estimation uncertainty of the Company are: the recognition of the pension surplus described in note 4,5 of the consolidated financial statements;
the determination of appropriate cash flow forecasts for the investment impairment review described in note 5; and the assessment of expected
credit loss on amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings as described in note 6.

Foreign currencies
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rates ruling on the dates of the transactions. Monetary assets and liabilities
denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the relevant rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date.

2. Profit and loss account

Profit and loss account

The Company has not presented its own profit and loss account, as permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006.

The Company recorded a loss after tax of £16m (2023 loss of £16m), less dividends of Enil (2023 Enil).

Audit remuneration

Auditor's remuneration for audit services to the Company was £30,000 (2023 £30,000). This is borne by another Group company, as are any other
costs relating to non-audit services (see note 2.3 to the consolidated financial statements).

3. Employees and Directors

2024 2023
S2 weeks 53 weeks
Average number of employees, including part-time employees 2 2

Employees of Mitchells & Butlers plc consist of Executive Directors who are considered to be the key management personnel of the Company.

Details of employee benefits and post-employment benefits including share-based payments are included within the Report on Directors’
remuneration in the information labelled as audited by KPMG on pages 103 to 110.

The charge recognised for share-based payments in the period is £2m (2023 £1m).

182_______ Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction

Strategic Report

Governance

A. Pensions

Accounting policy

The accounting policy for pensions is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements in note 4.5.

Pension assets and liabilities

Financial Statements

Other Information

At 28 September 2024 the Company's pension liability was £25m (2023 £22m). Of this amount, £1m (2023 £1m) is acurrent liability and £24m

(2023 £21m) is anon-current liability.

At 28 September 2024 the Company's pension surplus was £164m (2023 £nil).

The Company is the sponsoring employer of the Group's pension plans. Information concerning the pension scheme arrangements operated by the
Company and associated current and future contributions is contained within note 4.5 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 167 to 171.

The pension amounts and disclosures included in note 4.5 to the consolidated financial statements are equivalent to those applicable for the Company.

3. Investments in subsidiaries

Accounting policy

The Company's investments in Group undertakings are held at cost less provision for impairment. The value of these investments are reviewed
for impairment if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, or that there is evidence that
past impairments may be reversed. Impairment reviews are performed by comparing the recoverable amount with carrying value. Recoverable
amount is deemed as being either future discounted cash flows where the subsidiary is a trading entity or net asset value where the subsidiary

has no trading assets.

Investments in
subsidiary
undertakings
£m
Cost .
At 24 September 2022 3,745
Additions -
At 30 September 2023 3,745
Additions® |” 100
At 28 September 2024 3,845
Provision
At 24 September 2022 1,879
Impairment i -
At 30 September 2023 1,879
Impairment -
At 28 September 2024 1,879
Net bookvalue
At 28 September 2024 1,966
At30 September 2023 ° 1,866
At24 September 2022 7 i 1,866

a. During the period the Company subscribed for 1 ordinary share, of £1 nominal value, at a subscription price of £100m each in Mitchells & Butlers Holdings (No.2) Limited

Mitchells & Butlers plc is the beneficial owner of all of the equity share capital of companies within the Group, either itself or through subsidiary

undertakings. In addition, the Company has an indirect investment in an associate company through subsidiary undertakings.

Certain subsidiary companies are exempt from the requirement to prepare individual audited financial statements in respect of the 52 week period
ended 28 September 2024 by virtue of sections 479A and 479C of the Companies Act 2006. In addition, certain other companies are exempt from
the requirement to prepare and file individual financial statements in respect of the 52 week period ended 28 September 2024 by virtue of sections

394A and 448A of the Companies Act 2006.

For further details, see note 5.3 of the consolidated financial statements for a full list of subsidiaries and associates.

Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024.

183,


Financial Statements

Notes to the Mitchells & Butlers ple
Company financial statements continucd

5. Investments in subsidiaries contmucd

Impairment review

Investments in trading subsidiaries have been tested for impairment using pre-tax forecast cash flows, discounted by applying a pre-tax discount rate
of 11.00% (2023 11.00%) and a long-term growth rate of 2.0% (2023 2.0%).

The long-term growth rate is based on up-to-date economic data points and for consistency with the overall Group profit forecast. No further impairment
has been recognised as a result of this review in the current or prior period, and there are no triggers to indicate any impairment should be reversed.

For the investment impairment review, judgement has been applied to determine the most appropriate forecast to use as a result of the impact of cost
inflation on site profits. Forecasts for cash flows of trading subsidiaries have been based on the overall Group forecast for FY 2025 to 2027 that was

in place at the balance sheet date. The assumptions are consistent with those used in the impairment review performed at a cash-generating unit level
as disclosed in the consolidated financial statements in note 3.3. The assessment is not sensitive to these key assumptions.

6. ‘Trade and other receivables

2024 2023
£m £m
Non-current Loe oe ee ee
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings oo 384 383
Defined benefit pension blocked accounts* - 47
384 430
2024 2023
ém £m
Current we eee
Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 192 204
Defined benefit pension blocked accounts* __. 12 -
Prepayments ° 2 1
206 205

a. Contributions to the MABEPP scheme have been paid into a blocked account since the scheme buy-in that took place during the year ended 24 September 2022 and are
expected to be repaid following the scheme buy-out (2023 £12m in respect of the MABEPP blocked account and £35m in respect of the MABPP blocked account, since repaid)
(see note 4.5 to the consolidated financial statements for further details).

Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings are repayable on demand. However, £384m (2023 £383m) of these amounts are disclosed as non-current
as they are not expected to be settled within the next twelve months. Interest is not charged on all balances. Where interest is charged, it is charged at
market rate, based on what can be achieved on corporate deposits.

Critical accounting judgements

Management has applied judgement when assessing the expected credit loss (ECL) on amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings. An assessment
of the future trading cash flows and asset values of the subsidiaries has been made which also considers intercompany transactions between group
companies. As a result of this assessment, no ECL has been recognised in the current period as it is immaterial.

The Directors consider that the carrying value of amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings approximately equates to their fair value.

7. Trade and other payables

Current
2024 2023
£m ém
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings* 425 313
Accrued charges : . _ wee ee 1 _
Other payables 1 2
427 315

a. Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings are repayable on demand. Interest is not charged on all balances. Where interest is charged, it is charged at market rate, based on
what can be achieved on corporate deposits.

184________ Annual Report and Accounts 2024 Mitchells & Butlers ple

Introduction Strategie Report Governance Financial Statements — Other Information

8. Borrowings

Accounting policy
The accounting policy for borrowings is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements in note 4.1.

Borrowings can be analysed as follows:

2024 2023
£m £m

Current . . .
Bank overdraft 4 23
Total borrowings 4 23

Unsecured revolving credit facility
The Company holds an uncommitted gross overdraft facility of £50m (2023 £50m) as part of the Group's notional pooling arrangements with
a net facility limit of £5m (2023 £5m) across the participating Group companies. The amount drawn at 28 September 2024 is £4m (2023 £23m).

9. Taxation

Accounting policy
The accounting policy for taxation is disclosed in the consolidated financial statements in note 2.4.

Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Movements in the deferred tax assets and liabilities can be analysed as follows:

£m

At 24 September 2022 19
Charged to other comprehensive income — pensions : : (9)

At30 September 2023 . 10

Charged to income statement — tax losses -

Credited to income statement — pensions ; : 1
Charged to other comprehensive income — pensions (42)
At 28 September 2024 (31)

Analysed as tax timing differences related to:

2024 2023

£m ém

Pensions (35) 5

Tax losses? - 3 4

Share-based payments 1 1

Deferred tax (liability)/asset (G1) 10

a. Tax losses arising in 2008 which are now recoverable by offset against other income.

Further information on the changes to tax legislation are provided in note 2.4 to the consolidated financial statements.

10. Equity

Called up share capital and share premium

Details of the amount and nominal value of called up and fully paid share capital and share premium are contained in note 4.7 to the consolidated
financial statements.

Dividends
Details of the dividends declared and paid by the Company are contained in note 4.7 to the consolidated financial statements.

Own shares held
Details of the amount of own shares held are contained in note 4.7 to the consolidated financial statements.

Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024__185

Other Information

Alternative performance measures

The performance of the Group is assessed using a number of Alternative Performance Measures (APMs).

The Group's results are presented both before and after separately disclosed items. Adjusted profit measures are presented excluding separately
disclosed items as we believe this provides both management and investors with useful additional information about the Group's performance and
supports an effective comparison of the Group's trading performance from one period to the next. Adjusted profit measures are reconciled to
unadjusted IFRS results on the face of the income statement with details of separately disclosed items provided in note 2.2.

The Group's results are also described using other measures that are not defined under IFRS and are therefore considered to be APMs. These APMs
are used by management to monitor business performance against both shorter-term budgets and forecasts but also against the Group's longer-term
strategic plans.

FY 2023 was a 53-week period, in order to aid comparability, we have provided a 52-week result. The 52-week result is derived by removing the 53rd
week of the financial year. FY 2024 was a 52-week year.

APMs used to explain and monitor Group performance include:

APM Definition Source
EBITDA Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, before movements Group income statement

in the valuation c of tk the property portfolio. _
Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA before s separately disclosed items is used to ‘calculate net debtt tof EBITDA. ~ Groupi income statement _
52-week Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA on a52-week basis, adjusted to remove the 53rd week of the period, APMD

before separately disclosed items is used to calculate net debt to EBITDA. _

. Earnings before interest and tax. _ Group inco!

Adjusted operating profit _Operating profit before sep separately y disc ditems. Group income statement __
52-week adjusted operating profit Operating profit before separately disc items adjusted to remove the 53rd APMB

_week of the period. oe __
S2-week revenue Revenue adjusted to remove the 53rd week of the year. -__APMB _
like-for-like sales growth Like-for-like sales growth reflects the sales performance against the comparable APMA

period in the prior year of UK managed pubs, bars and restaurants that were
Loe trading in the two periods being compared, unless marketed for disposal. __
52-week like-for-like sales growth _Like-for-like sales growth reflects the sales performance a; against thecomparable APMA
period in the prior year of UK managed pubs, bars and restaurants that were
trading in the two periods being compared, unless marketed for disposal.
Adjusted to remove 53rd week of the period.

Adjusted earnings per share (EPS) Earnings per share using 1g profit b before separately dis disclosed | items. . ___ Note 2.5 _
52- week adjusted earnings per Earnings per share using profit before separately disclosed items adjusted APMC

share (EPS) ___ for 53rd week of period. _ __ _
Net debt Net debt comprises cash and cash equivalents, cash deposits net of borrowings Note 4.4

and discounted lease liabilities. Presented on a constant currency basis due to

. ___the inclusion of the fixed exchange rate component of the cross currency swap.

Net debt : Adjusted EBITDA ~The multiple of net debt including lease liabilities, as per the balance sheet APMD.
compared against 52-week EBITDA before separately disclosed items, which
is a widely used leverage measure in the industry.

Net debt : Adjusted 52-week The multiple of net debt including lease liabilities, as per the balance sheet APMD
EBITDA compared against 52-week EBITDA before separately disclosed items, whichis a

widely used leverage measure in the industry. Adjusted for 53rd week of the period.
FY 2023 52-week reconciliation A53-week accounting period occurs every five years. FY 2023 was a 53-week APME

period and therefore presentation of a 52-week basis provides useful
comparability to previous financial years.
Return on capital Return generating capital includes investments made in new sites and investment APMF
in existing assets that materially changes the guest offer. Return on investment
is measured by incremental site EBITDA following investment expressed as a
percentage of return generating capital. Incremental EBITDA reflects the increase
in profit following investment, with the pre-investment profit being measured as
the average annual profit prior to investment. Return on investment is measured
for four years following investment. Measurement commences three periods
following the opening of the site.

Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple


Other Information

Introduction Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements

A. Like-for-like sales

The sales this year compared to the sales in the previous year of all UK managed sites that were trading in the two periods being compared, expressed
as a percentage. This widely used industry measure provides better insight into the trading performance than total revenue which is impacted by
acquisitions and disposals. Like-for-like sales is provided on a 52-week basis.

2024 2023 ——_‘Year-on-year
Source £m ém %
Reported revenue Income statement_— | 2,610.0 2,503.0 4.3%
Adjust for 53rd week APME ok. - (44.0) -
Less 52-week non like-for-like sales and income (254.1) (221.2) (14.9%)
52-week like-for-like sales 2,355.9 2,237.8 5.3%
Drink sales
2024 2023 ——_Year-on-year
Source £m £m %
Reported drink revenue Note 2.3 1,132.0 1,092.0 3.7%
Adjust for 53rd week ° - (20.0) -
Less 52-week non like-for-like drink sales (95.0) (83.7) (13.5%)
52-week drink like-for-like sales 1,037.0 988.3 4.9%
Food sales
2024 2023 ——Year-on-year
Source £m £m
Reported food revenue Note 2.3 1,385.0 1,323.0 4.7%
Adjust for 53rd week _ - (23.0) -
Less 52-week non like-for-like food sales (141.7) (119.6) (18.5%)
52-week food like-for-like sales 1,243.3 1,180.4 5.3%
Other sales
2024 2023 Year-on-year
Source £m £m %
Reported other revenue Note 2.3 93.0 87.8 5.9%
Adjust for 53rd week - (1.5) -
Less non like-for-like other sales (17.4) (17.2) 1.2%
52 week other like-for-like sales 75.6 69.1 9.4%

B. Adjusted operating profit

Operating profit before separately disclosed items as set out in the Group Income Statement. Separately disclosed items are those which are
separately identified by virtue of their size or nature. Excluding these items allows a more effective comparison of the Group's trading performance

from one period to the next.

2024 2023. Year-on-year
Source £m ém %
Operating profit Income statement 300 98 206.1%
Separately disclosed items Income statement 12 128 90.6%
Adjusted operating profit Income statement 312 226 38.1%
Adjusted operating profit 53rd week APME - (5) =
52-week adjusted operating profit 312 221 41.2%
Reported revenue _ Income statement 2,610 2,503 4.3%
Revenue 53rd week __ “APM E - (44) -
52-week revenue 2,610 2,459 6.1%
52-week adjusted operating margin 12.0% 9.0% 3.0ppts
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual Report and Accounts 2024. 187


Other Information

Alternative performance measures continucd

C. Adjusted carnings/loss) per share

Earnings per share using profit before separately disclosed items. Separately disclosed items are those which are separately identified by virtue
of their size or nature. Excluding these items allows a more effective comparison of the Group's trading performance from one period to the next.

2024 2023 ~——‘Year-on-year
Source ém ém %
Profit/(loss) for the period Income statement 149 (4) 3825.0%_
Add back separately disclosed items Income statement 8 100 (92.0%)
Adjusted profit 157 96 63.5%
Adjusted profit 53rd week - (3)
52-week adjusted profit 157 93 68.8%
Basic weighted average number of shares Note 2.5 595 595 -%
Adjusted earnings per share 26.4p 16.1p -)
52-week adjusted earnings per share 26.4p 15.6p 69.2%

D. Net Debt: 52-week adjusted EBITDA

The multiple of net debt as per the balance sheet compared against 52-week EBITDA before separately disclosed items which is a widely used
leverage measure in the industry. From FY 2020, leases are included in net debt following adoption of IFRS 16. Adjusted 52-week EBITDA is used for
this measure to prevent distortions in performance resulting from separately disclosed items.

2024 2023 ‘Year-on-year

Source ém £m %

Net Debt including leases Note 4.4 1,436 1,633 (12.1%)

EBITDA Income statement 444 362 22.1%

Add back separately disclosed items Income statement (2) (3) (166.7%)

EBITDA 53rd week APME = (7) =

Adjusted 52-week EBITDA 442 352 26.1%
Net debt : Adjusted 52-week EBITDA 3.2 46

E. FY 2023 52-week reconciliation

A‘53-week accounting period occurs every five years. FY 2023 was a 53-week period and therefore presentation of a 52-week basis provides useful

comparability to previous financial years.

2023

2023 2023

Source S2weeks Week 53 53 weeks
Revenue Income statement £2,459m £44m £2,503m
Adjusted EBITDA Income statement £352m £7m £359m
Adjusted operating profit Income statement £221m £5m £226m
Adjusted PBT income statement £112m £m £115m
Adjusted profit for the period Income statement £93m Bm £96m
Adjusted EPS Income statement 15.6p 0.5p 16.1p
188. Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple


Introduction Strategic Report * Governanee Financial Statements Other Information

F. Return on capital

Return generating capital includes investments made in new sites and investment in existing assets that materially changes the guest offer. Return
on investment is measured by incremental site EBITDA following investment expressed as a percentage of return generating capital. Return on
investment is measured for four years following investment. Measurement of return commences three periods following the opening of the site.

Return on expansionary capital

2023 2024 2024 2024

FY 2020-23 FY 2021-23 FY 2024 Total

Source ém Em £m £m

Maintenance and infrastructure _ - _. 158 120 _. 58 178
Remodel - refurbishment 188 134 69 203
Non-expansionary capital 346 254 127 381
Remodel expansionary . . a : 9 6 2 8
Conversions and acquisitions* 25 27 16 43
Expansionary capital for return calculation 34 33 18 51
Expansionary capital open <3 periods pre year end 40 4 6 7
Freehold purchases 23 3 26
Total capital 52-week Cash flow 420 311 154 465
Adjusted 52-week EBITDA : Income statement 1,146 893 444 1,337
Non-incremental EBITDA : 1,140 886 441 1,327
Incremental EBITDA 6.2 7.0 27 9.7

Return on expansionary capital 19% 21% 15% 19.1%

a. Conversion and acquisition capital is net of capex incurred for projects which have been open for less than three periods pre year end.

Mitchells & Butlers ple Annual Report and Accounts 2024_____189

Other Information

Shareholder information

Contacts

Registered office

27 Fleet Street

Birmingham B3 1JP

Telephone 0121 498 4000
Registered in England No. 4551498

Registrar

Equiniti

Aspect House

Spencer Road

Lancing

West Sussex BN99 6DA

Telephone +44 (0) 371 384 2065"

For deaf and speech impaired customers, we welcome calls via Relay UK.
Please see www.relayuk.bt.com for more information.

www.mbplc.com/investors/contacts/

* Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm (UK time), Monday to Friday, excluding public
holidays in England & Wales.

Key dates
These dates are indicative only and may be subject to change.

Annual General Meeting - January 2025
Announcement of interim results _ May 2025
Pre-closetradingupdate - September 2025
2025 final results announcement November 2025

in line with our sustainability strategy to lessen the negative impact of
our business, we have reduced the number of Annual Reports we have
printed this year. Once that supply is exhausted, we will not print any
further copies, though the Annual Report will be available on our website
and can be printed from there if required, using the following link:
www.mbplc.com/investors/annualreport

190. Annual Report and Accounts 2024. Mitchells & Butlers ple


Mitchells & Butlers online

Mitchells & Butlers’ comprehensive
website gives you fast, direct access to
a wide range of Company information.

Downloadable Annual Report and Accounts
Latest investor news and press releases
Brand news and offers

Responsibility policies

Find alocal restaurant or pub

Sign up for latest news

To find out more go to:
wurw.mbple.com

FSC

RECYCLED

FSc* 001785

Design and production: Gather
Printed by: Park Communications Limited

This report is printed on recycled paper using vegetable-
based inks. Pages 01 to 112 are printed on Revive 100 Silk
manufactured from FSC® Recycled certified fibre derived
from 100% pre and post-consumer waste. Pages 113 to 190
are printed on Revive 100 Offset manufactured from FSC®
Recycled 100% post-consumer waste. All material is
manufactured in accordance with ISO certified standards
for environmental, quality and energy management and is
carbon balanced. Both the manufacturing paper mill and
printer are registered to the Environmental Management
System ISO 14001 and are Forest Stewardship Council®
(‘FSC’) chain-of-custody certified.

Ditches ® Buttars pte

2 AF leet-Street

Birmingham, B31),
frele44 (0)121%493'4000

Gompany,Number:4551498


