AnnuG

for tne yasr cadted) 8 Keren 2029

SATURDAY

pum

40/08/2024 #208
COMPANIES HOUSE


Contents

Who we are

Our mission

Our values

Why our work is needed

Message from the Chair

Message from the CEO

Board members and professional advisers
Our services

Strategic review of the year 2023/24
Statement of internal control

Key risks

Financial narrative

Value for money statement
Reserves and liquidity policy
Environmental Impact Statement
Thanks and acknowledgements

Independent Auditor’s Report
to the Members of Nacro

Financial statements

> Annual Report 2023/2024


Who we are

We believe that everyone deserves a good education, a safe and secure
place to live, the right to be heard, and the chance to start again, with
support from someone on their side.

We provide practical help and personalised support through our education,
housing, justice, and health and wellbeing services. We work closely with
people to help them build independence and move forward to a better future.
We're compassionate, strong, determined, and flexible. And we never give up
on people.

But this isn’t enough on its own. We need the barriers holding people back
removed and the systems we all rely on improved to give everyone a

fair chance. The voices of those most affected are often ignored,

so we fight alongside them to be heard. We use the insights from

our services and the experience of the people we support to

campaign together for meaningful changes in society.

We are Nacro and we won’t stop until everyone
has the chance to succeed.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

Our mission

We will work every day to-give people
the help they need and campaign to
achieve our vision of a society where
everyone has the chance to succeed.

Our vision

We want a society where everyone has
the chance to succeed and the support
they need to achieve their potential.
Where a safe secure home, a decent
education and a second chance when
things go wrong are the foundations
we can all build our lives on.

> Annual Report 2023/2024


Our values

We are inspiring

We motivate and inspire people
to reach their full potential and
aspirations. We encourage people
to think differently.

We are courageous

We have bold aims which we are
determined to achieve. We seize
opportunities and deliver results.

We are compassionate

We are focused on people, acting
with compassion and supporting
each other to succeed.

We are inclusive

We value the unique contribution
of all our people, combining our
strengths, and achieving more
together.

We are reliable

We keep our promises. We provide
consistent support and we stick
with people.

Why our work is needed

The cost of living crisis continues to impact people across the country and we
know that the poorest and most vulnerable members of society will experience
the worst effects. This has potentially dire long-term consequences for many
people who already do not get the help and support they need. And as
inequality widens, economic and social needs in the UK are only likely to grow.

Income inequality continued to grow in Britain in 2022, and we continue

to have lower social mobility rates than many other European and OECD
countries. The poorest fifth of our society has only 8% of the total income,
whereas the top fifth has 36%. Educational performance also varies
significantly based on socioeconomic background. Against this background,
it is clear that our work is needed more than ever before, to fight not only
to stop these gaps widening further but to close the gaps and to create
opportunity and hope for the people we support.

England and Wales have one of the highest rates of imprisonment in Western
Europe, with almost 88,000 people held in prisons and young offender
institutions in March 2024. It is projected that the prison population will grow
substantially over the next few years, to between 94,600 and 114,800 by March
2028. Reoffending rates remain high, particularly for those sentenced to a
prison term. Ministry of Justice reoffending data released in January 2024
showed that 36.8% of adults released from prison go on to reoffend within a
year. For those who served a sentence of less than 12 months, this increases
significantly to 55.5% and sits at 58.3% for sentences of six months or less.

Levels of homelessness are rising, with research from Shelter showing that

at least 309,000 people were recorded as homeless in England in December
2023, including almost 140,000 children. This is an annual increase of 14%. And
the number of people sleeping rough in England has more than doubled since
2010, with an estimated 3,898 people having slept rough in 2023, an annual
increase of 27%.

We know that the best way to tackle homelessness is to stop it from
happening in the first place. Where there are predictable routes into
homelessness, like leaving prison, it is vital to ensure that everything possible
is done to help people find and keep a home, with the support they need.

The mainstream education system continues to fail many young people
whose specific needs are not being met. The most recent figures show that
both permanent exclusions and suspensions from school continue to increase,
and vulnerable groups of children are more likely to be excluded. Children
who are eligible for free school meals are more than four times as likely to be
suspended from school than those who do not receive free school meals, and
five times more likely to be permanently excluded.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

Children with special educational needs are up to five times more likely to

be excluded from school. The impact on already vulnerable children of a
disrupted education can be devastating, and the knock-on effect on adult life
has wide-ranging and long-lasting consequences.

The people we work with are often at a point of change. Many have struggled;
growing up in care; facing homelessness; failed by the education system; or
caught up in the tide of the justice system. The challenges we face shape who
we are, but our past shouldn’t dictate our future.

We continue to do everything we can to offer support, stability, and guidance,
enabling people to open doors that were previously closed to them. We know
that with the right support and guidance, people can turn their lives around
and move onto a future of success.

b> Annual Report;2023/2024


Message from the Chair

Despite the very tough environment we were operating

in, I ended my introduction to last year’s annual report on

an optimistic note. I believed we were well placed to meet the
challenges of the future, and we had the strategy, culture, and
people to support the people who used our services in making real
changes for the better of their lives.

So it has proved. It has indeed been another very challenging year, but as
this report shows, we have been able to improve the quality and scale of our
services while stabilising our financial position.

I do not want that broadly positive picture of the organisation to detract
from an understanding of how difficult things were for the people who used
our services last year.

I try to meet as many of the people we support as I can, and of course,
they all have a wide range of different needs: young people who have been
struggling at school or who have left care; veterans still traumatised by
their experiences; those finding relief in drugs and alcohol; men leaving
prison without anywhere to stay. But what they all have in common is a truly
shocking level of poverty, both in absolute financial terms and poverty of
the most basic services they could surely expect to support them: a safe
place to live, mental health support, a place at school or college, functioning
probation, and social services.

The work our staff does in these circumstances is truly extraordinary. For

part of the year, I acted as the Board’s safeguarding lead. This required

me to understand in detail some of the risks and vulnerabilities our service
users faced - young people, for instance, whose lack of resources and other
vulnerabilities potentially made them easy prey to ‘county lines’ (the drug
trafficking networks that exploit young people as carriers). I saw how our
staff were continually vigilant and worked with skill and dedication to pull
together a picture that identified a young person at risk and then galvanised
sometimes reluctant agencies to work together to keep the young people safe.

Our staff have faced their own economic pressures, and they too have
sometimes struggled because they could not access the services they
needed. We have worked hard to improve the way Nacro’s own systems and
organisation supports them. We have a lot more to do to get this right but
we are making progress, and I am extremely grateful to all our staff for their
service and commitment.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

It has been important to use the experience of the people we support and
our staff to influence the national and local policies that impact them, and we
have had some real success with this, ending the Friday release of prisoners,
for instance, which made it even more difficult for them to access the
services they need. These successes have been based on good, constructive
relationships. We have been fortunate in the support we have had from

our organisational partners and funders. We recognise the pressures they
are under, but we have been able to find common ground with the Ministry
of Justice, other national government departments and agencies, health
services, and loca! authorities to make the best use of resources to support
some of the most vulnerable people they are responsible for.

Nacro is a complex organisation, and pulling all this together and providing
the leadership the organisation needs is no easy task. Once again, I thank
Nacro’s Board and senior management team for the leadership they provide.
Board members are unpaid, and I recognise the heavy responsibilities they
carry. Katie Martin resigned from the Board during the year, and I want to
record my thanks to her. We were joined by five new Board members: Mian
Langellier, Philippa Oldmeadow, Felicity Oswald, Melanie Walker and Maneer
Asfar, and they joined a strong team of established Board members. I look
forward to working with them all. We have many challenges ahead, but I
believe we can face them with confidence.

Nick Hardwick
Chair

> Annual Report 2023/2024

10

Message from the CEO

Being the Chief Executive of Nacro is a privilege anda

constant reminder of the difference that good people can make.
2023/24 was a very difficult year in many ways, but no more so
than for the thousands of people we help every year.

In all of the areas we work there were even greater challenges for
people to keep their head above water, let alone get ahead and get on.
The housing crisis worsened, prisons were even more full, local authorities
went bankrupt, social services stretched further, and the need for special
educational support grew.

Through ail of this, our staff are the point of calm, the reliable presence, the
helping hand, the kind words and good advice, and the push to take on the
next challenge. Every day in so many ways they keep hope alive, even when
it is at its most challenging.

We have tried our best to provide our staff with the support they need.
Despite the very real financial challenges we face we are investing in pay, in
ICT, in new buildings and learning and development. We have tried to include
them and involve them in the difficult choices we need to make, through our
excellent EDI committee or our positive and constructive relationship with
Unite, our recognised trade union.

We have put the people we support at the heart of the organisation, our
Justice ExChange has been driving our policy and campaigning work, they
came to our Board and told them what they wanted to see Nacro do.

We have built real and genuine partnerships across all sectors, whether
with the many brilliant businesses that support our education centres, the
charities working to deliver outstanding services or our commissioners such
as the Ministry of Justice or Lincolnshire Council who work with us to adapt
and change to the needs of the people we support.

I know that 2024/25 will be just as hard, or harder, but I also know that with
the colleagues and board members we have we are set for the challenge.

Campbell Robb
Chief Executive Officer

> Annual Report 2023/2024

Board members and
professional advisers

Trustees

Nick Hardwick CBE,
Chair

Anne Frost, Vice Chair

Maneer Afsar
(appointed 27
September 2023)

Andrew Billany
Amanda Dickens
Lynn Emstie

Rt Hon Sir David
Hanson

Tabitha Kassem

Mian Langellier
(appointed 27
September 2023)

Farrah Malik

Katie Martin (resigned
26 September 2023)

Philippa Oldmeadow
(appointed 20 March
2024)

Felicity Oswald
(appointed 27
September 2023)

Neil Spence

Melanie Walker
(appointed 27
September 2023)

’ Treasurer

Neil Spence

> Annual Report 2023/2024

Chief Executive Officer
Campbell Robb

Company Secretary
Andrew Hodges

Registered Office
Walkden House

16-17 Devonshire Square

London EC2M 4SQ

Charity number
226171

Regulator of Social
Housing number

4781

Company number
00203583

Bankers

National Westminster
Bank Plc

Cavell House

PO Box 113

2A Charing Cross Road
London WC2H OPD

External Auditors

Crowe U.K. LLP
2nd Floor

55 Ludgate Hill
London EC4M 7Jw

Internal Auditors

BDO LLP
Two Snowhill,
Birmingham B4 6GA

Solicitors

Devonshires Solicitors
LLP

30 Finsbury Circus
London EC2M 7DT

Pension consultants

XPS Pensions Group
Phoenix House

1 Station Hill
Reading RG1 1NB

Information correct at
19 July 2024.

Trustee Attendance Record 2023/24

1 7
Nick Hardwick CBE 4o0f4 -
Anne Frost 4o0f4 -
Maneer Afsar' 2 of 3 = = - - - -
Andrew Billany 3o0f 4] lofl - - - - 20f 3
Amanda Dickens 4of 4 - - 3 of 3 - - -
Lynn Emslie 4o0f 4) 1lofl - - - 2 of 3 -
Rt Hon 4of 4 - lofl - 3 of 3 - 2o0f 3
Sir David Hanson
Tabitha Kassem 3o0f 4| 1ofl - 3 of 3 - - 3 of 3
Mian Langellier' 2 of 3 - = = = - 2 of 3
Farrah Malik 40f 4 - 3 of 4 - - - -
Katie Martin? Oof1 - - - Oof1 - -
Philippa Oldmeadow? | lof 1 - - - - - -
Felicity Oswald! 3 of 3 - lof 3 - - - 2 of 3
Neil Spence 4of 4 - 4of 4 - - - -
Melanie Walker! lof 3 - 2 of 3 - O of 2 - -

1 Board

2 Strategy & Performance Committee*

3 Finance & Audit Committee/Finance, Risk & Audit Committee*

4 People Committee

5 Policy & Campaigns Committee
6 Education Committee/Education Scrutiny Group*
7 Housing & Criminal Justice Committee*

1 Appointed September 2023
2 Resigned September 2023

3 Appointed March 2024

*In September 2023 new committee structures were agreed which included:
* disbanding Strategy & Performance Committee
* Finance & Audit Committee being renamed to Finance, Risk

and Audit Committee

* creating a new Housing & Criminal Justice Committee (formerly Housing
Group) and a new Education Committee (formerly Education Scrutiny Group)

> Annual Report 2023/2024

Our services

At Nacro, we are dedicated to continuous improvement and achieving even
better outcomes for the people we support. We are proud to provide a variety
of services from housing and education to rehabilitation and health and
wellbeing support. Our commitment to positive change is reflected in the
success stories of individuals and communities who have benefited from our
services. The pages that follow highlight the range of services we run with
each one making a real difference to people’s lives.

What we do

The people we work with are often at a point of change. Many have struggled;
growing up in care; facing homelessness; failed by the education system or
caught up in the tide of the justice system. The challenges we face shape who
we are, but our past shouldn’t dictate our future.

People we support through our services:
Young people

Care leavers

People with substance misuse issues
Homeless ;

People with mental health challenges
People in the justice system

vuvuvVvV“VvYVY

Ex service personnel

> Annual Report 2023/2024


14

Justice

Our justice services aim to break the cycle of crime and disadvantage through
rehabilitation. We believe the criminal justice system should be a starting
point for building better futures, not a dead end. Partnering with agencies, we
work to reduce reoffending and operate in over 40 prisons and six probation
regions across England and Wales, with over 50 years of experience.

Our justice services include:

Criminal Record Support Service

Accommodation support for people (on probation or in prison)

Personal wellbeing support for people (on probation or in prison)
Finance, benefit, and debt support for people (on probation or in prison)
Intensive health resettlement

Prison Departure Lounge

Liaison and Diversion with other agencies

Support for ex-service personnel

vVvvuVvV VM VV v

Health and Wellbeing

We support individuals with complex needs, including mental health issues,
substance misuse, and personal challenges. Our tailored support helps people
move forward, recognising that recovery is not always straightforward. We
never give up on those we serve.

Our health and wellbeing services include:
> Community-based substance misuse services

> Intensive health resettlement (including dual diagnosis for people leaving
prison)

> Liaison and Diversion (working with individuals with mental health needs
in police custody suites) .

> Annual Report 2023/2024

Housing

We believe everyone deserves a safe and secure home, the foundation for
building better lives. We provide supported housing and floating support
services across England and Wales, partnering with individuals and agencies
to promote independence. Our extensive experience includes supporting
marginalised individuals and those with complex needs.

Tailored housing services for: Our housing services include:

> People coming out of prison > Commissioned services

> Young people and care leavers > Step Forward Housing

> Women > Community Accommodation

Service Tier 2 (CAS-2)

> Ex-service personnel
> People at risk of homelessness

1s > Annual Report 2023/2024

16

Education

At Nacro Education, we help individuals realise their potential through skills,
knowledge, and experience. Our Get Set! Courses offer personalised learning
approaches. We operate 12 education centres across England and provide
education in prisons and secure training centres. We also provide outside
learning for schools, colleges, the voluntary sector, the community, and local
authorities.

Nacro Education Centres:

> Bolton > Middlesbrough > Walsall

> Boston > Newcastle > Totton College

> Chatham > Peterborough > Greater Manchester
> Leeds > Sheffield Outdoor Learning
> Longton > Spalding

> Annual Report 2023/2024

v7

Strategic review of the year 2023/24

1.We will increase the positive impact we have on the
people we support.

We have continued delivering and developing our work in our core areas,
responding to the needs of the people we support:

> Anumber of our services have expanded over the last year:

Our Recovery Near You service in Wolverhampton has expanded

in various areas including basing alcohol nurses in GP surgeries;
embedding an assistant psychologist to develop a culture of trauma-
informed practice; and further development of our women and maternity
pathway.

Our London rough sleepers service funded by the GLA has expanded to
house more people in need.

Our Accommodation for Ex-Offenders scheme in Stoke has increased the
level of accommodation and support it provides.

> We continue to deliver our existing services in an ever more challenging
environment, including:

Our NEST young people’s services which provide supported housing for
young people, including care leavers, who would otherwise be homeless
or at risk of homelessness.

Rehabilitative services through personal wellbeing and accommodation
advice and support services to over 9,000 people on probation.

Our CAS-2 service providing accommodation and support to people
across England and Wales on bail or released from prison on licence to
help them move onto independent crime-free lives.

> Our education services continue to support young people to achieve their
potential:

91% of our students pass their GCSE in maths and English.

96% of young people pass the technical or vocational qualification that
they are working towards with us.

91% of students report that their confidence has improved as a result of
learning with us.

91% of students report that they have been supported to identify and
make progress towards their next steps.

We are proud that there are no achievement gaps in our provision on the
basis of gender, ethnicity or disability.

> Annuat Report 2023/2024

18

2. We will campaign alongside our service users for
solutions to the barriers and challenges they face.

> Following our successful campaign to end Friday prison releases,
Parliament passed legislation meaning that people leaving prison are
no longer set up to fail by being released on a Friday, without access to
services over the weekend.

> We continued our focus on removing the barriers to learning for 16-19
years olds in our Learn without Limits campaign, hosting a joint event
alongside the Princes Trust with the Minister for Skills & Apprenticeships.

> We started a project with young people across our education and housing
services to listen to their challenges and hopes for the future with the aim
of influencing local and national priorities.

> Our Justice ExChange, a network of people who have been in touch
with the criminal justice system and received support from Nacro, has
been central to shaping our justice influencing priorities. Following the
publication of a briefing on work and wages in prison last year, we worked
together to develop a new campaign, ‘Wasting Time’, calling for action on
a real working day in prison, increased use of release on temporary licence,
and fairer wages and reward. We jointly produced a new film highlighting
the challenges of work in prison.

> We published a further briefing with the Justice ExChange highlighting the
level of mental health need in prison, the impact of the prison environment
on mental health, the support available, and what we believe could make a
difference.

> We published the final report from our research project looking at the
barriers to identification and take up of support by ex-service personnel
in the justice system. Funded by Forces in Mind Trust and delivered in
partnership with the University of Northampton, we launched the report at
a stakeholder event in Birmingham and continue to work to take forward
the findings and recommendations.

> Annual Report 2023/2024


3.We will develop into a digitally inclusive organisation

where our staff and service users have access to the
advantages that digital technology can bring.

With the additional pressures the challenging external environment has
brought, we took a strategic decision last year to focus on this objective at
a later point in the strategy period. As these external pressures continued
this year, we focused our resources on supporting significant internal digital
transformation in our ICT infrastructure.

>

We have moved our ICT infrastructure to.a new data centre and built a
new remote access Citrix environment to help provide much more effective
access to our internal systems.

We have installed a brand-new Wi-Fi network in all our Education Centres
as well as a number of our larger housing offices and service sites. The new
Wi-Fi circuits at Education centres provide better access to online learning
environments for students. We have continued to install tenant Wi-Fi
facilities in our CAS-2 properties and some of our other housing properties.

We have replaced hundreds of laptops with more up-to-date versions,
issued hundreds of new mobile phones, and replaced printers in Education
centres and larger housing sites.

We retained our 1S027001 accreditation for effective information security
systems.

4.We will build a sustainable future for Nacro.

>

We have developed and delivered against our environmental strategy and
achieved Level 3 of the Green Dragon environmental accreditation.

The challenging external financial environment continues to impact on
Nacro like all charities. However, we are pleased to have delivered financial
performance that is within budget, and we are planning a breakeven
budget for the 2024/25 financial year.

We continued to prioritise investment in our colleagues ensuring that pay
scales were all uplifted as a result of the increase in the national living
wage.

We have continued to build on our leadership development programmes
and facilitated more collaborative working.

We have invested in our ICT infrastructure to create a modern platform
that is able to flex with changes within the charity and support the
application of more collaborative working tools in the future.

We have continued to develop our assurance frameworks and responded
to new regulatory requirements from the Housing Regulator and Ofsted.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

5.We will forge a values-led culture that supports a happy,
productive and diverse workforce.

> With colleagues under sustained financial pressures, and the complexity
and intensity of the needs of our service users, we have continued to
enhance support for wellbeing through our Mental Health First Aider

network, training. for.‘critical incident’ debrief facilitators, and a focus on...

increased frequency of supervisions and performance and development
conversations.

> We have continued work to ensure that Nacro is an inclusive organisation
to work for, and can attract, retain, and develop a diverse workforce
through our EDI strategy. A number of employee-led diversity action
groups are active, providing both allyship and voice for people who may
feel in a minority within Nacro, and starting to drive real change in our
policies and practices.

> We strengthened the performance and development planning process,
yielding a significant improvement in the responses on our annual staff
survey regarding employees receiving regular feedback, clear expectations
and the opportunity to discuss their development opportunities with their
manager.

> Like many charities, we continue to face challenges in recruiting and
retaining staff within a tight labour market during a cost-of-living crisis. A
new Director of People and Culture was appointed, with a particular focus
on assessing the root causes of these challenges and helping us to find the
right creative solutions.

[20] p>zAnnual Report,2023/2024)


Safeguarding

Nacro continues its commitment to embedding robust safeguarding
governance and processes across the organisation. Our National Safeguarding
Board meets quarterly to ensure an effective governance framework is in
place by reviewing safeguarding data from our incident management system
and reflecting on lessons learned from safeguarding incidents that have been
reported. The National Safeguarding Board reports to the Board of Trustees.

A nominated Trustee and a member of the Executive Leadership Team are
standing members of the National Safeguarding Board.

Each service delivery directorate has an appointed Designated Safeguarding
Lead. These roles support colleagues to ensure quality safeguarding
interventions and outcomes are provided through local teams. Designated
Safeguarding Leads are supported via a network of locally based Designated
Safeguarding Officers.

Nacro has a robust recruitment and vetting process, which ensures all staff
working for Nacro complete all safeguarding background checks relevant to
their role. All staff undertake an Introduction to Safeguarding online course
and depending on an individual’s role further training on Safeguarding
Children and Young People, and/or Safeguarding Adults at Risk is undertaken.
Further safeguarding training is also provided where required, based on staff
training needs analysis.

A suite of policies and procedures are implemented across Nacro directorates,
to ensure key safeguarding processes such as professional curiosity, reporting
and responding to incidents, and staff support are communicated with Nacro
colleagues and service users effectively. These policies and procedures are
reviewed at least annually, and more often throughout the year in response to
external regulatory changes, organisational changes, or process improvement
opportunities.

Nacro organises an annual ‘Safeguarding Week’ event to highlight the most
relevant topics and themes with staff, while also providing an opportunity
to engage with service users to ensure continuous improvement of Nacro’s
safeguarding processes and approach.

A centralised management system is in place to record all Nacro related
safeguarding incidents. The system is used to track and follow up actions
required after an incident has been reported. The National Safeguarding
Board maintains oversight of data held on the incident management
system. The National Safeguarding Board is responsible for applying
learning from incidents that have occurred to continually improve
Nacro’s safeguarding training, procedures, and practice.

21 > Annual Report 2023/2024

What our people have to say

“When I arrive for work, I can normally say hello, good
morning to around 20 people before I reach my desk. We are
great at pulling together and getting the job done. We have
good working relationships with our students, we invest lots
of time into them, get to know them, are proud of them in all
their achievements. We keep them safe and as an organisation
we really are trying to make improvements everywhere.

“I enjoy the feeling at the end of each day, of doing something
that is of value and worthwhile to both myself, my colleagues,
and the students.

“Nacro is a very open employer. Senior management are easy
to reach out to.

“TI enjoy the challenge. The job is very rewarding.

“Nacro makes me feel like I am working towards a goal and
making a difference.

“TI enjoy working at Nacro as I like the supportive work
environment. I feel respected and valued for what I bring to
the team and Nacro.

“The best thing about working here are the staff and the
service users.

“Nacro has a wealth of fantastic, hardworking committed
people who go the extra mile on a daily basis to support
service users and colleagues.

“I feel very joyful doing my job. I am happy when our tenants
are making progress.

“T have worked for Nacro for nearly 5 years and have
thoroughly enjoyed my time here. I started in 2019 as a
volunteer and I have worked my way up the ladder to a
service lead level. One of the great things about working
for Nacro is that there’s opportunity to progress, and line
managers support you progressing.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

23

Housing performance

We take our responsibilities as landlords seriously. Below, we set out our
performance across a range of measures, including property health and
safety compliance, repairs, and feedback on tenant satisfaction.

We are required to comply with regulations and monitor our performance
against them. We also set our own performance measures and commit to
sharing them openly.

In addition, in 2023/24, we have:

> Continued to review fire and gas safety policies, ensuring more robust
processes are in place and meeting new requirements in legislation.

> Further increased resources in our compliance team to maintain a good
level of performance and to support the development of improved
centralised monitoring systems for compliance.

Target 31.03.24
Gas safety 100% properties with a valid gas 98.9%
safety certificate
Electrical 100% properties with a fixed wire 99.2%
services electrical safety certificate (EICR)

within the past 5 years

Water services 100% properties with water tank 100%
facilities have a current and valid
Legionella risk assessment

Fire Risk 100% properties have a fire 100%
safety risk assessment carried

Assessment out in the last 24 months for

our larger shared properties - 2

beds and above and blocks of

flats. (This is beyond the legal

minimum which does not specify

a frequency)

Asbestos 100% properties which may have 100%
asbestos have had an asbestos
survey

> Annual Report 2023/2024

24

Repairs*

Overall, we completed 93.2% of 5,515 repairs within the target time.

Target April 2023 -
March 2024

Emergency repairs 95% within 24 hours 94.8%

Urgent repairs 90% within 7 days 92.3%

Routine repairs

90% within 28 days 94.8%

*This repairs performance data does not currently include data from our
Ministry of Justice CAS-2 contract.

Maintenance Budget

In the financial year, the expenditure on maintenance was £4.38m. The
budget set for the year was £4.15m.

Following significantly increased construction material and labour costs in
2023/24, we increased our maintenance budget to help ensure we could meet
our obligations to provide safe and secure homes for our residents.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

25

Tenant satisfaction

From April 2024, the Regulator of Social Housing requires all registered
providers to collect and report on Tenant Satisfaction Measures.

We collect the 22 Tenant Satisfaction Measures in two forms: 12 perception
survey questions and 10 pieces of management information.

Survey

We undertook our tenant satisfaction survey throughout the winter of 2023.
All housing tenants were contacted by phone, online and via post. The full
results of our Tenant Satisfaction Measures will be published on our website in
Summer 2024. A summary of the results is below.

Results

>

Three quarters (75%) of tenants were satisfied with the overall service
from us.

Of those who had a repair in the last 12 months, more than 8 in 10 (82%)
tenants were satisfied with the repair service and the time it took to
complete the repair (83%).

Nearly 8 in 10 (79%) agreed that Nacro treated them fairly and with respect.

> Over three quarters (77%) of tenants were satisfied that their home was

safe and 75% said their home was well maintained.

7 in 10 (70%) tenants were satisfied that Nacro listened to their views
and acted on them.

Nearly 7 in 10 (69%) were satisfied with Nacro’s approach to anti-social
behaviour.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

26

Complaints

We know how important it is to listen to feedback and are committed to
responding promptly and efficiently where we receive complaints. The table
below gives a breakdown of the complaints reported by tenants between

1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024.

Tenant complaints 56

Property condition - includes: 15
Quality of repairs
Quality of furniture
Timeliness of repairs

Service received - Staff behaviour 12

Service received - includes: 29
Tenure management

Rent management

Support received

We routinely review complaint responses and timeframes and are working to
improve the pace of successful responses.

Throughout the year, we have responded to complaints from non-tenants,
such as our neighbours or members of the public. The table above does not
include this data.

Overall, complaints were dealt with adequately with complainants either
satisfied with the way their complaint had been dealt with or complaints not
escalated to the next stage. However, there were areas and opportunities
for services to learn and ensure continuous improvements are put in place.
We identify areas of improvement from the complaint information and set

_ out actions as a result. Senior management receive a quarterly report on

complaints and actions taken.

We completed the updated self-assessment against the Housing Ombudsman’s
Code of Practice. This is published and available on our website.

During the year Philippa Oldmeadow was appointed as the Trustee with lead
responsibility for complaints.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

Engagement with tenants

Our website features a dedicated section for tenants and service users,
where we publish performance information, complaints, and self-assessment
against the Housing Ombudsman’s Code of Practice. We continue to consult
with tenants on how we can improve our delivery and we are consulting on
how they would like to receive information from us. This includes what they
would like to see in the tenant section of our website.


28

Good Governance

Nacro’s Board of Trustees is the governing board for the Charity. The Board
is responsible for the effective strategic leadership and governance of the
organisation while day-to-day management is delegated to the Executive
Leadership Team (ELT).

Nacro is a registered Charity. In 2022, Trustees adopted the Charity Code of
Governance to help Trustees set and maintain high standards of governance.
To support continuous improvement, the Board reviews compliance against
this code annually. The latest review identified the Board were complaint in
almost every area; however, it has been identified that feedback from the
review of complaints could be improved and that there could be more focused
discussions about equality, diversity, and inclusion metrics at the Board. Plans
to embed improvements in these areas are being implemented. The Board has
used the code’s principles and recommended practices to assist in the setting
of the strategic direction and culture of the organisation for the Charity to
deliver on its charitable objectives.

Risk management continues to be a priority, with Board members routinely
considering and discussing the Corporate Risk Register at Board meetings

as well as its five primary reporting Committees: the Finance, Risk and Audit
Committee, Housing and Criminal Justice Committee, Education Committee,
People Committee, and Policy and Campaigns Committee. Nacro’s committee
structure was revised during the 2023/24 financial year. The revisions included
the creation of the Housing and Criminal Justice Committee, establishing
formal Committee status for the Education Committee, and the disbanding

of the Strategy and Performance Committee. The terms of reference for each
Committee have been reviewed and the terms of reference for the Housing
and Criminal Justice Committee and the Finance, Risk and Audit Committee
have been updated to include items previously covered within the Strategy
and Performance Committee. The National Safeguarding Board now reports
directly to the Board.

The Committee structure has been designed to enable more detailed scrutiny
in specific areas to provide the Board with assurance that charitable objectives
are being met. BDO LLP, our internal auditors, have increased the Finance, Risk
and Audit Committee’s focus on strategic risk issues and highlighted key areas
where assurance improvements can be made. Trustee Liability Insurance for
individual Trustees and the Board of Trustees collectively is in place.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

29

Reflecting the size and complexity of our organisation, it is appropriate

for Nacro’s activities to be subject to independent review and challenge,
specifically through the work of an internal audit function. BDO LLP has
provided internal audit services to Nacro following an annually agreed Internal
Audit Charter and Internal Audit Plan. The internal control framework and

risk management processes are subject to regular review by Internal Audit
which is responsible for providing independent assurance to the Board via

the Finance, Risk and Audit Committee. The Committee reviews the Internal
Audit Plan at least annually and considers whether it is aligned with the key
risks of the organisation, providing the Committee with sufficient assurance
for it to discharge its responsibilities. The Finance, Risk and Audit Committee

is responsible for ensuring the scope of internal audit work is appropriate

and that findings are considered and actioned appropriately. This Committee
receives regular updates from internal audits throughout the year on the status
of work and the findings arising, other Committees are invited to consider
specific internal audit report findings, appropriate to their terms of reference.

In 2023/24 Nacro continued to prioritise our service user involvement work. The
team is focused on delivering the key priorities of our service user involvement
strategy. Nacro is committed to promoting equality of opportunities for
everyone throughout the Charity from recruitment and selection, training and
development, appraisal, and promotion to retirement. Nacro’s Disability Risk
Assessment and Reasonable Adjustments Policy sets out how the Charity meets
its commitments to disabled people as part of their recruitment, employment,
retention, training and career development journey with us.

A full list of Trustee appointments, resignations, and attendance can be found
on pages 11 and 12.

Nacro is opposed to all forms of modern slavery and is committed to acting
ethically and with integrity in all its business relationships. We take steps to
ensure that adequate processes and controls are in place to ensure slavery and
human trafficking are not taking place anywhere in our supply chains. Nacro’s
modern slavery statement is published on our website and annually reviewed
by the People Committee.

Nacro joins with others in its condemnation of the invasion of Ukraine. Nacro

does not have any known links to Russia or Belarus and does not have any
direct suppliers with known links to Russia or Belarus.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

30

Section 172 Statement

Nacro exists to provide public benefit directly and indirectly to the
organisation’s beneficiaries. The prime aims of the organisation are captured
in our vision, mission, and values statements.

When setting strategy and making decisions Trustees (Directors) will carefully
consider the impact these decisions have on Nacro’s beneficiaries and
employees.

Employee engagement is encouraged through our effective consultative
processes established with Unite the Union.

A high proportion of Nacro’s income is generated through contracted
services. The acquisition and renewal of these contracts is reliant on

our maintaining effective customer relationships, as well as continuous
innovation in our service design. We endeavour to bring maximum impact
and benefit to the people we work with.

All of Nacro’s work is community facing and we work hard to ensure the
impact of our activities have a positive impact on the communities we reach
out to. Data on the environmental impact of our activities is captured on
pages 44 and 45 of this report. ;

The activities of Nacro are regulated via the Regulator of Social Housing,
Ofsted, and indirectly via the Care Quality Commission. These regulatory
bodies require the organisation to establish robust governance frameworks
that can be subject to external assessment and publicly rated performance
levels.

Nacro has a wide range of suppliers, we have established contracts and clear
contract management arrangements in place with our largest suppliers and
all of our sub-contractors to help ensure our main suppliers have appropriate
governance and legal compliance measures in place.

Nacro is aware of the impact of climate change and global warming and we
are committed to playing our part. We have achieved Green Dragon Level 3
certification, have an environmental strategy, and are starting several work
streams over the next few years to use technology, design, and innovation
to make our business practices more sustainable, engaging with our
stakeholders and commissioners of services.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

31

Trustees’ responsibilities

The Trustees (who are also the Directors of Nacro for the purposes of company
law) are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards).

Company law requires the Trustees to prepare financial statements for each
financial year. Under company law, the Trustees must not approve the financial
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of Nacro and of the incoming resources and application of
resources, including the income and expenditure, of Nacro for that period. In
preparing these financial statements, the Trustees are required to:

> select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
observe the methods and principles in the applicable SORP;

> make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

> state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed,
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial
statements;

> and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it
is inappropriate to presume that the charitable company will continue in
business.

The Trustees are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are
sufficient to show and explain Nacro’s transactions, disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of Nacro and enable them to
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006,
the Housing SORP 2018: Statement of Recommended Practice for Registered
Social Housing Providers and the Accounting Direction for Private Registered
Providers of Social Housing 2022. They are also responsible for safeguarding
the assets of Nacro and ensuring that accounts are prepared in a proper form
and present a true and fair view of the state of affairs in relation to Nacro’s
social housing activities and the disposition of funds and assets which are, or
have been, in Nacro’s hands in connection with those activities.

The Trustees are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate
and financial information included on Nacro’s website. Legislation in the

United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial
statements and other information included in annual reports may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

32

Going concern - The Trustees consider that Nacro is well positioned to manage
its business risks successfully. After careful consideration and enquiry, the
Trustees have a reasonable expectation that Nacro has adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, the
Trustees continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial
statements.

The Board obtains assurance of financial viability through the annual
budgeting, re-forecasting and longer-term financial planning exercises. As part
of this, Trustees assess and stress test the availability of funding and liquidity.
Nacro does not have lenders’ covenants to comply with. These processes
ensure the Board has a continual and rolling process of reviewing and
assessing Nacro’s financial strength and viability. The Board has satisfied itself
that the charity complies with the Regulator of Social Housing’s Governance
and Financial Viability Standard during the financial year.

Public benefit - The Trustees confirm that they have complied with their duty
under section 17 of the Charities Act 2011 to have due regard to the Charity
Commission’s general guidance on public benefit.

Disclosure of information to the auditor - Each Trustee at the date of
approval of this report has confirmed that as far as the Trustees are aware,
there is no relevant audit information of which Nacro’s auditor is unaware.
The Trustees have taken all necessary steps to make themselves aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that Nacro’s auditor is aware of
that information.

> Annual Report 2023/2024


33

Statement of internal control

The Nacro Board of Trustees has overall responsibility for establishing and
maintaining the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In meeting its responsibilities, the Board has adopted a risk-based approach
to internal control, which is embedded within the normal management and
governance processes and includes staff at all levels. This approach includes
the regular evaluation of the nature and extent of risks to which Nacro is
exposed. The process adopted by the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of
the system of internal control comprises:

1. Identification and evaluation of key risks

Nacro has a formal risk management process to identify, assess, and
mitigate business risks while implementing risk-based strategies. The risk
register is aligned with the corporate plan and identifies the risks around
achieving the objectives of the organisation. This involves identifying the
types of risks that Nacro faces, prioritising them in terms of potential impact
and likelihood of occurrence, and identifying mitigating actions. This process
is coordinated through a regular reporting framework by the Executive
Leadership Team (ELT) and the Finance, Risk and Audit Committee. The
Finance, Risk and Audit Committee regularly considers reports on significant
risks facing Nacro, and the Chief Executive is responsible for reporting to the
Board any significant changes affecting key risks. The Board confirms that
there is a process for identifying, evaluating, and managing significant risks
faced by Nacro, including new and emerging risks. This process has been in
place throughout the year and up to the signing of the annual report and is
reviewed regularly by the Board.

2. Monitoring and corrective action

The regular review of internal controls via line management channels

and by way of Nacro’s internal audit plan assures the Finance, Risk and
Audit Committee and the Board that an effective control environment is
maintained. Where corrective action is required, ELT provides progress
reports to the Finance, Risk and Audit Committee to ensure there is effective
oversight, particularly if the issues identified have a material impact on the
financial statements.

3. Control environment and control procedures

The Board retains responsibility for a defined range of risks covering
strategic, operational, financial, and compliance areas. Specific attention is
paid to risk mitigations relating to delegated authority, segregation of duties,
accounting and treasury management controls, regulatory and legislative
compliance, EDI, health and safety, safeguarding, data and asset protection,
resourcing, and the prevention and detection of fraud. The Board, through
the scheme of delegated responsibility, sets out a framework of control

> Annual Report 2023/2024

that applies to all Nacro employees. The scheme of delegated authorities

is supported by a suite of policies that define expectations around quality,
integrity and ethics. All employees, volunteers, and suppliers must comply as
required with these policies.

4. Independent audit and review

The internal control framework and risk management processes are subject
to regular review by an internal audit function which is responsible for
providing independent assurance to the Board. Nacro appointed BDO

LLP to supply an independent and objective internal audit function. The
Finance, Risk and Audit Committee ensures that the risk-based inspection/
monitoring plan remains up-to-date, reviewing all internal audit reports and
ensuring any recommendations identified within internal audit reports are
effectively implemented. The Board has received an annual review of the
system of control from the Finance, Risk and Audit Committee and has taken
into account any changes needed to maintain the effectiveness of the risk
management and control process.

5. Fraud reporting systems

Fraud response procedures and policy statements are reviewed and
approved by the Board, via the Finance, Risk and Audit Committee, as part of
a comprehensive review of internal control systems. The procedures establish
the respective roles and responsibilities of staff for the prevention and
detection of fraud through a fraud and anti-money laundering policy.

3.4) b>yAnnual Report;2023/2024)

Key risks

Key risk

Risk treatment

Cashflow and margins are not
sufficient to meet day-to-day
operating costs and/or balance
sheet liabilities leading to the
Charity falling into financial
administration.

Financial performance is
monitored through monthly
management accounts by
management and Trustees.

Regular communication with
commissioners regarding the
security of current income
streams.

Building closer relationships with
potential funders and developing
new funding models.

A Value for Money programme is
in place which includes initiatives
to reduce operating costs.

Strategic and business planning
in place and monitoring of
progress against key corporate
objectives.

A formal agreement is in place
with the Trustee of the closed
defined pension scheme that sets
the value of the deficit reduction
payments until 31.03.26.

> Annual Report 2023/2024


36

Death or harm caused by failure
to follow internal processes

and procedures, particularly in
relation to health and safety and
safeguarding, leading to loss of

life, damaging publicity, criminal: :

convictions, fines, and loss of
business.

Failure to embed a leadership
approach that encourages
diversity, innovation, efficiency,
and collective responsibility.

High levels of staff turnover lead
to increased costs, inconsistent
service quality, and service
delivery challenges.

Executive and Trustee oversight
to ensure arrangements

for health and safety and
safeguarding are monitored, with
assurance being provided by the

‘Health and Safety Committee

and the National Safeguarding
Board.

An incident management system
is embedded and learning from
incidents is cascaded.

Continued compliance and
quality inspections take place.

An external review of Nacro’s
safeguarding processes is being
commissioned in 2024/25,

to identify any improvement
opportunities and provide
further assurance around
Nacro’s safeguarding control
environment.

The strategic plan has a clear
focus on people and the charity’s
beneficiaries.

A specific People Strategy has
been developed, this underpins
the Nacro Strategy.

The performance of the People
Strategy is overseen by the
People Committee.

A values-based leadership
development programme is
running for key managers.

Specific initiatives that focus on
wellbeing, equality, diversity, and
inclusion have been implemented.

Nacro’s EDI Strategy and EDI
Policy are implemented across
the organisation, with the EDI
committee meeting at least
quarterly to ensure the EDI
Strategy and Policy are being
effectively delivered.

> Annual Report 2023/2024


37

Business continuity is affected by
a major internal or external event
leading to an inability to provide
services to service users.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

Robust business continuity

plans are in place, these plans
were actively tested during the
Coronavirus pandemic and are
regularly tested on an annual
basis to ensure they remain fit for
purpose.

Data and systems can be
accessed securely from multiple
locations.

Specific local arrangements
are in place for specific service
delivery sites.


38

Financial narrative

Income for the year was £77.0m compared with £68.7m in 2022/23. The total
comprehensive income for the year was £0.2m surplus. (2022/23 : £1.0m
deficit). Income increased as a result of Nacro’s successful expansion of
existing services and a material review of rental income during the 2023/24 .
financial year. Operating expenditure increased as a result of additional
service delivery costs incurred where services have expanded but also as a
result of inflation driving operating costs up. A gain from a net reduction in

.Nacro’s pension liability was also recorded, this gain enabled Nacro to report

a small surplus for the year.

Turnover in Housing (social and non-social housing), increased by £7.4m to
£52.6m. This increase in income is related to an expansion of current service
lines and revisions to rent setting methodology. Overall, the Housing division
returned a surplus of £1.1m for the year compared to a loss of £0.3m for the
2022/23 financial year.

Turnover in our Education division income increased from £13.5m to £14.0m.
The Education division recorded a £1.0m loss for the year. Year-on-year
financial performance within the Education division has improved. Nacro had
budgeted for the Education division to operate at a loss during the 2023/24
financial year.

Turnover in our Justice division increased from £4.6m to £4.9m. Profitability
reduced from £0.4m to £0.3m, inflation related cost pressures have had a
negative impact on margins within this division.

Turnover in our Health division increased from £5.3m to £5.5m. Overall, the
division returned a very small loss, which is a reduction from a profit of £0.1m
achieved in 2022/23.

The Total Comprehensive Income for the year amounted to a surplus of £0.2m
(2022/23: £1.0m deficit). The operating surplus of £0.3m (2022/23: £1.3m loss)
and the deficit for the year of £0.3m (2022/23: £1.7m deficit) have benefited
from a gain of £0.5m (2022/23: £0.7m gain) arising from a reduction in the
valuation of Nacro’s pension scheme’s net liabilities.

The Balance Sheet shows net assets at £10.3m (2022/23 : £10.1m). This is
represented by unrestricted funds of £10.1m (2022/23: £9.9m) and restricted
funds of £0.2m (2022/23: £0.2m). The defined benefit pension liability stands
at £13.1m (2022/23: £13.6m).

The full results for the year are shown in the Statement of Comprehensive

Income and the Statement of Financial Position plus accompanying accounts
and notes on pages 54 to 84.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

39

Value for money statement

To comply with the Regulator of Social Housing’s latest Code of Practice
on value for money, as a registered provider we are required to publish our
performance against a given set of key indicators which is shown below:

Nacro Nacro Global 2023/24 Comment
2023/24 | 2022/23 | Accounts

23 -

Supported

Housing

Provider

Metrics*

1. 6.9% 9.1% 6.3% During the year Nacro

Reinvestment continued to prioritise

% the refurbishment of
housing stock to ensure
properties are ready to
let or in a reasonable
condition for hand back
to the landlord.

2. New supply | 0.0% 0.0% 0.7% Nacro did not build or

delivered % acquire any new housing
units during the year.

3. Gearing % | 0.0% 0.0% 12.6% Nacro does not have any
loan financing facilities
in place. At this point
Nacro does not intend to
enter into any new loan
financing arrangements.

4. EBITDA 171.2% | -94.7% | 187.5% Nacro recorded a

MRI Interest surplus during the

Cover % year, recovering froma

deficit in 2022/23. The
interest expenditure
values recorded in
Nacro’s financial
statements solely relate
to accounting disclosures
required for Nacro’s
defined benefit pension
scheme.

> Annual Report 2023/2024


40

5. Headline £11.08k | £10.34k | £9.22k Nacro’s housing service

social provision is primarily
housing cost focused on supporting
per unit tenants who typically

have high support needs
who stay in their homes
for shorter timeframes.
This increased level

of support and more
frequent letting turnover
does increase unit
operating costs.

6. Operating 8.2% -4.8% 8.4% Nacro’s social housing
Margin stock operated at a

A) Social surplus, recovering from
Housing a deficit in 2022/23.
Letting %

Overall Nacro’s Housing
B) Overall % 0.4% -1.9% 5.0% division operated at

a surplus during the
financial year, recovering
from a loss made in

2022/23.
7. Return 1.2% -4.7% 2.1% Nacro operated at a
on capital _ surplus for the financial
employed % year, recovering from a
loss in 2022/23.

*Global Accounts 23 is an annual report produced by the Regulator of Social
Housing to provide a summary of the financial status of social housing
providers who own or manage at least 1,000 homes. The comparative data
used for Nacro was taken from the Supported Housing Provider dataset, this is
because Nacro primarily provides supporting housing services.

Nacro has fewer than 1,000 owned homes so we are classed as a “small
provider”. Nacro provides homes with additional support for housing
vulnerable people and people leaving the criminal justice system on assured
shorthold tenancies or licences. Many of the above metrics are designed to
enable comparisons between large social housing providers with significant
loan book commitments and a high level of general needs social rented homes.
Income from Nacro’s social housing lettings makes up just under 10% of
Nacro’s total turnover. As a consequence, some benchmarking comparative
figures for Nacro will not always align with other registered provider averages.

> Annuat Report 2023/2024

41

Noting the imperfections in the comparative benchmarking data, the Board
is satisfied that Nacro is in compliance with requirements set out by the
Regulator of Social Housing in respect of Nacro’s Social Housing activities.
The Board believes that overall the Charity is delivering reasonable value for
money to beneficiaries. The Board recognise the Charity’s overall financial
performance has improved during the year and the Board is expecting the
in year improvement in financial performance to continue in to the 2024/25
financial year.

The Board have encouraged a number of activities during the year that
support Nacro’s value for money requirements, for example

> Governance - We are further embedding our person-centred approach
by investing more resources in service user and learner engagement
initiatives. A number of engagement initiatives are detailed in our strategic
plan. We fully recognise the benefits that arise from using service user and
learner feedback. We use this information to inform the development of
our governance arrangements, decision making approaches and service
design. This helps us to continue to deliver better quality services at a
reasonable price, in line with regulatory and commissioner expectations.

> Co-production - We actively engage with the people we support and our
workforce, this enables us to capitalise on ideas and innovations to lead to
improvements in the quality of the services we provided, through the re-
shaping of delivery models and/or through investment in specific initiatives
that are detailed in our strategic plan.

> Actively pursuing a sustainability agenda and staff wellbeing agenda -
We have continued to embrace flexible working arrangements and realise
the benefits from increased staff wellbeing and a lower carbon footprint.
We have an Environmental Strategy and we have strengthened our support
and wellbeing offer to staff.

> Business development - We have increased the range of partners we work
with to enable us to deliver a wider range of services to service users and
commissioners, and to help specific infrastructure developments within the
organisation. During the year we have successfully expanded and retained
the contracts we wanted to keep.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

42

The Housing division and the Charity overall operated at a surplus for the
year, recovering from a loss in the previous year. All metrics shown in the
value for money table indicate positive results for the 2023/24 financial year.
A significant amount of work has taken place during the financial year to
deliver improvements in value for money across the following areas:

1. Securing better value for money from all property maintenance work that
is undertaken.

2. Reviewing Nacro’s rental charges and aligning these closely with updated
operating cost estimates.

3. Focusing on optimising value from Nacro’s housing stock through reduced
voids or property handbacks.

4. Reviewing the operating cost of Nacro’s service delivery models to
take account of inflation related costs that cannot be recovered from
commissioner approved contract uplifts.

5. Reviewing the overall operating cost of the Charity to enable service to be
delivered within the income envelopes that the Charity has to work within.

Return on assets and investments and use of reserves

We are focusing on setting appropriate rent charges and maximising the
occupancy of our owned housing stock. This includes disposing of properties
that are no longer fit-for-purpose and consolidating office bases to optimise
the potential of the premises we operate from. We are continuing to
modernise our ICT infrastructure to support efficient working practices and
to deliver more flexible working options to enable staff to better deliver for
the needs of those using our services.

Our physical asset base across the Charity is free from debt and we are able

to internally fund investment programmes from existing cash reserves. We
balance the return generated from holding cash balances against making
carefully selected investments in our infrastructure and strategic projects that
are designed to enable the Charity to remain sustainable in the longer term.
We assess each investment against our strategic aims and undertake a cost/
benefit review that combines an assessment of financial returns with the
potential benefits that will accrue for our service user and learner communities.

Our approach to our social and environmental responsibilities is developed in
partnership with our services users, learners and colleagues.

We have established procedures in place that support the central
procurement of ICT related equipment, stationery, and furniture from single
supplier contracts where purchasing benefits arising from economies of scale
are achieved.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

43

Reserves and liquidity policy

There has been an increase of £0.2m in the overall value of the balance sheet
during the year to 31 March 2024, the value of the balance sheet now stands
at £10.3m.

Nacro’s reserves policy was reset during the 2021/22 financial year to align
reserve holdings more closely to operating activity. Contract income makes
up around 75% of Nacro’s income profile. If a contract ends then a high
proportion of expenditure commitments required to deliver that contract
end almost immediately. To reflect this in the reserves policy, Trustees have
taken account of known and potential balance sheet liabilities arising from
the pension fund deficit, known lease commitments, expected housing repair
costs, an estimate of the Charity’s short term working capital commitments
and overhead commitments. These factors are now used to determine reserve
and liquidity targets. The Finance and Audit Committee have reviewed the
workings in detail and recommended that a reserves target of £9.4m is
appropriate for the Charity as at 31 March 2024.

As at 31 March 2024, reserves stood at £10.3m. Reserves are therefore £0.9m
in excess of the target.

The Charity holds £10.1m in general reserves and £0.2m in restricted reserves.
It is the Charity’s policy to hold all reserves in liquid assets.

A breakeven budget has been set for the 2024/25 financial year. The current
financial plan indicates the charity will continue to operate at breakeven and
above for the 2025/26 financial year.

As at 31 March 2024, Nacro’s cash and cash equivalent balances stood at

£9.2m. Nacro’s policy is to hold all free cash reserves in immediately available
liquid assets or short term deposits.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

Environmental Impact Statement

Streamlined Energy & Carbon Report (SECR)

| Financial Year

1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024

Client Name

Nacro

Company No

Registered Office

203583

Walkden House, 16-17 Devonshire Square
London EC2M 4SQ

Current Financial Year 2,638
tCO2e

Current Financial Year 13,640,255
kWh

Previous Financial Year 2,911
tCO2e

Previous Financial Year 15,300,691
kWh

Intensity Ratio (IR) used | 34.25
Intensity Metric Current | 77.03

Financial Year

Intensity Metric 65.59

Previous Financial Year

Emissions Factors Used DEFRA 2023
—

Methodology Used GHG Protocol

Emissions Scope Scope 1&2

Emissions Included

Exclusion Statement

Electricity, Natural Gas, Direct Mileage

No mandatory emissions have been excluded
from this report.

44 > Annual Report 2023/2024

45

Energy Efficiency
Statement

Nacro provides Housing, Education, Health and Justice
services to beneficiaries across England and Wales.

Nacro leases the majority of its 1,000 residential
properties. We ensure that any new properties added
to our portfolio has a minimum EPC rating of D and
have plans to ensure that our existing properties also
reach that rating. We work with landlords, agents
and developers, during the leasing and acquisition
stages, to assess whether any improvements can be
made (such as to the heating systems or insulation)
to improve energy efficiency measures. Our core
electricity contract is procured through renewable/
greener sources.

COVID-19 has shown the resilience of Nacro rising
to the challenge caused by the pandemic and our
ability to adapt to new ways of working. There was a
significant carbon reduction in 2020/21, particularly
in travel, as a result of lockdown restrictions and,
whilst travel has recovered in following years, it
remains significantly below pre-pandemic levels.

This is encouraging and demonstrates that
behaviour change is possible and can attract
support from our staff and service users. Only by
working together will Nacro achieve its sustainability
objectives, and we will seek suitable engagement to
make the step change needed to address the climate
crisis and play our part in delivering a better future.

Nacro achieved Green Dragon Level 3 certification
in 2023/24, this involved the implementation of a
pollution prevention plan, the development of an
environmental aspects register and the development
of a continuous improvement plan. This achievement
further demonstrates Nacro’s commitment to
environmental and sustainability objectives.

Nacro’s Environmental Strategy sets out our
environmental vision and goals, and enables action
plans and various workstreams that are delivering
measurable environmental improvements. We will
continue to meet our legal obligations, develop
sustainable and environmentally friendly services,
and help stem the depletion of finite natural
resources.

SECR Report
completed by

(EIC) Energy Intelligence Centre Limited

> Annual Report 2023/2024


46

Thanks and acknowledgements

With thanks to our funders and partners including:

Assetz Exchange

Barrow Cadbury Trust

Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust

Birmingham City Council

Carmarthenshire County Council/ Cyngor Sir Gaerfyrddin

Capita E-Source

Cleveland Police and Crime Commissioner

Clinks

Conwy County Borough Council/ Cyngor Bwrdeistref Sirol Conwy
Delta E-Source

Department of Health

Denbighshire County Council/ Cyngor Sir Ddinbych

Dudley Council

Education and Skills Funding Agency

East Riding of Yorkshire Council & Two Ridings Community Foundation
Education & Skills Funding Agency

Essex County Council

European Social Fund

. Flintshire County Council/Cyngor Sir Y Ffint

Forces in Mind Trust

The Forward Trust

Gwynedd Council/Cyngor Gwynedd GamCare
James Teather and Teather property Investments Ltd
LandAid .
Lincolnshire County Council

Liverpool City Council

London Borough of Lambeth

London Borough of Wandsworth

London Borough of Westminster

Manchester City Council

Ministry of Justice

NHS England

> Annual Report 2023/2024

Northamptonshire Police & Crime Commissioner
Nottingham City Council
Ormiston Families

Oxleas NHS Trust

People Plus

PACT

Peabody

Pembrokeshire County Council
Resonance - Social Investment
Rothschild Foundation

Sheffield City Council

Shelter

Stockport Alliance

The Bridge (East Midlands)

The Privy Purse Charitable Fund
Transform Foundation

Together for Mental Well-being
Wandsworth Borough Council
West Midlands Combined Authority
Welsh Assembly
Wolverhampton City Council
Wrexham County Council

YMCA Liverpool

YSSs

> Annual Report 2023/2024

48

Approved by the Trustees on 24th July 2024 and signed on their behalf by:

Nick Hardwick Anne Frost

Chair Vice-Chair

> Annual Report 2023/2024

4g

Independent Auditor’s Report to
the Members of Nacro

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Nacro for the year ended

31 March 2024 which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income,
Statement of Financial Position, Statement of Changes in Reserves,
Statement of Cashflow and notes to the financial statements, including
significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The
Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion the financial statements:

> give a true and fair view of the state of Nacro’s affairs as at 31 March 2024
and of its incoming resources and application of resources, including its
income and expenditure for the year then ended;

> have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and

> have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies
Act 2006, the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 and the Accounting
Direction for Private Registered Providers of Social Housing.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on
Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under
those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the
audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent
of Nacro in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant

to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s

Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we
have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

50

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the trustees’ use
of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial
statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material
uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually or collectively,
may cast significant doubt on Nacro’s ability to continue as a going concern
for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are
authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the trustees with respect to
going concern are described in the relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The trustees are responsible for the other information contained within the
annual report. The other information comprises the information included

in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditor’s
report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the
other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our
report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider
whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be
materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent
material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives

rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If,
based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act
2006

In our opinion based on the work undertaken in the course of our audit

> the information given in the trustees’ report, which includes the directors’
report and the strategic report prepared for the purposes of company law,
for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is
consistent with the financial statements; and

> the strategic report and the directors’ report included within the
trustees’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal!
requirements.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

51

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In light of the knowledge and understanding of Nacro and its environment
obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material
misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report included within
the trustees’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to
which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

> Nacro has not kept adequate accounting records; or

> Nacro’s financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting
records and returns; or

> certain disclosures of trustees’ remuneration specified by law are not
made; or

> we have not received all the information and explanations we require for
our audit.

Responsibilities of trustees

As explained more fully in the trustees’ responsibilities statement set out on
page 31, the trustees (who are also the directors of Nacro for the purposes

of company law) are responsible for the preparation of the financial
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and

for such internal control as the trustees determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the trustees are responsible for
assessing Nacro’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern
basis of accounting unless the trustees either intend to liquidate Nacro or to
cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial
statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always
detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of
users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

52

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws
and regulations. We design procedures in line with our responsibilities,
outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities,
including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting
irregularities, including fraud is detailed below:

We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks within
which Nacro operates, focusing on those laws and regulations that have

a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures

in the financial statements. The laws and regulations we considered in this
context were the Companies Act 2006, the Charities Act 2011, the Housing
and Regeneration Act 2008, together with the Housing SORP. We assessed
the required compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our audit
procedures on the related financial statement items.

In addition, we considered provisions of other laws and regulations that do
not have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with
which might be fundamental to Nacro’s ability to operate or to avoid a
material penalty. We also considered the opportunities and incentives that
may exist within Nacro for fraud. The laws and regulations we considered
in this context for the UK operations were requirements imposed by the
Regulator of Social Housing, Ofsted and CQC standards, building safety
compliance, health and safety, taxation and employment legislation.

Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-
compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the trustees and
other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence,
if any.

We identified the greatest risk of material impact on the financial statements
from irregularities, including fraud, to be within the timing of recognition of
grant and contract income and the override of controls by management. Our
audit procedures to respond to these risks included enquiries of management,
internal audit and the Finance, Risk and Audit Committee about their own
identification and assessment of the risks of irregularities, sample testing on
the posting of journals, reviewing accounting estimates for biases, reviewing
regulatory correspondence, designing audit procedures over the timing of
grant and contract income and reading minutes of meetings of those charged
with governance.

Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk
that we may not have detected some material misstatements in the financial
statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit
in accordance with auditing standards. For example, the further removed
non-compliance with laws and regulations (irregularities) is from the events
and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the
inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify
it. In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-

> Annual Report 2023/2024

53

detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls. We are not
responsible for preventing noncompliance and cannot be expected to detect

non-compliance with all laws and regulations.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial
statements is located on the Financial Reporting Council’s website at:

www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of

our auditor’s report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to Nacro’s members, as a body, in accordance with
Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been
undertaken so that we might state to Nacro’s members those matters we are
required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To
the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility
to anyone other than Nacro and Nacro’s members as a body, for our audit
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

FRiter

Julia Poulter
Senior Statutory Auditor

For and on behalf of
Crowe U.K. LLP
Statutory Auditor
55 Ludgate Hill
London EC4M 7JW

26 July 2024

> Annual Report 2023/2024

54] b> 7Annual Report,2023/2024)


Nacro - Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year
ended 31 March 2024

Note 2024 2023
£'000 £7000
Turnover 3 77,032 68,659
Operating expenditure 3 (76,693) (69,971)
Operating surplus / (deficit) 339 (1,312)
Equalisation of guaranteed minimum pension - -
scheme (GMP)
Operating surplus / (deficit) (including GMP) 339 (1,312)
(Loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment 4 (17) (9)
Interest and similar receivables 6 28 -
Interest and financing costs 7 (632) (377)
(Deficit) before tax : 5 (282) (1,698)
Taxation 10 - -
(Deficit) for the year (282) (1,698)
Actuarial gain in respect of pension schemes 19 527 695
Total comprehensive income for the year 245 (1,003)

All amounts relate to continuing activities.

The financial statements were approved by the Board on 24th July 2024 and were

signed on its behalf by: Orne Gh
Merde Ating'Frost (Jul 25, 2024 17:47'GMT+1)
Chair Trustee

The notes on pages 59 to 84 form part of these financial statements.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

56

Nacro - Statement of Financial Position as at 31 March 2024

Non Current Assets

Intangible assets

Housing properties

Other property, plant and equipment

Current Assets
Debtors
Cash and cash equivalents

Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year
Net current assets
Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than
one year

Provisions
Defined benefit obligations
Other provisions

Total net assets

Capital and reserves
Revenue reserve
Restricted reserve

Total reserves

Note

11
12

13

14

15

16

19
18

2024 2023
£7000 £000
2 203
6,905 7,055
14,291 14,501
21,198 21,759
8,500 7,621
9,215 9,927
17,715 17,548
11,166 11,073
6,549 6,475
27,747 28,234
3,593 3,783
13,051 13,631
779 741
10,324 10,079
10,120 9,875
204 204.
10,324 10,079

The financial statements were approved by the Board on 24th July 2024 and were

TE Pv

Chair

Trustee

The notes on pages 59 to 84 form part of these financial statements.

Nacro Company number 00203583.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

Avine’Frost (Jul 25; 2024 17:47 GMT+)

57

Nacro - Statement of changes in reserves for the year

ended 31 March 2024

Balance as at 1 April 2023

Deficit for the year

Other comprehensive income for the year
Total comprehensive income for the year
Balance at 31 March 2024

Balance as at 1 April 2022

Deficit for the year

Other comprehensive income for the year
Total comprehensive income for the year
Balance at 31 March 2023

9,875

The notes on pages 59 to 84 form part of these financial statements.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

Revenue Restricted Total
reserve reserve
£7000 £7000 £’000
9,875 204 10,079
(282) - (282)
527 - 527
245 - 245
10,120 204 10,324
Revenue Restricted Total
reserve reserve
£7000 £000 £’000
10,878 204 11,082
(1,698) - (1,698)
695 - 695
(1,003) - (1,003)
204 10,079

58

Nacro - Statement of Cashflow for the year ended 31 March

2024
Note 2024
£'000
Net cash generated from operating activities” ~~20 ~"(51)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of housing property components -
Purchase of other property, plant and equipment (389)
Proceeds from sale of housing properties -
Interest received 28
Total cash utilised in investing activities (361)
Net change in cash and cash equivalents (712)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 9,927
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year : 9,215

The notes on pages 59 to 84 form part of these financial statements.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

2023
£7000

(1,277)

(311)

(311)

(1,588)

11,515
9,927

59

Nacro - NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the
year ended 31 MARCH 2024

1. Legal Status

Nacro is a private company limited by guarantee under the Companies Act
2006, incorporated in England and is a registered housing provider and a_
registered charity. The address of its registered office is as disclosed on page
11 of the annual report.

2. Accounting policies

The principal accounting policies are recognised below. They have been
applied consistently throughout the year and to the preceding year.

Basis of accounting

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost
convention on an accruals basis, modified to include certain items at fair
value, in accordance with UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (UK
GAAP) including Financial Reporting Standard 102 (FRS 102) and the Housing
SORP 2018: Statement of Recommended Practice for Registered Social
Housing Providers and comply with the Accounting Direction for Private
Registered Providers of Social Housing. Nacro is a public benefit entity,

as defined in FRS 102 and applies the relevant paragraphs prefixed ‘PBE’

in FRS 102.

The financial statements are presented in sterling (£).

Going Concern

Nacro’s business activities, its current financial position and factors likely
to affect its future development are set out within the Annual Report.

The Trustees have a reasonable expectation that Nacro has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future,
being a period of at least twelve months after the date on which the report
and financial statements are signed. For this reason, it continues to adopt the
going concern basis in the financial statements.

Turnover

Turnover represents rent and service charges receivable (net of rent
and service charge losses from voids), grants from central Government
departments and local authorities and charitable fees and donations.

Rental income is recognised on an accruals basis and recognised when the
property is available for let, net of voids. Service charge income is recognised
when expenditure is incurred as this is considered to be the point at which the
service has been performed and the revenue recognition criteria met.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

60

Grant income is recognised in the financial statements when the conditions
for receipt of the grants have been fulfilled and Nacro becomes entitled to
payment. Where a grant is received relating to a future accounting period,
the Statement of Comprehensive Income shows the gross amount receivable
reduced by the movement in the amount deferred to future accounting
periods. Deferred grant income at the year end is included in creditors.

Charitable fees and donations are credited as income in the year in which
they were receivable.

Financial instruments

Financial instruments which meet the criteria of a basic financial instrument
as defined in Section 11 of FRS 102 are accounted for under an amortised
historic cost model.

Basic financial instruments are recognised at amortised historical cost.

Debtors

Short term debtors are measured at transaction price, less any impairment.
Loans receivable are measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs,
and are measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest
method, less any impairment.

Where deferral of payment terms has been agreed at below market rate, and
where material, the balance is shown at the present value, discounted at a
market rate.

Creditors

Short term trade creditors are measured at the transaction price. Other
financial liabilities are measured initially at fair value, net of transaction
costs, and are measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective
interest method.

Employee Benefits

Defined contribution scheme

Nacro participates in a defined contribution stakeholder scheme. Employer
contributions payable to the scheme are charged to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income during the year. Differences between contributions
payable in the year and contributions actually paid are shown as either
accruals or prepayments in the Statement of Financial Position.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

Defined benefit scheme

The Nacro Staff Benefits Plan closed to new entrants from 1 December 1998
and for future accruals from 31 March 2006. The net interest cost on the net
defined benefit liability is charged to revenue and included within finance
costs. Re-measurement comprising actuarial gains and losses and the return
on scheme assets (excluding amounts included in net interest on the net
defined benefit liability) are recognised immediately in other comprehensive
income.

Defined benefit schemes are funded, with the assets of the scheme held
separately from those of the company, in separate trustee administered
funds. Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities are
measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method.
The actuarial valuations are obtained triennially and are updated at each
Statement of Financial Position date.

Housing properties

Housing properties are properties held for the provision of social housing
or to otherwise provide social benefit. Housing properties are principally
properties available for rent and are stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Cost includes the cost of
acquiring land and buildings, directly attributable development costs and
interest charges incurred during the development period.

Depreciation is charged so as to write down the net book value of housing
properties to their estimated residual value, on a straight line basis, over
their useful economic lives. Depreciation is charged in the year of acquisition.
Freehold land is not depreciated.

Major components of housing properties, which have significantly different
patterns of consumption of economic benefits, are treated as separate assets
and depreciated over their expected useful economic lives at the following
annual rates:

Structure 80 years
Roofs 50 years
Windows 25 years
Kitchens 20 years
Bathrooms 30 years
Boilers 15 years
Heating systems 30 years
Electrics 30 years

> Annual Report 2023/2024

62

Properties held on long leases are depreciated over their estimated useful
economic lives or the lease duration if shorter.

Improvements

Where there are improvements to housing properties that are expected to
provide incremental future benefits, these are recognised and added to the
carrying amount of the property. Any works to housing properties which
neither replace a component nor result in an incremental future benefit are
charged as expenditure in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

Leaseholders

Where the rights and obligations for improving a housing property reside
with the leaseholder or tenant, any works to improve such properties incurred
by Nacro is recharged to the leaseholder and recognised in the Statement

’ of Comprehensive Income along with the corresponding income from the

leaseholder or tenant.

Donation or acquisition of land or other asset at below market
value

Where a donation of land and/or other assets is received or land and/

or other assets are acquired at below market value from a government
source, this is accounted for as a non- monetary government grant. The
difference between the fair value of the asset donated or acquired and the
consideration paid for the asset is recognised as a government grant and
included in the Statement of Financial Position as a liability.

Where Nacro receives a donation of land and/or other assets or acquires
such assets below their market value from a third party that does not meet
the definition of a government-source as set out in the Housing SORP,

then the transaction is accounted for as a non-exchange transaction. The
assets acquired are recognised in the Statement of Financial Position at
fair value. The income, equivalent to the difference between any amounts
paid or payable for the assets and the fair value of the assets, is recognised
in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as a donation when future
performance-related conditions are met.

Assets held for sale

Assets held for sale consists of properties or other assets that are surplus to
the requirement of the business and not held for use in the business.

Property assets held for sale are subject to a charity valuation by a qualified

and experienced external surveyor and held at this value, any change in
valuation is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

63

Social Housing Grant and other Government grants

Government grants include grants receivable from government agencies such
as Homes England, local authorities, devolved government agencies, health
authorities and the European Commission. Government grants received

for housing properties are recognised in income over the useful life of the
housing property structure and, where applicable, its individual components
(excluding land) under the accruals model.

Grants relating to revenue are recognised in income on a systematic basis
over the period in which related costs for which the grant is intended to
compensate are recognised. Where a grant is receivable as compensation for
expenses or losses already incurred or for the purpose of giving immediate
financial support with no future related costs, it is recognised as revenue in
the period in which it becomes receivable.

Grants due from government organisations or received in advance are
included as current assets or liabilities.

Government grants received for housing properties are subordinated to the
repayment of loans by agreement with Homes England. Government grants
released on sale of a property may be repayable but are normally available to
be recycled and are credited to a Recycled Capital Grant Fund and included
in the Statement of Financial Position in creditors.

Other Grants

Grants received from non-government sources are recognised as revenue
using the performance model.

Recycling of grants

Where there is a requirement to either repay or recycle a grant received for
an asset that has been disposed of, a provision is included in the Statement of
Financial Position to recognised this obligation as a liability. When approval is
received from the funding body to use the grant for a specific development,
the amount previously recognised as a provision for the recycling of the grant
is reclassified as a creditor in the Statement of Financial Position.

On disposal of an asset for which government grant was received, if there
is no obligation to repay the grant, any unamortised grant remaining within
liabilities in the Statement of Financial Position related to this asset is
recognised as revenue in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

Impairment assessment of a cash-generating unit

Where there are indicators of impairment of tangible assets; factors taken
into consideration in reaching such a decision include the economic viability
and expected future performance of the asset and where it is a component of
a larger cash-generating unit, the viability and expected future performance
of that unit.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

64

Impairment of social housing properties

An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether an indicator of
impairment exists. If such an indicator exists, an impairment assessment is
carried out and an estimate of the recoverable amount of the asset is made.
Where the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an
impairment loss is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its value in use and fair
value less costs to sell. Where assets are held for their service potential, value
in use is determined by the present value of the asset’s remaining service
potential pilus the net amount expected to be received from its disposal.
Depreciated replacement cost is taken as a suitable measurement model.

An impairment loss is reversed if the reasons for the impairment loss have
ceased to apply and included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

Other property, plant and equipment

Other property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated
depreciation and impairment losses. Depreciation is charged on all non-
housing property, plant and equipment, other than investment properties and
freehold land so as to write down the net book value to their residual value,
on a straight line basis, over their useful economic lives, as follows:

Other Freehold premises 34 - 60 years
Freehold premises components 4-30 years
Leasehold land and buildings 5 years
Furniture, fixtures & fittings 4 years
Other equipment 4 years
Vehicles 4-10 years
Computer hardware 2-4 years

Other freehold premises are treated as housing properties which have
different patterns of consumption of economic benefit and treated as
separate assets. The same asset lives are used as for housing properties.

Intangible assets

Intangible assets are stated at historic cost or valuation, less accumulated
amortisation recognised and any provision for impairment. Amortisation

is charged to operating expenditure in the Statement of Comprehensive
Income. Amortisation is provided on all intangible assets at rates calculated
to write off the cost or valuation of each asset on a straight-line basis over its
expected useful life, as follows:

Computer software 2-4 years

> Annual Report 2023/2024

65

Leases

An assessment is made at inception of an agreement that transfers the right
to use assets. The assessment considers whether the arrangement is, or
contains, a lease based on the substance of the arrangement.

Operating leased assets
Leases that do not transfer all the risks and rewards of ownership are
classified as operating leases.

Payments under operating leases are charged to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease.

Provisions for liabilities

Provisions are recognised when there is a present obligation (legal or
constructive) as a result of a past event; it is probable the obligation will
have to be settled; and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the
obligation.

The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the
consideration required to settle the present obligation at the end of the
reporting period, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding
the obligation.

Where the effect of the time value of money is material, the amount expected
to be required to settle the obligation is recognised at present value using

a pre-tax discount rate. The unwinding of the discount is recognised as a
finance cost in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period it
arises.

Financial provision is made for the cost of annual leave accrued by
employees as a result of services rendered in the current period, and which
employees are entitled to carry forward and use within the next 12 months.
The provision is measured at the salary cost payable for the period of
absence.

Restricted reserves

Where reserves are subject to an external restriction they are separately
recognised within reserves as a restricted reserve. Revenue and expenditure
are included in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and a transfer is
made from the general reserve to the restricted reserve.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

66

Termination Benefits

Redundancy costs (termination benefits) are recognised as an immediate
cost and charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income ona
demonstrable commitment to termination, with provision for future
redundancy costs measured at a best estimate of the expenditure that
would be required to settle the obligation at the reporting date.

Significant management judgements and key sources of
estimation uncertainty

The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of policies
and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. The
estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience
and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the Nacro
circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements
about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent
from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the
estimate is revised and in any future periods affected.

Significant management judgements

The following are management judgements in applying the accounting
policies of Nacro that have the most significant effect on the amounts
recognised in the financial statements.

Impairment of social housing properties

The Trustees have to make an assessment as to whether an indicator of
impairment in value of social housing properties exists. In making the
judgement, management consider the detailed criteria set out in the SORP.
The conclusion of the Trustees is that there are no indicators of impairment.

Estimation uncertainty

Estimates and assumptions are made concerning the future. The resulting
accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual
results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing
a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within
the next financial year are addressed below.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

67

Provisions

Provision is made for dilapidations. These provisions require management’s
best estimate of the costs that will be incurred based on legislative and
contractual requirements. In addition, the timing of the cash flows and the
discount rates used to establish net present value of the obligations require
management’s judgement. ;

Recoverability of rent arrears

Nacro makes an estimate of the recoverable value of rent arrears. When
assessing impairment of rent arrears, management consider factors including
the ageing profile of the rental debtors and historical experience.

Defined benefit pension scheme

Nacro has obligations to pay pension benefits to certain employees and
former employees. The cost of these benefits and the present value of the
obligation depend on a number of factors, including; life expectancy, salary
increases, asset valuations and the discount rate on corporate bonds. Based
on advice received from Actuaries, management estimates these factors in
determining the net pension obligation in the balance sheet. The assumptions
reflect historical experience and current trends.

Useful lives of depreciable assets

Management reviews its estimates of the useful lives of depreciable assets at
each reporting date based on the expected utility of the assets. Uncertainties
in these estimates relate to technological obsolescence that may change the
utility of certain software and IT equipment and changes to decent homes
standards which may require more frequent replacement of key components.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

68

3A. Particulars of turnover, operating costs and operating

surplus.

Social housing activity

Social housing lettings (Note 3B)

Other social housing activities

Charges for support services

Activities other than social housing

Non-social housing and related support services 32,337

Education centre provision
Justice services

Health services

Social housing activity

Social housing lettings (Note 3B)

Other social housing activities

Charges for support services

Activities other than social housing

Non-social housing and related support services 26,754

Education centre provision
Justice services

Health services

> Annual Report 2023/2024

Sub-total

2024

Turnover Operating Operating

costs surplus/

(deficit)

£’000 £’000 ‘£7000

7,215 (6,623) © 592

13,054 — (11,726) 1,328

Sub-total 20,269 (18,349) 1,920
(33,191) (854)

13,958 (14,995) (1,037)

4,931 (4,610) 321

5,537 (5,548) (11)

‘Sub-total 56,763 (58,344) (1,581)
Total 77,032 (76,693) 339
2023

Turnover Operating Operating

costs surplus/

(deficit)

£7000 £’000 £7000

6,385 (6,689) (304)

12,075 (11,030) 1,045

Sub-total 18,460 (17,719) 741
(27,822) (1,068)

13,539 (15,097) (1,558)

4,640 (4,194) 446

5,266 (5,139) 127

50,199 (52,252) (2,053)

68,659 (69,971) (1,312)

Total

3B. Social Housing Lettings

Income

Rents receivable net of identifiable
service charges

Service charge income
Amortised government grants

Turnover from social housing
lettings

Operating expenditure

Management
Service charge costs
Lease expenditure
Property costs
Routine maintenance
Bad debts

Depreciation of housing properties

Expenditure from social housing
lettings

Operating surplus/(deficit) social
housing lettings

Total void losses including service
charges

> Annual Report 2023/2024

General Supported 2024 2023
Needs Housing Total Total
Housing
£7000 £7000 £7000 £7000
830 1,547 2,377 2,320
1,087 3,565 4,652. 3,869
33 153 186 196
1,950 5,265 7,215 6,385
(716) (1,758) (2,474) (2,494)
(217) (1,026) (1,243) (1,172)
(556) (950) (1,506) (1,464)
(44) (236) (280) (252)
(140) (650) (790) (1,014)
(42) (138) (180) (136)
(34) (116) (150) (157)
(1,749) (4,874) (6,623) (6,689)
201 391 592 (304)
164 849 1,013 834

70

4. (Loss) on disposal of property and equipment

(Loss) on disposal of property and equipment

5. Deficit for the year before taxation

Deficit for the year before taxation is stated after charging/
(crediting):

Depreciation of housing properties

Depreciation of other property, plant and equipment
Amortisation of intangible assets

Amortisation of Government grants

Loss on disposal of fixed assets

Audit fees:

- statutory audit

- audit-related assurance services

Operating lease rentals
Education Tuition Fund

6. Interest receivable

Bank interest receivable

7. Interest and financing costs

Net interest payable on defined benefit pension liability

> Annual Report 2023/2024

2024 2023
£7000 £000
(17) (9)
(7) @)
2024 2023
£7000 £000
150 141
582 613
201 237
(190) (199)
17 9
59 51
97 91
13,237 12,317
(199) (68)
2024 2023
£7000
28 -
28 -
2024 2023
£7000 £’000
(632) (377)
__ (632) 7)

rau

8. Staff costs

Wages and salaries
Social security costs
Other pension costs
Redundancy Costs
Agency Costs

The number of staff who received emoluments, including
pension contribution, in excess of
£60,000 is as shown below:

Salary Band
60,000 - 69,999
70,000 - 79,999
80,000 - 89,999
90,000 - 99,999
100,000 - 109,999
120,000 - 129,999
170,000 - 179,999
180,000 - 189,999

The average full time equivalent number of employees over

the 12-month period was:

Service delivery
Management and administration

Full Time equivalents are calculated on the basis of a 40-hour standard week.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

2024 2023
£’000 £’000
23,894 22,447
2,174 2,121
692 662
204 150
3,365 3,373
30,329 28,753
2024 2023
11 12

7 7

2 2

2 ()

1 t)

1 1

0) 1

1 )
2024 2023
676 655
117 100
793 755

72

9. Directors’ remuneration and transactions

2024 2023

Directors who are executive staff members £7000 £7000
Wages and salaries (including social security costs) 791 733
Other pension costs 21 19
812 752

Directors are defined as the members of the Board, the Chief Executive and
members of the Executive Leadership Team.

The number of directors in the defined contribution scheme as at the end of March
2024 was 7 (2023:7).

Remuneration of the highest paid director

2024 2023

; £7000 - £’000
Emoluments 176 172
Pension contributions 5 5

The Chief Executive is an ordinary member of the pension scheme. No enhanced or
special terms apply.

No Board member or person related or connected to them received any
remuneration from Nacro during the year. During the year expenses relating to
travel were reimbursed or paid on behalf of Board members amounting to £5,142 for
14 members (2023: £4,554 to 10 members).

10. Taxation status

Nacro has charitable status and its sources of income are exempt from income and
corporation tax provided that they are applied for charitable purposes.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

73

11. Intangible fixed assets

Cost

At 1 April 2023
Additions

Disposals

As at 31 March 2024

Amortisation

At 1 April 2023

Charge for the year
Eliminated on disposal
As at 31 March 2024

‘Net book value

As at 31 March 2024

As at 31 March 2023

12. Housing properties

Cost

At 1 April 2023
Additions

Disposals

At 31 March 2024
Depreciation

At 1 April 2023
Charge for the year
Eliminated on disposals
At 31 March 2024
Net book value

As at 31 March 2024

As at 31 March 2023

> Annual Report 2023/2024

Computer
software

£7000
727
(21)
706

(524) -
(201)

21
(704)

203

General Supported Total
Needs _ Housing

£’000 £7000 £’000
263 11,134 11,397

263 11,134 11,397

(65) (4,277) (4,342)
(5) (145) (150)

(70) (4,422) (4,492)

193 6,712 6,905

198 6,857 7,055


74

13. Other property, plant and equipment

Motor

Freehold Long/ Equipment Total
short : vehicles
leasehold
£7000 £7000 £7000 £7000 £’000

Cost or valuation
At 1 April 2023 . 16,796 706 906 178 18,586
Additions . 310 79 - - 389
Disposals - (69) (479) (167) (715)
As at 31 March 2024 17,106 716 427 11 18,260
Depreciation
At 1 April 2023 (2,827) (331) (749) (178) (4,085)
Charge for the year (400) (104) (78) - (582)
Eliminated on disposal - 67 : 464 167 698
As at 31 March 2024 (3,227) (368) - (363) (11) (3,969)
Net book value
As at 31 March 2024 13,879 348 64 - 14,291
As at 31 March 2023 13,969 375 157 - 14,501

> Annual Report 2023/2024

14. Debtors

Amounts falling due within one year:
Rent arrears

Provision for bad debts

Net Rent Arrears

Trade debtors

Other debtors

Prepayments and accrued income

15. Creditors

Amounts falling due within one year:

Trade creditors

Other taxation and social security

Other creditors

Pension creditors

Deferred income, grants and grants repayable
Accruals

SHG under 1 year deferred grant (note 17)

16. Creditors
Amounts falling due after more than one year:

Financial assistance - deferred grants (note 17)

Financial assistance - recycled capital grant fund

> Annual Report 2023/2024

2024 2023
£000 £7000
2,970 2,390
(791) (450)
2,179 1,940
3,164 1,518

172 190

2,985 3,973
8,500 7,621
2024 2023
£7000 £7000
1,757 2,714
1,047 1,026

160 171
32 31

2,198 2,831

5,782 4,110
190 190
11,166 11,073

2024 2023
£°000 £’000
3,587 3,777

6 6
3,593 3,783

76

17. Financial assistance and other government grants
(Deferred income grant)

Deferred income - government grants

2024 2023
£7000 £’000
As at 1 April 2023 3,967 4,166
Amortisation to Statement of (190) (199)
Comprehensive Income
Grant addition - -
As at 31 March 2024 3,777 3,967
Amounts to be released within one 190 190
year
Amounts due to be released in more 3,587 3,777
than one year
3,777 3,967
The total value of grants received by Nacro is £8,795,258 (2023: £8,795,258).
Recycled Capital Grant Fund
2024 2023
£7000 £7000
As at 1 April 2023 6 6
Recycling of grant - -
As at 31 March 2024 ~ : 6 6

The recycled capital grant is in respect of 2 housing property disposals in 2017/18

and is shown in note 16.

18. Provisions

Dilapidations Total

£000 £’000

As at 1 April 2023 741 741
Released (193) (193)
Increase 231 231
As at 31 March 2024 779 779

> Annual Report 2023/2024

77

19. Retirement benefit schemes

Defined contribution scheme

Nacro operates defined contribution retirement benefit schemes for
qualifying employees. The total expense charged to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income in the period ended 31 March 2024 was £691,644
(2023: £662,384).

Defined benefit scheme
Characteristics and risks associated with the Plan

Nacro operates the Nacro Staff Benefits Plan (“the Plan”). The Plan provides
pensions in retirement and death benefits to members. Pension benefits are
linked to a member’s final salary at retirement and their length of service.
Since 31 March 2006 the Plan has been closed to future accrual.

The Plan is a registered scheme under UK legislation and was contracted out
of the State Second Pension until its closure.

The Plan is subject to the scheme funding requirements outlined in UK
legislation.

The Plan was established from 31 May 1986 under trust and is governed by
the Plan’s third definitive deed and rules dated 23 May 2011. The Pension
Trustees are responsible for the operation and the governance of the Plan,
including making decisions regarding the Plan’s funding and investment
strategy in conjunction with the Company.

Under clause 21 of the Plan’s third definitive deed and rules dated 23 May
2011, the Company does not have an unconditional right to a refund of any
surplus in the Plan if the Plan winds up. The Plan, however, is in deficit and
this deficit exceeds the value of future contributions due under the current
recovery plan, there is no additional liability recognised on the balance sheet
as a result of the Plan’s recovery plan.

The Plan exposes the Company to actuarial risks such as; market (investment)
risk, interest rate risk, inflation risk, currency risk and longevity risk.

The Plan does not expose the Company to any unusual! Plan-specific or
Company-specific risks.

No allowance has been made for any curtailment or settlement during the
accounting period.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

78

Amount, timing and uncertainty of future cashflows.

The Pension Trustees hold a proportion of the Plan’s assets in gilts and index-
linked gilts to provide some degree of matching with the Plan’s liabilities
(with the latter providing a degree of price inflation matching with the Plan’s
liabilities).

The Plan also holds annuity contracts in respect of the majority of pensions in
payment which provide protection against future changes in respect of post
retirement market risk, inflation risk and longevity risk in respect of these
members.

The Plan’s investment strategy is to invest broadly 80% of non-annuity
investments in return seeking assets and the remaining 20% in matching
assets (mainly government bonds). This strategy reflects the Plan’s liability
profile and the Pension Trustees’ and Company’s attitude to risk.

The Plan’s non-annuity investments include interest rate and inflation hedging.

The last scheme funding valuation of the Plan was as at 31 March 2023 (“the
2023 valuation”) and revealed a funding deficit of £14.0m. Under the current
schedule of contributions, the Company has agreed to pay deficit reduction
contributions. These deficit reduction contributions are set out in the payment
schedule agreed as part of each tri-annual valuation. The expenses of

running the Plan, as well as statutory levies, are to be met directly by the
Company.

The Company has paid £685,000 in deficit reduction contributions in respect
of the current accounting period.

The liabilities of the Plan are based on the current value of expected benefit
payment cash-flows to members of the Plan over the next 50 years. The
average duration of the liabilities is approximately 14 years.

The value of the liabilities at the reporting date have been estimated by
updating the results of the 2023 valuation to allow for the passage of time,
benefits paid out of the Plan and changes in actuarial assumptions over

the period from 31 March 2023 to 31 March 2024. Allowance has also been
made for actual inflation experience and known transfers out and trivial
commutations over the period. Such an approach is common for the purposes
of accounting disclosures. It is not expected that these projections will be
materially different from a summation of individual calculations at the
accounting date, although there may be some discrepancy between the
actual liabilities for the Plan at the accounting date and those included in the
disclosures.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

79

Principal Actuarial Assumptions

A full actuarial valuation of the Plan was carried out as at 31 March 2023

and has been updated to 31 March 2024 by a qualified actuary. The major
assumptions used by the actuary were (in nominal terms) as follows

Discount rate

Inflation assumption (RPI)

Inflation assumption (CPI)

Future revaluation of pensions in deferment
Pension increases in payment (liabilities):
CPI max 5%

CPI max 3%

CPI max 2.5%

Pension increases in payment (insured asset):

RPI max 5%
RPI max 3%
RPI max 2.5%

> Annual Report 2023/2024

2024
4.85%
3.30%
2.90%
2.90%

2.85%
2.35%
2.10%

3.20%
2.50%
2.15%

2023
4.75%
3.35%
2.85%
2.85%

2.80%
2.40%
2.15%

5.25%
2.60%
2.30%

Assumed life expectancies on retirement at age 65

Retiring today - Females
Retiring today - Males
Retiring in 20 years: Females

Retiring in 20 years: Males

The assets in the plan were

Equity, property and other

Gilts and other government debt
Annuities

Cash and net current assets

Fair value of Plan assets

The actual return on assets over the period was:

Present value of funded obligations
Fair value of Plan assets

Deficit in funded scheme

Present value of unfunded obligations
Unrecognised actuarial gains / (losses)
(Irrecoverable surplus)

Net liability in Statement of Financial Position

> Annuai Report 2023/2024

2024 2023
22.8: 23.3
20.3 20.9
23.9 24.4
21.3 21.8

2024 2023
£000 £000
25,679 23,833
(404) 1,590

_ 6,166 6,839
600 494
32,041 32,756
1,445 (11,229)
(45,092) (46,387)
32,041 32,756
(13,051) (13,631)
(13,051) (13,631)

81

Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of the present value of the

deferred benefit obligation

Benefit obligation at beginning of year
Plan administration cost

Interest cost

Contributions by plan participants
Actuarial (gains) / losses

Benefits paid

Past service cost

Benefit obligation at end of year

Reconciliation of opening and closing balances of the
fair value of Plan assets

Fair value of Plan assets at beginning of year
Interest income on Plan assets

Return on assets, excluding interest income
Contributions by employer

Contributions by Plan participants

Benefits paid

Plan administration cost

Fair value of Plan assets at end of year

The amounts recognised in Statement of Comprehensive
Income ;

Service cost - including current and past service costs and
Settlements

Plan administrative costs

Net interest on the net defined liability

> Annual Report 2023/2024

2024
£7000

46,387

2,137
(587)
(2,845)

45,092

2024
£7000
32,756
1,505
(60)
685

(2,845)

32,041

2024
£7000

632
632

2023
£7000

60,778

1,573
(13,120)
(2,844)

46,387

2023
£000
46,279
1,196
(12,425)
550
(2,844)

32,756

2023
£7000

377
377

82

Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability
(asset) shown in the Statement of Comprehensive
Income

Actuarial (gains) / losses on the liabilities
Return on assets, excluding interest income

Total remeasurement of the net defined liability (asset)

Estimation of next period’s profit or loss

Service cost - including current and past service costs and
settlements

Plan administrative costs
Net interest on the net defined liability

Total expense

20. Cashflow from operating activities

(Deficit) for the year

Adjustment for:

Depreciation of housing properties

Depreciation of other property, plant and equipment
Amortisation of intangible assets

Loss on disposal of assets

(Increase) in debtors

Increase in creditors

Increase in provisions

Interest received
Pension costs less contributions payable

Accrued pension payment
Amortisation of SHG
Interest payable

Net cash used in operating activities

> Annual Report 2023/2024

2024 2024
£000 —- £000
(587) (13,120)
60 12,425
(527) (695)
2025
£’000
616
616
2024 2023
£000 £000
(282) (1,698)
150 141
582 613
201 237
17 9
(879) (762)
93 467
38 57
(28) -
(685) (550)
- 31
(190) (199)
632 377
(351) (1,277)

83

21. Capital commitments

Capital commitments at the 2023/24 year-end were £103,864
(2023: nil).

22. Leasing Commitments

Total future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable
operating leases are as follows.

Leases expiring:-
- within one year
- between one and five years

- after five years

23. Financial assets and liabilities
Financial assets

Financial assets measured at undiscounted amount receivable
Bank deposits
Total

2024 2023
£7000 = £000
4,198 4,088
3,336 3,159
1,723 2,186
9,257 9,433
2024 2023
£7000 ~—- £000
5,515 3,648
9,215 9,927

14,730 13,575

Financial Instruments on which no interest is earned include short-term debtors.
No investments were held by the company during the year. No interest or gains are
recognised on financial assets recognised at undiscounted amounts receivable.

Financial liabilities

Financial liabilities measured at undiscounted amount payable

The company’s financial liabilities are sterling denominated.
There is no exposure to interest rate risk.

> Annual Report 2023/2024

2024
£’000
1,949

2023
£000
2,916

84

24. Accommodation in management and
development

Owned units
Units under management

Total units

2024

225
1,995
2,220

2023
225
2,000
2,225

Within the total units, 598 units met the regulated definition of social housing (2023 -
608) and 1,622 units were outside the regulated definition (2023 - 1,617).

> Annual Report 2023/2024

