COMPANY REGISTRATION NUMBER: 02266267
CHARITY REGISTRATION NUMBER: 700405

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee

Trustees Report and Financial Statements
31 July 2024

ut

COMPANIES HOUSE

SUTTON MCGRATH HARTLEY
Chartered accountants & statutory auditor
Queensgate House

23 North Park Road

Harrogate

North Yorkshire

HG1 5PD

A

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Financial Statements

Year ended 31 July 2024

Reference and administrative details of the
Company, its Trustees and advisers

Trustees’ report

Independent auditor's report to the members
Consolidated statement of financial activities

Consolidated statement of financial position

Company statement of financial position
Consolidated statement of cash flows

Notes to the financial statements

12-15
16
17-18
19-20
21
22-51

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee

Trustees’ Annual Report

Year ended 31 July 2024

Reference and administrative details of the company, its Trustees and advisers

Registered charity name
Charity registration number
Company registration number

Principal office and registered
office

The trustees

Vice Presidents

Patron
Chief Executive Officer

Independent Auditor

Bankers

Solicitors

Pension Administrators

National Horseracing College
700405
02266267

The Stables
Rossington Halt
Great North Road
Doncaster

South Yorkshire
DN11 OHN

Mr Gerard Sutcliffe, Chairman
Mr Howard Wright, Deputy Chairman
Mr Timothy Lyle

Mr James Hetherton

Mr Jeffrey Ennis

The Honourable Oliver Greenall
Ms Susannah Gill

Ms Nicola Frampton

Ms Sally Iggulden

Dr Helen McCarthy

Mr Francis Stephenson

Mr Callum Heltiwell

Mr David Carr

The Rt Hon Richard Caborn
Ms Julie Krone

Countess of Halifax
Mr Stephen Padgett OBE

Sutton McGrath Hartley

(Resigned 16 August 2024)

(Resigned 24 April 2024)

(Appointed 25 September 2024)

Chartered accountants & statutory auditor

Queensgate House
23 North Park Road
Harrogate

North Yorkshire
HG1 5PD

Virgin Money

19 Sepulchre Gate, Doncaster, DN1 1SJ

Jordans
4 Priory Place, Doncaster, DN1 1BP

South Yorkshire Pensions Authority

Oakwell House, 2 Beevor Court, Pontefract Road, Barnsley, S71

1HG

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Trustees’ Annual Report (continuea)

Year ended 31 July 2024

OVERVIEW

Trustees are pleased to present their report together with the financial statements of the charity for the
year ended 31 July 2024 which coincides also with the 40th anniversary of the founding of the College
in 1984.

The Annual report serves the purposes of both a trustees’ report and a directors’ report under company
law. The trustees have adopted the provisions of the Statement of Recommended Practice (SORP)
“Accounting and Reporting by Charities" in preparing the annual report and financial statements of the
charitable group.

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out in notes
to the accounts and comply with the charity's governing document, the Charities Act 2011 and
Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to charities
preparing their accounts in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and
Republic of Ireland published in October 2019.

Provision - The academic year covered by this report has seen continued growth and success. Numbers
of learners joining initial training have grown and, as retention rates are high, more have completed
training, graduated and gone on to work-based learning (apprenticeships). Results exceed national
averages across the board. The reputation of and, as a consequence, demand for the College’s
specialist training provision continues also to be high.

Finances — A continued theme this year has been increasing costs of everything. While all reasonable
measures are taken to ensure operations are lean and efficient, inflation has hit hard. Rates of payment
from Government contracts have not risen in line with costs and already modest reserves have been
depleted. The fundraising climate for the NHC, just as for other charities, has been difficult, leading to
reduced revenue. Therefore, applications had to be made to the racing industry seeking increased
payments for what was delivered. Being less able to generate revenue from other sources, the College
has to reduce slightly the discount the industry has enjoyed for many years.

A noteworthy milestone at the end of the period covered by this report was the completion of alli
payments on outstanding loans. So, while the NHC has limited reserves, it carries no debt.

The operating surplus for the year was £202,844 on total income of £3,565,643.

OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES
Policies and objectives

The objects of the charity are to advance education, particularly among young persons, and to relieve
the need of unemployed persons by the provision of vocational and academic training connected with
the horse racing, equestrian, agricultural, horticultural and their allied areas.

In setting objectives and planning for activities, the trustees have given due consideration to general
guidance published by the Charity Commission relating to public benefit, including the guidance ‘Public
benefit: running a charity (PB2)'

Strategies for achieving objectives

e Provide accessible and inclusive training opportunities for people wanting to work in the horse
racing industry.

e Ensure training is realistic and relevant but delivered progressively to develop learners to be
ready for work.

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Trustees' Annual Report (continued)

Year ended 31 July 2024

¢ Provide a supportive, encouraging environment around that training enabling as many learners
as possible to achieve their goals.

e Engage widely and collaboratively with employers across the industry to maximise learners’
chances of gaining and keeping paid employment.

e¢ Promote constructive behaviours and positive attitudes in all that we do.
e Make the very best of resources available to optimise the College's contribution to public benefit.

Activities undertaken to achieve objectives
_ © Recruit widely and remove as many barriers as possible that could deter potential learners.

e Provide bursaries and other practical support to ensure those with limited resources can access
training opportunities.

e Provide intensive residential Foundation Courses covering a comprehensive syllabus that
prepares them for the jobs that are available.

¢ Deliver life skills training to increase learners’ resilience, confidence and independence.

e Match learners with the most appropriate employment opportunities to optimise their chances
of satisfaction and success.

« Provide ongoing support in the workplace to enable further learner development
(apprenticeships) and aid worker retention.

Main activities undertaken to further the company's purposes for the public benefit

The trustees confirm they have referred to the guidance contained in the Charity Commission's general
guidance on public benefit when reviewing its aim and objectives and in planning our future activities.
In particular, the trustees consider its investment into its chosen workstreams of Workforce and
Community Investment contribute towards its objectives through providing a public benefit.

The National Horseracing College (NHC) is the only specialist training provider to the horse racing
industry in the north of England and one of only two in the United Kingdom. The College offers a variety
of training courses designed to meet industry needs. It has a reputation for delivering high quality staff,
many of whom go on to have long careers in a wide variety of roles in racing.

PRIORITIES

The highest single priority is that the College fulfils its duty of care to learners on its training programmes
and to staff.

Beyond that however, the priority continues to be ensuring the viability of the business. This requires:

e Sustainment or enhancement of the credibility of the NHC’s training offer as perceived by
potential learners and by all in the industry.

« Vigorous marketing of training opportunities leading to the recruitment of learners to fill the
courses available.

¢ Rigorous management of costs and relentless pursuit of all available income sources.

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Trustees’ Annual Report (continued)

Year ended 31 July 2024

CONTEXT
Overheads

The NHC has, like most businesses, experienced rising costs. Unlike some, it cannot simply pass on
those costs by increasing charges to its customers. While salaries are the biggest single element of the
NHC’s overhead, despite its very lean organisational structure, the College’s workforce is its greatest
asset and is vital to its ability to deliver on its priorities described above. The recurring imposition of
increases in the National Living Wage (NLW) have seen more staff included in that bracket and added
meaningfully to the overall salary bill. Increasing numbers of staff whose salaries recognised the
responsibilities they hold, see the pay difference relative to colleagues on NLW eroded or eliminated.
Unsurprisingly, some wonder what incentive there is for them to continue to fulfil those extra
responsibilities, or they seek pay rises to preserve differential rates. These additional overheads are
imposed without any corresponding improvements for the business.

Efficiency

Many years of delivering training to a high standard with very limited resources, including having to self-
generate (grants, fundraising, charity, trading) upwards of 20% of revenue, mean that the College’s
operations are lean and efficient. If savings are identified, they are taken. The opportunities to make
further cuts are limited to non-existent without adversely affecting outputs in terms of numbers and
standards.

Revenue

Government Funding — The NHC's ESFA contract has, for. many years, accounted for around 40% of
revenue. Effectively, it subsidises training for the racing industry. A condition of funding is that the
College is subject to inspections by OFSTED to ensure it meets rigorous standards, many of which are
unrelated to the requirements of racing. The size and value of the contract are dictated by the ESFA

. without reference to the training needs of the industry, the capacity of the College or the costs of delivery.
Most of the Government money supports only young people (up to age 18), covers only partially the
cost of the training delivered and cannot be relied upon to keep pace with the costs of delivery, let alone
contribute to physical or procedural improvements. The NHC has been able to grow its ESFA contract
and thus increase the amount of money it can draw from Government due to the increased attendance
on its FC and the continued success of its Doncaster Equine College (DEC) Programme. The DEC
Programme, run entirely under the umbrella of the NHC, allows more effective use to be made of many
resources that have to exist anyway to enable training relating to racing pathways.

industry Contract - The NHC’s contract with the BHA (Letter of Agreement) also accounts for over 40%
of total revenue. Around 80% of that contract is money allocated by the Horserace Betting Levy Board
(HBLB). The Levy Board is taking an increasingly close interest in what its money delivers and is
engaging more directly with the NHC.

Fundraising - in straitened times, the mismatch between the demands for and supply of donations/grants
increases. Many causes are perceived to be more worthy of sympathy and support and to have more
limited access to resources than racing schools, despite their extraordinary contributions to a variety of
societal goods. In addition, grant-making bodies, within and external to racing, often are more willing to
embrace and establish new initiatives and opportunities, assuming core business is or should be funded
by routine revenue but it is core funding that is needed, not new activities that add to overheads.

Commercial Opportunities - The NHC takes every opportunity to ‘sweat its assets’. Trading that will
generate income is pursued wherever possible, such as by letting facilities, farming land and
encouraging sponsors. However, these are peripheral to core business and generate revenue that is
only marginally significant.

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Trustees’ Annual Report (continued)

Year ended 31 July 2024

Staffing In The Horseracing Industry

The industry's staff shortfall is well known, if not easily quantified. The debate about the resilience and
commitment of staff, conditions of employment and the culture on racing yards aside, the fact is that
significant vacancies exist, now and for the foreseeable future. Employers need and want every trained
person the NHC can provide.

While the College is mandated to deliver recruits from its FC trained to Level 1, employers really would
like to receive Level 2 staff/riders. The vast majority of racehorse training businesses could not provide
initial training in-house and whilst the long-term funding model for training may well include increases in
direct funding from employers it is unrealistic to expect training business to be able to adjust to making
a significant direct contribution in the short-term. In striving to meet employer needs and to enable the
success of graduates, the NHC and its sister school the BRS make significant extra efforts to deliver
people to work placement at a higher standard than their remit dictates. While that costs money,
currently it is what has to happen to ensure young people entering the industry are hired and retained
by employers.

The number of people who have experience of living in rural environments and of working with
animals/horses is reducing while there are extensive opportunities for people to be paid to work in
conditions that are not arduous. As a consequence, it is increasingly difficult to attract people into and
retain them after they join the industry's workforce.

Societal influences and learner needs have and continue to change at pace. The pandemic and
responses to it were accelerants. The day-to-day experience of training staff is that fewer learners have
benefited from the opportunities, support and education required to gain basic levels of fitness, good
communication skills and an appreciation of the requirements of paid work. A great deal more time,
patience and skill is required from leaders, instructors and support staff to instil the attitudes, standards
and work-rates that will enable learners’ success in the industry’s work force.

ACTIVITIES AND ACHIEVEMENTS
Marketing and Recruiting (M&R)

The success of the College’s M&R team (now 4 staff) is vital to the pursuit of its priorities. It is accepted
and understood that investment in people and activities in this area does not deliver instant results but
that they build over time if consistent and persistent. It is encouraging that, this year, increases during
the last few years in expressions of interest, engagement through social media and applications have
begun to manifest themselves in attendance numbers which exceed any previous years and lead to the
College being able to fulfil its Government contract and access additional funds.

Study Programmes

The College's Education Programme for Young People (EPYP) courses include the Residential
Foundation Course (FC) and the non-residential, day-attendance Doncaster Equine College (DEC)
Programme.

Doncaster Equine College (DEC) Programme

The DEC programme involves 17.5 hours per week for day students across a normal academic year of
36 weeks. Programme qualifications include L1 Diploma in Horse Care, L2 Technical and Extended
Certificates in Horse Care and L3 Advanced Technical Certificate. Functional skills are included, along
with GCSEs for some learners. Learners often progress to the next level depending on their ability and
career aspirations. Most learners are 16—18-year-olds who help the NHC fill its ESFA contract and are
funded but there are also a small number of 19+ learners who do not attract Government funding.

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Trustees’ Annual Report (continued)

Year ended 31 July 2024

The curriculum includes social development skills covering employability, self-belief, time management
and functional skills at different levels. The course prepares non-employed young people for the world
of work, they participate in shows, normally outside of curriculum hours to practise and improve their
skills further. There is a range of other additional accreditation opportunities available through the
Colleges access to the racing industry’s VLE - Racing2Learn.

In 2023/24, 45 learners embarked on the DEC Programme. Retention rates are high at 84% overall.
Achievements also are high with L1 Horse Care Diploma at 84.4%, Level 2 Technical Certificate at 90%
and Level 3 Advanced Technical Certificate at 85.7% for year one and 100% for year 2. Achievement
rates in English and maths also are high with combined English success rates of 79.6% and combined
maths of 84.9%. These results are particularly noteworthy in light of the starting points of learners which
include that 19% did not complete school, 11% had an Education Health Care Plan, 32% had a
perceived learning difficulty, 10% had a disability, 17% had a physical health problem, 33% believe they
have a mental heaith problem and 32% have received counselling or had a support worker.

Foundation Course

The FC is 12 weeks duration followed by a 6-week work placement planned with an employer. It
welcomes intakes of up to 15 learners every 4 weeks, most being 16—18-year-olds living away from
home for the first time. Each intake also may include 19+ learners who are not ESFA funded.

Learners follow an intensive curriculum that includes social development skills covering employability,
cooking, resilience, self-belief, time management skills and preparation for functional skills at different
leveis. Training prepares non-employed young people for the world of work but also to become
independent, capable members of society. Parent or guardian feedback is very positive about the
personal development and improved behaviour of their young people. The range of additional training
.provided includes: safeguarding; understanding consent; autism awareness; diversity and inclusion;
‘concussion awareness; pay and employee rights in the workplace; alcohol, drug and gambling
awareness; welfare and healthy nutrition.

Qualifications on the FC include L1 Diploma in Racehorse Care and Riding, L1 Diploma in Work-Based
Horse Care, Entry 3 Award in Basic Knowledge of the Horseracing Industry, L3 Award Short Journey in
the Transportation of Horses, Functional Skills and Emergency 1st Aid. Achievement rates in the L1
Diploma improved on last year to 89% compared to 83% Nationally. Overall, the Study Programme saw
99 achievers, equalling last year and up from 72 in 2021/22.

Given that the FC is determinedly inclusive and non-selective, the retention rate for all age groups was
impressive at 92%, matching the rates achieved in 2022/23 and 2021/22. At the end of the learning
course, 89% of funded learners (16-18) and 100% of unfunded (19+) learners celebrated their success
in a graduation ceremony. Of those who graduated from the FC, 90% (from 89% last year) went into
work placement and of those 86% went on to an apprenticeship, employment of further education.

Feedback from parents, guardians and carers shows that 97.8% believe learners’ personal development
e.g. behaviours, maturity and emotionally, was outstanding or good during their training at the College.

Learners with learning difficulties (LLDD) thrive at the NHC and achieve at rates above what is usual in
other training environments. Learners with LLDD succeed at rates very close to or exceeding those
who have no LLDD.

Basic Skills (English & Maths)

Results achieved by learners across age ranges and at different levels linked to whatever was their start
point show combined basic skills success rates at 83% compared to 61% Nationally. Combined English
success rates were 80% and combined maths were 85%. Teaching of basic/functional skills usually is
in much smaller groups than is the norm in mainstream schooling and teachers provide context for the
subjects that relates to equine activities which tends to help leaners appreciate the relevance and value

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Trustees’ Annual Report (continued)

Year ended 31 July 2024

of the subjects. As a result, almost all levels of achievement are significantly ahead of National rates.
Apprenticeships

The College offers level 2 and level 3 apprenticeships in equine groom and senior equine groom
including diplomas. Additional qualifications are offered to learners including emergency first aid,
safeguarding, transporting horses by road on long journeys and L2 functional skills.

In this period there were 212 learners in learning overall, an increase on the previous year that continues
the trend of year-on-year growth since 2019. Achievement levels continue to be well ahead of Nationa!
averages with 100% passing their end point assessment (EPA) and 33% achieving distinction at Level
2.

The College’s staff work hard to match learners graduating from the FC to employers to determine the
best possible placement for them. The frequency of support for learners on transition to apprenticeships
has increased, with consequent improvement in progressions. Once on apprenticeships, learners are
employed in line with a national wage scale sanctioned by the British Horseracing Authority (BHA),
which exceeds Apprenticeship wage requirements. Learners are on apprenticeships for up to 18
months. Although the industry tends to suffer from quite high rates of employee turnover, the NHC’s
Roving Instructors maintain close contact with work-based learners to retain them on programme until
completion. Achievers are encouraged to continue to progress their careers beyond their qualification.
Thorough tracking shows that 73% stay in the equine industry after their L2 apprenticeship and 83%
after their L3 apprenticeship.

Staff Performance

All staff involved in teaching learners are observed and provided with constructive feedback to promote
high standards of teaching. During this period, 100% of observed sessions were assessed to be good
or outstanding. The College continues to focus on CPD and training for its staff, taking account of the
Jong working hours that are typical in the horseracing sector. Observation criteria have been adapted
to meet the requirements of the new external inspection regime.

Fundraising and Commercial Activities

Although these activities have not recovered to pre-pandemic levels, both the NHC's well-established
charity race day events (Pontefract and Doncaster) made important contributions. In addition,
applications to NARS and the Sir Peter O’Sullevan Charitable Trust had some success in obtaining
grants which were received with gratitude.

Infrastructure and Equipment

The NHC continued to invest in these areas as part of its strategy to enhance the offer to learners and
to attract commercial users. During this period, improvements have been made to residential facilities,
yards and training grounds.

FINANCIAL REVIEW

Going concern

The charity, for some years, has been unable to comply with its policy to hold free reserves of between
1- and 2-months operational expenditure.

Steps taken by central government, local authorities and the racing industry have already helped to
support the College's own efforts to sustain its staff and learners through the pandemic period, but
coupled with increasing cost pressures, uncertainties remain about the long-term funding of the industry
pending the publication of a new people strategy. However, the business has taken decisive and

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee

Trustees’ Annual Report (continued)

Year ended 31 July 2024

effective measures to preserve cash flow and increase its resilience.

The trustees have prepared forecasts of income and expenditure and cash flow for the period to 31
December 2025 which show that they have sufficient cash to be able to continue for the foreseeable
future. The trustees therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis of preparation for these financial
statements.

Reserves policy
The NHC was unable to keep two month’s operating costs in reserve.

Net current liabilities as at 31 July 2024 are £116,016 of which £162,317 are represented by restricted
funds, leaving unrestricted net current assets of £46,301 (of which £56,335 are held as designated
funds). Whilst this is below the minimum free reserves level of around £500,000; the College is moving
in the right direction and expects to meet the target levels by the generation of surpluses in future years.

Pay policy for key management personnel

Trustees and senior leaders continue to recognise that the organisation's success is reliant on its team
of dedicated staff. As salaries had not increased since 2021, a 10% increase was paid with effect from
01 July 2024. :

Financial performance

The operating surplus for the year was £202,844 (2023: deficit of £177,408) with an actuarial gain for
UK accounting purposes, which does not affect cash, of £192,000 (2023: £643,000) due to periodic
revaluation of pension asset / liabilities, leading to a net surplus for the year of £394,844 (2023:
£465,592).

The total funds carried forward at the year-end are £3,600,506 (2023: £3,205,662) of which £3,438,189
(2023: £2,902,281) are unrestricted and £162,317 (2022: £303,381) are restricted.

Pension fund

The Accounting for Pensions regulations have had an impact on the net assets position of the Charity
once again. The latest actuarial valuation of the Scheme resulted in an increase in the asset on the
defined benefit pension scheme of £188k from £441,000 to £629,000.

This asset is, of course, a statement of the theoretical pension asset of the Charity at the balance sheet
date based upon current assumptions of future discount rates; future salary and pension increases and
inflation. The asset only crystallises when members retire or in the event of the winding up of the
scheme, which is highly unlikely given that it is the multi-employer South Yorkshire local Government
Scheme. The scheme has been closed to new NHC employees since before 2015.

RISK MANAGEMENT

While the NHC’s leaders view the monitoring, assessment and mitigation of risks to be an ongoing
process, risk management policies are subject to periodic review. Risks are categorised low, medium
or high in terms of likelihood and seriousness. Modifying actions in response will transfer, treat, tolerate
or terminate each risk. Every risk has a designated owner and a timeframe for actions to be taken. The
table below illustrates some of the risk areas with.potentially most serious consequences:

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Trustees’ Annual Report (continued)

Year ended 31 July 2024

|Risk Likelihood | Seriousness | Modifying Actions

Safeguarding HIGH TREAT
failure - iearner Training, supervision.

Ops Dir
(Safeguarding

Lead)

Fixed costs | MEDIUM TREAT
exceeding ESFA & Demonstrate:

BHA contract Value of NHC’s outputs.
payments Efficiency of operation.

Major IT breach MEDIUM TREAT
Retain comprehensive IT specialist
support, backup protocols, protective
measures, training. :
Reduction in | MEDIUM HIGH TOLERATE CEO
Industry resources Exert influence, demonstrate social
from Levy value added.
Actual or | MEDIUM MEDIUM TREAT CEO
Reputational Ensure policies & procedures are
damage due to justified, current, followed and
vexatious actions recorded.
complaints
Human disease | LOW HIGH TREAT CEO
preventing Awareness, preparation, training,
delivery/receipt of discipline.
training
Safeguarding LOW HIGH TREAT CEO
failure - staff DBS checks, training, supervision.
Catastrophic Low HIGH TREAT CEO
fire/flood Dispersal of assets, backup
protocols, protective measures,
training, comprehensive and up-to-
date insurance cover.
Loss of ESFA| LOW HIGH TREAT CEO
contract Maintain or enhance quality of
provision (OFSTED 1 or 2) while
fulfilling/over-performing against
contract.
Loss of BHA| LOW HIGH TREAT CEO
contract Continue to subsidize cost to

industry, fulfil/over-perform against
BHA contract, respond to industry

needs.
Equine disease | LOW HIGH TREAT Training Manager
preventing delivery Maintain — situational awareness,
of training contingency planning, training.


National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Trustees’ Annual Report (continuea)

Year ended 31 July 2024

STRUCTURE AND GOVERNANCE
Constitution

National Horseracing College registered as a charitable company limited by guarantee with no share
capital and was set up by a Memorandum of Association on 19 February 1988 and is a registered charity
number 700405.

Methods of appointment or election of Trustees

The management of the company and the group is the responsibility of the trustees who are elected
and co-opted under the terms of the Articles of Association. Trustees are recruited through sector
networks and approached to discuss taking on a trustee role.

Organisational structure and decision-making policies

The Board meets quarterly. Its business always includes a comprehensive update from the Chief
Executive. Business decisions that have strategic significance are made at Board level.

There is a single standing sub-committee, the Finance Committee which is chaired by the Chairman of
trustees. Attendees include the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Operations Director and the
Support Services Manager. All major financial decisions are recommended to the Main Board where
decision making occurs.

Task and Finish Groups are established for specific purposes e.g. Nominations Committee to identify a
new Chairman or a selection panel to select a new Chief Executive.

All trustees, including the Chair, have fixed terms of office.
Policies adopted for the induction and training of Trustees

_ New trustees are provided with a comprehensive induction, led by the Chief Executive and involving
other staff, to ensure they are provided with a comprehensive view of what the NHC does and how it
does it.

All trustees are informed of trustee training opportunities organised by external bodies and encouraged
to attend ones that will be valuable to them.

Informal visits by trustees are encouraged at any time to allow them to get to know the College well.
Statement of Trustees’ responsibilities

The trustees (who are also the directors of the company for the purposes of company law) are
responsible for preparing the Trustees’ report including the Strategic report and the financial statements
in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

Company law requires the trustees to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under
company law, the trustees must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the company and of their incoming
resources and application of resources, including their income and expenditure, for that period. In
preparing these financial statements, the trustees are required to:

e select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
e observe the methods and principles of the Charities SORP (FRS 102);
¢ make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

e state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards (FRS 102) have been followed, subject to
any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

10

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
lrusiees’ Annual Keport (continued)

Year ended 31 July 2024
ee

«prepare the jinanciai statements. on the going concem basis. uniess. it is inappropriate to.
47esume that the Group will continue in business. -

The trustees are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and
explain the Group and the company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any tims
the financial position of the Group and the company and enable them to ensure that the financist
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets
oi the Group and the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the. prevention and detection
of fraud and other irregularities. ,

Disctosure of information to auditor

Each of the persons who are trustees at the time when this Trustees’ report is approved nas conirmea
so far as that Trustee is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the charitable group's
auditor is unaware, and

sat Trustee has taken ail the steps that ought to have been taken as a Trustee in order to be aware of
any relevant audit information and to establish that the charitable group's auditor is aware of that
informaticz:.

Auditoz

The auditor. Sutton McGrath Hartley. has indicated their willingness to continue in office. The designated
irustees will propose a motion reappointing the auditor at a meeting of the trustees.

PLANS FOR FUTURE PERIODS

The continued success of the College is linked inextricably to the health and success of racing as a
whole. Trustees appreciate greatly therefore, efforts being made by the BHA and others to implement
ge industry's new strategy and the Workforce Strategy that will be developed within that. These plans
for the whole of racing will inform important and much-needed decisions to shape the future for
employees, participants, attendees and supporting or related activities. Trustees expect the College’s
leadership to engage with and contribute to the industry's planning and to contribute actively 10 ongoing
SUCCESS.

In the meantime, they are extremely proud of the performance of the College which; in terms of its
delivery for racing and for its learners, has continued to build on the success. of previous years.

They believe that the company has adequate resources to continue as a going concem and they look
forward to the future with justifiable optimism.

Approved by order of the members of the board of trustees and signed on their behalf by:
Sefed

G Sutcliffe

Chairman

1

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of National Horseracing College

Year ended 31 July 2024
Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of National Horseracing College (the ‘parent charitable company’) and
its subsidiaries (the ‘group') for the year ended 31 July 2024 which comprise the consolidated statement of
financial activities, the consolidated balance sheet, the company balance sheet, the consolidated statement of
cash flows and the related notes, including a summary of significant accounting policies. The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards,
including Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic
of Iretand’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion the financial statements:

. give a true and fair view of the state of the group's and of the parent charitable company's affairs as at 31
July 2024 and of the group's incoming resources and application of resources, including its income and
expenditure for the year then ended;

. have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice;
and

. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the Charities Act
2011.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the group
and parent charitable company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of
the financial statements in the United Kingdom, including the Financial Reporting Council's Ethical Standard,
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the trustees’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the group's or parent charitable
company's ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial
statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the trustees with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

12

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee

Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of National Horseracing College
(continued)

Year ended 31 July 2024

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the Annual report other than the financial
statements and our Auditor's report thereon. The Trustees are responsible for the other information contained
within the Annual report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and,
except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance
conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and; in
doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our
knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify
such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a
material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on
the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are
required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

. the information given in the trustees’ report (incorporating the directors’ report) for the financial year
for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements, and
. the trustees’ report has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of our knowledge and understanding of the group and parent charitable company and its
environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the trustees’
report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which Companies Act 2006 and
the Charities Act 2011 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

. adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or

. the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

. certain disclosures of trustees' remuneration specified by law are not made; or

. we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

. the Trustees were not entitled to prepare the financial statements in accordance with the small

companies regime and take advantage of the small companies' exemptions in preparing the directors’
report and from the requirement to prepare a strategic report.

13

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee

Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of National Horseracing College
(continued)

Year ended 31 July 2024

Responsibilities of trustees

As explained more fully in the trustees’ responsibilities statement, the trustees (who are also the directors of the
charitable company for the purposes of company law) are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements
and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the trustees determine is
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the trustees are responsible for assessing the group's and the parent charitable
company's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using
the going concern basis of accounting unless the trustees either intend to liquidate the group or the parent
charitable company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditor's report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

The extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line
with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The
extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below:

The objectives of our audit are to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding compliance with laws and
regulations that have a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
to perform audit procedures to help identify instances of non-compliance with other laws and regulations that may have a
material effect on the financial statements, and to respond appropriately to identified or suspected non-compliance with
laws and regulations identified during the audit.

In relation to fraud, the objectives of our audit are to identify and assess the risk of material misstatement of the financial
statements due to fraud, to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the assessed risks of material
misstatement due to fraud through designing and implementing appropriate responses and to respond appropriately to
fraud or suspected fraud identified during the audit.

However, it is the primary responsibility of management, with the oversight of those charged with governance, to ensure
that the entity's operations are conducted in accordance with the provisions of laws and regulations and for the prevention
and detection of fraud. In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including
fraud, the audit engagement team:

eobtained an understanding of the nature of the industry and sector, including the legal and regulatory framework that

the group and parent company operates in and how the group and parent company are complying with the legal and
regulatory framework;

14

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee

Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of National Horseracing College

(continued) :

Year ended 31 July 2024

einquired of management, and those charged with governance, about their own identification and assessment of the
risks of irregularities, including any known actual, suspected or alleged instances of fraud;

ediscussed matters about non-compliance with laws and regulations and how fraud might occur including assessment
of how and where the financial statements may be susceptible to fraud.

As a result of these procedures we consider the most significant laws and regulations that have a direct impact on the
financial statements are FRS 102, the Companies Act 2006 and tax compliance regulations. We performed audit
procedures to detect non-compliances which may have a material impact on the financial statements which included
reviewing financial statement disclosures, inspecting correspondence with local tax authorities and evaluating advice
received from external tax advisors.

The audit engagement team identified the risk of management override of controls as the area where the financial
statements were most susceptible to material misstatement due to fraud. Audit procedures performed included but were
not limited to testing manual journal entries and other adjustments and evaluating the business rationale in relation to
significant, unusual transactions and transactions entered into outside the normal course of business.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting ,
Council's website at www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the charity's members, as a body, in accordance with section 144 of the Charities Act 2011
and regulations made under section 154 of that Act. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
charity's members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the charity and the charity's
members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

\Wows§ Mate

Howard Matthews (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of

Sutton McGrath Hartley

Queensgate House

23 North Park Road

Harrogate

HG1 5PD

Date: 5 March 2025

'

15

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee

Consolidated Statement of Financial Activities (Incorporating Income and

Expenditure Account)

Year ended 31 July 2024

Unrestricted

funds
2024
Note £
Income from:
Donations and legacies 4 40,099
Charitable activities 5 1,609,786
Other trading activities 6 127,836
Other income 7 6,090
Total income 1,783,811
Expenditure on:
Raising funds: 8
Voluntary income 109,237
Other trading 74,437
Charitable activities 9 1,244,784
Other expenditure 11 11,445
Total expenditure 1,439,903
Net (expenditure)/income 343,908
Net movement in funds before other
recognised gains 343,908
Other recognised gains:
Actuarial gains on defined benefit
pension schemes 28 192,000 -
Net movement in funds 535,908
Reconciliation of funds:
Total funds brought forward 2,902,281
Net movement in funds 535,908
Total funds carried forward 3,438,189

Restricted
funds
2024

£

1,781,832

1,781,832

1,922,896

1,922,896

(141,064)

(141,064)

(141,064)

303,381
(141,064)

162,317

Total
funds
2024

m

40,099
3,391,618
127,836
6,090

3,565,643

109,237
74,437
3,167,680
11,445

3,362,799

202,844

202,844

192,000

394.844

3,205,662
394,844

3,600,506

Total
funds
2023

31,136
2,832,648
141,857
89,060

3,094,701

128,868
78,436
3,055,508
9,297

3,272,109

(177,408)

(177,408)

643,000

465,592

2,740,070
465,592

3,205,662

The Consolidated Statement of Financial Activities complies with the requirements for an income and expenditure
account under Companies ‘Act 2006 and includes all gains and losses recognised in the year. All income and expenditure

derive from continuing activities.

=

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position

Year ended 31 July 2024

Fixed assets

Tangible assets

Current assets

Stocks
Debtors
Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Net current liabilities

Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due after more than
one year

Net assets excluding pension asset

Defined benefit pension scheme asset

Total net assets

Charity funds
Restricted funds
Unrestricted funds

Designated funds
General funds

Unrestricted funds excluding pension asset
Pension asset

Total unrestricted funds

Total funds

Note

16

18
19

20

21

28

22

22
22

22
22

22

2024
£
3,111,039
3,111,039
45,588
199,215
211,757
456,560
(572,576)
(116,016)
2,995,023
(23,517)
2,971,506
629,000
3,600,506
162,317
56,335
2,752,854
2,809,189
629,000
3,438,189
3,600,506

2023
£
3,133,378
3,133,378
52,260
44,251
97,917
194,428
(533,125)
(338,697)
2,794,681
(30,019)
2,764,662
441,000
3,205,662
303,381
56,335
2,404,946
2,461,281
441,000
2,902,281
3,205,662

17

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (continuea)

Year ended 31 July.2024

companies regime.

4

Hotes of pages; 22 to-51 form pait ‘of these financial statements.

Thie financial statements weré-approved- and authorised ‘for issue by the Thistess and sidiiéd!on their

18

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee

Company Statement of Financial Position’

Year ended 31 July 2024

Fixed assets

Tangible assets
Investments

Current assets

Stocks
Debtors
Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Net current liabilities

Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due after more than
one year

Net assets excluding pension asset

Defined benefit pension scheme asset

Total net assets

Note

16
17

18
19

20

21

28

32,873
241,384
153,682

427,939

(558,920)

2024

3,087,482
2

3,087,484

(130,981)

2,956,503

(23,517)

2,932,986

629,000

3,561,986

40,266
55,062
71,893

167,221
(515,956)

19

2023

3,104,894
2

3,104,896

(348,735)

2,756,161

(30,019)

2,726,142

441,000

3,167,142

" National Horseracitig College Limited
€ompany Limited by Guarantee.
* Company Statement of Financial Position (contnueg

‘Year ended 31 July 2024

ozs 2028

z z

, :Note
Charity funds: : : :
Restricted furids 2 162.317 303.381
~Designated tings”
General funds

_ “Unréstiieted funds ‘exciuding pension asset
Pehsionasset

Total‘ unréstricted funds:

wed under S408 ofthe Complnies Act 2006:
\anicial'statemients, The company’s nét movement

(Chait of, Trustees).

Date: far, 20 . : !
The notes: on'pages-22 to 51:form part of these firianclal statements: ;

20

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

Year ended 31 July 2024

Cash flows from operating activities

Net cash provided by operating activities

. Cash flows from investing activities

Purchase of tangible fixed assets
Proceeds from disposal of fixed assets

Net cash used in investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities

Repayments of borrowing
Interest paid

Net cash used in financing activities

Change in cash and cash equivalents in the year

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year

Note

25

26

2024

277,734

(134,600)
30,600

(104,000)

(48,449)
(11,445)

" (59,894)

113,840

97,917

211,757

21

2023

110,439

(188,871)

(188,871)

(60,068)
(9,297)

(69,365)

(147,797)

245,714

97,917

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee

Notes to the Financial Statements

Year ended 31 July 2024

1. General information

The charity is a company limited by guarantee, incorporated in England and Wales, and consequently does not
have share capital. Its registered office is The Stables, Rossington Hall, Great North Road, Doncaster, South Yorkshire,

DNIIOHN.
2. Accounting policies
2.1 Basis of preparation of financial statements

2.2

2.3

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Charities SORP (FRS 102) - Accounting and
Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in
accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland issued October
2019, the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) and the
Companies Act 2006.

National Horseracing College meets the definition of a public benefit entity under FRS 102. Assets and
liabilities are initially recognised at historical cost or transaction value unless otherwise stated in the relevant
accounting policy.

The consolidated statement of financial activities (SOFA) and Consolidated balance sheet consolidate the financial
statements of the company and its subsidiary undertaking. The results of the subsidiary are consolidated ona
line by line basis.

The company has taken advantage of the exemption allowed under section 408 of the Companies Act 2006
and has not presented its own statement of financial activities in these financial statements.

Company status

The company is a company limited by guarantee. The members of the company are the Trustees named on
page 1. In the event of the company being wound up, the liability in respect of the guarantee is limited to £1
per member of the company.

Going concern

The charity, for some years, has been unable to comply with its policy to hold free reserves of between 1- and
2-months operational expenditure. Group surpluses in unrestricted funds in recent years had allowed the
College to work towards adherence of the policy, however the onset of the global pandemic brought
increased risk to the charity's finances.

Steps taken by central government, local authorities and the racing industry have already helped to support the
College's own efforts to sustain its staff and learners through the pandemic period, but coupled with increasing
cost pressures, uncertainties remain about the long-term funding of the industry pending the publication of a new
people strategy. However, the business has taken decisive and effective measures to preserve cash flow and
increase its resilience.

The Trustees have prepared forecasts of income and expenditure and cash flow for the period to 31
December 2024 which shows that they have sufficient cash to be able to continue for the foreseeable future.

22

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

Year ended 31 July 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.3 Going concem (continued)

2.4

2.5

The Trustees therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis of preparation for these financial
statements.

Income

All income is recognised once the company has entitlement to the income, it is probable that the income will
be received and the amount of income receivable can be measured reliably.

Grants are included in the consolidated statement of financial activities on a receivable basis. The balance of

- income received for specific purposes but not expended during the period is shown in the relevant funds on

the balance sheet. Where income is received in advance of entitlement of receipt, its recognition is deferred
and included in creditors as deferred income. Where entitlement occurs before income is received, the
income is accrued.

Gifts in kind donated for distribution are included at valuation and recognised as income when they are distributed
to the projects. Gifts donated for resale are included as income when they are sold.

Where the donated good is a fixed asset, it is measured at fair value, unless it is impractical to measure this
reliably, in which case the cost of the item to the donor should be used. The gain is recognised as income
from donations and a corresponding amount is included in the appropriate fixed asset class and depreciated over
the useful economic life in accordance with the company's accounting policies.

On receipt, donated professional services and facilities are recognised on the basis of the value of the gift to
the company which is the amount it would have been willing to pay to obtain services or facilities of
equivalent economic benefit on the open market; a corresponding amount is then recognised in expenditure
in the period of receipt.

Income tax recoverable in relation to investment income is recognised at the time the investment income is
receivable.

Other income is recognised in the period in which it is receivable and to the extent the goods have been provided
or on completion of the service. Included in other income is CJRS income which is recognised in the period for
which the claim was made.

Expenditure

Expenditure is recognised once there is a legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic benefit to a
third party, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required in settlement and the amount
of the obligation can be measured reliably. Expenditure is classified by activity. The costs of each activity are
made up of the total of direct costs and shared costs, including support costs involved in undertaking each activity.
Direct costs attributable to a single activity are allocated directly to that activity. Shared costs which contribute to
more than one activity and support costs which are not attributable to a single activity are apportioned between
those activities on a basis consistent with the use of resources. Central staff costs are allocated on the basis of
time spent, and depreciation charges allocated on the portion of the asset's use. -

23

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee

Notes to the Financial Statements (continuea)

Year ended 31 July 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.5

2.6

2.7

2.8

Expenditure (continued)

Expenditure on raising funds includes all expenditure incurred by the Group to raise funds for its charitable
purposes and includes costs of all fundraising activities events and non-charitable trading.

Expenditure on charitable activities is incurred on directly undertaking the activities which further the Group's
objectives, as well as any associated support costs.

All expenditure is inclusive of irrecoverable VAT.
Tangible fixed assets and depreciation

Tangible fixed assets costing £1,000 or more are capitalised and recognised when future economic benefits
are probable and the cost or value of the asset can be measured reliably.

Tangible fixed assets are initially recognised at cost. After recognition, under the cost model, tangible fixed assets
are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. All costs incurred
to bring a tangible fixed asset into its intended working condition should be included in the measurement of cost.

Depreciation is charged so as to allocate the cost of tangible fixed assets less their residual value over their
estimated useful lives .

Depreciation is provided on the following bases:

Visitor centre - Variable between 2% - 33% on a reducing balance

Building refurbishment - Variable between 1% - 20% on a reducing balance

Leasehold land & buildings - Variable between 1% - 20% on a reducing balance

Stable block - 1% reducing balance

Plant, equipment and motor - Variable between 5% - 20% on a reducing balance
vehicles

Gallop, menage and indoor riding - Variable between 1% - 10% on a reducing balance school

Assets under construction - Not depreciated
Computer equipment - Variable between 20% - 33% on a straight tine
Investments

Investments in subsidiaries are valued at cost less provision for impairment.
Stocks

Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance for obsolete and
slow-moving stocks.

24

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee

Notes to the

Financial Statements (continued)

Year ended 31 July 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.9

Debtors

Trade and other debtors are recognised at the settlement amount after any trade discount offered. Prepayments
are valued at the amount prepaid net of any trade discounts due.

2.10 Cash at bank and in hand

2.11

2.12

2.13

2.14

Cash at bank and in hand includes cash and short-term highly liquid investments with a short maturity of
three months or less from the date of acquisition or opening of the deposit or similar account.

Liabilities

Liabilities and provisions are recognised when there is an obligation at the balance sheet date as a result of a
past event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be required in settlement, and the amount
of the settlement can be estimated reliably.

Liabilities are recognised at the amount that the company anticipates it will pay to settle the debt or the
amount it has received as advanced payments for the goods or services it must provide.

Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the amounts required to settle the obligation.
Financial instruments

The group only has financial assets and financial liabilities of a kind that qualify as basic financial instruments.
Basic financial instruments are initially recognised at transaction value and subsequently measured at their
settlement value with the exception of bank loans which are subsequently measured at amortised cost using
the effective interest method.

Finance leases and hire purchase

Assets obtained under hire purchase contracts and finance leases are capitalised as tangible fixed assets. Assets
acquired by finance lease are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their useful lives. Assets
acquired by hire purchase are depreciated over their useful lives. Finance leases are those where substantially
all of the benefits and risks of ownership are assumed by the group. Obligations under such agreements are
included in creditors, net of the finance charge allocated to future periods. The finance element of the rental
payment is charged to the consolidated statement of financial activities so as to produce a constant periodic
rate of charge on the net obligation outstanding in each period.

Operating leases

Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the consolidated statement of financial activities on a straight
line basis over the lease term.

25

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee

Notes to the

Financial Statements (continued

Year ended 31 July 2024

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.15

2.16

2.17

2.18

Pensions

The group operates a defined contribution pension scheme and the pension charge represents the amounts
payable by the group to the fund in respect of the year.

The group operates a defined benefit plan for the benefit of its employees. A liability for the charity's
obligations under the plan is recognised net of plan assets. The net change in the net defined benefit liability
is recognised as the cost of the defined benefit plan during the period. Pension plan assets are measured at
fair value and the defined benefit obligation is measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit
method. Actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date.

Fund accounting

General funds are unrestricted funds which are available for use at the discretion of the Trustees in
furtherance of the general objectives of the group and which have not been designated for other purposes.

Designated funds comprise unrestricted funds that have been set aside by the Trustees for particular
purposes. The aim and use of each designated fund is set out in the notes to the financial statements.

Restricted funds are funds which are to be used in accordance with specific restrictions imposed by donors or
which have been raised by the group for particular purposes. The costs of raising and administering such
funds are charged against the specific fund. The aim and use of each restricted fund is set out in the notes to
the financial statements. :

Taxation

The company is considered to pass the tests set out in Sch. 6, para. 1 of the Finance Act 2010 and therefore it
meets the definition of a charitable company for UK corporation tax purposes. Accordingly, the company is
potentially exempt from taxation in respect of income or capital gains received within categories covered by
Pt. 11, Ch. 3 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 or s. 256 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992, to the
extent that such income or gains are applied exclusively to charitable purposes.

Employee benefits

When employees have rendered service to the charity, short-term employee benefits to which the employees
are entitled are recognised at the undiscounted amount expected to be paid in exchange for that service.

26

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continue)

Year ended 31 July 2024

3. Critical accounting estimates and areas of judgment

Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including
expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.

Critical accounting estimates and assumptions:

The company makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates and
assumptions will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. There are no estimates and assumptions
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within
the next financial year. :

The present value of the South Yorkshire (SY) defined benefit pension liability depends on a number of factors that
are determined on an actuarial basis using a variety of assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net
costs or income for pensions include the discount rate. Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying
amount of the liability.

4. income from donations and legacies
Unrestricted Total Total
funds funds funds
2024 2024 2023
£ £ £
Donations
Pontefract race day income and Leger Legends 40,099 40,099 31,136
income
40,099 40,099 31,136
Total 2023 31,136 31,136

27

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continueg

Year ended 31 July 2024

5. tncome from charitable activities

Operation of educational and training college
ESFA

Other activity related income

Grants (see detailed breakdown below)

Total 2023

Grants

Main Grants Lottery Community Fund — Life skills
Racing foundation RSDP Website

BHA

NARS - refurbishment of recreation room

Peter O’Sullevan - furlong rails replacement

Racing welfare

Racing Foundation - racing simulator

RF Lunge Pen repayment

Total restricted grants

The Sir Peter O’Sullevan Charitable Trust

Total unrestricted grants

Total

Unrestricted
funds

2024

£

14,796
1,531,210
43,780
20,000

1,609,786

1,225,548

Restricted
funds
2024

£

1,602,012

179,820

1,781,832

1,607,100

Total
funds
2024

1,616,808
1,531.210
43,780
199,820

3,391,618

2,832,648

2024
£

13,320
7,500
159,000

179,820

20,000

199,820

28

Total
funds
2023

1,322,066
1,191,840
26,368
292,374

2,832,648

2023
£

159,000
18,894
19,980
14,500
90,000
(10,000)

292,374

292,374

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continuea)

Year ended 31 July 2024

6. Income from other trading activities

Income from non charitable trading activities

Unrestricted Total Total
funds funds funds
2024£ 2024 2023
£ £
NHC Trading Limited 127,836 127,836 141,857
Total 2023 141,857 141,857

The charity has a wholly owned trading subsidiary, NHC Trading Limited (company number 03538751). The
company was incorporated on 1 April 1998 and has issued share capital of two ordinary shares. The company gifts
its taxable profits to National Horseracing College. Unaudited accounts are filed with Companies House.

7. Other incoming resources

Unrestricted Total Total
funds funds funds
2024 2024 2023
£ £ £

Profit on disposal of fixed assets 6,090 6,090

Insurance receipts - - 89,060
Total 2023 89,060 89,060

29

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continueg)

Year ended 31 July 2024

8. Expenditure on raising funds

Costs of raising voluntary income

Fundraising and publicity
Voluntary income staff costs

Total 2023

Other trading expenses

Cost of sales
Administration expenses
Depreciation

Total 2024

Total 2023

Unrestricted Restricted

funds funds
2024 2024
£ £

250 :
108,987 -
109,237 -
102,868 -
Unrestricted
funds
2024
£
59,934
9,576
4,927
74,437
78,436

250
108,987

109,237

128,868

59,934
9,576
4,927

74,437

78,436

30

Total
funds

2023 -

250
128,618

128,868

Total
funds
2023

65,451
6,078
6,907

78,436

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continueg)

Year ended 31 July 2024
9. Analysis of expenditure on charitable activities

Summary by fund type

Operation of educational and training college

Total 2024

Total 2023

Unrestricted
funds

2024

£

1,244,784

1,244,784

1,512,805

Restricted
funds
2024

£

1,922,896

1,922,896

1,542,703

Total
2024

3,167,680

3,167,680

3,055,508

31

Total
2023

3,055,508

3,055,508

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

Year ended 31 July 2024

10.

Summary by expenditure category

Training costs
Accommodation
Stable yard

Staff costs

Pension finance costs
Depreciation

Total direct costs

Administration costs
Staff costs

Total management and administration

Support administration costs

Total support costs

Governance costs (see note 12)

Overall Total

2024
£

288,118
333,741
268,087
1,156,188
4,000
127,500

2,177,634

382,549
357,730

740,279

75,111

75,111

174,656

3,167,680

32

2023
£

259,593
311,593
203,389
1,253,864
38,000
110,750

2,177,189

333,585
341,338

674,923

70,773

70,773

132,623

3,055,508

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee

Notes to the Financial Statements (continueg)

Year ended 31 July 2024

11.

12.

13.

Other expenditure

Bank and other interest

Total 2023

Governance costs

Auditor's remuneration
Trustees' expenses

Legal and professional
Salaries and related charges

Total 2024

Total 2023

Net income/(expenditure)

This is stated after charging:

Depreciation of tangible fixed assets owned by the group
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets held under finance leases
Auditor's remuneration- audit

Profit on disposal

Unrestricted Total
funds funds
2024 2024
£ £
11,445 11,445
9,297 9,297
Unrestricted Total
funds funds
2024 2024
£ £
13,650 13,650
9,017 9,017
9,055 9,055
142,934 139,634
174,656 171,356
132,623 132,623
2024
£
73,750
53,750
13,650
(6,090)

33

Total
funds
2023

9,297

Total
funds
2023

£

10,292
1,043
15,859
105,429

132,623

2023
£

117,657
5,226
10,292

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued

Year ended 31 July 2024

14.

15.

Staff costs
Group Group Company Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
£ £ £ £
Wages and salaries 1,540,097 1,549,193 1,540,097 1,549,193
Social security costs 134,809 131,698 134,809 131,698
Pension costs 60,440 59,514 60,440 59,514
Operating costs of defined benefit pension schemes 4,000 38,000 4,000 38,000

1,739,346 1,778,405 1,739,346 1,778,405

The average number of persons employed by the company during the year was as follows:

Group Group
2024 2023
No. No.

62 59

The number of employees whose employee benefits (excluding employer pension costs) exceeded £60,000 was:

Group Group

2024 2023

No. No.

In the band £110,000 - £120,000 - 1
In the band £120,000 - £130,000 1 -

The total remuneration and benefits received by key management personnel including employer's NI and pension was
£323,003 (2023: £283,767). The trustees consider senior management personnel to be the Chief Executive Officer,
the Operations Director, the Work- Based Learning Manager, the Training Manager and the MIS and Compliance
Manager.

Trustees’ remuneration and expenses
During the year, no Trustees received any remuneration or other benefits (2023: £nil).
During the year ended 31 July 2024, expenses totalling £879 were reimbursed or paid directly to 4 Trustees (2023

- £1,043 to 4 Trustees). These expenses relate to the reimbursement of travel expenses incurred by the Trustees
when attending National Horseracing College Trustee meetings and events

34

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continueg)

Year ended 31 July 2024

16. — Tangible fixed assets

Group
Gallop, Plant,
Leasehold Menage & Equipment &
Bullding Land & Indoor Riding Motor Computer
Visitor centre refurbishment Buildings Stable Block School Vehicles equipment Total
£ £ £ £ £ & £ £

Cost or valuation
At 1 August 2023 816,681 478,125 = 1,244,177 728,795 985,277 786,848 141,662 5,181,565
Additions . - 16,859 . - 15,248 102,493 . 134,600
Disposals (42,445) (42,445)
At 31 July 2024 816,681 494,984 1,244,177 728,795 1,000,525 846,896 161,662 5,273,720
Depreciation
At 1 August 2023 276,210 267,060 329,307 183,342 509,504 398,552 84,212 2,048,187
Charge for the year 30,000 6,800 11,452 6,250 19,500 44,175 14,250 132,427
Elimination on disposal (17,933) (17,933)
At 31 July 2024 306,210 273,860 340,759 189,592 529,004 424,794 98,462 2,162,681
Net book value
At 31 July 2024 221,124 903,418 539,203 471,521 422,102 43,200 3,111,039

ee
AU31 July 2023 540,471 211,065 914,870 545,453 475,773 388,296 57,450 3,133,378

35

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee

Notes to the Financial Statements (continueg)

Year ended 31 July 2024

16.

Tangible fixed assets (continued)

Company

Cost or valuation
At 1 August 2023
Additions

Disposals
At 31 July 2024

Depreciation
At 1 August 2023
Charge for the year

Elimination on disposal
At 31 July 2024

Net book value

At34 July 2024

At31 July 2023

Gallop
Leasehold Manage &

Building Land& Indoor

Riding

Visitor centre refurbishment Buildings Stable Block School
£ £ £ £
816,681 478,125 1,240,036 728,795 985,277
- 16,859 . . 15,248
816,681 494,984 1,240,036 728,795 1,000,525
276,210 267,060 328,150 183,342 509,504
30,000 6,800 10,700 6,250 19,500

306,210 273,860 338,850 189,592 529,004

510,471 221,124 901,186 539,203 471,521

540,471 211,065 911,886 545,453 475,773

Piant,
Equipment
& Motor

Vehicles

661,814
102,493

(42,445)

721,862

299,018
40,000

(17,933)

Computer

equipment

141,662

141,662

84,212
14,250

321,085 98,462

400,777

| 362,796

43,200

57,450

36

Total
£

5,052,390
134,600

(42,445)

5,144,545,

1,947,496
127,500

(17,933)

2,057,063

3,087,482

3,104,894

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continueg)

Year ended 31 July 2024

16. ‘Fixed asset investments

Investments in

subsidiary
Company companies
Cost or valuation
At 1 August 2023 2
At 31 July 2024 2
Net book value
At 31 July 2024 2
At 31 July 2023 2

National Horseracing College owns 100% of the ordinary share capital of its trading subsidiary, NHC Trading
Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales.

37

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continueg)

Year ended 31 July 2024

17. Fixed asset investments

(continued) Principal subsidiaries

The following was a subsidiary undertaking of the company:

Name Company
number
NHC Trading Limited 03538751

Registered office or
principal Place of business

The Stables, Rossington Hall,

Great North Road,
Doncaster, DH11 OHN

The financial results of the subsidiary for the year were:

Name

NHC Trading Limited

18. Stocks

Finished goods

19. Debtors

Trade debtors

Amounts owed by group undertakings
Other debtors

Prepayments and accrued income

Income Expenditure
£ £
127,836 (109,437)
Group Group
2024 2023
£ £
45,588 52,260
Group Group
2024 2023
£ £
192,068 42,239
7,147 2,012
199,215 44,251

Class
share

Ordinary

Profit for the
year
£

18,399

Company
2024
£

32,873

Company
2024
£

187,880
46,357
7,147

241,384

38

Holding

100%

Net assets
£

38,520

Company
2023
£

40,266

Company
2023
£

35,450
17,600
2,012

55,062

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continue)

Year ended 31 July 2024

20. Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year

Bank loans
Trade creditors

Other taxation and social security

Net obligations under finance lease and hire
purchase contracts

Other creditors

21. Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year

Bank loans

Net obligations under finance lease and hire
purchase contracts

Group Group
2024 2023
£ £
6,233 72,438
142,107 130,004
59,894 44.634
44,281 20,023
320,061 266,026
572,576 533,125
Group Group
2024 2023
£ £
- 6,233
23,517 23,786
23,517 30,019

Company
2024
£

6,233
134,377
59,894
44,281

314,135

558,920

Company
2024
£

23,517

23,517

Company
2023
£

72,438
119,160
44,634
20,023

259,701

515,956

Company
2023
£

6,233

23,786

30,019

Bank loans and overdrafts are secured by way of a first legal charge over the assets and undertakings of the

charity, including the Residential Centre, Rossington Hall, Great North Road, Doncaster.

Bank loans are repaid monthly over the term of the loan. Interest is payable at a fixed rate of 5.955%. Interest on
any bank overdrafts is payable at 5.55% above base rate.

39

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee

Notes to the Financial Statements (continueg

Year ended 31 July 2024

22. Statement of funds

Statement of funds - current year

Income

Transfers
Expenditure in/out
£ £

Gains/
(Losses)
£

Balance at
31July 2024
£

1,549,911

127,836 .

1,677,747

(1,220,402) 18,399

(109,437) (18,399)
(4,000) -

(1,333,839) -

192,000

192,000

2,714,334

38,520
629,000

3,381,854

Balance at
1 August 2023
. £
Unrestricted
funds
Designated funds
College ©
improvements 56,335
General funds
General funds 2,366,426
Reserves held in
subsidiary 38,520
Pension fund 441,000
2,845,946
Total Unrestricted
Funds 2,902,281
Restricted funds
Horseracing grant 46,841
scheme
RSDP 188,415
Horsebox grant 8,187
Peter O’Sullevan Trust 38,125
RF RSDP Website -
Main grants lottery -
NARS Rec room 12,614
refurbishment
POS Furlong 9,199
replacement

163,168

13,320
7,500

(16,083) -

(236,006) -

(38,125) -

(13,320)
(5,945) -
(6,374) -

(9,199) -

40

30,758

115,577
8,187

1,555
6,240

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continuea)

Year ended 31 July 2024

BHA & HBLB - 1,597,844 (1,597,844) -
programmes
Total restricted
Funds 303,381 1,781,832 (1,922,896) - 162,317
Total Funds 3,205,662 3,459,579 (3,256,735) - 192,000 3,600,506

41

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee

Notes to the Financial Statements (continueg)

Year ended 31 July 2024

22.Statement of funds

Statement of funds — prior year

Income

Expenditure
£

Transfers
in/out

Gains/
(Losses)
£

Balance at
31July 2023
£

1,345,744

141,857

(1,562,970)

(128,436)
(38,000)

21,466

(13,421)

2,366,426

38,520
441,000

Balance at
1 August 2022
£
Unrestricted
funds
Designated funds
College
improvements 56,335
General funds
General funds 2,562,186
Reserves held in
subsidiary 38,520
Pension fund (164,000)
2,436,706
Total Unrestricted
Funds 2,493,044
Restricted funds
Horseracing grant 46,841
scheme
RSDP 135,831
Horsebox grant 8,187

Peter O'Sullevan Trust 48,125

Racing Foundation — 8,045
Lunge Pen

Racing welfare -
NARS Rec room -
refurbishment

POS Furlong -
replacement

RF New simulator -
vehicle

159,000

(10,000)

14,500
18,894

19,980

90,000

(106,416)

* (14,500)
(6,280)

(10,781)

(90,000)

42

46,841

188,415
8,187
38,125

12,614

9,199

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continueg

Year ended 31 July 2024

BHA & HBLB - 1,314,726 (1,314,726) - - -
programmes
Total restricted
Funds 247,029 1,607,100 (1,542,703) (8,045) - 303,381
Total Funds 2,740,070 3,094,702 (3,272,110) - 643,000 3,205,662

43

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continueg)

Year ended 31 July 2024

Restricted Funds

The funds of the charity include restricted funds comprising the following unexpended balances of grants and
donations held on trust to be applied for specific purposes:

The Horseracing grant scheme represents a contribution from the British Horseracing Authority towards the costs
of improving the capacity of residential accommodation.

The RSDP represents grants received from the Racing Foundation under its ‘People Development’ initiative to
provide Rider coaching sessions, simulator training and theoretical coaching for the racing Community.

Horsebox grant - to fund a new horsebox.

The lunge pen grant are two grants, one from The Peter O'Sullivan Trust and one from The Racing Foundation to
create a new lunge pen for horses.

The BHA & HBLB programmes fund is money received from the British Horseracing Association in order for the college
to deliver it's courses and help with the day to day running of the facility.

Peter O'Sullivan simulator is a grant from the POS Charitable Trust to assist the Charity to purchase a new Racing
Simulator which is a significant upgrade .to its existing provision.

National Horseracing College Limited

Company Limited by Guarantee

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

Year ended 31 July 2024

23. Summary of funds

Summary of funds - current year

Balance at 31
July 2024
£

56,335
3,385,854
162,317

3,600,506

Balance at

31July 2023

£

56,335
2,845,946
303,381

3,205,662

Total
funds
2024
£

3,111,039
456,560
(572,576)
(23,517)
629,000

Balance at 1 Transfers Gains/
August 2023 Income Expenditure in/out (Losses)
£ £ £ £ £
Designated funds 56,335 . - : .
General funds 2,845,946 1,549,911 (1,220,402) 18,399 188,000
Restricted funds 303,381 1,781,832 (1,922,896) - :
3,205,662 3,331,743 (3,143,298) 18,399 188,000
Summary of funds - prior year
Balance at Transfers Gains/
1 August 2022 Income — Expenditure in/out (Losses)
£ £ £ £ £
Designated funds 56,335 . . . .
General funds 2,436,706 1,502,102 (1,743,907) 8,045 643,000
Restricted funds 247,029 1,592,600 (1,528,203) (8,045) -
2,740,070 3,094,702 (3,272,110) . 643,000
24. ‘Analysis of net assets between funds
Analysis of net assets between funds - current year
Unrestricted Restricted
funds funds
2024 2024
£ £
Tangible fixed assets 3,111,039 .
Current assets 294,243 162,317
Creditors due within one year (572,576) .
Creditors due in more than one year (23,517) .
Provisions for liabilities and charges 629,000 -
Total 3,438,189 162,317

45

3,600,506

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee

Notes to the Financial Statements (continue)
Year ended 31 July 2024

24. Analysis of net assets between funds
(continued)

Analysis of net assets between funds - prior year

Tangible fixed assets

Current assets

Creditors due within one year
Creditors due in more than one year
Provisions for liabilities and charges

Total

Unrestricted
funds

2023

£

3,133,376
(108,953)
(533,123)

(30,019)
441,000

2,902,281

25. Reconciliation of net movement in funds to net cash flow from operating

activities

Net (expenditure)/ income for the year (as per statement of financial activities)

Adjustments for:

Depreciation charges

({Profit)/Loss on the sale of fixed assets
Decrease in stocks
Decrease/(increase) in debtors
(Decrease)/ increase in creditors
Interest paid

Defined benefit pension adjustment

Net cash provided by operating activities

Restricted
funds
2023

£

303,381

303,381

Group
2024

202,844

132,427
(6,090)
6,672
(154,963)
81,399
11,445
4,000

277,734

46

Total
funds
2023

£

3,133,376
194,428
(533,123)
(30,019)
441,000

3,205,662

Group
2023

(177,408)

117,657
(33,025)
52,767
103,151
9,297
38,000

110,439

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)

Year ended 31 July 2024

26. Analysis of cash and cash equivalents

Cash in hand

Total cash and cash equivalents

27. Analysis of changes in net debt

Cash at bank and in hand
Debt due within 1 year
Debt due after 1 year

Finance leases

At 1 August
2023

£
97,917
(72,438)
(6,233)
(43,809)

(24,564)

Group
2024
£

211,757

211,757

Cash flows
£

113,840
66,205
6,233
(23,989)

162,289

47

Group
2023

97,917

97,917

At 31 July
2024
£

211,757
(6,233)

(67,798)

137,726

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continuea)

Year ended 31 July 2024

28. Pension commitments

The company operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The assets of the scheme are held separately from
those of the company in an independently administered fund. The pension cost charge includes contributions
payable by the company to the fund and amounted to £48,000 (2023: £59,514). Contributions totaling £7,031
(2023: £6,977) were payable to the fund at the balance sheet date and are included in creditors.

The group operates a defined benefit pension scheme.

National Horseracing College is a member of the South Yorkshire Pension scheme which is a multi-employer
pension scheme providing benefits on final pensionable pay. The assets of the scheme are held separately from
those of National Horseracing College. Contributions to the scheme are charged to the Statement of Financial
Activities so as to spread the cost of pensions over employees’ working lives with National Horseracing College. The
contributions are determined by a qualified actuary on the basis of triennial valuations using the projected unit
method.

A full actuarial valuation was carried out as the 31 July 2024 specifically for the college by Hymans Robertson LLP.
The contributions made for the year ended 31 July 2024 were £48,000 (2023: £52,000).

At the balance sheet date there were outstanding contributions payable of £5,170 (2023: £4,522).

Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages):
, At31 July At 31 July

2024 2023

% %

Discount rate 5.00 5.05
Future salary increases 3.35 3.60

Future pension increases 2.75 3.00

At 31 July At 31 July

2024 2023
Years Years

Mortality rates (in years)
- for a male aged 65 now 20.5 20.6
- at 65 for a male aged 45 now 21.3 21.4
- for a female aged 65 now 23.6 23.6
- at 65 for a female aged 45 now 25.0 25.0

48

National Horseracing College Limited —

Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continueg)

Year ended 31 July 2024

28. Pension commitments (continued)

The group's share of the assets in the scheme was:

Equities

Government bonds
Property

Cash and other liquid assets

Total fair value of assets

The actual return on scheme assets was £119,000 (2023 - £58,000).

At 31 July
2024

£
2,452,870
768,810
366,100
73,220

3,661,000

The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Activities are as follows:

Current service cost
Past service cost
Interest income
Interest cost

Administrative expenses

Total amount recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Activities

2024
£
27,000

(171,000)
148,000

4,000

49

At 31 July
2023

£
2,348,070
748,660
272,240
34,030

3,403,000

2023
£

32,000

(119,000)
125,000

38,000

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continueg

Year ended 31 July 2024

28. Pension commitments (continued)

Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation were as follows:

Opening defined benefit obligation
Current service cost

Interest cost

Contributions by scheme participants
Actuarial (gains)/losses

Benefits paid

Closing defined benefit obligation

Movements in the fair value of the group’s share of scheme assets were as follows:

Opening fair value of scheme assets ~
“Expected return on assets

Actuarial gainslosses)

Contributions by employer
Contributions by scheme participants
Benefits paid

Closing fair value of scheme assets

Amounts for the current and previous period for the defined benefit pension schemes are as follows:

2024

£

Defined benefit obligation (3,032,000)
Scheme assets 3,661,000
Surplus/(Deficit) 629,000
Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities 25,000
Experience adjustment on scheme assets (119,000)

50

2024
£
2,962,000
27,000
148,000
8,000
(25,000)
(88,000)

3,032,000

2024
£
3,403,000
171,000
419,000
48,000
8,000
(88,000)

3,661,000

2023
£

(2,962,000)
3,403,000

441,000

707,000
(116,000)

National Horseracing College Limited
Company Limited by Guarantee
Notes to the Financial Statements (continue)

Year ended 31 July 2024

29. Operating lease commitments

At 31 July 2024 the group and the company had commitments to make future minimum lease payments under

non-cancellable operating leases as follows:

Not later than 1 year
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years

The following lease payments have been recognised as an expense in the Statement of financial activities:

Operating lease rentals

30. Related party transactions

Group Group Company
2024 2023 2024

£ £ £

57,023 69,274 57,023
51,517 2,650 51,517
108,540 69,274 108,540

Group Group Company
2024 2023 2024
£ £ £

78,146 86,885 78,146

Company
2023
£

69,274
2,650

69,274

Company
2023
£

86,885

During the year purchases were made from NHC Trading Limited (a wholly owned trading subsidiary) totalling
£6,898 (2023: £4,754). Management charges of £35,000 were made in the year to NHC Trading Limited (2023:
£50,000). At the year-end £46,354, (2023: £17,601) was due from NHC Trading Limited.

31. Controlling party

The Trust is a charity limited by guarantee and is therefore ultimately controlled by the Trustees.

51

