NATS (En Route) plc
Annual Report and Accounts
Year ended 31 March 2024

o
ae

A10

Fe*
24

>
<
=}
irq
we

. HH

*ADAAI

#5:

i 7
ADBEVA3V

Att 30/07/2024 #190
COMPANIES HOUSE

‘Company Number: 04129273.

Strategic report “In brief

Financial results (year ended 31 March)

£m (unless specified) 20247 2023
Adjusted revenue and regulatory allowances?® i oo 906.2 | 759.2
Adjusted profit before tax® { 273.7 | 133.3
Statutory profit before tax i 397.0 | 156.5
Debt adjusted cash inflow® { 116.9 ; 51.8
Capital expenditure 109.9 | 107.1
Net debt® | 817.0! 903.2
Gearing? (%) ] 41.9% | 52.3%
Regulatory Asset Base® t 2,139.2 | 1,865:8
Regulatory return - adjusted@ t 4.9% | 0.0%
Dividends { Nil! Nil

Notes:® Alternative performance measure (APM), see explanatory notes; ° APM, representing cash flows excluding repayments/drawings on
borrowings; * see note 20 to the financial statements. Net debt exctudes derivative financial instruments; APM, ratio of NERL's net debt (as defined by
its licence) to regulatory assets’.

in November 2023, the CAA published its decision on NERL's price control for NR23, which covers calendar years 2023 to
2027. While the settlement fairly recompensed NERL for revenue lost during the pandemic it did so over a longer
than usual 10-year period in recognition of customers’ affordability requirements. Moreover, from an operational
perspective the NR23 service quality targets are extremely challenging against a backdrop of significant growth in
flight volumes, alongside live operational training requirements for the next generation of air traffic controllers and
the need to progress airspace modernisation and technology transformation programmes.

The company reported an adjusted profit of £273.7m (2023: £133.3m). The result mainly reflects the increase in charges
set by the NR23 price control. Statutory profit before tax of £397.0m (2023: £1 56.5m) includes the one-off impact from the
CAA’s confirmation of the Covid income shortfall amount.

As in 2023, our result is not yet reflected in our cash flows as a result of the 10-year period agreed for recovering the Covid
income shortfall. Our current financing structure reflects this, with borrowings having financed the Covid income
shortfall.

Operational headlines

.

We safely handled 2.41 million flights (2023: 2.26 million), representing growth of 7% on the previous year. We met all of
our safety targets, with no risk-bearing airprox$ attributed to our operation.

The company experienced a technical flight handling system issue in August 2023 which caused significant delays and
cancellations.

Average delay per flight at 8.8 seconds, whilst a year-on-year improvement, was outside of the CAA’s target of 8.5 seconds
due to the technical incident (2023: 10.2 seconds/flight against a target of 15.0). Despite delays clue to the technical
system issue, we accounted for less than 4% of European ATC delay while handling 23% of all European flights.

Our 3Di score® was 28.3 for calendar year 2023 (CY 2022: 26.0) against the regulator's allowance range of 26.2 to 29.0.
We were awarded an A rating from CDP (formerly the Climate Disclosure Project) and the NATS group was ranked #1 in
the Financial Times assessment of Europe's Climate Leaders.

We are consulting stakeholders on NATS OpendAir, a proposal for services enabling the safe integration of new airspace
users, such as drones, and a charging mechanism to fund this activity.

NATS was rated by Best Companies’ as 13'" in the UK's Big Companies category for 2023 following employees’ responses
to their anonymous b-Heard survey.

1 A number of alternative performance measures and explanatory notes are provided on pages 96 to 97 of this report.

1

Strategic Report Contents

Strategic report

In brief

Our buaincas modcl

Our strategy to 2040

Unief Executive's review

Business review

Financial review a .
Gning cancer and viahility statements
Principat risks and uncertainties
Engaging with our stakeholders

$172 statement

Governance report
Governance framework
Report of the directors

Independent auditor's report __

Financial statements

Additional information
Alternative performance measures and explanatory notes


Strategic report

Our business model

We generate income from Air Traffic Control (ATC)
services for aircraft flying en route in UK airspace and the
eastern part of the North Atlantic as well as other ATC
related services.

The company operates under a licence granted under the
Transport Act 2000 as amended by the Air Traffic
Management and Unmanned Aircraft Act 2021, and is

economically and safety regulated by the CAA.

The CAA has a duty to ensure that it is not unduly difficult
for NERL to finance its activities. Under the regulatory
framework illustrated below, the CAA establishes revenue
allowances for a price control period. These remunerate
efficient investment (capex), operating costs (opex),
pensions, tax and an allowed return on the capital
invested in the Regulatory Asset Base (RAB) to recover
the cost of capital. The RAB represents the value
ascribed to the capital employed in the regulated
businesses. For NR23 (2023 to 2027), the CAA set the
cost of capital at 4.37% (pre-tax real). Income from other
activities is deducted under a ‘single till’, leaving a net
revenue allowance. A price per service unit is set to
recover this based on forecast traffic for the price control
period. The charges for the UK en route ATC service are
administered by Eurocontrol, the European network
manager and a non-governmental organisation of 41
member states. Charges for North Atlantic en route and
other services are recovered by NERL directly from users.

The economic regulatory framework

+ regulatory asset life | & érEmaien

capex
| x cost of capital
RAB

+ pensions and tax

less. other income

= net revenve allowance

The CAA also sets targets, and provides incentives, for
service, environmental performance, capital investment
and gearing levels. If regulatory assumptions are borne
out and NERL efficiently meets its targets then NERL

Our business model

would earn a return at the cost of capital. It can out-
perform if it is more cost efficient than the CAA's

assumptions, finances at lower cost, if traffic volumes

‘after risk sharing (see below) are higher than forecast or

if it beats service targets. NERL would earn lower returns
if the opposite applied. Regulatory mechanisms mitigate -
the impact of variations in traffic volumes, inflation,
pension contributions and corporation tax rates from the
level assumed and result in adjustments to charges in

future periods.

Strategic report Our strategy to 2040

Our purpose

Advancing aviation, keeping the skies safe.

We exist to ensure the skies are a safe and efficient environment for aviation. Defined by the things we care about, our
strategy is driven by our purpose, values and objectives.

Our company vision for 2040

Passionate about aviation, we step forward and seize the opportunities across our evolving industry. Our talented
team creates and operates sustainable solutions for all airspace users. Advanced products and services using the
latest data, technology and automation result in the skies being safe, efficient and cleaner for everyone. It is why we
are proud to connect airspace users, partners and customers in the UK and around the world.

Our values

We are Safety is our core value. Our commitment W We accomplish more together. We share
safe to the safety of our people, operations and eare knowledge and collaborate, both within functions
positive safety culture remains consistent one team and across divisions so our successes are shared
and unwavering. It permeates everything across the business. We put team goals ahead of
we do as we address an evolving working personal ones, trust each other to deliver on
4 environment and the challenges brought commitments and support each other to develop
about by the expansion of types of the capabilities of the company. We are one team.
airspace users and new technologies.
Ww. We have the courage to think differently, We value everyone regardless of background. We
eare to Speak up and create a positive working We are treat each other, customers, partners and suppliers
courageous f A : Fe tint ; ional
g environment in pursuit of our goals, and respectful with dignity and professionalism. We acknowledge
to strive for better. Our courage develops the value each of us brings, our differences, and our
excellence in our people and in our contributions. We also respect the world in which
practices. Itadvances our products and we operate, always acting responsibly and hold
our services, and provides us with safe, ourselves to the highest standards.
sustainable and efficient solutions that
we are proud of.

Our strategic objectives

Our strategy is designed to drive the company's purpose of
Advancing aviation, keeping the skies safe, which is at the
heart of why we do what we do and what we are
passionate about. It is supported by the guiding principles
which underpin the company’s culture and its core values, strategic
and is centred around four long term objectives, which are objectives
deliberately challenging, for delivery by 2040.

The objectives are that:

¢ Wewill be a top 25 UK company to work for. We recognise that our employees are our future. We want to
retain our brilliant people and attract the best new talent. Inclusion, career development and wellbeing are
front and centre of our approach.

« Every airspace user will be able to rely on our services. We have a relentless focus on maintaining safety for
all airspace users, whoever they are now and whoever they may be in the future, and we will develop the UK’s
critical national airspace infrastructure to seamlessly integrate their requirements.

e¢ Wewill be carbon negative. We will run our operation sustainably and we will be pro-active in supporting the
reduction of the wider aviation industry's impact on the environment.

e Weill be delivering an additional £500m in revenue per year (in 2021 prices). We will achieve this by
providing competitive and market leading propositions to new and existing UK and international customers
aligned with their strategies which we will develop by working alongside our partners.

Strategic report

Chief Executive's review

Chief Executive's review

Safety is our highest priority and this year's performance
was one of our safest, underlining the group's strong
safety focus and culture. This was achieved while
handling a 7% growth in traffic, equating to 2.4 million

flights, and over a quarter of a billion passengers.

Our exceptional safety performance delivered by our
operational teams in the year was overshadowed by a
technical incident which resulted in significant travel
, disruption to airlines, airports and passengers. | would like
to start by reiterating my apologies to all those impacted
by the events of 10 months ago. Safety was, and always
will be, at the forefront of our decision making during such
rare events. While we will always prioritise safety, we
never want to be the cause of significant disruption and
we continuously strive to ensure that does not happen.
My immediate job - and that of the executive team - in the
days and weeks that followed was to make sure that the
solutions were in place to make sure this could not
happen again. | am ensuring that we learn all we can from
the events of last August to make our service

performance even more resilient.
Technical Incident

On 28 August, our UK en route service suffered a
technical incident caused by an extremely rare set of
circumstances impacting our flight plan processing
system. This required us to reduce the number of flights
in UK airspace for around six hours in order to maintain
safety at all times, which is our overriding legal duty.
According to Eurocontrol, and corroborated by the CAA's
independent review, this resulted in an average two-hour
delay to 579 flights and is estimated to have caused _
airlines to cancel around 1,500 flights on the day, with
more cancelled in the following days as airlines sought to
recover their schedules. Despite these delays, our
outstanding employees made sure that we were still able
to handle 5,592 flights that day out of an anticipated
7,400.

ATC services were fully restored by late afternoon on 28
August and we upgraded the software within days to
ensure that specific technical failure cannot happen
again. We undertook a major internal incident
investigation in relation to its causes and our response to
events on the day, to ensure we learn all we can from this.
Our investigation was conducted transparently, an
approach which underpins the safety of the global
aviation system.

We have now implemented the majority of our
investigation’s recommendations which | reported to the
Transport Select Committee which was seeking
assurance that lessons learned had been integrated into
our readiness plans for summer 2024. We also
supported the CAA’s independent review panel's
investigation and will carefully consider the Panel's final

report recommendations when it is published.

This event demonstrates the complexity of the air traffic
management network, which, as a rule, operates
efficiently throughout the year despite the necessary
focus on continuous safety, but it is a stark reminder of
the importance of underlying air traffic infrastructure to
the operations of wider stakeholders, such as airlines and
airports.

New airspace users

The year saw good progress on regulatory matters. The
CAA's decision on the NR23 price control has drawn to a
close a lengthy and complex regulatory review, providing
a stable baseline now for the NR23 period to 2027 with
broadly the financial resources we need. While the Board
judged that the CAA’s final decision fairly recompensed
NERL for revenue Jost during the pandemic it considered
that from an operational perspective the service quality
targets are extremely challenging given the projected
significant growth in flight volumes, live operational
training requirements for the next generation of air traffic
controllers and the need to progress airspace ;
modernisation and technology transformation
programmes. There is a risk that these targets over-

prioritise short-term performance against long-term

Strategic report

Chief Executive's review

resilience and technical progress. We will take a
responsible course of action that balances these needs,
but we are unlikely to meet the targets set. However we
are still likely to deliver a service that is measurably as
good as, or better than, our European and other

international peers.

Alongside its NR23 decision the CAA asked NERL to
consult with stakeholders to develop a proposal for
services to enable safe and efficient flight by new
airspace users, such as drones operating beyond visual
line of sight and advanced air mobility, and a charging
mechanism to fund this activity. We established the
Integrated Traffic Management Service Development
Group (ISDG), for exchanging views with industry on this
topic and in February 2024 we started to consult on our
NATS OpenAir service proposal. We aim to submit our
proposal to the CAA in summer 2025.

For that proposal, we are seeking views on the scope of
new services that enable the safe and efficient use of
integrated airspace and the options for economic
regulation and the charging mechanism for such
services. We do not envisage that NATS OpenAir would,
in the main, provide air traffic services directly to new
airspace users or manage any more airspace than we
already do. Rather NATS OpenAir would provide a
universal data sharing and network management
function that connects other commercial service provides

toa secure and authenticated network.

Our understanding of what future technology solutions
and services will be needed to maintain a safe airspace
for new and existing users is being informed by three
different Future Flight projects we are supporting as part
of UK Research and Innovation’s Future Flight Challenge:

¢ Distributed Beyond Visual Line of Sight Aviation
System (DBAS), a new control room concept that can
be used to co-ordinate airspace users for beyond

visual line of flight operations;

¢ Project Caelus which is enabling essential medical
deliveries for NHS Scotland; and

° the Air Mobility Ecosystem Consortium which has
used simulations and visualisations to assess the
impact of electric vertical take-off and landings

(eVTOLs) in London’s airspace.
People

Training our next generation of air traffic controllers is key
to ensuring operational resilience in the face of expected
growth in air traffic volumes and as an enabler to airspace
modernisation and the technical transformation of our
infrastructure. In addition to providing the tactical service
day-to-day we rely on operational staff to train new
controllers and, outside of the summer peak, to support
the development of new technology and changes to the
airspace network. We have increased recruitment to
balance supply and demand between newly trained
controllers and those retiring from NATS. However, as
trainees take approximately three years to validate and
obtain their licence, we will not achieve maximum annual
validation numbers until early in NR28 (our next regulatory
period). To mitigate this challenge, we are continuing to
review the effectiveness of our training to maximise
success rates, we have increased the resources available _
to optimise our use of simulators and we have partnered
with an external training provider. This year 73 trainees
completed their initial training (2023: 74) and 75
controllers extended their validations, meaning they can
control additional areas of airspace (2023: 60). We
continue to lobby the regulator to review the requirement
that foreign or military controllers must undertake full
retraining to obtain a UK licence, which we understand to

be a requirement that does not apply outside the UK.

| reported in the 2023 annual report that to enable our
internal progress towards being a Top 25 employer to be
benchmarked we had asked our employees how they felt
about working at NATS. The survey was conducted by
Best Companies, the employee engagement specialists.
Based on their feedback, Best Companies rated us as
“Very Good to Work For”. At the time of publication of the
previous annual report Best Companies had not

concluded on our ranking. Subsequently they ranked us at

Strategic report

Chief Executive's review

#13, which is clearly very encouraging. Since the survey
and alongside a series of employee focus groups,
colleagues from across the business have been using the
feedback to shape and deliver improvement plans in areas
of leadership, personal growth and giving something back.
We will measure our progress through future surveys and

through our ability to attract and retain talent.

This year the NATS group published a combined gender,
ethnicity and disability pay gap report to provide a broader
picture of our pay differentials and to enable us to take a
joined-up, consistent approach to tackling disparities. Due

~ to the staggered timing of pay awards to different
professional groups the gender pay gaps for 2023
increased. Had we applied pay awards to all employees at
the same time there would have been no change to the
mean gender pay gap and an improvement of 1.6% to the
median gender pay gap. More remains to be done and we
are taking the right actions to address this issue over the
long term.

We have taken steps to make sure we have a centrally
coordinated approach to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
(EDI) and we are working together as an organisation to
build an even more inclusive culture so as to ensure that
we attract and foster the talent that we need. Inclusive
Companies ranked us at #44 in their most recent Top 50
list. This is a significant achievement and is testament to
the commitment and hard work of employees from across

the business and our employee networks.

increasing representation of women and people from
ethnic minority backgrounds in STEM professions still
remains a challenge. However, we are taking proactive
steps to attract people from underrepresented groups
through targeted advertising of our air traffic control and
early careers recruitment campaigns.

Sustainability

Our strategy recognises the role we have in helping to
create a sustainable future for aviation. It sets out our
ambition to minimise our direct environmental impact

and to become carbon negative across our estate. Our

goals are ambitious and science-based, and we have
been recognised by both CDP and the Financial Times for
our progress to date. We are also.committed to
supporting the reduction of aviation’s impact on the
environment thereby ensuring aviation’s crucial role in the
UK's economy and to prioritising work with our
customers and partners to find more sustainable
solutions, including providing efficient routings to

minimise aircraft emissions in our airspace.

We published our five-year Transition Plan this year,
which we will update annually. It sets out the actions we
will take in the short term to pivot our business to a low
carbon economy while building our resilience to the
impacts of climate change. As an example, we are now
installing solar panel arrays that will generate 20% of our

electricity needs at our Prestwick and Swanwick Centres.

Airspace modernisation is the industry's most immediate
means of delivering carbon reduction targets. Alongside
larger airspace changes, such as West Airspace, which
was deployed in 2023, we continue to make local
changes to the airspace network through focused
projects. Those implemented since 2021 are now
contributing reductions of 33,000 tonnes of COz per
annum by enabling more fuel-efficient flying alongside
reduced controller workload.

We are supporting the industry with projects that seek to
reduce the environmental impact of flying. Notable this
year was Virgin Atlantic’s flight from Heathrow to New
York fuelled by sustainable aviation fuel. And we
continue to actively support research to understand
contrail production over the North Atlantic and to trial
contrail avoidance solutions.

We are incentivised by the regulator to provide fuel
efficient flights to airlines based on our 3Di airspace
efficiency metric. For the 2023 calendar year we were
within the CAA’s allowance with a score of 28.3 (2022
calendar year: 26.0, within CAA allowance). We are also
sharing flight efficiency data with three of our largest

airline customers to identify jointly opportunities for

Strategic report

Chief Executive's review

further emissions savings. Ultimately, our aim is for all

airlines using the UK air traffic network to have access to ,

their own 3Di performance data.
Looking forward

Our immediate focus is on delivering the best possible
safe service to airlines, airports and their passengers
through what we expect to be a very busy summer. We
have planned extensively with all our stakeholders to
ensure that this is achieved. We have an operational plan
to ensure that we are organised and resourced for known
events (such as the Paris Olympics) and with a clear
focus on the on-time departure of the first rotation each
day, while also ensuring that across the company our
priorities for any particular day are defined and
understood, whether for ATC service or essential
engineering or controller training.

Finally, | would like to acknowledge Paul Golby's 10 years
of service as Chairman of the Board. Paul brought a
blend of challenge and stability. His leadership of the
Board and strategic guidance has helped us tackle the
extraordinary challenges of the pandemic. We have a lot
to thank him for and | wish him well in the future. | look
forward to welcoming his successor, Warren East, in
September 2024 and to working alongside him. | would
also like to thank all my colleagues who have shown such
dedication and commitment in delivering a very safe

service through a uniquely challenging year.

Martin Rolfe, FRAeS

Chief Executive

Strategic report

Business review

Business review

Air traffic volumes

Over the course of the year we handled 2.41m flights,
which was 7% more than the previous year driven largely
by continued progress in recovery from the Covid
pandemic (2023: 2.26m flights).

Summer 2023 was busy with daily flight volumes peaking
at 8,000 in July and the record daily volume recorded for
North Atlantic flights, now 1,805, being broken multiple
times. While the industry was much better prepared for
the level of passenger demand, the European network
continued to face its challenges. Alongside the ongoing
conflict in Ukraine, which continues to constrain
European airspace, there was a relatively large amount of
ATC industrial action and an unusually high number of
days affected by extreme weather which required
extensive cross border cooperation. In the UK, weather
related delay affected both Gatwick and Heathrow
airports in particular. Eurocontrol, the network manager,
has included the mitigation of bad weather in
preparations for Summer 2024, in an effort to bring more
stability to the network.

Outlook for air traffic volumes

Demand for air travel is generally linked to the strength of
the economy as well as being sensitive to wider
geopolitical events. In addition, as governments respond
to climate change it is inevitable that economic and
societal adjustments will be necessary for achieving net-
zero emissions, the impacts of which add to forecasting
uncertainty. The impacts of these policies and events are
not felt uniformly across all traffic that NERL handles
which can lead to the impact on forecast revenue being
different to that seen on overall flight volumes.

We have developed an internal forecast which, for the
first time, also has regard to the potential impact on air
travel demand of sustainability policies based on DfT's
Jet Zero Strategy. This forecasts flight growth of c1% per
annum over NR23. While growth is slower than the CAA’s

assumption in the NR23 price control, our business plan

maintains operational resourcing and capital investment

at levels aligned with the regulatory settlement.

[ UK flight forecasts
H Calendar years ('000)
i
| 2,700
2,600
j 2.500
i 2,400
' 2.300
'
2200 om > re eee ee a
\ 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027
i ——— R23 ----- STATFOR 24 === NATS internal
oes

The UK’s DfT Jet Zero Strategy sets out the government's
approach to achieving net zero for UK aviation by 2050,
identifying sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) as one of the
key enabling technologies. The UK is set to mandate the
take-up of SAF starting in 2025 at 2% of total UK jet fuel
demand, increasing on a linear basis to 10% in 2030 and
then to 22% in 2040. With SAF currently significantly
more expensive than jet fuel, policy mechanisms are
expected to be put in place to encourage the production
and availability of SAF in order to minimise the impact on
air fares for passengers. These factors are considered in
our assessment of climate transition risk discussed in the
NATS Holdings’ Annual Report and Accounts.

The traffic forecast assumed by the CAA for the NR23
price control was aligned with Eurocontrol’s March 2023
seven-year base case forecast. In February 2024
Eurocontro! published an updated forecast (STATFOR 24)
which reflects a weaker economic outlook for Europe,
including the UK. This forecasts flight volumes some 2%
lower for the UK through NR23.

Safety Performance

Safety is our foremost priority and our primary duty.
Safety must always be maintained, and this means that, if
we have to, we will appropriately regulate the volume of
flights in our airspace when this is necessary to ensure
safety. Our service delivery, staff training and equipment
maintenance and investment decisions are always made

in the context of this overriding obligation.

Strategic report

Our commitment to safety is underpinned by a robust set
of metrics and targets that we use to monitor our
performance and ensure that we have a focus on
continuous safety improvement. These metrics and
targets are aligned with the European performance
scheme framework and are approved by the Board's
Safety Review Committee and the CAA.

Our key target is to achieve zero NERL-attributable
category A or B risk-bearing airprox, based on the
independent assessment of the UK Airprox Board. There
were no NERL-attributable category A or B risk-bearing
airprox in the financial year (2023: none).

‘Airprox (NERL)
Financial Years Ending 31 March

‘Alrprox (12 Month to End March)
33838 8 8 388 F

Mor [ sar | Mor
2017 | 2018 | 2019 | 2020 | zozs | 2022 | 2023 | 2026

e Tous airpros where WATS provided aa ATC service
HATS atuibated airpre

erat aitibuted Wisk Bearing Airpron {Category A/B)
= =Total Atpres excluding anes

Airprox are an important barometer of risk within the
aviation sector, especially as traffic volumes are returning
to pre-pandemic levels. On a 12-month rolling basis, the
total number of Airprox in the airspace in which we
provide our services increased in the year. However,
when adjusted for traffic volumes, these were fewer than
the average for the 2015 to 2019 years. The graph
illustrates that unmanned aircraft systems (UAS or
drones) remain a significant contributor to the overall
number of Airprox, particularly around airports and
heliports. In order to better understand the risks
associated with this evolving airspace user, NATS is
collaborating in drone detection and proximity data trials
at several NATS sites around the country. These trials
will help us to determine whether new safety processes
and performance measures are required for detecting
and preventing the illegal use of drones in flight

restriction zones around airports.

Business review

We also measure our safety performance using the Risk
Analysis Tool (RAT®, as a proxy measure for safety risk)
which assesses the severity of safety events and enables
us to drive the appropriate safety culture across the

whole business.

This financial year we recorded a total of 419 points
(2023: 489) which, despite an increase in the volume of
flights this year, is a further improvement on the previous
year's record low level. RAT events in the year included
two severity B events against our target of less than 10
for RAT A or Bevents. All serious events are subject to
an additional level of scrutiny by the Safety Review
Committee, ensuring that appropriate mitigating actions

have been agreed and implemented.

The strategic safety goals set by the Corporate Strategy
continue to drive our work, with initial focus on the
implementation of continuous improvements in safety
management. In support of this objective, we intend to
formalise risk registers across the business. This is
expected to provide improved clarity and visibility of the
management of operational safety risks, helping the
organisation prioritise its resources and better
communicate risk related information to the accountable
managers to support effective decision making. In the
longer term, we expect this to provide a better and more
dynamic understanding of the relationship between NERL
top level risks and local change risk assessments.

Safety management

We are subject to an extensive safety regulatory
framework that includes requirements under UK
regulations overseen by the CAA and retained EU
regulations overseen by the European Union Aviation
Safety Agency (EASA). This framework is anchored in
our safety management approach that covers systems,

procedures and personnel.

To ensure that we work effectively to understand,
maintain and improve safety performance in a consistent
way, we have a formalised Safety Management System
(SMS). The application of the SMS goes hand-in-hand

Strategic report

with all of our activities so that safety is considered at ~
every stage. This integration of safety in everything we
do means that we can deliver safety and efficiency
improvements across the company. The SMS is
continually evolving to meet the needs of the business,
incorporating lessons learned, changing regulation and
the evolving use of airspace, including UAS and new
industry concepts. We have also continued to enhance
our SMS training.

Safety culture

Safety is our core value underpinned by our strong safety
culture, which is essential as its positive values,
behaviours and beliefs ensure we make the right
decisions when we need to.

This also recognises that every colleague has:a personal
responsibility for safety no matter what role an individual
performs, and this impacts the safety of our business and
our people. We monitor the rate of reporting of safety
events, which has exceeded pre-Covid levels and is a
positive indicator of an effective reporting culture
supported by a just investigation ethos.

We undertake a company-wide safety culture survey
every two years which enables the company, and its
Board, to assess the current strength of our safety culture
and highlight areas for improvement. The 2023 survey
identified three company-wide actions: bringing the
safety culture and individual safety behaviour to life
through an engaging campaign, ensuring resourcing
plans are communicated effectively and the development
of a fatigue risk management system with a focus initially
on operational staff. The next survey is being planned for
November 2025.

Technology transformation

Our strategy to replace our legacy operational systems
with the latest modern, resilient technical solutions will,
through a range of new capabilities, enable us to safely
manage increasing volumes and complexity of traffic. We
are continuing to invest in sustaining our existing assets

during this transition period, commencing the

Business review

modernisation of our surveillance system, delivering
world-first capacity management tools at Heathrow and
Gatwick airports and the ongoing development of future
airspace changes in support of the industry's focus on
the Airspace Modernisation Strategy.

We have continued to make further progress to finalise
our new underpinning infrastructure. For example, the
deployment of our back-up voice system in October on its
own separate resilient network provides a step-change in
capability and resilience when compared to its aged
predecessor. Our focus has shifted to the ongoing

development and testing of applications which will be

progressively deployed onto our infrastructure over time.
The early versions of these applications are into critical
final testing and validation necessary before we
commence the detailed training of our operations teams

. to enable a successful transition. We expect to deliver

the first phase of our new controller tools and
workstations on its existing architecture at our Prestwick
centre in early 2026. A sequential approach to capability
enhancement will allow us to continue to learn from the

integration and use of these applications and technology.

The restructured and decoupled delivery plan, which
allows each part of the programme to progress
independently, has proved effective. However, we
continue to face a number of ongoing skills-shortages
which once resolved will enable us to scale-up our
delivery capacity in due course. As an example; we have
implemented and partnered with large-scale technology-
industry leaders to enable us to leverage their capabilities
and to operate our new technical infrastructure.

Strategic report

Financial review

Results overview

2024 2023

[em (unless specified) Change

Revenue and regulatory allowances 1029.5, 782.4 247.1

Adjusting items (123.3) (23.2) _ (100.1)
Adjusted revenue and regulatory allowances 906.2 759.2 147.0
Profit before tax 397.0 186.5 240.5
Adjusting items 0233) (23.2) _ (100.1)
Adjusted profit before tax 273.7 _133.3 140.4
Operating cash flows 213.4 W757 37.7
Cash flows from investing activities Go11) (110.9) 98
Cash flows from financing activities (78.9) __ (58.0) __ (20.9)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 33.4 6.8 26.6

Adjusting items
Debt-adjusted cash flows

83.5,
116.9

45.0
51.8

38.5
65.4

109.9
(817.0)
41.9%
2,139.2

4107.1
(903.2)
52.3%
1865.8

28
86.2
(10.4%)
273.4

Capital expenditure
Net debt (statutory basis)
Gearing (%)

Regulatory Asset Base (RAB)

49%
ail

0.0%
nit

49%
wa

NERL's regulatory return - adjusted profit basis (%)
Dividends

The company reported a statutory profit before tax of
£397.0m (2023: £156.5m). The significant increase on
the previous year is mainly a reflection of the NR23 price
control and the CAA’s assessment of the income shortfall
owing to NERL for the Covid period (2020 to 2022),

recognised as variable consideration in the prior year.
Alternative performance measures

In order to provide better insight for managing our
financial performance, we have adopted a number of
non-IFRS measures: adjusted revenue and revenue
allowances, adjusted profit before tax, debt-adjusted cash
flows (DACF), net debt, the regulatory asset base (RAB),
regulatory return (adjusted) and gearing. These
alternative performance measures (APMs) are not
defined by international financial reporting standards
(IFRS) and should be considered in addition to, and are
not intended to be a substitute for, IFRS and statutory
measures. A reconciliation of the APMs to IFRS
measures is provided at page 96 and 97.

Putting profit and cash flows in context
a. NR23 price control

This year's statutory profit before tax reflects a full year’s
impact of NR23, which applied from 1 January 2023. The
regulatory framework, explained on page 2, is a typical

11

Financial review

cash-based model of UK economic regulation adopted by
the CAA when determining NERL's price control. At each
price control review, the CAA re-sets the level of revenue
for a five-year period which it considers appropriate to
enable NERL to recover its costs, continue to invest in the
airspace infrastructure and earn a reasonable return
while operating efficiently and providing targeted levels of
service performance for customers. This process of re-
setting revenue allowances can result in a step change
(up or down) in NERL’s results in the first year of the price
control.

In this first full year of NR23, the ‘cliff edge’ impact is
pronounced as the prior year's result reflected the
temporary price control put in place during Covid. The
practical effect of which was that NERL’s charges were
set initially as if Covid had not occurred but with the CAA
taking a view subsequently on the appropriate recovery of
revenue allowances based on the shortfall between
NERL's flight income and its actual costs. Furthermore,
the actual costs NERL incurred during Covid reflected the
actions it had taken to reduce its operating costs and
pause capital investment to conserve cash. By contrast,
the revenue allowances for NR23 reflect the scaling back-
up of NERL’s activities to support post-Covid air traffic
volumes and to deliver its NR23 business plan. The CAA’s
revenue allowances also take account of the higher
inflationary environment, an allowed return calculated on
an average RAB that now includes the Covid income
shortfall and the increase in defined benefit pension cash
contributions from 1 January 2023.

The latter, being paid at 85.3% of pensionable pay, are
based on the funding deficit and ongoing cost of benefits
calculated at 31 December 2020 when real gilt yields
were close to their historic low. The timing of that
measurement means that these contributions are
significantly higher, unprecedentedly so, than the charge
to the income statement of 22.2% of pensionable pay
measured under international accounting standards.
This IAS 19 charge reflects the higher interest rate
environment since 2022 which has significantly reduced

Strategic report

Financial review

the cost of pensions. After taking a rebate of pension
costs under the pass-through mechanism into account,
the combination of a lower IAS 19 charge and the
different basis for pensions alone accounts for an
increase in profit of £41.1m.

b. The Covid income shortfall

The outcome of the CAA’s retrospective reconciliation for
determining the Covid income shortfall was accounted
for in the prior year as variable consideration, constrained
at an amount highly probable of not being reversed
subsequently. In November 2023 the CAA confirmed the
value of the shortfall at an amount higher than the
variable consideration previously recognised.
Accordingly, the results reflect an additional regulatory
allowance of £123.3m for Airspace ATC services
provided during Covid (2023: £23.2m). The measure of
Adjusted profit before tax of £273.7m (2023: £133.3m)
excludes this allowance to enable a better understanding
of the company’s underlying performance for the service
provided in the financial year.

c. Debt adjusted cash flows

As in the prior year, our statutory profit before tax is not
yet supported by the equivalent level of cash flow
generation. This reflects recovery of the Covid income
shortfall over an extended 10-year period to 2032,
starting from January 2023. The related amount
recoverable under the regulatory agreement is reflected °
in our financial position and will endure for the remainder
of this recovery period. As a result, we will continue to
utilise significantly increased but manageable levels of
debt to deliver the NR23 plan. The term and structure of
our debt was aligned in 2023 to match our expected cash
flows to 2033 and provides efficient and stable funding
over the extended period for recovering the Covid income
shortfall. The path of net debt over time will be
determined by the recovery of the Covid income shortfall,
reintroduction of an appropriate dividend strategy and
investments.

Financial perforinance,
four financial years ended 31 March

(061
en)

£00)

eo
Fa fared Fv2a Fy2
camer) am UE mm crensev[secreaR] EACH eG UTNE] ee CUmUatve UAT

The chart above shows our statutory results before tax
(PBT), our debt adjusted cash flows? (DACF) and the
change ‘in net debt in each of the last four years. DACF
represent the cash flows from our operations, our
investing activities and our debt service costs but exclude
the cash flows relating to our financing capital structure
such as bond issues and bank loan repayments. The
scale of the shortfall in income receipts, particularly in
2021 and 2022, is borne out by our DACF across this
period.

In the later years of NR23 we expect DACF to exceed
profit before tax, which will be reflective of underlying
performance, while operating cash flows benefit from the

ongoing recovery of the income shortfall.

NERL's regulatory return — adjusted profit basis

NERL's regulatory return for calendar year 2023 adjusted
for the one-off impact of the CAA’s confirmation of the
Covid income shortfall was 4.9% (2022 calendar year:
0.0%) compared with the CAA’s NR23 cost of capital
assumption of 3.2%. Operating costs were £61.0m lower
than CAA‘s final determination assumption. This reflects
the fact that the CAA sets annual revenue allowances
assuming operating costs relating to the calendar year's
actual CPI inflation. However, the impact of CPI on
NERL's costs tends to lag by a year as these are generally
indexed according to the prior year's inflation. While NERL
has been able to contain temporarily some of the
inflationary pressures on its cost base, its expectation is
that the level of inflation currently projected on costs in

2024 and going forward will exceed the level assumed by

12

Strategic report

Financial review

the CAA in those years. Accordingly NERL currently
expects higher operating costs against the CAA’s target
for the later years of NR23. The savings in 2023 are
therefore not anticipated to be repeated, and overall costs
over the price control period to be more aligned with the
CAA’s final determination assumption in its entirety. This
factor was partly offset by lower revenue for an expected
rebate of pension costs in future price controls.

On an unadjusted basis NERL’s regulatory accounts will
report a return of 11.2% largely due to the Covid shortfall
income being included in this single year, as explained

previously.

Revenue and regulatory allowances

! "2024! 2023

£m £m

Airspace 1,022.4 775.1
Other Service lines 7.1 73
Total 11,029.5 | 782.4

Overall, revenue and regulatory allowances at £1,029.5m
(2023: £782.4m) were £247.1m higher than the prior year.
Airspace revenue and regulatory allowances were
£247.3m (31.9%) higher. UK en route revenue at
£806.5m (2023: £669.2m), improved by £137.3m mainly
due to the increase in revenue allowances set for NR23 ~
outlined above. In addition, regulatory allowances of
£136.5m increased by £95.5m (2023: £41.0m) includes
the recognition of £123.3m of Covid income shortfall,
recognised as variable consideration in the prior year as
explained above.

Revenue for the North Atlantic en route ATC service
increased by £10.5m to £54.2m (2023: £43.7m) reflecting
a 13.7% increase in the charge per flight for NR23 as well
as a 9.2% growth in flights volumes to 528,350 (2023:
483,802 flights).

Operating costs

Operating costs increased by £39.3m or 6.5%, mainly
reflecting inflationary pressures on staff and non-staff
costs and asset impairment charges.

13

T2024} 2023

£m £m

Staff costs | (357.4) (356.3)
Non-staff costs (net) (174.6) (453.9)
| (532.0) (510.2)

Depreciation and amortisation (net) (99.8) (88.7)
Asset impairment charges (16.1) 97.

Operating costs

1 (647.9)| _ (608.6)

Staff costs were £1.1m higher at £357.4m (2023:
£356.3m) with CPl-linked pay awards and additional
overtime and headcount to support both operational
resilience and our technology transformation programme
being mitigated by increased internal capitalised labour
and lower defined benefit pension costs. The number of.
employees in post at 31 March 2024 increased by 199 to
3,378 (2023: 3,179).

Non-staff costs increased by £20.7m to £174.6m (2023:
£153.9m). This reflected additional costs required for
data infrastructure, hosting and cyber security in line with

the modernisation of our technical infrastructure.

Depreciation and amortisation increased by £11.1m to
£99.8m (2023: £88.7m), following the deployment of a
new back-up voice communication system and a new
system to monitor the performance of airspace
infrastructure assets. Asset impairment charges of
£16.1m (2023: £9.7m) were recognised for a data
integration system which is no longer considered to be
commercially viable, and to write down the value of
network infrastructure test equipment, following an

assessment of potential alternative uses.

Strategic report

Financial review

Net finance income and fair value movement on

derivative contracts

fF 2024 2023

| £m £m
Net finance income/(costs) 24.4 (3.6)
Fair value movement on derivative (9.0) (137)
contracts i = :
Net financing income/(costs) 15.4 | (173)
and fair value movements : :

The net finance income of £24.4m (2023: net finance
cost of £3.6m) principally related to unwinding the
discount applied to regulatory allowances for the Covid
income shortfall, which is being recovered over NR23 and
NR28. This is alongside additional interest income
earned on cash holdings. These factors more than offset
bond and other debt interest costs.

A fair value charge of £9.0m (2023: £13.7m) was also
recognised in the year in relation to the change in market

value of the RPI swap liabilities.
Taxation

The tax charge of £97.2m (2023: £31.8m) represents an
effective rate of tax of 24.5%. This is slightly lower than
the headline rate of 25%.

The tax charge consists of a current tax charge of
£78.5m and a net deferred tax charge of £18.7m. The
deferred tax charge arises mainly from the deferred tax

liabilities on capital expenditure.

NATS achieved Fair Tax Mark accreditation in the year.
NERL's taxes generally arise in.the UK, though it
undertakes business in other countries. Wherever we
operate we organise our operations to pay the correct
and appropriate amount of tax at the right time,
according to relevant national laws, and ensure
compliance with the group's tax policies and guidelines.
The company also pays other taxes such as employer's
national insurance contributions (£35.8m), business rates
(£5.7m) and the apprenticeship levy (£1.4m), which are
significant operating costs. The group's tax strategy can
be viewed at www.nats.aero.

Balance sheet
i024 2023
£m £m
Goodwill 38.3 38.3
Tangible and intangible fixed assets 1,087.7 1,091.9
Right-of-use assets 31.4 34.7
Pension scheme surplus 10.1 43.9
Regulatory allowances recoverable 799.0 731.3
Regulatory allowances payable (54.8) (141.6)
Cash and cash equivalents 91.1 577
Derivatives (net) (79.9) (80.1)
Borrowings (864.9) (911.4)
Lease liabilities (43.2) (49.5)
Deferred tax liability (205.4) (195.6)
Other net balances (35.6)! (60.6)
Net assets | 773.8; 559.0

The increase in net assets reflects the statutory profit
after tax, partly offset by the reduction in the defined
benefit pension scheme's IAS 19 funding surplus to
£10.1m (2023: £43.9m - see below).

Capital investment

2024 {2023

1 &m £m

'
SESAR deployment t 43.1 47.9
Airspace modernisation 8.9 78
Infrastructure 17.1 98
Operational systems 26.8 29.5
Other 2 10.2 77
Regulatory capex i 106.1 | 102.7
Other non-regulatory capex 3.8 | 44
Capital investment { 109.9; 107.1

We continued to make a significant investment in our
critical airspace infrastructure (regulatory capex in the
table above). In particular, we introduced a back-up voice
communication system which significantly enhances our
operational system resilience. Overall, we expect to
invest c£630m over NR23 to replace ageing
infrastructure and systems, continuing our strategy
towards their consolidation into a single platform which
will provide improved tools and standardised operations,
which are critical to future service quality and airspace

modernisation.

14

Strategic report

Financial review

Defined benefit pensions

NERL bears an economic share of the parent company’s
final salary defined benefit pension scheme. The scheme
was Closed to new entrants in 2009 and a defined
contribution scheme was put in place - the costs of this
scheme increased by £6.0m in the year reflecting the
growth in members and staff pay awards. More
information on our pension arrangements is provided in
note 28 to the financial statements.

a. IAS 19 charge and funding position

The cost of defined benefit pensions at £30.1m (2023:
£53.8m) reflected a reduction in the accrual rate to 22.0%
(2023: 44.8%) of pensionable pay, as a result of higher
real interest rates at the start of the financial year relative
to those at the start of the prior year.

At 31 March 2024, the scheme's assets exceeded its
liabilities by £10.1m (2023: £43.9m) as measured under
International Accounting Standards (IAS 19) using best

estimate assumptions.

JAS 19 pension surplus EM
At 1 April 2023 43.9
Charge to income statement* (30.1)
Actuarial gains/{losses):

- on scheme assets (245.5)

- on scheme liabilities 133.7
Employer contributions* 108.1
At31 March 2024 10.1
Represented by:

Scheme assets 2,534.1

Scheme liabilities (2,524.0)

Surplus 10.4

* including salary sacrifice

The real yield on AA corporate bonds used to value RPI-
linked pension obligations increased by 20 basis points
over the 12-month period. In addition, demographic
assumptions were updated to reflect actual mortality
experience and future improvements in life expectancy in
line with the CMI's 2022 projections. These had the effect
of reducing the value of pension liabilities which reduced
by £92.8m over the year. The fair value of the scheme's
assets reduced by £126.6m.

15

b. Trustee valuation and funding obligations

The funding of the defined benefit scheme is subject to
agreement between the company and the scheme’s
Trustees based on the outcome of their formal valuation.
This valuation uses a wide range of financial and’
demographic assumptions for measuring pension
liabilities and legislation requires a margin for prudence.
As a result, the Trustees’ valuation gives a different
outcome to the valuation under IAS 19 for the company's

financial statements.

The Trustees are currently undertaking a formal valuation
of the scheme as at 31 December 2023, which is not yet
complete. Until that valuation is agreed, the schedule of
contributions remains based upon the Trustees 31
December 2020 valuation, which reported a funding
deficit of £171.9m (equivalent to a funding level of 97%)
(NERL’s economic share of this deficit is c£132m).
Alongside assessing the funding deficit, the scheme’s
actuary also determined that the cost of employee
benefits accruing in future should be 66.2% of
pensionable pay. Contributions have reflected this rate
since January 2023, as well as a recovery plan agreed
with Trustees, which aims to repair the deficit by
December 2029. During calendar year 2023 the group
paid deficit contributions of £27.2m and it will pay
£27.8m in calendar year 2024. NERL's share of deficit

recovery contributions is c.77%.

Net debt, liquidity and cash flows

Borrowings

Cash and {including

cash lease
equivalents liabilities) Net debt
£m £m £m
Balance at 31 March 2023 57.7 (960.9) (903.2)
Cash flow 33.4 727 106.1
Non-cash movements (19.9) (19.9)
Balance at 31 March 2024 91.1 (908.1) | (817.0)

At 31 March 2024, the company’s net debt was £817.0m
(2023: £903.2m). It comprised £864.9m in bonds less
unamortised costs and fees, and £43.2m of lease

Strategic report : Financial review

liabilities recognised under IFRS 16. These were partly
offset by £91.1m of cash and cash equivalents.

Net debt reduced during the year with NERL recovering
£91.6m (2023: £6.4m) of the Covid income shortfall from
its charges. ,

At 27 June 2024 the company had available liquidity of
around £470m. Our cash flow forecasts show that the
company should be able to operate within the level of its
bank facilities and within its financial covenant for a
period of at least twelve months from the date of issue of
this report including under plausible stress scenarios,
where appropriate mitigating actions would also be
undertaken.

Alistair Borthwick

Chief Financial Officer

16

Strategic report

Going concern

The company's business activities, together with the factors
likely to affect its performance and financial position, its
cash flows, liquidity position and borrowings are set out in
this Strategic report. In addition, note 3 to the financial
statements describes critical judgements and key sources
of estimation uncertainties and note 20 the company’s
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital
and its financial risks and details its financial instruments
and hedging activities.

At 31 March 2024, the company had access to liquidity of
£491m comprising cash of £91.1m and undrawn committed
bank facilities of £400.0m. At 27 June 2024, the company
had access to cash and undrawn bank facilities of around
£470m.

When considering the appropriateness of the going concern
basis of preparation of the financial statements, the
directors have reviewed the cash flow forecasts prepared by
management covering a period to 30 June 2025, being at
least 12 months from the date of approval of these financial
statements. The directors have had regard to reasonably
plausible changes in trading performance as well as severe
traffic volume scenarios individually and in combination and

the principal risks discussed on pages 19 to 22.

The severe traffic volume scenarios modelled were: an
immediate 15% reduction in air traffic volumes for a 12-
month period, as a proxy for a traffic shock such as a major
geopolitical incident and subsequent recession, being the
most severe traffic scenario; a low case internal traffic
forecast of 5.9% fewer flights than the NR23 decision
assumed; an unplanned increase in operating costs and
unremunerated increases in defined benefit pension
contributions. Finally, a combination scenario was also
performed of lower air traffic volumes, higher operating
costs and higher pension contributions. Under the most
severe scenario the company maintains adequate liquidity
(of £291m) and headroom (gearing at 51%) to meet its debt
covenant (gearing at 85%), prior to mitigating actions (such
as other cost saving measures and deferring capital

investment).

17

Going concern and viability

The directors have also considered, through a reverse stress
test, the point at which liquidity would be utilised or the
financial covenant would be breached before both mitigating
action and regard to the financeability duties of the CAA and
Secretary of State for Transport. The reverse stress tests
considered, before mitigation, severe reductions in traffic
volumes to 50% of expected levels or significant unplanned
expenditure, which in this event would be broadly equivalent
to the annual staff cost. Taking all this into account, the
company's cash flow forecasts, reflecting reasonably
plausible downside scenarios, show that the company
should be able to operate within the level of its available
bank facilities and within its financial covenant for the
foreseeable future.

Accordingly, the directors have formed the judgement that,
taking into account the financial resources available, the
range of reasonably plausible future traffic volume scenarios
and potential mitigating actions that could be taken, together
with the duties of the CAA and Secretary of State for
Transport referred to in the Viability statement, the company
have adequate resources to continue to operate for a period
of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the
financial statements, and have therefore adopted the going
concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.

Viability statement

The directors have assessed the viability of the company
based on its current position and future prospects, its
business strategy and available financial resources. The
directors have also assessed the potential financial and
operational impacts in plausible downside scenarios of
the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business,
set out on pages 19 to 22, and the effectiveness of

currently available mitigating actions.

in particular, the directors assessed the solvency and
liquidity risks arising from a traffic shock alongside a
combination of other risk factors materialising, which the
Board considered represented a reasonable worst-case
scenario, as well as a reverse stress test. On the basis of
this assessment, the directors have a reasonable

expectation that the company will be able to continue in

Strategic report

operation and meet its liabilities falling due over the three-

year period to June 2027.

The Board considers that there is greater certainty around
forecasting assumptions over a three-year period than a
longer period, having regard to the NR23 price control
settlement which covers the period to 31 December 2027.

Specific consideration has been given to:

¢ The risk of a traffic shock: the consequences for the
company's en route income of a severe shock to air
traffic volumes and the reasonably possible mitigating
actions available to the company to manage its
financial resources;

e Defined benefit pensions: the requirement to agree a
new schedule of contributions following completion of
the trustee's formal valuation at 31 December 2023.
The directors consider that the company’s
contributions will be recovered through the NR23 price
control, and future price controls, including any
additional contributions required arising from
unforeseen changes in financial market conditions
during NR23. This is further supported by the CAA’s
issuance of a Pension Regulatory Policy Statement in
April 2021; and

e the term of the company’s bank facilities: the directors
have a reasonable expectation that the company will
meet the conditions of its banking covenant and be
able to raise funds in the bank or debt capital markets
as required, including refinancing bank facilities
expiring in May 2026.

Going concern and viability

18

Strategic report
Principal risks and uncertainties

Enterprise Risk Framework

The system for the identification, evaluation and
management of emerging and principal risks is
embedded within the company’s management, business
planning and reporting processes, accords with the Code,
and is aligned with the ISO 31000 risk management
standard. Detailed risk identification, assessment, and
control mapping is carried out at business unit,
departmental, and executive levels and is recorded and
measured in a structured and controlled enterprise-wide
database. NATS' risks are mapped against risk appetite
and tolerance statements which have been agreed by the
Board. Risk update reports are submitted to the NATS.
Executive team on a monthly basis which address
changes in risk, risk appetite and tolerance, internal
controls and the progress of actions associated with
NATS ' risks.

The Board takes the management of risk very seriously,
paying particular attention to key risk areas. Regular
reviews are also carried out by the Audit, Safety and
Transformation Review Committees in accordance with

their remits, as reported in later sections.

Taking into account the work of the Committees, the
Board formally reviews emerging and principal risks on a
six-monthly basis. Safety risks remain a priority for the
business and as such are considered at every Board
meeting in addition to the regular six-month review. In
addition, in light of events in the year, the Board has had
particular regard to risks impacting service resilience,
operational resourcing and relating to technology

enhancement.
Our Principal Risks

Our risk management framework has identified the key
risks that the Board believes are likely to have the most
significant potential impact on our business, financial
position, results and reputation based on the severity and

likelinood of risk exposure and has undertaken a robust

Principal risks and uncertainties

19

assessment of those that would threaten its business

model, future performance, solvency or liquidity.

The list below is not intended to be exhaustive and
reflects the Board's assessment as at the date of this
report. The risks outlined are the most important risks
facing the company in seeking to achieve its objectives.
The company focuses on mitigating these risks, although
many remain outside of our control - for example
changes in regulation, security threats, environmental
factors and the impact of longevity and financial markets
on pension funding.

These risks are reflected in and have been considered in

assessing viability and going concern on pages 17 to 18.

Safety: the risk of the business contributing to an aircraft
accident

This risk is related to a failure of the company’s ATM
controls that results in an accident in the air or on the
ground which would have significant impact on
customers or NERL. The reputational damage could
result in the loss of future contracts and a reduction in
revenue. The financial loss could also be significant. If
notice were given by the Secretary of State requiring
NERL to take action as a result of the accident and NERL
were unable or failed to comply then ultimately this could

result in revocation of NERL’s licence.

As a provider of a safety-critical service, safety is the
company’s highest priority. NERL targets compliance
with all targets set out in the regulatory price control. The
company maintains an explicit Safety Management
System, which includes investigations and reviews of
operational safety performance and individual incidents
to identify and respond to contributors to safety risk. The
effectiveness of the Safety Management System is
overseen by the Executive level NATS Safety Steering
Group and the Board level Safety Review Committee.

Strategy: general economy, geopolitical issues and
uncertainty of air travel demand

The demand for air travel can be sensitive to macro-

economic and geopolitical conditions. Factors including

Strategic report

Principal risks and uncertainties

conflict in the Middle East and Ukraine, the cost of living
crisis and public concern as to the sustainability of
aviation have led to greater uncertainty within demand

forecasting.

NERL’s regulatory allowances are recovered through
charges based on the CAA’s forecast of air traffic
volumes during a price control period. The regulatory
framework includes a traffic risk mechanism which
enables NERL to recover shortfalls of income through
future charges. A general duty on the CAA and Secretary
of State to ensure that NERL does not find it unduly ;
difficult to finance its licensed activities provides
mitigation against severe traffic shocks, as has been the
case with Covid, resulting in a redetermination of the
price control.

Strategy: regulatory settlement

NERL's ability to fulfil the safety, capacity, environmental
and cost efficiency targets and other obligations of its
licence requires a balanced price control settlement from
the CAA. Itis the CAA’s duty under the Transport Act
2000 to ensure that any price control determination will
not result in NERL finding it unduly difficult to finance its
licensed activities. However, the economic settlement
that is given effect by the price control decision could
impose challenging cost efficiency targets on NERL’s
operating costs and conditions to regulate its capital
expenditure.

The CAA issued the NR23 price control, which sets
charges from January 2023, in year. Despite including
operational service targets viewed as very challenging by
NERL, the overall determination was deemed to be
acceptable.

The NR23 decision also included a reconciliation of costs
and revenues for the period January 2020 to December
2022 for the purpose of setting NERL's revenue shortfall
in relation to the shortened RP3 control period. The
extended recovery period of 10 years had been

anticipated in the re-financing activity that completed in

20

March 2023 so raised no concerns in terms of NERL's
financeability.

In seeking to mitigate regulatory risks, the company
maintains engagement with the CAA at CEO and Board
level on a regular basis. NERL’s regulatory strategy is
overseen by a Board sub-committee established for this
purpose, and day to day oversight is provided by the CFO.

Strategy: sustainable aviation

NERL is committed to becoming carbon negative by
2040, and supporting our customers, partners, and
suppliers to achieve a net zero aviation industry by 2050.
Our climate targets have been independently validated by
the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) and awarded
‘Business Ambition’ status — the highest ambition
possible.

There are a range of potential physical. and transitional
impacts to the company from climate change, and these
are outlined, along with how we managed these risks in
our risk management system, within the Climate-related
Financial Disclosures section of the NATS Holdings
Annual Report and Accounts.

Operational: business continuity and resilience

A catastrophic event, many of which are outside of our
control such as adverse weather, another pandemic,
terrorist attack or conflict, has the potential to disrupt
ATC operations and our ability to resume a safe service
to an acceptable performance level within a pre-defined
period. A resilience plan, setting out NERL’s approach to
resilience and how we meet our service obligations to our
customers, is required to be submitted every two years to
the CAA by NERL’s licence. The framework underpinning
the disclosures in the resilience plan has been expanded

to cover all NERL operations.

Resilience is considered for people, operational technical
systems and facilities using NERL incident management
processes to assess timely and effective responses. The
NERL resilience programme assesses, documents and
tests resilience capability in order to mitigate the impact

of such disruptions to customers.

Strategic report

A major incident investigation was undertaken following
the technical failure on 28 August 2023. Our business
continuity and resilience processes have been amended
to reflect the recommendations of that review. The
further recommendations of the CAA’s independent panel
review are also being considered.

Operational: systems security

The threat of disruptive cyber-attacks (such as denial of
service) on critical infrastructure continues to remain
elevated given ongoing conflict in the Middle East and
Ukraine. A malicious cyber-attack could affect the
integrity, availability, confidentiality or resilience of NERL
operational ATC and business IT systems, adversely
impacting the provision of a safe and efficient ATC
service and resulting in additional regulatory scrutiny. A
cyber-attack on a non-operationally critical part of the
business could also be reputationally damaging and
result in extensive management effort. NERL seeks to
mitigate the risk through robust security controls,
including physical security, security vetting, identity and
access management and security patching, employee
training, security monitoring and incident

management. Effectiveness of security controls is
assured through ISO 27001 certification and regulatory
compliance. Close working relationships are maintained
between NATS and the UK's security services, including
the National Cyber Security Centre and the National
Protective Service Authority to monitor threats and

minimise the risk of a damaging cyber-attack.
Operational: air traffic controller resource availability

While we retained our skilled air traffic controllers during
Covid to support the recovery we were unable to train
new controllers due to the risk of spreading the virus
within our operation as well as training in a live
environment being unfeasible with such low flight
volumes. Training recommenced when pandemic
restrictions lifted in 2022. While we have sufficient
resources today to meet our regulatory commitments,

there is a risk that during NR23 we may not have

21

Principal risks and uncertainties

adequate resource to meet all of our operational and
training needs, as the pipeline of newly trained controllers
and less certain rates of staff retirements work through
the system. The Operations Leadership Team and
portfolio governance continue to focus on these risks
ensuring we can respond to changing demand, including
implementing actions to make our training programme
more efficient so that new controllers can validate more
quickly. A new resource agreement has also been
reached with the trades unions to increase resilience
through additional air traffic controller attendances over
the critical summer period.

Operational: employee relations

Employee relations if not managed sensitively could have
a significant impact on our service performance,
including from industrial action. Therefore, every effort is
made to continue to build and sustain good employee
relations, including joint working groups with union

representatives as part of an employee relations project.

Regular dialogue takes place with trades unions on a
range of challenging issues including air traffic controller
supply, the impact of high inflation and the cost of living
crisis on our employees and employee pay. We strive for
constructive relationships with our trades unions, and
these relationships enabled us to agree three year pay
deals for grades negotiated by PCS and Prospect which
run to December 2025. We remain committed to the
partnership approach, and to engaging and consulting in
a constructive and positive manner recognising the
contribution our employees make and the wider

challenges facing the aviation sector. -
Transformation: portfolio delivery

The complex deployment of new technology and
retirement of legacy systems could affect our ability to
maintain service levels during transition and require
additional costs to sustain legacy systems and support
deployment during this period. NERL targets to deliver
the change portfolio within the constraints of the
business plan agreed with the CAA. If we are found to

Strategic report

Principal risks and uncertainties

have been demonstrably inefficient or wasteful in
expenditure on capital assets, the CAA may reduce
recovery of such expenditure under the regulatory regime.
We maintain programme governance and risk
management processes overseen by the Executive, the
Transformation Review Committee and the Board. We
have adopted industry best practice, by using a Portfolio,
+ Programme and Project approach.

Our capital programme developed following extensive
customer consultation is reflected in our NR23 business

plan.
Financial: defined benefit pension scheme

Adverse movements in the value of scheme assets and
liabilities arising from factors such as lower investment
returns, lower real interest rates and improving life
expectancy may increase the size of the funding deficit
and result in significant contributions to fund pension
benefits. The Trustees completed a formal valuation as
at 31 December 2020, which reported a NATS group
funding deficit of £172m reflecting market conditions at
that date. Trustees are currently undertaking their next
formal valuation based on the position as at 31
December 2023.

The scheme was closed to new entrants in 2009,
pensionable pay rises are negotiated with our trades
unions on the basis of affordability and are also capped
through an agreement, and future service benefits are
linked to the Consumer Prices Index. NATS regularly
reviews the scheme’s funding position and is consulted
by Trustees on the design of risk reduction strategies.
Also, subject to regulatory review, NERL is able to recover
increases in contributions from changes in unforeseen

financial market conditions.

The directors monitor the funding position of the scheme.
The company’s financing arrangements and cash
reserves, its projected operating cash flows and
mechanisms within the established economic regulatory
"framework for recovery of such costs enable the:

company to meet the contributions required.

22

Financial: availability of funding and other risks

The main financial risk to the company retates to the
availability of funds to meet business needs (including
meeting obligations to the pension scheme), the risk of
default by counterparties to financial transactions, and
fluctuations in interest and foreign exchange rates. A
detailed description of each of these risks and specific
mitigations are set out in note 20 to the financial
statements.

Strategic report

Our stakeholders
AIRSPACE USERS,
AIRPORTS AND
OTHER CUSTOMERS

EMPLOYEES.

Why are they important to us?

Engaging with our stakeholders

How we engage and have regard to their views in our decisions?

Asafe ATC service is essential for airspace
users and airports to which we provide our
services and expertise, and for the travelling
public. Their requirements are key drivers of our
business plan, defining both the demand for the
ATC network and the infrastructure that enables
access to airspace and integration of users. It
also determines our staffing and capital
investment. We operate a joint and integrated
civil military operation with the MOD.

Our ATC service and infrastructure depends on
the skill and professionalism of our employees.
They make a critical difference to our success,
and our investment in them protects and
strengthens our safety and business culture.
Most of our employees are members of trades
unions.

We consult airspace users, airports and the public on their priorities and our plans for our
regulated activities for each price control period, most recently NR23. We reflect on their
feedback and update our plans accordingly before review by the CAA. We engage biannually
with airspace users on our service performance, our charges, cost efficiency and our capital
investment plans. We have discussed preparations for summer 2024 across Europe with
Eurocontrol (the network manager), airlines and airports and other key stakeholders and
hold discussions with the industry ahead of weather events. We are consulting the industry
‘on our initial proposals for NATS Opendir, a new air traffic management service enabling an
integrated airspace for both existing and new types of airspace users.

The executive and senior teaders have an open dialogue with trades unions and receive
feedback on pay and benefits, a safe and healthy working environment, flexible working,
talent development and career opportunities, and a diverse and inclusive culture. The CEO
and executive communicate regularly to employees via our intranet and to senior leaders in
regular virtual meetings. The Board receives a monthly report from the CEO which includes
employee relations, diversity and inclusion and other employee matters. The Board
collectively seeks opportunities to engage with groups of employees during the year. We
operate a Just Safety culture, enabling employees to raise safety matters, and we seek
feedback on a safety culture survey. We also survey employee wellbeing and maintain a
whistleblowing facility. We conduct employee opinion surveys to understand how
colleagues fee! and where we can improve. The March 2023 b-Heard survey is a baseline
for our strategic objective to be a top 25 company to work for by 2040. Further details on
the Board's regard to employees in its decision-making is provided below.

COMMUNITIES AND

REGULATORS: Our regulators ensure we provide our service As economic regulator, the CAA consulted stakeholders on our plan for NR23 ahead of
and develop our infrastructure in accordance determining the charges, safety, service performance and capital investment targets and
with our ATC licence and international safety incentives. We engaged with them and provided feedback on the balance of service targets
standards. Ensuring we fulfil our licence and incentives, risk mechanisms and financial resources. The CAA appointed an
obligations and develop the business for the independent panel to review the technical issue we faced in August 2023. We shared the
long-term ensures the success of the company results of our internal investigation into the incident and the Executive and Board supported
for all our stakeholders. the panel's review. The CAA’s safety regulator oversees the safety integrity of our training,

operational processes and technical systems and we receive recommendations on
improvements, which we implement to ensure safety standards are met. The CAA approves
changes to airspace design over the UK by reference to legal requirements including safety,
environment and user need.

GOVERNMENT The government sets UK Aviation Strategy The CEO maintains a regular dialogue with the Department for Transport. The government
which provides a long-term vision for the engages on aviation policy that affects NATS, including preparations for summer 2024.
industry and a framework for future ATC.
provision.

SHAREHOLDERS Our shareholders provide equity investment The Board Chair, CEO and CFO met informally with shareholders and discussed the Board's

which finances our activities and enables us to
invest in our ATC service and infrastructure, for
which they expect a return. An employee share
trust owns 5% of the company which enables
employees to share in the company’s long-term
success.

Local communities around airports expect the

strategy review and alignment with shareholder interest and the NR23 price control. The
Strategic Partnership Agreement enables shareholders to appoint representatives to the
Board. Shareholders wish to see remuneration policies which drive executive management
to deliver strong sustainable performance aligned with the interests of key stakeholders.

We follow the CAA’s guidance on public consultation on airspace use, aircraft movements

ENVIRONMENT aviation sector to pay attention to aircraft noise, | and environmentat impacts. We work with communities affected by flights below 7,000ft at
fuel and CO2 emissions and local air quality. Our | an early stage of any airspace change, to ensure they have a voice in airspace design.

ATC service can help mitigate some Changes mean some communities may be subject to more overflights than previously,
environmental impacts. Society expects while others are no longer overflown. Following consultation, we appraise design options
improvements in sustainability, and we are before making our recommendation to the CAA.

committed to net zero greenhouse gas

emissions from our estate by 2035, being

carbon negative by 2040 and being an enabler to

aviation's target of net zero by 2050. We are a

significant employer where our UK operations

are based.

LENDERS Lenders provide debt finance that we repay over | We meet lenders at least annually to discuss our performance, business plan and capital
time and compensate by way of a commercial investment. Lenders wish to understand the company’s financial strength over the long-
return. Access to debt finance is necessary to term, the principal risks it faces and ESG matters. The importance of these relationships
fund our business activities efficiently. was demonstrated by NERL’s June 2021 refinancing which secured funding of £1.6bn and

the further £145m bond issued in March 2023.
SUPPLIERS Our suppliers provide goods and services to Our supply chain management approach involves regular and ongoing engagement with

maintain and develop our operation. Working
closely with them minimises risk and combines
our expertise to develop innovative ATC

solutions. We engage with them on ESG
matters.

suppliers for procurement, risk management and performance measurement. We complete
due diligence using industry JOSCAR methodology. We tailor engagement to critical
suppliers and undertake Executive reviews, conferences and joint workshops. Our approach
is an open and constructive relationship based on fair terms, good performance and high
standards of conduct. We are IS044001 accredited and hold CIPS Platinum standard of

assurance.

23

Strategic report $172 statement

Having regard to our stakeholders in Board decision-making

Section 172 (1) statement

The directors act in a way that they consider, in good faith, to be most likely to promote the success of the company
for the benefit of its members as a whole. In doing so the directors have regard, to the long-term success of the
business, the way we work with a large number of important stakeholders, and the importance of maintaining high
standards of business conduct. The directors also have regard to the impact of the company’s operations on the
community and the environment.

The Board takes account of the views and interests of a wide range of stakeholders, when making its decisions, and
balances different stakeholder perspectives (see Engaging with our stakeholders). Inevitably it is not always possible
to achieve outcomes which meet the desires of all stakeholders.

How our Board and its committees operate, and the way decisions are reached, including the matters discussed during
the year, are set out in the Governance section on pages 26 to 28.

Set out below are explanations of how the directors have had regard to section 172(1) in respect of employee matters

and in reaching their key decisions in the year.

the Board's regard to erployess in ils decision-inaking

| NERL has 3,378 employees and 127 contract staff. It is fundamentally a people-based organisation which relies on highly

trained professionals to deliver a safe, resilient service to customers and the public day to day. The Board's Safety
committee oversees occupational health and employee wellbeing, in addition to the safe provision of air traffic services and

| security, enabling the Board to engage with, and have regard to, employee matters.

Engaging with employees: the Board received reports from the Executive on the actions being taken to address the three b-

| Heard survey topics employees felt most strongly about: opportunities for personal growth, strength of leadership and

support for local communities. The survey is the baseline for our strategic objective to be a Top 25 UK company to work for

'|by 2040. The CEO, CFO and Director of Operations engaged directly with employee representatives at the annual trades
‘|union conference. Through the year, the CEO, CFO and wider Executive team also engaged with employees on the group's

strategy, the NR23 price control decision, the August 2023 technical incident and other business developments.

.| ATCO resourcing: the Board continued to assess progress with training the next generation of air traffic controllers, given

the importance of these skills for operational resilience as air traffic volumes grow and for enabling airspace
modernisation and the technical transformation of our infrastructure. The Board recognised the increased recruitment

| required to balance supply and demand between newly trained controllers and those expected to be retiring during

NR23 and the actions to maximise training success rates.:

Health and wellbeing: the Board maintained its focus on the safety and wellbeing of all colleagues, including employee
mental health. This included mandatory training to provide a safe working environment, access to an employee assistance
programme, peer support and wellbeing-related benefits. The safety survey included questions on wider health and safety
considerations.

Diversity and Inclusion (D&I): D&l continued to be a Board focus with progress made in the year explained in the Chief
Executive's review. In particular the Board is targeting diversity in recruitment. The Board also reviewed the Pay Gap reports
published in April 2023 and April 2024 and noted some improvement which reflects the focus on gender and ethnic diversity
in our recruitment processes and early careers campaign. as well as the disability pay gap included in the 2024 report.

24

Strategic report $172 statement

'| The Board's regard to wider stakeholders in its decision-making

The summaries below show how, over the course of the financial year, the Board's key decisions had regard to the long-term
success ot the company and to $172 (1). More detailed explanations are provided elsewhere in this report.

August technical incident (see page 4): this was a matter of significant focus for the Board, which considered service
‘resilience, technical resilience and safety pertormance, the service impacts on airline and airport customers and passengers.
|| communications with the Department for Transport and the CAA and the responses from stakeholders. The Board's

i| Transformation Review Committee assessed the cause of the technical incident and the remedial actions taken. The TRG
and Safety Review Committee assured themselves that the overriding priority had been to maintain safety. The TRC oversaw
NATS Major Incident Report and its recommended improvements. The Executive and NERL’s Board supported the CAA's
independent panel investigation, meeting with the panel to enable questions to be asked directly of NERL. The panel also met
separately with Paul Golby (NATS Chair) and Greg Bagwell (Safety Review Committee Chair and member of the
Transformation Review Committee). The Board studied the independent panel's Interim report.

NR23 price control (see page 4): a Board sub-committee comprising Paul Golby, Martin Rolfe, Alistair Borthwick, Harry Bush,
Mike Campbell and David Smith met regularly during the financial year to oversee the CAA's pranasals for NR23 and the
balance of safety, service performance and investment priorities that benefit airspace users and the flying public. and returns
i|to shareholders. The Board assessed the CAA’s final decision and were very concerned with residual challenging service

| targets and the level of investment returns proposed. However, overall, the Board accepted the balance of operational and

| financial resources having regard to the interests of members, employees, airspace users, passengers and wider society,

‘| Strategy teview (see page 3) and annual business plan alignment: the Board held a strategy workshop which reviewed the

|| progress to embed the tour strategic objectives into business plans and, in March 2024, it approved the group's budget for
‘2U25 and the three-year business plan, aligned to the strategy. Significant attention in the year was given to post- -Covid

challenges to technical engineering capacity, to be mitigated by greater contracted resources, and the alignment of capital
; investment priorities with available engineering capacity.

Traffic forecast (see page 8): the Board reviewed and approved NATS' internal long term forecast to 2040 for business

| planning. It reflects the macro-economic outlook and the DfT's Jet Zero sustainability strategy policies. The Board's
understanding of the volume of air traffic in future is relevant to its assessment of the balance between, and allocation of
resources to maintaining safety performance, service performance and resilience, ATCO resourcing and training plans and
infrastructure investment, which determine future airspace capacity for airspace users. The Board was also concerned with

'|the impact on shareholder returns during NR23 from the projected loss of income from volumes below those assumed by

the price control.

The Strategic report was approved by the Board of directors on 27 June 2024 and signed by order of the Board by:

(2 C-ced

Richard Churchill Coleman, Secretary

25


Governance report

Governance framework

Governance framework

Introduction

NERL was formed as part of the NATS group's Public
Private Partnership in December 2000. A key element of
the NATS group’s governance structure is the Strategic
Partnership Agreement (SPA) between its main
shareholders: the Secretary of State for Transport; The
Airline Group Limited (AG); and LHR Airports Limited
(LHRA).

The SPA sets out the relative responsibilities of the
signatories and, in particular, requires the group and the
directors to adhere to the UK Corporate Governance
Code so far as reasonably practicable and save to the
extent inconsistent with the other provisions of the SPA.

The Board and Directors

Ultimate responsibility for the governance of NERL rests
with the Board of NATS Holdings, which provides
strategic direction and leadership and is responsible for
ensuring that the NATS group is run safely, efficiently,
effectively and legally, with appropriate internal controls
to safeguard the shareholders’ investment and group
assets, ensuring it delivers value to shareholders and
fulfils its wider role as a provider of critical national
infrastructure.

NERL’s Board plays an important leadership role in
promoting the desired culture of the organisation.
Through governance activities in the year it monitored

and input to key aspects of culture including:

¢ the highest governance and ethical standards
reflecting the aspirations of the PPP;

¢ aprominent safety culture through ‘Just Culture’
reflecting the company’s purpose of advancing
aviation and keeping the skies safe;

* consultation with customers on service performance,
capital investment and plans for NR23;

¢ acost efficient, service oriented and commercially
smart organisation, requiring best in class

performance of its employees and partners; and

26

e diversity and inclusion and fair treatment of its

employees, valuing the contributions of all employees.
As at the date of approval of the accounts, the NERL -
Board comprised a non-executive Chair and 11 directors,
as follows:

Executive Directors

¢ Chief Executive Officer (CEO); and
¢ Chief Financial Officer (CFO).

Non-Executive Directors

e aChair, appointed by AG, subject to the prior approval
of the Crown Shareholder;

five directors appointed by AG;

three Partnership directors, appointed by the Crown
Shareholder; and

one director appointed by LHRA.

Changes to the Directors

From 1 April 2023 to the date of approval of the accounts,
there were the following changes to directors: Kathryn
Leahy resigned on 4 June 2023 and was replaced by
Ross Baker on 30 November 2023.

Access to legal and professional advice

All directors have access to the advice and services of
the General Counsel, Richard Churchill-Coleman, who
acts as Secretary to the Board. If necessary, in
furtherance of their duties, directors may take
independent professional advice at the company's
expense.

Board meetings

The NATS group has nested board meetings with NERL
Board meetings taking place as part of the NATS
Holdings meetings. The NERL Board routinely meets
seven times per year in January, March, May, June, July,
September and November, and supplements these
scheduled meetings with additional meetings as
business priorities require. This year, the Board met nine
times.

The non-executive directors meet with the Chair, but
without the executive directors present, after each Board

meeting. Reports and papers are circulated to Board

Governance report

Governance framework

members in a timely manner in preparation for meetings,
and this information is supplemented by any information
specifically requested by directors from time to time. The
directors also receive monthly management reports and
information to enable them to review the company's

performance.

The company’s performance is also reviewed monthly by
the executive team. This includes reviewing performance

against operational targets and financial targets.

Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance
Code

NERL is committed to maintaining the highest standards
of corporate governance. The SPA requires the company
and the directors to adhere to the UK Corporate
Governance Code so far as reasonably practicable and
save to the extent inconsistent with the other provisions
of the SPA. The company has applied the principles of
the Corporate Governance Code 2018 since 1 April 2020,
to the extent considered appropriate by the Board. A
number of the principles and provisions in the Code are
not relevant to the partnership nature of NATS' ownership
and the principal areas where the company did not
comply are summarised below.

Provision 9: Independence of the Chair

The Chair is nominated by AG, his appointment being
subsequently approved by the Secretary of State for
Transport. He therefore does not fully meet the
independence criteria as set out in the Code and this
affects NERL’s compliance with a number of the Code’s

provisions.

Provisions 11 and 12: Independence of Directors and
appointment of Senior Independent Director

The arrangements for appointing non-executive directors,
as set out in the SPA, are such that none of the directors
meet the Code’s criteria for independence. This affects
NERL’s ability to comply with a number of the Code’s
provisions, including the requirement to appoint a senior
independent director. However, the Chair of The Airline

Group acts as Senior Non-independent Director in the
absence of the Chair.

Provision 19: Chair nine-year period

The Chair has served the Board of NATS Holdings
Limited for 10 years. His contract was extended in 2023
for a further year, to provide continuity ahead of the CAA
final decision on NR23, and will expire on 31 August
2024. Warren East has been appointed as his successor
and will start on 1 September 2024.

The Chair's period of service to the NERL Board is eight
years.

Provision 39: Notice or contract periods for non-executive
directors

The AG nominee directors and Partnership directors do

“not have service contracts with NERL. The Partnership

directors are typically engaged on three-year fixed-term
contracts and have letters of appointment from the DfT.
Currently David Smith and Greg Bagwell have letters of
appointment to 30 September 2025 and Maria Antoniou
to 31 May 2025. The Chair has a service contract with
NATS Holdings, details of which are set out in the
Remuneration Committee report of NATS Holdings’
Annual Report and Accounts.

Provision 18: Re-election of directors

The non-executive directors are appointed by the
shareholding groups and are therefore subject to the
relevant shareholding groups’ selection processes, rather
than those included in the provisions of the Code. They
are therefore not subject to annual re-election as
stipulated by Provision 18, although Partnership directors
are appointed by the Government on three-year fixed-

term contracts.

Governance report

Governance framework

The tenure of non-executive directors at 31 March 2024

was as follows:

Years of service to

Date of
appointment

Name

31 March 2024

Paul Golby 1/4/16 8 years

Maria Antoniou

1/8/16

7 years 8 months

Greg Bagwell 4/10/22 1 year 6 months

Ross Baker

30/11/23 4months

Harry Bush 4/16 8 years

Mike Campbell 26/5/17 6 years 10 months

Gavin Merchant W416

8 years

Bart Prudon 30/3/23 1 year -

David Smith 1/10/22 year 6 months

Louise Street 29/11/18 S years 4 months

The company is mindful of the Code principle that the
Board and its committees should have a combination of
skills, experience and knowledge, with consideration of
the length of service of the Board as a whole and its
membership and of the provision relating to the nine-year
tenure of the Chair to the Board of NATS Holdings
Limited.

Provision 3: Engagement with major shareholders

Within the PPP structure NERL is a wholly owned
subsidiary of NATS Limited which is in turn a wholly
owned subsidiary of NHL. There are no institutional or
public shareholders. However, the nature of the SPA is
such that the shareholders have representatives amongst
the directors with whom they enjoy a close working
relationship. All non-executive directors are invited to
relay the views of their respective shareholders into
Board discussions. The Board is therefore able to take
decisions in the best interests of the company and wider
NATS group, having taken account of the views of the
shareholders. The Chair also has regular discussions

with shareholders in addition to formal meetings.

28

Provision 24: Establishment of an Audit Committee

Matters pertaining to the integrity of the company’s
financial statements, its financial performance and
significant judgements contained in them are routinely
considered by the NATS Holdings Limited Audit
Committee, the parent company of the NATS group of
companies. The NATS Holdings Audit Committee also
considers the internal financial controls and internal
control and risk management systems in place across
the group, and matters relating to the external audit of the
company. For these reasons the company does not have
a separate Audit Committee.

Governance report

Report of the directors

The directors present their annual report on the affairs of
the company, together with the financial statements and
the auditor's report for the year ended 31 March 2024.

The Governance report is set out on pages 26 to 28 and
forms part of this report. A review of the company's key
business developments in the year and an indication of
likely future developments is included within the Strategic

report.

Information about the use of financial instruments by the

company is given in note 20 to the financial statements.
Dividends

The company has paid no dividends in the year (2023:
nil). The Board recommends a final dividend for the year
of nil (2023: nil).

Directors and their interests

The directors of the company at the date of this report,
and details of changes made to the Board during the year

and to the date of this report are set out below:
Maria Antoniou

Greg Bagwell

Ross Baker (appointed 30 November 2023)
Alistair Borthwick

Dr Harry Bush CB

Michael Campbell

Dr Paul Golby CBE

Kathryn Leahy (resigned 4 June 2023)
Gavin Merchant

Bart Prudon

Martin Rolfe

David Smith

Louise Street

None of the directors have any interests in the share
capital of the company. Interests of the directors in the
ordinary shares of the company's parent undertaking
NATS Holdings Limited are explained in those accounts.

29

Report of the directors
None of the directors have, or have had, a material
interest in any contract of significance in relation to the
company’s business.
Directors’ indemnities
The company has made qualifying third party indemnity
provisions for the benefit of its directors which were
made during the year and remain in force at the date of
this report.

Employees

Contracts of employment with employees are held by the
company’s parent company, NATS Limited.

Employee engagement

The directors are committed to the involvement of
employees in the decision-making process through
effective leadership at all.levels in the organisation,
including engagement with the Board through a
designated non-executive director. Employees are
frequently involved through direct discussions with their
managers, cross company working groups and local
committees. Regular employee consultations cover a
range of topics affecting them, including such matters as
corporate performance and business plans. The
directors encourage the involvement of employees in the
company’s performance through the All-Employee Share
Ownership Plan.

The directors have regard to the safety, health and well-
being of employees (and contract staff). The NATS CEO
maintains high visibility with employees through visits to
NATS sites, or through virtual engagements where more
appropriate, where he talks to them about current
business issues and takes questions in an open and
straightforward manner. The NATS CEO hosts a quarterly
executive open session for the whole organisation and a
separate quarterly update for the wider management
team. The CEO also hosts a monthly call with his senior
leadership team. His weekly written update on the
company's intranet has a 75% readership. Such actions
enable employees to achieve a common awareness of
those factors affecting the performance of the company.

An employee engagement survey was conducted in

Governance report

Report of the directors

March 2023 and its feedback is shaping improvement
plans. Also, employees’ views are represented through
an open dialogue with Prospect and the Public and
Commercial Services Union (PCS), the recognised unions
. onall matters affecting employees. Formal
arrangements for consultation with employees exist
through a local and company-wide framework agreed
with the Trades Unions.
The company’s pay policy is explained inthe
Remuneration Committee report of NATS Holdings’
Annual Report and Accounts.

The company is an equal opportunities employer. Its
policy is designed to ensure that no applicant or
employee receives less favourable treatment than any
other on the grounds of sex, age, disability, marital status,
colour, race, ethnic origin, religious belief or sexual
orientation, nor is disadvantaged by conditions or
requirements applied to any post which cannot be shown
to be fair and reasonable under relevant employment law
or codes of practice.

The company is also committed to improving
employment opportunities for disabled people. The
company will continue to promote policies and practices
which provide suitable training and retraining and
development opportunities for disabled employees,
including any individuals who become disabled, bearing
in mind their particular aptitudes and abilities and the
need to maintain a safe working environment.

The company strives to maintain the health, safety and
wellbeing of employees through an appropriate culture,
well-defined processes and regular monitoring. Line
managers are accountable for ensuring health and safety
is maintained and responsibility for ensuring compliance
with both legal requirements and company policy rests
with the Safety and Sustainability Director.

Business relationships

We explain on pages 23 to 25 how the directors have had
regard to the need to foster the company's business

relationships with suppliers, customers and other

stakeholders, and the effect of that regard, including on

principal decisions taken during the financial year.
Going concern and viability statements

The directors’ assessment of going concern and their
viability statement are set out on pages 17 to 18.
Directors’ responsibilities

The directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic
report and financial statements in accordance with
applicable laws and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial
statements for each financial year. Under that law the
directors have elected to prepare the financial statements
in accordance with UK adopted international accounting
standards in conformity with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006. Under company law the directors
must not approve the financial statements unless they
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the
state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of;
the company for that period. In preparing these financial
statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires
that directors:

© properly select and apply accounting policies in
accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in
Accounting Estimates and Errors;

¢ present information, including accounting policies, in a
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable

and understandable information;

e provide additional disclosures when compliance with
the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to
enable users to understand the impact of particular
transactions, other events and conditions on the
entity's financial position and financial performance;

and

« make an assessment of the company’s ability to

continue as a going concern.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate
accounting records that are sufficient to show and
explain the company’s transactions and disclose with

reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of

30

Governance report

Report of the directors

the company and enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the

prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Each person who is a director at the date of approval of

these financial statements confirms that:

eso far as the director is aware, there is no relevant
audit information of which the company’s auditors are
unaware; and

the director has taken all the steps that he/she ought
to have taken as director in order to make
himself/herself aware of any relevant audit
information and to establish that the company’s

auditors are aware of that information.

This information is given and should be interpreted in
accordance with the provisions of $418 of the Companies
Act 2006.

Financial statements are published on the company’s
website in accordance with legislation in the United
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of
financial statements, which may vary from legislation in
other jurisdictions. The maintenance and integrity of the
company's website is the responsibility of the directors.

We confirm that to the best of our knowledge:

e the financial statements, prepared in accordance with
UK adopted International Accounting Standards, give
a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial
position and profit of the company;

the Strategic report includes a fair review of the
development and performance of the business and

the position of the company, together with a

description of the principal risks and uncertainties that
it faces; and
¢ the financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair,
balanced and understandable and provide the .
information necessary for shareholders to assess the
company’s position and performance, business model

and strategy.
Auditor

Following the mandatory re-tender of the audit explained

31

in the annual report of NATS Holdings Limited, the Board
has resolved to appoint EY as statutory auditor for the
financial year ending 31 March 2025.

Approved by the Board of directors and signed by order
of the Board by:

Richard Churchill-Coleman
Secretary

27 June 2024

(0 Cet

Registered office
4000 Parkway, Whiteley, Fareham, Hampshire, PO15 7FL
Registered in England and Wales

Company No. 04129273

Opinion on the
financial
statements

Separate
opinion in
relation to IFRSs
as issued by the
IASB

Basis for
opinion

Conclusions
relating to going
concern

Independent auditor's report to the members of NATS (En Route) ple

In our opinion the financial statements:
+ give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at 31 March 2024 and of the profit for the
year then ended;
+ have been properly prepared in accordance with UK adopted international accounting standards; and -
. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements of NATS (En Route) plc for the year ended 31 March 2024 which comprise
the income statement, the Statement of comprehensive income, the Balance sheet, the Statement of changes in
equity, the Cash flow statement and notes to the financial statements, including material accounting policy
information. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and UK
adopted international accounting standards.

As explained in note 2 to the financial statements, the Company in addition to complying with its legal obligation to
apply UK adopted international accounting standards, has also applied IFRSs as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board (IASB).

In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company as at 31
March 2024 and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with IFRSs as
issued by the IASB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit
committee.

Independence

Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the Directors at the Annual General
Meeting on 31 July 2014 to audit the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2015 and subsequent financial
periods. The period of total uninterrupted engagement including retenders and reappointments is 10 years, covering
the years ended 31 March 2015 to 31 March 2024. We remain independent of the Company in accordance with the
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical
Standard as applied to public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance
with these requirements. The non-audit services prohibited by that standard were not provided to the Company.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate. Our evaluation of the Directors’ assessment
of the Company's ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting included:

« — Reviewing the Directors’ going concern assessment, forecasts and covenant compliance for the Company for
a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements. This included checking
that the forecasts were consistent with the latest Board approved budgets.

¢ — Detailed enquiries and challenge.of the Board and management on reasonableness of the assumptions made
in the preparation of these forecasts. This included making comparisons to actual results achieved in the year.

e — Reviewing the Directors’ reverse stress testing on forecasts and consideration of the downside scenarios that
would result in a breach of the net debt to Regulatory Asset Base (“RAB”) covenant. We considered the
Directors’ assessment of the likelihood of such circumstances arising in determining their conclusion related
to going concern.

« Assessing the accuracy of the Directors’ financial model by testing the mechanical integrity of forecasts,
assessing the historical forecasting accuracy and future air traffic assumptions by comparing these to third
party forecasts from June 2024 through to at least June 2025.

* — Reviewing the terms of the Company's facility agreements and other key documents for significant matters
that could impact the going concern assessment.

* — Considering the adequacy of the disclosures in the financial statements against the requirements of the
accounting standards and consistency of the disclosure against the forecasts and reverse stress test
assessment.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Company's ability to continue as a going
concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

In relation to the Company's voluntary reporting on how it has applied the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have
nothing material to add or draw attention to in relation to the Directors’ statement in the financial statements about
whether the Directors considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

32

Independent auditor's report to the members of NATS (En Route) plc

Overview |

Key audit
matters

2023
Yes

cognition of licence fee revenue and amounts recoverable under
egulatory agreement

impairment of assets in the course of construction Yes
faluation of pension scheme liabilities Yes
aluation of certain pension scheme assets Yes

In respect of the recognition of licence fee revenue and amounts recoverable under regulatory agreement, following
the CAA publishing their final determination of the licence fee in November 2023 the level of estimation and
judgement in this area has reduced. Accordingly, this is no longer considered a key audit matter.

Company financial statements as a whole

£12.6m based on 4.6% of adjusted profit before tax (2023: £5.4m based on 0.9% of operating costs). Profit before
tax was adjusted for the COVID income shortfall of £123.3m which is a one off item.

HPATroverview.ot,the scope of, OUr, 6 UCit ammeseteiaetn ae EE mE AMM yt Ts Tee

Materiality

Our audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Company and its environment, including the Company's system of internal
control, and assessing the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements. We also addressed the risk of management
override of internal controls, including assessing whether there was evidence of bias by the Directors that may have represented a risk
of material misstatement.

There has been no significant change in the Company's operations and therefore the assessed risks of material misstatement described
above, which are those that had the greatest effect on the audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit and directing the efforts
of the audit team, are the same risks as in the prior year with the exception of the Recognition of licence fee revenue and amounts
recoverable under regulatory agreement which is no longer deemed a key audit maiter.

(mgr eae ee

Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements
of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we
identified, including those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit, and directing
the efforts of the engagement team. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole,
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.

Impairment of assets in the course of The Company invests Our procedures included:
construction significant sums in the * Reviewing management's assessment of any
sustainment and development indicators of impairment for a sample of current
The carrying value of assets in the of air traffic control , capital projects carried forward as either tangible or
course of construction within other infrastructure. A substantial intangible fixed assets and checking the
intangible assets is £380.9m (2023: proportion of the costs appropriateness of their conclusions through
£418.0m) and within property, plant incurred are the amounts discussions with project managers, outside of the
and equipment is £145.9m (2023: charged by staff employed by finance team, to gain an understanding of the capital
£178.8m). The accounting policy for the Company that re . projects.
these is included in note 2. capitalised to specific projects. Testing a sample of capitalised projects that included
verifying the appropriateness of the labour rates being
Notes 13 and 14 set out details of Management makes used and the amount of labour time being capitalised
amounts invested. judgements around the useful per project to supporting payroll information.
economic lives of currently In considering the feasibility of individual projects we
held discussions with the project managers and
reviewed the performance to date against the
expected performance.
Testing the operating effectiveness of the control
relating to the review and documentation which takes
place on a project-by-project basis.
Due to the two judgements Reviewing the related disclosures within the financial
noted above, the carrying value statements and checking that they complied with the
of assets in the course of requirements of the accounting standards.
construction and the related
disclosures were considered
an area of focus for our audit.

deployed systems, in
assessing indicators of
impairment and considering
the feasibility of individual
projects.

Key observations

We consider that the impairment of assets under the
course of construction is appropriately treated and the
related disclosures to be acceptabte.


Key audit matter

Valuation of pension scheme liabilities

As disclosed in note 28, the Company
has recorded a gross defined benefit

obligation of £2,524.0m (2023:

£2,616.8m) in the valuation of the net
defined benefit pension asset recorded

on the balance sheet.

Note 28 also includes details of the

Company's assessment of the

sensitivity of the present value of the

scheme obligation to changes in
actuarial assumptions.

Independent auditor's report to the members of NATS (En Route) ple

The quantum of the
Company's plan liabilities
recorded in the net defined
benefit asset on the
Company's balance sheet is
significant and the valuation is
subjective.

The determination of the gross
defined benefit obligation is
subject toa significant level of
estimation uncertainty, based
on the use of actuarial
assumptions. When making
these assumptions, the
Directors take independent
actuarial advice relating to their
appropriateness.

As a result of the above the
valuation of pension scheme
liabilities and the related
disclosures were considered
an area of focus for our audit.

34

How the scope of our audit addressed the key audit
matter

Our procedures included:

¢ With the assistance of our actuarial experts,
challenging the appropriateness of the actuarial
assumptions used by the Company in calculating the
gross defined benefit pension obligation. This
included benchmarking certain assumptions such as
the discount rate, RP] and CPI against those used for
similar schemes and considering whether each of
these assumptions sit within an acceptable range of
Possible outcomes.
Assessing the competence and objectivity of
management's expert.
Agreeing member number information to source data
to check the accuracy thereof.
Agreeing that the allocation to the Company of its
share of the Group's plan liabilities is reasonable by
reference to membership data provided by the
scheme Trustees and management's expert.
Assessing the adequacy of the disclosures within
Note 28 to the financial statements to check these are
in line with the applicable accounting standards.

Key observations

As a result of performing the procedures above, we found
that valuation of the gross defined benefit pension
scheme obligations and the related disclosures to be
appropriate.

Key audit matter

Valuation of certain pension scheme
assets

As disclosed in note 28, the Company
had £2,534.1m (2023: £2,660.7m) of
plan assets that are included in the
valuation of the net defined benefit
asset recorded on the balance sheet.

Those assets include investments in
hedge funds and private equity funds
which make up £277.0m (2023:
£272.1m) of plan assets.

Independent auditor's report to the members of NATS (En Route) pic

The quantum of the
Company's ptan assets
recorded in the net defined
benefit asset on the
Company's balance sheet is
significant in the context of the
financial statements.

Some of the asset valuations,
which are determined with the
assistance of the investment
fund managers, are highly
subjective.

Asa result of the above the
valuation of hedge fund and
private equity fund scheme
assets were considered an
area of focus for our audit.

How the scope of our audit addressed the key audit

matter

Our procedures included:

e Comparing the values of investments held at the
balance sheet date to external investment manager
asset confirmations and statements to confirm the
accuracy of the underlying valuation.

Assessing the competence of the investment fund
managers and, where different, the valuers, by
obtaining and reviewing relevant controls reports to
understand the controls they have in place over
valuation and to identify any control findings which
might impact the reliability of the valuations.

Where control reports or bridging letters were not
available, confirming the reasonableness of asset
valuations and movements to corroborating evidence
such as audited accounts.

Agreeing that the allocation to the Company of its
share of the Group’s plan assets is reasonable by
reference to membership data provided by the
scheme Trustees and managernent’s expert.
Reviewing management's assessment of the
existence of any significant valuation movements
between the date of the most recent audited financial
statements of the private equity funds and the
balance sheet date, with reference to any available
relevant market data.

Key observations

As a result of performing the procedures above, we found
that the valuation of hedge fund and private equity fund
plan assets to be appropriate.

Our We apply the concept of materiality both in planning and performing our audit, and in. evaluating the effect of

application of
materiality

misstatements. We consider materiality to be the magnitude by which misstatements, including omissions, could
influence the economic decisions of reasonable users that are taken on the basis of the financial statements.

In order to reduce to an appropriately low level the probability that any misstatements exceed materiality, we use a
lower materiality level, performance materiality, to determine the extent of testing needed. Importantly, misstatements
below these levels will not necessarily be evaluated as immaterial as we also take account of the nature of identified
misstatements, and the particular circumstances of their occurrence, when evaluating their effect on the financial

statements as a whole.

35

Our
application
of
materiality
(continued)

Other
information

Corporate
Governance
statement

Independent auditor's report to the members of NATS (En Route) plc.

Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole and performance
materiality as follows:

L : - _. Company financial statements
2024
£12.6m
4.6% of adjusted profit before tax

2023 _

£5.4m
1% of operating costs

Rationale for the benchmark applied In November 2023 the CAA published The level of uncertainty in respect of the
their final licence fee entitlement COVID-19 pandemic reduced during the
decision in respect of both the previous | year with the resulting increase in air
price control period being calendar traffic. Given that costs incurred will
years 2020 to 2022 and the next price form the basis on which the licence fee
control period from 1 January 2023 - for the period will be set by the CAA, we
31 December 2027. considered that operating costs
As a result of this certainty regarding Continue to provide the most appropriate

| the licence fee and return to the pre- measure on which to base materiality.
COVID-19 regulatory framework we
now consider adjusted profit before tax
to be the most appropriate measure on
which to base materiality.

Profit before tax was adjusted for the
COVID income shortfall of £123.3m
which is a one off item.

Materiality
Basis for determining materiality

Performance materiality ~ £9.5m £4.1m

“Basis for determining performance
materiali
Rationale for the percentage applied
for performance materiality

We set our performance materiality at 75% of overall materiality. In setting the level
of performance materiality, we considered a number of factors including the
expected total value of known and likely misstatements (based on past experience
and other factors) and management's attitude towards proposed adjustments.

Reporting threshold
We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to them all individual audit differences in excess of £252,000 (2023:
£108,000). We also agreed to report differences below this threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.

The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the Financial
statements other than the financial statements and our auditor's report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not
cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of
assurance conclusion thereon. Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other
information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements,
we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based
on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to
report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

As the Company has voluntarily adopted the UK Corporate Governance Code 2018, we are required to review the Directors’
statement in relation to going concern, longer-term viability and that part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to
the Company's compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review.

8ased on the work undertaken as part of our audit, we have concluded that each of the following elements of the Corporate
Governance Statement is materially consistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained during the audit.

Going concern and
longer-term
viability

«The Directors’ statement with regards to the appropriateness of adopting the going concern
basis of accounting and any material uncertainties identified as set out on page 17 to 18; and

«’ The Directors’ explanation as to their assessment of the Company's prospects, the period this
assessment covers and why the period is appropriate as set out on page 18.

Other Code * Directors’ statement on fair, balanced and understandable as set out on page 31;

provisions « Board's confirmation that it has carried out a robust assessment of the emerging and
principal risks as set out on 19;

* The section of the Financiai statements that describes the review of effectiveness of risk
management and internal control systems as set out on page 19; and

* The section describing the work of the audit committee. As set out on page 28, the Directors

consider that it is impracticable to have a separate audit committee for the Company.

36

Other
Companies Act
2006 reporting

Responsibilities
of Directors

Auditor's
responsibilities
for the audit of
the financial
statements

Independent auditor's report to the members of NATS (En Route) plc

Based on the responsibilities described below and our work performed during the course of the audit, we are required by the
Companies Act 2006 and ISAs (UK) to report on certain opinions and matters as described below.

Strategic report In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: .

and Directors’ © the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for

report which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
the Strategic report and the Directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable
legal requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in
the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the
Directors’ report.

Matters on which We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies
we are required to Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
report by exception

adequate accounting records have not been kept by the Company, or returns adequate for
our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or

the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

we have not.received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors determine
is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud
or error.

in preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Company's ability to continue as a going
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless
the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance
is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually
or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of
these financial statements.

Extent to which the audit was capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with
our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent
to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below:

Non-compliance with laws and regulations

Based on:

¢ Our understanding of the Company and the industry in which it operates; .

* Discussion with management, those charged with governance and the Audit Committee of the Parent Company, and

¢ — Obtaining and understanding of the Company's policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and
regulations.

We considered the significant laws and regulations that could give rise to a material misstatement in the financial
statements to be the Companies Act 2006, UK adopted international accounting standards, pension’s legislation, tax
legislation, the licence granted under the Transport Act 2000 and economic regulation regulated by the CAA.

The Company is also subject to laws and regulations where the consequence of non-compliance could have a material
effect on the amount or disclosures in the financial statements, for example through the imposition of fines or litigations.
We identified such laws and regulations to be Single European Sky (SES) legislation, the Bribery Act and the Data Protection
Act.

37


Auditor's
responsibilities
for the audit of
the financial
statements
(continued)

Use of our
report

Independent auditor's report to the members of NATS (En Route) plc

Non-compliance with laws and regulations (continued)

Our procedures in respect of the above included:

* — Enquiries of management, those charged with governance and the Audit Committee regarding any non-compliance
with laws and regulations; . :

* — Review of minutes of meetings of those charged with governance for any instances of non-compliance with laws and
regulations;

* — Review of correspondence with regulatory and tax authorities for any instances of non-compliance with laws and
regulations;

e — Review of legal confirmation letter responses obtained from the Company's key legal advisors;

* — Review of financial statement disclosures and agreeing to supporting documentation;

e Involvement of tax specialists in the audit; and

« — Review of legal expenditure accounts to understand the nature of expenditure incurred.

Fraud

We assessed the susceptibility of the financial statements to material misstatement, including fraud. Our risk assessment

Procedures included:

e — Enquiry with management, those charged with governance and the Audit Committee of the Parent Company, regarding
any known or suspected instances of fraud;

* Obtaining an understanding of the Company's policies and procedures relating to:
o Detecting and responding to the risks of fraud; and
o Internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud.

e — Review of minutes of meeting of those charged with governance for any known or suspected instances of fraud;

« — Discussion amongst the engagement team as to how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements;

* — Performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material
misstatement due to fraud; and

* — Considering remuneration incentive schemes and performance targets and the related financial statement areas
impacted by these.

Based on our risk assessment, we considered the areas most susceptible to fraud to be management override of controls
and revenue recognition.

Our procedures in response to the above included:

« Testing a sample of journal entries throughout the year, which met a defined risk criteria, by agreeing to supporting
documentation;

« — Performing testing to identify journal entries impacting revenue which did not follow the expected business process;
and

e — Assessing significant assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates
and judgements, in particular in retation to the valuation of certain defined benefit pension assets, the valuation of
pension scheme liabilities and impairment of assets in course of construction as set out in the Key Audit Matters
above.

We communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members who
were all deemed to have appropriate competence and capabilities and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-
compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.

Our audit procedures were designed to respond to risks of material misstatement in the financial statements, recognising that
the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error,
as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery, misrepresentations or through collusion. There are
inherent limitations in the audit procedures performed and the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is
from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we are to become aware of it.

A further description of our responsibilities is available on the Financial Reporting Council's website at:
www. fre.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms past of our auditor's report.

This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members those matters we are
required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not
accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company's members as a body, for our audit
work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

DocuSigned by:

F757 10324A07463...

Christopher Pooles (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of BDO LLP, Statutory Auditor

Reading
United Kingdom

27 June 2024

BDO LLP is a limited fiability partnership registered in England and Wales (with registered number 0C305127).

38

Financial statements

NATS (En Route) ple

Income statement
for the year ended 31 March

Revenue from contracts with customers
Regulatory allowances under-recovered
Other revenue

Total revenue and regulatory allowances
Staff costs

Services and materials

Repairs and maintenance

External research and development

Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant, equipment, intangible and right-of-use
assets:

Change in expected credit losses

Other operating charges

Other operating income

Loss on disposal of non-current assets

Deferred grants released

Net operating costs

Operating profit

Investment income
Fair value movement on derivative contracts
Finance costs

Profit before tax
Tax

Profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders

Statement of comprehensive income
for the year ended 31 March

Profit for the year after tax
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss:

Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme
Deferred tax relating to actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme
Currrent tax relating to actuarial loss on defined benefit pension scheme

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss:

Change in fair value of hedging derivatives
Transfer to income statement on cash flow hedges
Oeferred tax relating to items that may be reclassified subsequently

Other comprehensive loss for the year, net of tax

Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year attributable to equity shareholders

39

Notes

Notes

28
23
n

23

2024
£m

881.3
136.5
W7

1,029.5
(357.4)
(71.7)
(48.7)

(08)
(115.9)

04
(59.4)
56
(0.2)
0.2

(647.9)

381.6

49.8
(9.0)
(25.4)

397.0

(97.2)
299.8

2024
£m

299.8

(111.8)
8.5
19.4

(1.6)

0.4
(85.0)
214.8

2023
£m

715.2
41.0
26.2

782.4
(356.3)
(61.2)
(41.1)

(0.7)
(98.6)

08
(54.5)
28
0.2

(608.6)

173.8

26.0
(137)
(29.6)

186.5

(31.8)

124.7

2023
£m

124.7

(227.8)
50.9
29

27
(0.9)
(0.3)

(172.5)
(47.8)

Financial statements

Balance sheet
at 31 March

Non-current assets

Goodwill

Other intangible assets

Property, plant and equipment

Right-of-use assets

Retirement benefit asset

Trade and other receivables

Amounts recoverable under regulatory agreement
Derivative financial instruments

Current assets

Trade and other receivables

Amounts recoverable under regulatory agreement
Current tax assets

Cash and cash equivalents

Derivative financial instruments

Total assets

Current liabilities

Trade and other payables

‘Amounts payable under regulatory agreement
Borrowings

Lease liabilities

Provisions

Derivative financial instruments

Net current assets

Non-current liabilities

Trade and other payables

‘Amounts payable under regulatory agreement
Borrowings

Lease liabilities

Deferred tax liability

Provisions

Derivative financial instruments

Total liabilities
Net assets

Equity

Called up share capital
Hedge reserve
Special reserve

Other reserves
Retained earnings

Total equity

NATS (En Route) pie

Notes.

12
13
14
15
28
16
16
19

16
16

20
19

21
a
7
18
22
19

21
2
7
18
23
22
19

24

2024 2023
£m £m

38.3
681.4

410.5

347

43.9

84

631.1

18

1,849.8

1565 139.2
223.7 100.2
126 13
oii S77
20 18
4859 299.9
2.2352 2149.7
(122.9) 119.2)
(9.3) (91.4)
(104.0) (45.0)
(60) 7)
a7 0.2)
(138) (12.6)
(2577) 75.1)
228.2 24.8
7.2) (78.7)
(45.5) (60.2)
(7603) (866.4)
(37.2) (42.8)
(205.4) (195.6)
9.3) (13.4)
(68.2) (70.5)
(1,203.7) (1315.6)
(1,461.4) (1,590.7)
7738 589.0
100 10.0
04) 07
349 349
47 56
724.6 507.8
7738 559.0

The financial statements (Company No. 04429273) were approved by the Board of directors and authorised for issue on 27 June 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

pf? —

Martin Rolfe
Chief Executive

40

Za

Alistair Borthwick
Chief Financial Officer

Financial statements

NATS (En Route) ple

Statement of changes in equity
for the year ended 31 March

At 1 April 2022
Profit for the year

Other comprehensive income/{loss) for the year
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year

At 31 March 2023

At 1 April 2023
Profit for the year

Other comprehensive loss for the year
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year

At 31 March 2024

* Other reserves arose on completion of the PPP transaction in July 2001.

Equity attributable to equity holders of the company

Special Other Retained
Share capital Hedge reserve reserve’ reserves’ earnings Total
£m £m £m £m £m Em
10.0 (0.8) 34.9 65 556.2 606.8
124.7 124.7
- 15 : (0.9) (173.1) (172.5)
15 - (0.9) (48.4) (47.8)
10.0 O7 34.9 5.6 507.8 559.0
10.0 07 34.9 5.6 507.8 $59.0
- 299.8 299.8
a.) : (0.9) (83.0) (85.0)
(1.1) : (0.9) 2168 2148
10.0 (0.4) 34.9 47 724.6 773.8

41

&

The special reserve arose from a capital reduction in May 2003.

Financial statements

NATS (En Route) ple

Cash flow statement
for the year ended 31 March

Notes
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash generated from operations 25
Tax paid

Net cash generated from operating activities
+

Cash flows from investing activities

Interest received on short term investments
Purchase of property, plant and equipment and other intangible assets

Net cash outflow from investing activities

Cash flows from financing activities

Interest paid

Interest received on derivative financial instruments

New bonds issued

Bond arrangement fees

Drawdown of bank loan under the £400m revolving facility
Repayment of bank loan under the £400m revolving facility
Principal paid on tease liabilities

Interest paid on lease liabilities

Index-linked swaps payments

Bank facility fees

Net cash outflow from financing activities

Increase in cash and cash equivalents during the year

Cash and cash equivalents at 1 April

Cash and cash equivalents at 31 March

Net debt (representing borrowings and lease liabilities, net of cash and cash equivalents (see notes 20 and
25))

42

£m

268.8
(55.4)

213.4

45
(105.6)

(101.1)

(29)

(65.0)
7.3)
(1.0)

(10.8)
(0.4)

(78.9)

87.7
91.1

(817.0)

2023
£m

179.0
(3.3)

+ 178.7

12
(112.1)

(110.9)

(19.0)
73
105.8
(1.3)
40.0
(175.0)
(5.8)
(1.3)
(8.0)
(0.4)

(88.0)

68

50.9
57.7

(903.2)


Notes forming part of the accounts

NATS (En Route) plc

1. General information

NATS (En Route) pic (NERL) is a company incorporated in
England and Wales and domiciled in the United Kingdom
and acting under the Companies Act 2006. The address of
the registered office is on page 31. The nature of the
company’s operations and its principal activities are set out
in the Report of the directors and in the Strategic report.

These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling
because that is the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the company operates.

2. Basis of preparation and accounting policies

Going concern .
The company’s business activities, together with the factors
likely to affect its performance and financial position, its cash
flows, liquidity position and borrowings are set out in the
Strategic report above. In addition, note 3 to the financial
statements describes critical judgements and key sources of
estimation uncertainties and note 20 the company’s
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital
and its financial risks and details its financial instruments
and hedging activities.

At 31 March 2024, the company had access to liquidity of
£491m comprising cash of £91.1m and undrawn committed
bank facilities of £400.0m. At 27 June 2024, the company
had access to cash and undrawn bank facilities of around
£470m.

When considering the appropriateness of the going concern
basis of preparation of the financial statements, the directors
have reviewed the cash flow forecasts prepared by
management covering a period to 28 June 2025, being at
feast 12 months from the date of approval of these financial
statements. The directors have had regard to reasonably
plausible changes in trading performance as well as severe
traffic volume scenarios individually and in combination and
the principal risks discussed on pages 19 to 22.

The severe traffic volume scenarios modelled were: an
immediate 15% reduction in air traffic volumes for a 12-
month period, as a proxy for a traffic shock such as a major
geopolitical incident and subsequent recession, being the
most severe traffic scenario; a low case internal traffic
forecast of 5.9% fewer flights than the NR23 decision
assumed; an unplanned increase in operating costs; and
unremunerated increases in defined benefit pension

contributions. Finally, a combination scenario was also
performed of lower air traffic volumes, higher operating costs
and higher pension coniributions. Under the most severe
scenario the company maintains adequate liquidity (of

£201 m) and headroom (gearing at 51%) to meet its debt
covenant (85%), prior to mitigating actions (such as other
cost saving measures and deferring capital investment).
The directors have also considered, through a reverse stress
test, the point at which liquidity would be utilised or the
financial covenant would be breached before both mitigating
action and regard to the financeability duties of the CAA and
Secretary of State for Transport. The reverse stress tests
considered severe reductions in traffic volumes and
significant unplanned expenditure. Taking all this into
account, the company’s cash flow forecasts, reflecting
reasonably plausible downside scenarios, show that the
company should be able to operate within the level of its
available bank facilities and within its financial covenant for
the foreseeable future. ;
Accordingly, the directors have formed the judgement that,
taking into account the financial resources available, the
range of reasonably plausible future traffic volume scenarios
and potential mitigating actions that could be taken, together
with the duties of the CAA and Secretary of State for
Transport referred to in the Viability statement, the company
has adequate resources to continue to operate for a period of
at least tweive months from the date of approval of the
financial statements, and have therefore adopted the going
concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
Accounting standards

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance
with UK adopted International Accounting Standards, IFRS
and IFRIC. The financial information has also been prepared
in accordance with IFRSs issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board (IASB).

Accounting standards adopted in the year

The company has adopted the requirements of the

following amendments to standards in the year, the
adoption of these amendments has not had a material
impact on the disclosures in the financial statements:

« IFRS 17: insurance Contracts, effective 1 January 2023
sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement,

43

Notes forming part of the accounts

NATS (En Route) plc

presentation and disclosure of insurance contracts within
the scope of the standard.

IAS 1 (amendments): Disclosure of Accounting Policies,
effective 1 January 2023 requires an entity to disclose
their material rather than their significant accounting
policies.

IAS 8 (amendments): Definition of Accounting Estimates,
effective 1 January 2023 clarifies how companies should
distinguish changes in accounting policies from changes
in accounting estimates.

IAS 12 (amendments): Deferred tax related to Assets and
Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction effective 1
January 2023 requires companies to recognise deferred
tax on transactions that, on initial recognition, give rise to
equal amounts of taxable and deductible temporary
differences, and will require the recognition of additional
deferred tax assets and liabilities.

IAS 12 (amendments): OECD Pillar Two Rules effective
immediately require large multinational enterprises within
the scope of the rules to calculate their GloBE (Global
Anti-Base Erosion Proposal) effective tax rate for each
jurisdiction in which they operate. They will be liable to
pay a top-up tax for the difference between their GloBE
effective tax rate per jurisdiction and the 15% minimum
rate.

Future accounting developments

At the date of authorisation of these financial statements,
the following amendments which have not been applied in
these financial statements were in issue but not yet

effective:

« IAS 1 (amendments): Classification of Liabilities as
Current or Non-Current (effective on or after 1 January
2024)

IAS 1 (amendments): Classification of Non-Current
Liabilities with Covenants (effective on or after 1 January
2024)

IFRS 16 (amendments): Lease Liability in a Sale and
Leaseback (effective on or after 1 January 2024)

IAS 7 and IFRS 7 (amendments): Supplier Finance
Arrangements (effective on or after 1 January 2024)

IAS 21 (amendments): Lack of exchangeability (effective
on or after 1 January 2025)

44

IFRS 18: Presentation and Disclosures in Financial
Statements (effective on or after 1 January 2027)
IFRS 19: Subsidiaries without Public Accountability:
Disclosures (effective on or after 1 January 2027)

The company is currently assessing the impact of these
new accounting standards and amendments.

Company background

At completion of the Public Private Partnership (PPP)
transaction on 26 July 2007, a transfer scheme hived down
certain of the operating assets and liabilities of National Air
Traffic Services Limited (now NATS Limited) to this
company.

The company entered into a Management Services
Agreement with NATS Limited on25 July 2001. On 1
October 2009, this agreement was amended so that all
relevant secondment obligations are now set out in an
Inter-company Secondment Agreement (ISA). This
agreement is the basis for the provision by NATS Limited of
personnel to the company. In addition, an Inter-company
Trading Agreement is the basis for the provision of central
services by NATS Limited to NERL. The cost of central
services is recharged based on a fair allocation of costs
taking into account the most important drivers for the
services provided. The company is responsible for paying to
NATS Limited an amount equal to the aggregate of all costs
incurred by NATS Limited in connection with the
employment of the personnel together with appropriate
staff related costs and expenses and disbursements.

NERL also entered into an Inter-company Trading
Agreement on 25 July 2001 (amended 16 December 2014)
with NATS (Services) Limited (NATS Services). Under this
agreement the company provides NATS Services with the

following services:

training services;
« radar data services at NATS Services airports;

engineering and software support services;

*# research and development for NATS Services airports
division and business development division; and
other services to NATS Services business development

division (for example - consultancy and engineering

services). .

Notes forming part of the accounts

NATS (En Route) ple

The range of services provided by NATS Services to NERL
under the agreement includes:

«# North Sea helicopter advisory services;
¢ air traffic services in certain sectors;

# — services to the London Approach service (engineering

services and use of communications facilities); and ©
miscellaneous other services.
The company commenced trading from 26 July 2001.

The financial information has been prepared on the
historical cost and fair value basis. The principal accounting
policies adopted are set out below.

Revenue recognition

Revenue is recognised from the transfer of goods or
services at an amount that the company expects to be
entitled to in exchange for those goods or services.
Revenue is recognised based on the satisfaction of
performance obligations, which are characterised by the
transfer of control over a product or service to a customer.
Acontract asset is recognised to reflect the company's
entitlement to consideration for work completed but not
invoiced at the reporting date and a contract liability is
recognised to reflect amounts invoiced for performance
obligations not completed at the reporting date. Revenue
excludes amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
Airspace

Airspace services are economically regulated activities
which are governed by the company’s air traffic services
licence. These include en route ATC-services provided in UK
airspace and the eastern part of the North Atlantic,
approach services for London airports and an advisory
service for helicopters operating in the North Sea. Each of
these services has the same pattern of transfer to the
customer. Revenue from each service is recognised over
time (as the customer simultaneously receives and _
consumes all of the benefits provided by the company as
the company performs).

The revenue which NERL is entitled to generate from each
service is governed by licence conditions and is established
by periodic regulatory reviews (this process is explained in
the section on Our business model within the Strategic
report). Revenue allowances are set ex ante based on the
regulator's forecasts of air traffic volumes, inflation and

45

defined benefit scheme pension contributions. Revenue is
recognised based on chargeable service units or flights
handled, at the rate specified by the licence and
promulgated annually.

Also within Airspace, the company provides ATC services to
the MOD, including training services. Revenue is recognised
over time, as the service is provided. The MOD contract
includes variable consideration relating to a gain share term
which enables the MOD to share.in cost efficiencies relative
to the original contract assumption. Amounts due to the
MOD for gain share are recognised over time as the service
is provided, and settled at future contractual payment
dates. Amounts payable are discounted at NERL’s-
regulatory cost of capital to reflect the financing
component.

Revenue for assets funded by customers is recognised over
the service life of the asset or the remaining contract term,
if shorter.

Income from other sources

Rental income from leases is recognised on a straight-line
basis over the relevant lease term.

Dividend income is recognised when a shareholder's rights to
receive payment has been established.

Interest income is recognised on a time proportion basis
using the effective interest method. This is the rate that
exactly discounts estimated future cash flows over the
expected life of the financial asset to that asset's net carrying

amount.
Amounts recoverable or payable under regulatory agreement

The company is the sole provider of the UK’s en route air
traffic control services. It operates under a licence granted
under the Transport Act 2000 (TA00) and is economically
regulated by the CAA. In setting the licenced price control
conditions for the company’s services, the CAA establishes
ex ante revenue allowances for a five-year price contro!
which meet its financeability duties under TAOO to ensure
that the company does not find it unduly difficult to finance
its operations. The unit rate for en route services to be
charged to airspace users each year is based on the ex ante
revenue allowance and on the CAA’s forecast of air traffic
volumes. Actual air traffic volumes for each year of a price
control period may be higher or lower than the CAA’s

Notes forming part of the accounts

forecast. In order to ensure that the company is able to
finance its operations, the licence includes a risk sharing
mechanism which mitigates the risk of variations in air traffic
volumes and significant under or over-recovery by the
company of its annual revenue entitlement. The licence
requires the company to adjust the unit rate on a year n+2
basis to recover from or reimburse to airspace users

amounts under or over recovered.

The company recognises its entitlement to amounts under-
recovered and its liability for amounts over-recovered in its
statement of financial position as Amounts recoverable or
payable under regulatory agreement, classified as current or
non-current according to the period in which it is expected to
be settled. Amounts recoverable or payable under regulatory
agreement meet the definitions, recognition criteria, and
measurement concepts in the IASB’s Framework for the
Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements (2001).
Amounts recoverable or payable under regulatory agreement
reflecting the recoverability of projected future cash flows,
are stated at an amount for which it is highly probable that a
significant risk reversal will not subsequently occur.
Amounts are discounted at inception at the incremental cost
of borrowing at the balance sheet date. Amounts under or
over-recovered from charges for services provided during the
year are reported on the face of the income statement within
Regulatory allowances under or over-recovered. See also
note 3.

The regulator also sets allowances and incentives for service
performance. Where the company’s service performance
results in bonuses or penalties an amount is recognised
within Amounts recoverable or payable under regulatory
agreement and is reflected in the unit rate in year n+2. The
regulator also allows the pass through of differences which

~ arise between the regulator's ex ante pension cost
assumptions and actual outcomes due to unforeseen
financial market conditions by way of an adjustment to
charges over a 15-year period. Amounts recoverable or
payable in this regard are discounted at the company’s
regulatory cost of capital.

Distributable reserves comprise accumulated realised profits
less accumulated realised and unrealised losses. In the
opinion of the directors, following the CAA’s November 2023
decision on the retrospective reconciliation of NERL’s flight

46

NATS (En Route) pic

income and costs during Covid, the amount of revenue and
tegulatory allowances to which the company is entitled for
the period from 1 January 2020 to 31 December 2022 are
realised profits.

Operating segments

Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent
with the internal reporting provided to the group’s Executive
team, which is considered to be the chief operating decision
maker. An operating segment represents a service line
organised by customers who receive common products or
services. Operating segment results are reviewed regularly
by the Executive team to make decisions about resources
to be allocated to the segment and to assess its
performance, and for which discrete financial information is

available.

Inter-segment transfers or transactions are entered into
under the normal commercial terms and conditions that
would also be available to unrelated third parties.

Segment performance is assessed by service line revenue
and contribution. Further information is provided in notes 4
and 5.

Operating profit
Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs
but before investment income, fair value movement on

financial instruments, finance costs and taxation.
Goodwill (see note 3)

Goodwill is recognised as an asset and reviewed for
impairment at least annually. Any impairment is recognised
immediately in the income statement and is not
subsequently reversed. For the purpose of impairment
testing the company assesses the carrying value of
goodwill against the recoverable amount of the cash
generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated.
Where the recoverable amount is less than the carrying
value, the impairment loss is allocated to goodwill.

Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of
disposal and value in use. Fair value less costs of disposal
is assessed by reference to the RAB of the economically
regulated activities and costs of disposal. In assessing
value in use, the estimated future cash flows (with a RAB
terminal value, as a proxy for future cash flows) are
discounted to their present value using the pre-tax nominal

Notes forming part of the accounts

regulated rate of return. A premium is applied to the RAB
as market precedent transactions indicate economically
regulated businesses attract valuations in excess of RAB. A
premium of 7.5% was determined for 2024 (2023: 5%),
reflecting market precedent transactions and an
independent assessment undertaken in 2024 - see notes 3
and 12.

Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less

accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment

in value. The cost of property, plant and equipment includes

internal and contracted labour costs directly attributable to

bringing the assets into working condition for their intended

use. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to

write off the cost, less estimated residual value, of property

plant and equipment over their estimated useful lives.

Estimated useful lives are determined on an individual asset

basis, within the range of:

«@ Freehold buildings: 10-40 years

«Leasehold buildings: over the remaining life of the
tease to a maximum of 20 years

¢ = Air traffic control systems: 5-25 years

@ Plant and other equipment: 3-30 years

« Furniture, fixtures and fittings: 5-15 years

@ Vehicles: 5-10 years

Freehold land and assets in the course of construction and

installation are not depreciated.

The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an

asset is determined as the difference between the sale

proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is

recognised in income.

Borrowing costs

IAS 23: Borrowing Costs requires costs of borrowings

directly attrioutable to the acquisition, construction or

production of a qualifying asset to be capitalised as part of

the cost of the asset. Qualifying assets are those which

take a substantial time to get ready for intended use. These

do not include assets which are ready for use when

acquired.

47

NATS (En Route) plc

For NERL qualifying assets relate to any additions to new
projects that began from 1 April 2009, included in assets

under construction.

When funds are borrowed specifically for the purpose of
acquiring or constructing a qualifying asset, the amount of
borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation is the actual cost
of borrowing incurred in the period. IAS 23 requires that
where a qualifying asset is funded from a pool of general
borrowings, the amount of borrowing costs eligible for
capitalisation should be determined by applying an
appropriate capitalisation rate (based on the weighted
average of borrowing costs applicable to the general
outstanding borrowings during the period) to the
expenditure during the period, to determine the borrowing
costs eligible for capitalisation.

For NERL, the percentage rate for interest capitalisation is
calculated as a proportion of the interest costs to the
average level of borrowings in the period that relate to
qualifying capital expenditure. All qualifying capitat
expenditure is then inflated by this percentage which has
the effect of capitalising related interest costs.

Government grants and other grants

Government grants relating to property, plant and

equipment are treated as deferred income and released to
the income statement by equal annual instalments over the
expected useful economic lives of the related

assets. Grants of a revenue nature are credited to the
income statement in the period to which they relate.

In order to benefit airspace users, NERL previously obtained
funding from the EC's Innovation and Network Executive
Agency (INEA) for SESAR deployment projects. This was
initially deferred on the balance sheet, and reported within
contract liabilities. Under EC Regulations, and as required by
the CAA as NERL's economic regulator, all of the benefit of
INEA funding is passed on to airspace users as a reduction in
the unit rate charged by NERL for its UK en route

services. Accordingly, INEA funding is recognised as a grant
relating to income and reported as other revenue in the
income statement, offsetting the cost of amounts passed on
to customers through the unit rate adjustment.

Notes forming part of the accounts

NATS (En Route) ple

Leases

Where a contract provides the right to control the use of an
asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration, the
contract is accounted for as a lease. In order for lease
accounting to apply, an assessment is made at the inception
of the contract that considers whether:

@ the lessee has the use of an identified asset, which
entitles it to the right to obtain substantially all of the
economic benefits that arise from the use of the asset;
and

the lessee has the right to direct the use of the asset,
either through the right to operate the asset or by

predetermining how the asset is used.
Measurement at inception
At the lease commencement date the lessee will recognise:

¢ alease liability representing its obligation to make lease
payments, and;
an asset representing its right to use the underlying

leased asset (a right-of-use asset).

The lease liability is initially measured as the present value of
future tease payments, discounted using the interest rate ,
implicit in the lease, or if not available an incremental
borrowing rate. Future lease payments will include fixed
payments or variable lease payments that depend on an
index or rate (initially measured at the rate at the
commencement date). In such cases, the initial
measurement of the lease liability assumes the variable

element will remain unchanged throughout the lease term.

The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which
comprises the amount initially recognised as the lease
liability, lease payments made at or before the
commencement date, initial direct costs incurred, and the
amount of any provision for estimated costs to be incurred at
the end of the lease to restore the site to the required
concition stipulated in the lease (dilapidations provision) less
any lease incentives received.

For contracts that both convey a right to the lessee to use an
identified asset and require services to be provided to the
lessee by the lessor, the lessee has elected to account for the
entire contract as a lease, i.e. it does not allocate any amount
of the contractual payments to, or account separately for,
any services provided by the supplier as part of the contract.

48

Ongoing measurement

Subsequent to initial measurement, the lease liabilities
increase as a result of interest charged at a constant rate on
the balance outstanding, reduced for lease payments made
and are adjusted for any reassessment of the lease as the
result of a contract modification. Right-of-use assets are
depreciated on a straight-line basis over the remaining term
of the lease or asset life if it is shorter.

When the lessee revises its estimate of the term of any lease
(because, for example, it re-assesses the probability of a
lease extension or termination option being exercised), it
adjusts the carrying amount of the lease liability to reflect the
payments to be made over the revised term, which are
discounted at the discount rate applicable on the
modification date. The carrying value of lease liabilities is
similarly revised when the variable element of future lease
payments dependent on a rate or index is revised. In both
cases an equivalent adjustment is made to the carrying value
of the right-of-use asset, with the revised carrying amount
being amortised over the remaining (revised) lease term.

When the company renegotiates the contractual terms of a
lease with the lessor, the accounting depends on the nature
of the modification:

¢ If the renegotiation results in one or more additional
assets being leased for an amount commensurate with
the standalone price for the additional rights-of-use
obtained, the modification is accounted for as a separate
lease in accordance with the above policy;

In all other cases where the renegotiated terms increase
the scope of the lease (whether that is an extension to
the lease term, or one or more additional assets being
leased), the lease liability is remeasured using the
discount rate applicable on the modification date, with
the right-of-use asset being adjusted by the same
amount;

If the renegotiation results in a decrease in the scope of
the lease, both the carrying amount of the lease liability
and right-of-use asset are reduced by the same
proportion to reflect the partial or full termination of the
lease with any difference recognised in profit or loss. The
tease liability is then further adjusted to ensure its
carrying amount reflects the amount of the renegotiated
payments over the renegotiated term, with the modified

Notes forming part of the accounts

lease payments discounted at the rate applicable on the
modification date. The right-of-use asset is adjusted by
the sarne amount.
Short term and low-value leases
The company applies recognition exemptions for short term
leases and leases of low-value items which are accounted for
ona straight-line basis over the lease term.
Internally-generated intangible assets — research and
development expenditure
Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an
expense in the period in which it is incurred.
An internally-generated intangible asset, including software
arising from the company's development activities is
recognised only if all of the following conditions are met:
¢ — the technical feasibility of completing the intangible
asset so that it will be available for use or sale;

the intention to complete the intangible asset and use

or sell it;

# the ability to use or sell the intangible asset;

how the intangible asset will generate probable future
economic benefits;

the availability of adequate technical, financial and

other resources to complete the development and to
use or sell the intangible asset; and

the ability to measure reliably the expenditure
attributable to the intangible asset during its
development.

tnternally-generated intangible assets are amortised on a
straight-line basis over their useful lives, typically over 3 to
20 years. Assets in the course of construction are not
amortised until ready for use. Where no internally-
generated intangible asset can be recognised, development
expenditure is recognised as an expense in the period in
which it is incurred.

Impairment of tangible, intangible and right-of-use assets
excluding goodwill

At each balance sheet date, the company reviews the
carrying amounts of its tangible, intangible-and right-of-use
assets, including those in the course of construction, to
determine whether there is any indication that those assets
have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication

49

NATS (En Route) ple’

exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in
order to determine the extent of the impairment (if any).
Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are
independent from other assets, the company estimates the
recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which
the asset belongs.

Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of
disposal and the value in use. In assessing value in use, the
estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present
value using the pre-tax nominal regulated rate of return
(with a RAB terminal value with a premium as a proxy for
future cash flows).

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating
unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the
carrying amount of the asset (cash-generating unit) is

reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is

recognised as an expense immediately.

Where an impairment loss on an intangible or tangible"
asset subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the
asset (cash-generating unit) is increased to the revised
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the
increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying
amount that would have been determined had no
impairment loss been recognised for the asset (cash-
generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment
loss is recognised in the income statement immediately.

Share-based payments

The company has applied the requirements of IFRS 2:
Share-Based Payments.

In 2001, the corripany’s parent established an All Employee
Share Ownership Plan (AESOP) for the benefit of its
employees to hold 5% of the share capital of NATS
Holdings Limited.

Shares awarded by the Plan are treated as cash-settled
liabilities. A liability is recognised for shares awarded over
the period from award to when the employee becomes
unconditionally entitled to the shares and are measured
initially at their fair value. At each balance sheet date until
the liability is settled, as well as at the date of settlement,
the fair value of the liability is re-measured based on
independent share valuations with any changes in fair value
recognised in profit or loss for the year, within wages and
salaries.

Notes forming part of the accounts

NATS (En Route) plc

In respect of the award schemes, the company provides
finance to NATS Employee Sharetrust Limited (NESL) to
enable the trust company to meet its obligations to
tepurchase vested or eligible shares from employees.

The company’s share of the costs of running the employee
share trust are charged to the income statement.

Taxation

The tax charge for the period is recognised in the income
statement, the statement of comprehensive income or
directly in the statement of changes in equity, according to
the accounting treatment of the related transaction. The tax
charge comprises both current and deferred tax.

Current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid or
recovered using the tax rates and laws that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.

Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or
recoverable on differences between the carrying values of
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of
taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet
liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally
recognised for all taxable temporary differences and
deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is
probable that taxable profits will be available against which
deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such
assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary
difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or
from the initial recognition (other than in a business
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction
that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax
rates that are expected to apply to the period when the
asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates
(and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively
enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is charged
or credited to the income statement, except when it relates
to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case
the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at
each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be
available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.

50

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a
legally enforceable right to set current tax assets off
against current liabilities and when they relate to taxes
levied by the same taxation authority and the company
intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net
basis.

Foreign currency transfation

Transactions in currencies other than pounds sterling are
recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing on the dates of
the transactions. At each balance sheet date, monetary
assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign
currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the
balance sheet date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities
carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign
currencies are translated at the rates prevailing at the date
when the fair value was determined. Gains and losses
arising on retranslation are included in the income
statement for the period.

In order to hedge its exposure to certain foreign exchange
risks, the company enters into forward contracts (see below
for details of the company’s accounting policies in respect
of such derivative financial instruments).

Retirement benefit costs

The CAA Pension Scheme is a funded defined benefit
scheme. The assets of the scheme are held in a separate
trustee administered fund. The cost of providing benefits is
determined using the Projected Unit Credit Method, with
actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each
reporting period. Remeasurement comprising actuarial
gains and losses and return on scheme assets (excluding
interest) are recognised immediately in the balance sheet
with a charge or credit to the statement of comprehensive
income in the period in which they occur. Remeasurement
recorded in the statement of comprehensive income is not
recycled.

Past service cost is recognised immediately, at the earlier
of the date the defined benefit scheme is amended or any
associated restructuring cost is recognised to the extent
that the benefits are already vested.

Net interest is catculated by applying the discount rate to
the net defined benefit liability or asset. Defined benefit
costs are split into three categories, which are reported in
aggregate (see note 28):

Notes forming part of the accounts

NATS (En Route) pie

current service cost, past service cost and gains and
losses on curtailments and settlements;

# net interest expense or income; and
# —remeasurement.

The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance
sheet represents the deficit or surplus in the company’s
defined benefit scheme. Any surplus resulting from this
calculation is limited to the present value of available
refunds or reductions in future contributions to the scheme.

Since 2009, the NATS group and Trustees have introduced
a number of pension reforms, as explained in note 28.
These include: closing the defined benefit scheme to new
entrants with effect from 1 April 2009, and establishing a
defined contribution scheme for new entrants from 1 April
2009, limiting the rate of increase in pensionable pay and
changing the indexation reference rate for future service.

Contributions to the defined contribution pension scheme
are expensed as incurred.

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the company has a present
obligation as a result of a past event, and it is probable that
the company will be required to settle that obligation.
Provisions are measured at the directors’ best estimate of
expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance
sheet date, and are discounted to present value where the
effect is material.

Financial instruments .

Financial assets and financial tiabilities are recognised in
the balance sheet when the company becomes a party to
the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial
assets are classified as either fair value through profit or
loss, fair value through other comprehensive income, or
amortised cost. Classification and subsequent re-
measurement depends on the company’s business model
for managing the financial asset and its cash flow
characteristics.

The company has financial assets at amortised cost. The
company does not have financial assets at fair value
through profit or loss or at fair value through other
comprehensive income. Detailed disclosures are set out in
notes 16 to 21.

Financial assets:
Amortised cost

These assets arise principally from the provision of goods
and services to customers (such as loans and trade
receivables), but also. incorporate other types of financial
assets where the objective is to hold these assets in order
to collect contractual cash flows and the contractual cash
flows are solely payments of principal and interest. They
are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently
carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate
method, less provision for impairment.

impairment of financial assets

Impairment provisions for trade receivables and contract
assets are recognised based on the simplified approach
within IFRS 9 using the lifetime expected credit losses.
During this process, the probability of the non-payment of
trade receivables is assessed. This probability is then
multiplied by the amount of the expected loss arising from
default to determine the lifetime expected credit loss for the
trade receivables. For trade receivables, such provisions are
recorded in a separate provision account with the loss
being recognised in the income statement. On confirmation
that the trade receivable wilt not be collectable, the gross
carrying value of the asset is written off against the
associated provision.

Impairment provisions for other receivables are recognised
based on a forward looking expected credit loss model. The
methodology used to determine the amount of the
provision is based on whether at each reporting date, there
has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial
recognition of the financial asset.

For those financial assets where the credit risk has not
increased significantly since initial recognition, 12 month
expected credit losses along with gross interest income are
recognised. For those for which credit risk has increased
significantly, lifetime expected credit losses along with the
gross interest income are recognised. For those that are
determined to be credit impaired, lifetime expected credit
losses along with interest income on a net basis are
recognised.

Si

Notes forming part of the accounts

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and
demand deposits and other highly liquid investments (with
a maturity of three months or less) that are readily
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to
an insignificant risk of changes in value.

Financial liabilities

Financial liabilities are classified according to the substance
of the contractual arrangements entered into. Financial
liabilities are either financial liabilities at fair value through
the profit or loss or other financial liabilities.

Fair value through the profit or loss

Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, which
represent derivative financial instruments, are measured
initially at fair value and subsequently stated at fair value,
with any resultant gain or loss recognised in the income
statement. The net gain or loss recognised in the income
statement incorporates any interest paid on the financial
liability.

Other financial liabilities: including bank, other borrowings,
loan notes and debt securities

Interest-bearing bank loans, other borrowings, loan notes,
debt securities and trade and other payables are recorded
at the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs. Finance
charges, including premia payable on settlement or
redemption and direct issue costs, are accounted for on an
accruals basis in the income statement using the effective
interest method and are added to the carrying amount of
the instrument to the extent that they are not settled in the
period in which they arise.

A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation
under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires. When
an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the
same party on substantially different terms, or the terms of
an existing liability are substantially modified, such an
exchange or modification is treated as a derecognition of
the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, and
the difference in the respective carrying amounts is
recognised in the profit or loss.

Effective interest method

The effective interest method is a method of calculating
amortised cost of a financial asset or financial liability and

52

NATS (En Route) ple

of allocating interest income over the relevant period. The
effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the
estimated future cash flows over the expected life of the

financial asset.

Equity

Equity instruments are also classified according to the
substance of the contractual arrangements entered into. An
equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual
interest in the assets of the company after deducting all of
its liabilities.

Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded at
the proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.

Reserves

The statement of changes in equity includes the following
reserves not otherwise explained in this note:

«The special reserve which arose from a capital
teduction in May 2003.

# Other reserves which arose on the completion of the
PPP transaction in July 2001 under a statutory transfer
scheme.

Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities

The company’s activities expose it primarily to the financial

risks of changes in interest rates, inflation and foreign

currency exchange rates. The company uses interest rate
and index-linked swap contracts and forward foreign
exchange contracts to hedge these exposures. These are
disclosed in notes 19 and 20 to the accounts.

As permitted under IFRS 9, the company has elected to
continue to apply the existing hedge accounting
requirements of IAS 39 for its cash flow hedges until a new
macro hedge accounting standard is implemented by the
IASB.

Under IFRS derivatives are initially recognised at fair value
on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are
subsequently measured at their fair value. The method of
recognising the resulting gain or loss depends on whether
the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if
so, the nature of the item being hedged.

The use of financial derivatives is governed by the
company’s policies approved by the Board of directors,
which provides written principles on the use of financial
derivatives. The company documents at the inception of

Notes forming part of the accounts

the transaction the relationship between hedging
instruments and the hedged items, as well as its risk
management objectives and strategy for undertaking
various hedge transactions. The company also documents
its assessment, both at hedge inception and on an ongoing
basis, of whether the derivatives that are used in hedging
transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair
values or cash flows of hedged items.

Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments
that are designated and effective as hedges of future cash
flows are recognised directly in equity (in the Hedge
reserve) and the ineffective portion is recognised
immediately in the income statement. If a hedge of a
forecast transaction subsequently results in the recognition
of a financial asset or a financial liability, the associated
gains or losses that were recognised directly in equity are
reclassified into the income statement in the same period
or periods during which the asset acquired or liability
assumed affects profit or loss. For hedges that do not
result in the recognition of an asset or a liability, amounts
deferred in equity are recycled to the income statement in
the same period in which the hedged item affects the

income statement.

Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments
that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised in
the income statement as they arise.

Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging
instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or no
longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that time, any
cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument
recognised in equity is retained in equity until the forecast
transaction occurs. If a hedging transaction is no longer
expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss
recognised in equity is transferred to net income or expense
for the period.

NATS (En Route) ple

53

3. Critical judgements and key sources of estimation
uncertainty

When preparing financial statements management is
required to make estimates and assumptions that affect
the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and revenue
and expenses during the reporting period. Actual outcomes
in future could differ from these estimates. Information
about those estimates and assumptions that have a
significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next
financial year are explained below.

Recognition of regulatory assets and liabilities (notes 16
and 21)

There is no IFRS currently that specifically applies to the
recognition of regulatory assets and liabilities that arise
under NERL's regulatory agreement, though the IASB is
developing such a standard (see below). Accordingly the
company has made significant judgements in developing
and applying an accounting policy for the recognition of
amounts recoverable and payable under the regulatory
agreement which provides information that is relevant to the
decision-making needs of users of the financial statements
and is reliable in representing faithfully the financial position,
financial performance and cash flows of the company and
reflects the economic substance of NERL's specific
regulatory framework.

In developing an appropriate accounting policy the company
has referred to, and considered the applicability of, first the
requirements in IFRSs dealing with similar and related issues
and second, as the company does not apply IFRS 14:
Regulatory Deferral Accounts, the definitions, recognition
criteria and measurement concepts in the 2001 Framework
for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial
Statements. The company considered that the definitions of
assets and liabilities in the 2001 Framework were met, and
therefore developed an accounting policy based on IFRS 15:
Revenue from Contracts with Customers by analogy, which is
explained in note 2 to the financial statements.

Unlike other economically regulated sectors, such as water
and power, air travel is a discretionary consumer expense
and thus it is susceptible to a greater volatility of demand.
The consumer demand for air travel has a direct bearing on
the volume of flights in UK airspace and therefore the income
that NERL earns from the flights that it handles. As the UK’s

Notes forming part of the accounts

NATS (En Route) ple

sole provider of en route ATC services NERL is obliged to
make its service available to meet any reasonable level of
demand. When establishing a price control, the economic
regulator makes a forecast of the volume of flights and sets
a charge for NERL's ATC service accordingly. In order to
provide protection against the volatility in flight volumes
relative to the price control forecast, NERL's licence includes
a traffic risk sharing mechanism which limits its exposure to
flight volumes, and its associated impact on NERL's income.
Other risk mechanisms also apply to inflation and the impact
of unforeseen financial market conditions on defined benefit
pension contributions, with service performance also
incentivised. When considering whether the definitions of
assets and liabilities under the 2001 Framework are met, it is
the judgement of the directors that the company specific
traffic risk sharing mechanism, alongside the wider
economic regulatory framework and its specific
characteristics, are important features that provide it with
control of the future economic benefits arising from amounts
recoverable, and obligations for amounts payable, under the
regulatory agreement, without controlling the volume of
flights in future. These mechanisms are further reinforced by
the duties on the CAA and the Secretary of State under the
Transport Act 2000 to ensure that it is not unduly difficult for
NERL to finance its licensed activities, the regulatory
commitment to the regulatory asset base as a store of future
value and, in particular, commitments made by the CAA in
the NR23 price control review on the recovery of the Covid
income shortfall. The company also considers that, in light
of NERL's specific regulatory framework, there are not
significant risks and uncertainties in relation to the recovery
of such amounis in future.

The company is aware of the [ASB’s Exposure Draft:
Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities, which may have
a significant impact on the accounting by economically
regulated entities when it is implemented as an IFRS, in
which event, the company will consider its applicability to its
specific circumstances.

Retirement benefits (see note 28)

The company accounts for its defined benefit pension
scheme such that the net pension scheme position is
reported on the balance sheet with actuarial gains and
losses being recognised directly in equity through the

statement of comprehensive income. At 31 March 2024
the funding position of the scheme reported in the financial
statements was a surplus of £10.1m (2023: £43.9m) on
liabilities of £2,524.0m (2023: £2,616.8m).

Anumber of key assumptions have been made in
calculating the fair value of the company's defined benefit
pension scheme which affect the balance sheet position
and the company’s reserves and income statement. A
summary of the main assumptions and sensitivities are set
out in note 28 to the financial statements. Actual outcomes
may differ materially from the assumptions used and may
result in volatility in the net pension scheme position.

The company recognises an IAS 19 funding surplus as it is
satisfied that the practical effect of the trust deed and rules,
alongside UK legislation, mean the company has an
unconditional right to a refund assuming the gradual
settlement of the scheme’s liabilities over time until all
members have left the scheme. The trustees have no
discretion under the trust deed and rules to enhance
member benefits in the event of a trustee funding surplus.

Impairment of goodwill, intangible, tangible and right-of-use
assets (notes 12 to 15)

“The company is undertaking a significant capital

54

investment programme to upgrade existing ATC
infrastructure. This programme requires the company to
enter into substantial contracts for the development of
infrastructure assets and information systems. Whilst
covered by contractual arrangements, it is in the nature of
such complex projects that, from time to time, variations to
the original specifications may necessitate the
tenegotiation of original contract scope or price and affect
amounts reported in these accounts. The company also
capitalises internal labour where this is directly attributable
to the development of assets, at a labour rate judged to
reflect the underlying cost of staff. Impairment charges
may arise subsequently if changes in the cost or scope of
capital investment is not recoverable from customer
contracts or through the regulatory framework.
Classification of assets in the course of construction is
assessed regularly and at the point they are brought into
use are categorised as intangible or tangible assets as
appropriate.

Notes forming part of the accounts

In carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill, intangible,
tangible and right-of-use assets, (including assets in the
course of construction), a number of significant
assumptions have to be made when preparing cash flow
projections from which to determine value in use and also
in assessing fair values less costs of disposal (see
judgement relating to goodwill below). These include air
traffic growth, the extent and timing of future cash flows
and realisation of contract pipeline revenue, the value of the
regulated asset bases (RAB — see below), the scope for
outperformance of the regulatory contract, market premia
for transactions in similar economically regulated
businesses, the company’s licence period and the outcome
of the regulatory price control determinations.

The RAB reflects the capital employed in the economically
regulated business and, broadly, is uplifted annually for
inflation and increases with capital expenditure and reduces
by regulatory depreciation. The market premium, which is
applied to the RAB when determining the fair value of
goodwill, was assessed at the balance sheet date to be
7.5% (2023: 5.0%). This reflected market precedent
transactions in the year and the result of an independent
assessment which had regard to the CAA’s NR23 regulatory
settlement and the outlook for air traffic volumes.

There is an uncertainty in respect of the judgement on the
RAB premium. As a sensitivity, the removal of the 7.5%
RAB premium would not result in a goodwill impairment
charge. ;

Should the actual outcomes in respect of these matters
differ to the NR23 regulatory settlement, further impairment
charges may be required which would materially impact
operating results in future periods. See notes 12, 13, 14 and
15.

NATS (En Route) plc

Leases (see notes 15 and 18)

Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis
over the remaining term of the lease or asset life if it is
shorter, and subject to annual impairment reviews, as noted
above.

Determining the lease term

The lease term determined by the lessee comprises non-
cancellable periods of lease contracts, periods covered by
an option to extend the lease if the lessee is reasonably
certain to exercise that option and periods covered by an
option to terminate the lease if the lessee is reasonably
certain not to exercise that option. Specific lease term
judgements have been taken in relation to property leases
in England and Wales that are governed by the Landlord
and Tenant Act 1954. For those that are in the process of
being extended, it has been assumed that they will be
extended, under the Landlord and Tenants Act 1954, for a
period of 15 years which is aligned with the NERL's Air
Traffic Services licence termination notice period.

55

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) pic

4. Total revenue and regulatory allowances

The company has recognised the following revenue and regulatory allowances in the income statement: 2024 2023
£m £m
Revenue from contracts with customers 881.3 715.2
Regulatory allowances under-recovered 136.5 41.0
Other revenue: EU funding passed to UK en route customers (see note 4a) 77 22.7
Other revenue: rental and sub-lease income 4.0 3.5
Total revenue and regulatory allowances {see operating segments) 1,029.5 782.4

a) Total revenue and regulatory allowances disaggregated by operating segment

The NATS Executive team is considered to be the chief operating decision maker as defined by IFRS 8. The segmental analysis is based on the information that the
Executive team uses internally for the purposes of evatuating the performance of operating segments and determining resource allocation between segments. The
business is organised into service lines, aligned with our customers: Airspace, Defence and Other UK Susiness, and the products and services provided to each.

The performance of operating segments is assessed based on service line revenue and contribution. Service line contribution represents the revenue and costs
which are directly attributed to a service line. Costs which are not directly attributed to a service line include: costs managed outside of service lines, depreciation
and amortisation (net of government grants), profit/(loss) on disposal of non-current assets, employee share scheme (costs)/credits, redundancy costs, R&D
expenditure above the line tax credits, investment income, fair value movement on derivative contracts and finance costs. A reconciliation of service line
contribution to loss before tax is set out in note 5.

Principal activities
The following table describes the activities of each operating segment:

Airspace This includes all of the company’s economically regulated activities and encompasses services to en route, oceanic and London Approach
customers provided from our Prestwick and Swanwick centres, together with all the supporting communications, navigation and surveillance
infrastructure and facilities. Airspace includes dir traffic services for helicopters operating in the North Sea, approach services for London
airports, infrastructure services to the Ministry of Defence for their en route operations and European projects in conjunction with other air
traffic organisations.

Other Service lines Other services provided to UK customers including: Defence, providing air traffic control, engineering support and other services to the Ministry
of Defence and support to the Aquila joint venture for its Marshall contract; and Other UK Business providing consultancy, offering airspace
development, capacity improvement and training and Information, providing data to enable future efficiency and flight optimisation.

Segment information about these activities is presented below.

56

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) ple

4. Total revenue and regulatory allowances (continued)

a) Total revenue and regulatory allowances disaggregated by operating segment (continued)

2024 2023
External intercompany Total External Intercompany Total
£m £m £m £m Em £m
Revenue from contracts with customers
Airspace
UK air traffic services:

Services to UK en route customers 725.1 - 725.1 576.5 - 576.5

London Approach services 18.7 oot 15.7 13.5 : 13.5

Infrastructure services to the MOD 44.2 - 44.2 414 - 414

Services for North Sea helicopters 9.3 - 93 8.8 - 88

Other income 25 - 25 40 - 40

796.8 : 796.8 644.2 : 644.2
North Atlantic air traffic services:

Services to oceanic en route customers, 54.2 7. $4.2 43.7 - 43.7
Intercompany revenue - 25.2 25.2 - 21.2 21.2
Total Airspace revenue from contracts with customers 851.0 25.2 876.2 687.9 2.2 709.1
Other Service lines 54 - 5.1 64 - 61
Total revenue from contracts with customers 856.1 25.2 881.3 694.0 21.2 715.2
Regulatory allowances under-recovered
Airspace
UK air traffic services:

Services to UK en route customers, 133.5 : 133.5 415 - 415

London Approach services 3.0 : 3.0 (0.5) - (0.5)
Total regulatory allowances under-recovered 136.5 - 136.5 41.0 - 41.0
Other revenue: EU funding passed to UK en .
route customers
Airspace 77 - 77 22.7 - 22.7
Other revenue: rental and sub-lease income
Airspace 1.0 1.0 2.0 15 0.8 23
Other Service lines 2.0 - - 20 12 - . 1.2
Total revenue from other sources 3.0 1.0 40 27 08 3.5
Total revenue and regulatory allowances 1,003.3 26.2 1,029.5 760.4 22.0 782.4

UK air traffic services provide en route air traffic services within UK airspace, air traffic services for helicopters operating in the North Sea, approach services for
London airports, services to the Ministry of Defence and miscellaneous activity connected to the en route business. North Atlantic air traffic services provide en
route air traffic services over the North Atlantic, including an altitude calibration service.

EC Regulations require that European funding for SESAR deployment received by ANSPs should ultimately be passed on to airspace users through a discount in the
unit rate charge for UK en route services. in the financial year ended 31 March 2024, £7.7m (2023: £22.7m) of European funding was passed to airspace users.

Accordingly, an equivalent amount was released from contract liabilities to offset the cost of the discount.

Regulatory allowances under-recovered includes £123.3m following confirmation by the CAA of the Covid income shortfall, recognised at 31 March 2023 as variable
consideration (2023: £23.2m, based on CAA's initial proposals, published October 2022, for the Covid income shortfall).

Intercompany revenue includes revenue for services to NATS (Services) Limited of £26. 1m (2023: £21.9m) and to NATSNav Limited of £0.1m (2023: £0.1m).

57

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) ple

4. Total revenue and regulatory allowances (continued)
b) Revenue and regulatory allowances disaggregated based on economic regulation

‘ 2024 2023

External Intercompany Total External Intercompany Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m

Regulated income

Airspace *
Services to UK en route customers 728.1 - 725.1 576.5 - 576.5
London Approach services 18.7 - 15.7 13.5 - 13.5
Services to oceanic en route customers 54.2 - 54.2 43.7 - 43,7
Revenue from contracts with customers 795.0 - 795.0 633.7 - 633.7
Regulatory allowances under-recovered 136.5 - 136.5 41.0 : 41.0
Other revenue: EU funding passed to UK en V7 - 77 22.7 - 22.7
route Customers
Total regulated income : 939.2 - 939.2 697.4 : 697.4

Non-regulated income

Airspace

Infrastructure services to the MOD 44.2 - 44.2 414 - 414

Services for North Sea helicopters 9.3 - 9.3 88 - 88

Other income 25 - 25 40 - 40
Intercompany revenue - 25.2 25.2 : 21.2 21.2
Other Service lines 51 - 5.1 61 - 61
Revenue from contracts with customers . 61.1 25.2 86.3 60.3 21.2 81.5
Other revenue: rental and sub-lease income 3.0 1.0 4.0 27 08 3.5
Total non-regulated income 64.1 26.2 90.3 63.0 22.0 85.0

1,003.3 26.2 1,029.5 760.4 22.0 782.4

Airspace services are economically regulated activities governed by the company’s air traffic services licence. The revenue which the company is allowed to
generate from these services is governed by the price control conditions of this licence.

c) Total revenue and regulatory allowances disaggregated by timing of recognition

2024 2023
External intercompany Total External Intercompany Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Over time :
Revenue from contracts with customers 856.1 25.2 881.3 694.0 21.2 715.2
Regulatory allowances under-recovered 158.7 - 158.7 53.2 - 53.2
Other revenue: EU funding passed to UK en 77 - a7 22.7 - 22.7
route customers
Other revenue: rental and sub-lease income 3.0 1.0 40 27 08 35
1,025.5, 26.2 1,051.7 7726 22.0 794.6
At a point in time
Regulatory allowances over-recovered (22.2) - (22.2) (12.2) - (12.2)
1,003.3 26.2 1,029.5 760.4 22.0 782.4

58

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) pic

4. Total revenue and regulatory allowances (continued)

d) Total revenue and regulatory allowances disaggregated by geographical area

The following table provides an analysis of the company's revenue and requiatory allowances by geographicat area based on the tocation of its customers:

2024 2023
£m £m

Revenue and regulatory allowances, including Other revenue: EU funding passed to UK en route customers
United Kingdom 369.1 279.0
Other European countries 195.0 148.5
United States of America 151.0 112.5
Republic of Ireland 122.2 94.4
Countries in Asia 83.5 60.9
Germany 63.6 50.4
Other North American countries 32.4 26.5
Countries in Africa 54 43
Countries in South America 17 12
Countries in Oceania 1.6 1.2
1,025.5 778.9

Other revenue: rental and sub-lease income

United Kingdom 40 3.5
40 3.5
1,029.5 782.4

Revenue and regulatory allowances is attributed to countries on the basis of the customer's country of domicile. Individual countries have not been shown where
revenue and regulatory allowances from these countries of domicile are less than 5% of total revenue.

e) Contract balances

Contract liabilities from contracts with customers are disclosed in note 21. There were no contract assets at 31 March 2023 or 31 March 2024. Significant changes
in the contract liabilities balances during the year are as follows. .

Contract liabilities

2024 2023

£m £m

AU) April (66.5) (82.6)
Opening contract liabilities which have now been recognised as revenue 12.0 29.6
Increases due to cash received, excluding amounts recognised as revenue during the year (3.2) (13.5)
At 31 March (57.7) (66.5)

Contract liabilities are included within Trade and other payables” on the face of the statement of financial position. The majority of contracts in the Airspace service
line are service contracts that do not result in a contract asset or liability position at each reporting date. Other contracts (including consultancy, engineering,
training and information services) may result in a contract asset or liability because the cumulative payments received from customers at each balance sheet date
does not necessarily equal the amount of revenue recognised on these contracts.

f) Revenue and regulatory allowances recognised from performance obligations satisfied in previous periods

For the year ended 31 March 2024, a reduction of £22.2m was recognised for regulatory allowances over-recovered for performance obligations satisfied in
previous periods (2023: £12.2m). The year ended 31 March 2024 amount represents the difference between actual pension contributions and the regulator's
assumption for NR23 whilst the prior year amount related to the return of savings made during the pandemic, primarily as a result of staff redundancies.

59

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) ple

4. Total revenue and regulatory allowances (continued)

g) Remaining performance obligations

For the vast majority of contracts, the company has a right to consideration from the customer in an arnount that corresponds directly to the value to the customer
of the company's performance completed to date, or the contract has an original duration of one year or less. For such contracts, the practical expedient in
paragraph 121 of IFRS 15 applies.

For the remaining contracts, the amount of revenue that will be recognised in future periods in relation to performance obligations that are partially satisfied at 31
March ig Enil (2023: £1.0m in relation to Other Service lines).

h) Cash flow hedged revenue from contracts with customers

A portion of the company's revenue from the provision of services denominated in foreign currencies is cash flow hedged. Included in revenue is the recycling of
the effective amount of foreign currency derivatives that are used to hedge foreign currency revenue. The amount included in revenue is a £0.1m toss (2023:
£0.9m gain).

5. Operating segments

Service line contribution represents the revenue, regulatory allowances and costs which are directly attributed to a service line.

A reconciliation of service line contribution to profit before tax is provided below:

2024 2023
Em £m
Airspace 554.8 340.6
Other Service fines 65 62
Service line contribution 561.3 346.8
Costs not directly attributed to service lines:
Depreciation and amortisation (net of deferred grants released) (115.7) (98.4)
Loss on disposal of non-current assets : (0.2) >
Employee share scheme costs (4.2) (5.4)
Redundancy costs ~ (1.1) (0.1)
Other cosis not directly attributed to service lines (62.2) (70.7)
R&D expenditure above the line tax credits 37 1.6
Investment income 49.8 26.0
Fair value movement on derivative contracts (9.0) (13.7)
Finance costs (25.4} (29.6)
Profit before tax . 397.0 156.5

Other costs not directly attributed to service lines include corporate costs providing central support functions.

Total assets and total liabilities by operating segment are not regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker and accordingly are not required to
be disclosed.

60

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) ple

5. Operating segments (continued) .
Supplementary information

EC Regulations require air navigation service providers to present income and costs, prepared under international accounting standards, for each of their
_ air navigation services. The following disclosure is provided in this respect: .

2024 2023

North Atlantic North Atlantic

UK air traffic air traffic UK air traffic air traffic
services services Total services services . Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Revenue and regulatory allowances 975.3 54.2 1,029.5 738.7 43.7 782.4
Operating costs (607.2) (40.7) (647.9) (570.8) (37.8) (608.6)
Operating profit * 368.7 13.5 "381.6 167.9 5.9 173.8

Under ‘single till’ principles, UK air traffic services revenue includes regulatory allowances, intercompany revenue and rental and sub-lease income.
Non-current asset additions

Additions to non-current assets (including additions to right-of-use assets) presented by service line are: Airspace £109.0m (2023: £103.8m) and Other
Service lines £0.9m (2023: £3.3m).

Geographical segments
The following table provides an analysis of the company’s non-current assets (excluding amounts recoverable under regulatory agreement, financial

assets and retirement benefit assets) by geographical location. An analysis of the company’s revenue and regulatory allowances by geographical location
is provided in note 4 d) above.

Non-current assets

2024 2023

£m £m

United Kingdom 4,162.7 1171.9
Other European Countries 0.7 08
United States of America 0.2 03
1,163.6 1,173.0

Information about major customers

No customer accounted for more than 10% of the company's revenue in the current year.

61

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) ple

6. Operating profit for the year

Operating profit for the year has been arrived at after charging/(crediting):

2024 2023
£m £m

The CAA regulatory charges 49 5.4
Amortisation of intangible assets (note 13) 49.7 40.9
Impairment of intangible assets (note 13) 11.8 9.3
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (note 14) 46.1 43.4
Impairment of property, plant and equipment (note 14) 43 0.4
Depreciation of right-of-use assets (note 15) 40 46
Deferred grants released (0.2) (0.2)
Research and development costs 68 47
Redundancy costs 11 0.1
R&D expenditure above the line tax credits (3.7) (1.6)
Foreign exchange (losses)/gains (0.9) 27

Auditors remuneration for audit services (see below)

Research and development costs represent internal labour costs in support of research and development activities.

Government grants relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are treated as deferred income which is credited to the income statement by
equal annual instalments over the expected useful lives of the related assets.

Fees payable to BDO LLP and their associates for non-audit services to the company are not required to be disclosed because the consolidated financial
statements are required to disclose such fees on a consolidated basis. These fees are borne by NATS Limited and recharged to other group companies.

Transactions with group companies

2024 2023

£m £m

Net charges for services provided by parent undertaking 14.2 13.8
Charges for services provided by other group companies 19.4 18.3
Charges for seconded staff under the terms of the ISA provided by NATS Limited (see below) 395.7 390.2

NATS Limited, the immédiate parent company, is responsible for employing the staff engaged in the activities carried out by NERL. In addition to the staff
costs referred to in note 7a) below, NERL is responsible under the Inter-company Secondment Agreement (ISA) for reimbursing NATS Limited for all other
staff related costs which it incurs on behalf of the employees seconded to NERL (including all taxes and social security, redundancy and pension costs)
together with appropriate staff related costs and expenses and disbursements. Under the Inter-company Trading Agreement (ICTA) NATS Services”
provides certain services to NERL. The ISA and ICTA are explained in more detail in note 2.

62

Notes forming part of the accounts

NATS (En Route) ple

7. Staff costs

a) Staff costs

2024 2023
£m £m
Salaries and staff costs were as follows:
Wages and salaries 296.5 273.0
Employee share scheme costs (note 27) 4.2 5.4
Social security costs 35.8 35.1
Pension costs (note 7b) 59.0 76.7
395.5 390.2
Less: Amounts capitalised (38.1) (33.9)
357.4 356.3
Wages and salaries include other allowances and holiday pay.
b) Pension costs (see note 28)
2024 2023
£m £m
Defined benefit scheme 30.1 53.8
Defined contribution scheme 28.9 22.9
59.0 76.7

Staff pension contributions are included within these pension scheme costs as the company operates a salary sacrifice arrangement. Wages and salaries

(note 7a) have been shown net of staff pension contributions.

c) Staff numbers

2024 2023
No. No.

The monthly average number of employees (including executive directors) was:
Air traffic controllers 1,181 1,160
Air traffic service assistants S15 496
Engineers 665 654
Others 921 820
3,282 3,130
3,378 3,179

The number of employees (including executive directors) in post at 31 March was:

8. Investment income

2024 2023

£m Em

Interest on bank deposits 45 1.4
Other loans and receivables 45.3 24.6
49.8 26.0

Interest on bank deposits has been earned on financial assets, including cash and cash equivalents and short term investments. Other loans and
receivables includes £8.8m (2023: £8.5m) in relation to the effect of unwinding the discount on amounts receivable after more than one year.

63

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) pie

9. Fair value movement on derivative contracts

Charge arising from change in the fair value of derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting

10. Finance costs

Interest on bank loans and hedging instruments
Bond and related costs including financing expenses
Interest on lease liabilities (see note 18)

Other finance costs

One-off re-financing costs

Other finance costs includes the effect of unwinding the discount on amounts payable after more than one year.

11. Tax

Corporation tax

Current tax

Group relief payable

Adjustments in respect of prior year

Deferred tax (see note 23)

Origination and reversal of temporary timing differences
Adjustments in respect of prior year

Effects of tax rate change on opening balance

Corporation tax is calculated at 25% (2023: 19%) of the estimated assessable profit for the year.

2024

The total tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income £m
statement as follows:

Profit on ordinary activities before tax 397.0
Tax on profit on ordinary activities at standard rate in the UK of 25% (2023: 19%} 99.3
Tax effect of change in corporation tax rate from 19% to 25% -
Tax effect of prior year adjustments - current tax (4.1)
Tax effect of prior year adjustments - deferred tax 3.0
Patent box (1.4)
Employee share scheme @ 1.0
R&D expenditure credits (0.2)
Group relief received but not paid for (0.2)
Other permanent differences (0.2)
Total tax charge for year at an effective tax rate of 24.5% (2023: 20.3%) 97.2
Deferred tax credit taken directly to equity (see note 23) (8.9)

25.0%

(1.0%)
0.8%
(0.4%)
0.3%
(0.1%)
(0.1%)

24.5%

(1) - Under UK HMRC regulations, NERL is able to take advantage of income attributable to patents being taxed at a lower rate.
(2)- Under UK HMRC regulations, the cost of employee shares is deductible when shares are awarded to employees. Costs (or credits) which arise from

changes in the market value of employee shares are not deductible (or chargeable) for UK tax purposes.

Deferred tax is provided at the prevailing rate of corporation tax expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset realised. The

company does not have any materia! uncertain tax positions.

64

2024 2023
£m £m
(2.0) (13.7)
2024 2023
£m £m
1.3 7.3
19.7 14.1
1.0 13
3.4 6.1
- 08
25.4 29.6
2024 2023
£m £m
73.4 415
9.2 -
(4.1) :
78.5 11.5
15.7 21.8
3.0 17
(3.2)
18.7 20.3
97.2 31.8
2023
£m %
156.5,
29.7 19.0%
06 0.4%
1.7 1.1%
(1.2) (0.8%)
1.0 0.6%
31.8 20.3%
(50.6)

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) pie

11. Tax (continued)

Detailed reconciliation of the current tax charge

2024 2023
The current tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit per the income £m % £m %
statement as follows:
Profit on ordinary activities before tax 397.0 156.5
Tax on profit on ordinary activities at standard rate in the UK of 25% (2023: 19%) 99.3 25.0% 29.7 19.0%
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
- employee share scheme costs 1.0 0.3% 1.0 0.6%
- patent box (1.4) (0.4%) (1.2) (0.8%)
- R&D expenditure tax credit (0.2) (0.1%) 0.2 0.1%
- pension contributions paid in excess of charge to income statement (19.4) (4.9%) (2.9) (1.8%)
- group relief received but not paid for (0.2) (0.1%) - -
Capital allowances in excess of depreciation
- capital allowances (31.7) (7.9%) (16.3) (10.4%)
- depreciation and amortisation on eligible assets. 28.0 7.1% 14.3 9.1%
Other temporary differences - fixed assets
- capitalised revenue expenditure (5.9) (1.5%) - :
- amortisation of capital grants (0.7) (0.2%) - -
Other temporary timing differences
+ provisions 0.3 0.1% 0.6 0.4%
+ index-linked swaps (2.1) (0.5%) (1.7) (1.1%)
- corporate interest restriction - - (6.0) (3.8%)
Losses brought forward (@.6} (0.9%) (8.9) (5.7%)
Other permanent differences (0.2) (0.1%) (0.2) (0.1%)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods (4.1) (1.0%) - -
Current tax charge for year at an effective tax rate of 14.9% (2023: 5.5%) 59.1 14.9% 8.6 5.5%

The total current tax charge comprises a £78.5m charge to the Income statement (2023: £11.5m charge) and a £19.4m credit to the Statement of
comprehensive income (2023: £2.9m credit) in relation to contributions to the Defined benefit pension scheme.

65

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) ple

12. Goodwill

£m
Cost
At 31 March 2023 and 31 March 2024 351.0
Accumulated impairment losses
At 31 March 2023 and 31 March 2024 312.7
Carrying amount
At 31 March 2024 38.3
At 31 March 2023 38.3
At 1 April 2022 38.3

The amounts disclosed above relate to the Airspace service line. Its recoverable amount is determined by reference to the higher of its fair value less
costs of disposal and its vatue in use. The valuation methodology is consistent with the IFRS 13 level 3 hierarchy.

The company tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired. For goodwill held in the
Airspace service line, which arose from the NATS public private partnership transaction in 2001, fair value less costs of disposal is determined by
reference to the value of the regulatory asset bases (RABs) of the relevant cash generating units of UK Air Traffic Services and North Atlantic Air Traffic
Services (in aggregate £2,299.6m, 2023: £1,959.1m), opportunities for out-performance of regulatory settlements and market premia for economically
regulated businesses, as well as estimated costs of disposal of £1.0m. A market premium is applied to the value of the RABs. It is assessed annually by
reference to market precedent transactions and an independent assessment was completed in 2024. The RAB premium at 31 March 2024 was
determined to be 7.5% (2023: 5.0%). Overall, reflecting the value of the RAB and the premium assumption, goodwill was not impaired in the year (2023:
£nil). This assessment reflected latest forecasts for air traffic, the CAA’s NR23 regulatory settlement which reflects new projections of air traffic
volumes and associated safety, service performance targets and capital investment requirements. Goodwill would be impaired if the RAB premium was
assessed to be a discount of 15% (2023: 11%).

Fair value less costs of disposal was higher than vaiue in use at 31 March 2024. The carrying value of goodwill at 31 March 2024 was not impaired
(2023: not impaired) as the book value of the net assets of the Airspace service line of £ 1,827m (2023: £1,660m) was below the fair value less costs of
disposal of £2,299m (2023: £1,958m).

66

Notes forming part of the accounts

13. Other intangible assets

Cost
At 1 Aprit 2022

Additions internally generated
Additions externally acquired
Transfers during the year

At 31 March 2023 5

Additions internally generated
Additions externally acquired
Disposals during the year
Transfers during the year

At 31 March 2024
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 April 2022

Charge for the year
Impairment provision recognised in income statement

At 31 March 2023
Charge for the year
Impairment provision recognised in income statement

Transfer of impairment provision
Disposals during the year

At 31 March 2024

Carrying amount

At 31 March 2024
At 31 March 2023

At 1 April 2022

An annual review is performed to assess the carrying value of other intangible assets, including operating assets and assets in the course of

NATS (En Route) ple

Assets in
Operational Non-operational Airspace and course of

software software — resectorisation construction Total
£m £m £m £m £m
503.2 118.2 135.3 393.1 1,149.8
1.2 - 17 22.2 25.1
06 - 0.4 32.5 33.5
2.0 (0.1) 37 (9.2) (3.6)
507.0 118.1 141.1 438.6 1,204.8
47 0.1 1.0 24.1 29.9
3.0 08 1.3 28.2 33.3
- : (2.3) : (2.3)
35.3 67 55.8 (83.7) 14.1
550.0 425.7 196.9 407.2 1,279.8
314.0 99.8 47.0 12.4 473.2
22.6 5.8 12.5 - 409
11 - - 8.2 9.3
337.7 105.6 59.5 20.6 $23.4
25.6 85 15.6 - 49.7
- - 11.8 118

- 0.1 6.0 (6.1) -

: : (2.3) - (2.3)
363.3 114.2 78.8 26.3 582.6
186.7 qs 118.1 380.9 697.2
169.3 12.5 81.6 418.0 681.4
189.2 18.4 88.3 380.7 676.6

construction. The accumulated amortisation of assets in the course of construction represents impairment provisions. During the year, impairment
charges of £11.8m (2023: £9.3m) were made in respect of a data integration system, within assets in the course of construction, which is no longer

considered commercially viable.

Other transfers during the year represents the transfer on delivery of assets under the course of construction to the relevant operating asset

classification, including transfers between other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment when the final classification is determined following

an assessment at completion.

67

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) pic

14. Property, plant and equipment

tmprovements Air traffic Assets in
to leasehold control Vehicles, course of
Freehold land landand systems, plant furniture and construction
and buildings buildings — and equipment fittings and installation Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 April 2022 246.7 40.8 1,398.3 22.8 162.0 1,870.6
Additions during the year 04 0.2 94 06 37.7 48.3
Disposals during the year - : (0.3) : - - (0.3)
Other transfers during the year 01 0.3 22.8 07 (20.3) 36
At 31 March 2023 247.2 41.3 1,430.2 24.1 179.4 1,922.2
Additions during the year 07 - 86 2.2 33.2 44.7
Disposals during the year : : (4.6) - - (4.6)
Other transfers during the year 3.3 02 45.1 3.4 (66.1) (14.1)
At 31 March 2024 251.2 41.5 1,479.3 29.7 146.5 1,948.2
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At April 2022 168.1 37.8 1,241.8 20.3 0.1 1,468.1
Provided during the year 77 1.0 34.0 07 - 43.4
Impairment provision recognised in income - - 0.4 - - 04
statement
Transfer of impairment provision - - (0.5) : 05 -
Disposals during the year - - (0.2) - - (0.2)
At 31 March 2023 175.8 38.8 4,275.5, 21.0 06 1,511.7
Provided during the year 77 08 36.5 VW - 46.1
impairment provision recognised in income - : 43 - - + 43
statement
Disposals during the year - - (4.4) - - (4.4)
At 31 March 2024 183.5 39.6 1,311.9 22.1 06 1,557.7
Carrying amount
At 31 March 2024 67.7 1.9 167.4 76 145.9 390.5
At 31 March 2023 7.4 25 154.7 3.1 178.8 410.5
At 1 April 2022 78.6 3.0 186.5 25 161.9 402.5

The company conducts annual reviews of the carrying values of its property, plant and equipment, including operating assets and assets in the course of
construction where there is an indicator of impairment. During the year, the company incurred impairment charges of £4.3m (2023: £0.4m) to write down
the value of network infrastructure system test equipment, reflecting the limited alternative uses for this equipment.

Other transfers during the year represents the transfer on delivery of assets under the course of construction to the relevant operating asset
classification, including transfers between other intangible assets and property, plant and equipment when the final classification is determined following
an assessment at completion.

During the year the company capitalised £0.7m (2023: £0.9m) of genera! borrowing costs at a capitalisation rate of 1.51% (2023: 1.70%), in accordance
with IAS 23: Borrowing Costs, relating to both property, plant and equipment and ather intangible assets.

68

Notes forming part of the accounts

15. Rig ht-of-use assets

Cost
At 1 April 2022

Additions during the year
Terminations during the year

At 31 March 2023
Additions during the year

Effect of modification to lease terms
Terminations during the year

At 31 March 2024
Accumulated depreciation and impairment
At 1 April 2022

Provided during the year
Terminations during the year

At 31 March 2023

Provided during the year
Terminations during the year

At 31 March 2024

Carrying amount

At 31 March 2024
At 31 March 2023

At 1 April 2022

NATS (En Route} ple

Air traffic
control Vehicles,
Leasehold land — systems, plant furniture and

and buildings and equipment fittings Total
£m em £m £m
60.7 2.0 09 63.6
- - 02 0.2
(0.3) : (0.8) qv.)
60.4 2.0 03 62.7
V1 0.3 06 2.0
(1.3) - - (1.3)
: - (0.1) (0.1)
60.2 23 08 . 63.3
22.6 1.2 0.7 24.5
42 0.2 0.2 46
(0.3) - (0.8) (1.1)
26.5 1.4 0.1 28.0
3.6 0.2 0.2 4.0
- (0.1) (0.1)

30.1 1.6 0.2 31.9
30.1 07 0.6 31.4
33.9 0.6 0.2 34.7
38.1 08 0.2 39.1

The company conducts annual reviews of the carrying values of its right-of-use assets where there is an indicator of impairment. No assets were impaired

in the year ended 31 March 2024 or 31 March 2023.

69

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) ple

16. Financial and other assets
The company had balances in respect of financial and other assets as follows:

Trade and other receivables

2024 2023
£m ém
Non-current
Receivable from customers gross 02 0.3
Prepayments 6.2 81
6.4 8.4
Current
Receivable from customers gross 149.6 136.8
Less: expected credit loss provision (9.9) (10.8)
139.7 126.0
Other debtors 40 26
Amounts due from fellow subsidiary undertaking - 0.1
Prepayments 12.8 10.5
156.5 139.2

The average credit period on sales of services is 31 days (2023: 37 days}. Interest is charged by Eurocontral to UK en route customers at 13.26% (2023:
9.97%) on balances outstanding after more than 30 days.

‘
Receivables from customers which are current include unbilled revenue for services provided in March 2024. Prior year receivables from customers included
unbilled revenue for services provided in March 2023.

Amounts recoverable under regulatory agreement

2024 2023
£m £m
Non-current
Amounts recoverable under regulatory agreement 631.1
Current
Amounts recoverable under regulatory agreement . 223.7 100.2
Movement in amounts recoverable under regulatory agreement
2024 2023
£m £m
Balance at the beginning of the year 731.3 724.6
Adjustments in respect of variable consideration for services provided in prior years, net of associated discounting 123.3 23.2
Discounted amounts recognised during the year 409.1 53.1
Unwind of discounting 2.1 (2.6)
Amounts recovered under regulatory agreement through charges in the year + (166.8) (67.0)
Balance at the end of the year 799.0 731.3

Amounts recoverable under regulatory agreement which are non-current include the net present value of regulatory allowances under-recovered. These will be
recovered after 31 March 2025. The amount relating to the Covid income shortfall of £560.8m will be recovered across the 10 years of the NR23 and NR28
price controls. An amount of £28.7m relating to pension pass through (2023: £29.3m) includes £5.6m arising in Reference Period 1 to be recovered by 31
December 2030 and £23.1m arising in Reference Period 2 that will be recovered by 31 December 2035. An assessment of credit risk has been included within
the discount rate used to determine the net present value.

Amounts recoverable under regulatory agreement which are current relate to: Reference Period 1, the recovery of the relevant portion of the Covid income

shortfall and revenue allowances relating to 2023 and 2024 which have been deferred by the regulator's price profiling. The amounts will be included in the unit
rates to be charged in the financial year ending 31 March 2025.

70

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) plc

16. Financial and other assets (continued)

Movement in the expected credit loss provision

2024 2023

£m. £m

Balance at the beginning of the year 10.8 W7
Decrease in allowance recognised in the income statement (0.4) (0.8)
Foreign exchange movement in the year (0.3) 04
Amounts written off as irrecoverable - (0.2) (0.5)
Balance at the end of the year 99 10.8

The company applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit tosses using a lifetime expected credit loss provision for trade receivables
and contract assets. In order to measure the expected credit losses, the credit risk characteristics of trade receivables and contract assets have been
considered. Based on this, trade receivables and contract assets have been grouped into sub-groups as they are considered to have different credit risk
characteristics and for each of these sub-groups separate provisions matrices based on the days past due are used to summarise historic loss patterns. The
historical loss rates calculated reflect the economic conditions in place during the period to which the historical data relates. Consideration needs to be made
as to whether these historical loss rates were incurred in economic conditions that are representative of those expected to exist during the exposure period at
the balance sheet date. We have assessed lifetime expected credit losses at 31 March 2024 by using available airline credit ratings to derive a customer
default sisk profile. The historic loss rates have been adjusted accordingly, to reflect these revised expected credit losses.

At 31 March the lifetime expected credit loss provision for trade receivables is as follows:

2024
Receivables - months past due
Unbilled In admin-
income Current Imonth 23months 46months 7-12months >12 months istration Total
£m
Expected crecit loss 0.9% 0.9% 8.4% 17.5% 51.4% 43.9% 99.0% 100.0%
rate (%)
Gross carrying
amount (Em) 67.9 714 15 0s 02 04 08 74 149.8
Lifetime expected 06 0.6 0.1 01 0.4 02 08 74 9.9
credit loss (Em)
2023
Receivables - months past due
Unbilled tn admin-
income Current Tmonth 23months 46months 7-12months  >12 months istration Total
£m

Expected credit loss 1.5% 1.8% 9.1% 27.8% 74.4% 43.8% 80.9% 100.0%
rate (%)
Gross carrying
amount (£m) 63.5 62.7 1.2 - 04 0.3 08 07 75 137.1
Lifetime expected 1.0 0.9 0.1 0.1 0.2 04 06 78 10.8

credit loss (Em)

As at 31 March 2024, trade receivables of £7.4m (2023: £7.5m) had lifetime expected credit losses of the full value of the receivables. These receivables are in
administration, receivership or liquidation.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash held by the company and short term bank deposits with an original maturity of three months or less. The directors
consider that the carrying amount of these assets approximates to their fair value.

Overall, the maximum credit risk relating to cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables, excluding amounts recoverable under regulatory
agreement, prepayments and VAT receivable, would be £231.6m (2023: £184.4m).

71

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) ple

17. Borrowings .
. 2024 2023
£m fm
Unsecured at amortised cost
Bank loans - 65.0
£450m 1.375% Bonds due 2031 453.1 446.2
£445m 1.750% Bonds due 2033 : 412.9 -
£300m 1.750% Bonds due 2033 - 297.1
£145m 1.750% Bonds due 2033 - 104.4
Gross borrowings 866.0 912.7
Unamortised bank facility fees (4.1) (1.3)
864.9 911.4
Amounts due for settlement within 12 months 104.0 45.0
Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 760.9 866.4

Bonds and bank borrowings are initially recognised at fair value net of any directly attributable transaction costs. These are subsequently measured
at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, which ensures that any interest expense over the period to repayment is at a constant
rate on the balance of the liability carried on the balance sheet. Interest expense includes initial transaction costs as well as any interest payable
while the liability is outstanding.

During the course of the year, the £145m of fixed rate bonds issued in the previous financial year in the form of a tap were consolidated with the
original £300m 1.750% bonds, as represented above by the £445m 1.750% Bonds due 2033 at 31 March 2024.

The carrying value of all the bonds at 31 March 2024 includes unpaid annual interest which was settled on 2 April 2024, due to the timing of the
Easter 2024 bank holiday.

The average effective interest rate on the bank loans in the year was 5.1% (2023: 2.6%) and was determined based on the Sterling Overnight Index
Average (SONIA) rates plus a margin of 0.45% and utilisation fee.

Undrawn committed facilities 2024 2023
. &m £m

Undrawn committed facilities expire as follows:
Expiring in more than two years 400.0 335.0
400.0 335.0

NERL has a £400m revolving bank facility agreement which expires in May 2026. At 31 March 2024, NERL had outstanding drawings of Enil (2023:
£65.0m) against its revolving bank facility.

72

Notes forming part of the accounts

NATS (En Route) pic

18. Leases

Details of the carrying values of right-of-use assets under lease agreements, and the depreciation charge for right-of-use assets included in the income

statement are reported in note 15.

The following table sets out the contractual maturity of the company’s lease liabilities:

Due within one year or less
Due between one and two years
Due between two and five years
Due in more than five years

Less: future finance charges

Analysed as:

Current
Non-current

The income statement includes the following amounts relating to leases:

Interest on lease liabilities (see note 10)
Short term lease expense

Nature of leasing activities

2024 2023
£m £m
7.0 79
71 7.0
20.2 20.3
13.0 19.3
47.3 54.5
(4.1) (5.0)
43.2 49.5
6.0 67
37.2 42.8
43.2 49.5
2024 2023
im £m
1.0 1.3
0.1 0.1

The company leases a number of properties in the jurisdictions from which it operates. Some property contracts contain provision for payments to
increase each year by inflation, others to be reset periodically to market rental rates. In other cases, the periodic rent is fixed over the lease term. The
company also leases certain items of plant, equipment and vehicles. Leases of plant, equipment and vehicles comprise only fixed payments over the

lease terms.

The percentages in the table below reflect the current proportions of lease payments that are either fixed or variable. The sensitivity reflects the impact
‘on the carrying amount of lease liabilities and right-of-use assets if there was an uplift of 5% on the balance sheet date relative to lease payments that

are variable.

Year ended 31 March 2024

Property leases with payments linked to inflation
Property leases with periodic uplifts to market rentals
Property leases with fixed payments

Leases of plant and equipment

Vehicle leases

Lease contracts
No.

52
43
2
2
4)

140

Fixed payments Variable payments

94

na
oa
1.6%
1.5%

3.1%

OA

21.4%
75.5%
n/a
na
n/a

96.9%

Sensitivity
£m

0s
1.6
n/a
n/a
n/a

21

73

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) ple

18. Leases (continued)

Nature of leasing activities (continued)

Year ended 31 March 2023 Lease contracts Fixed payments Variable payments Sensitivity
No. 0 9 £m

Property leases with payments linked to inflation 50 n/a 24.2% 0.6
Property leases with periodic uplifts to market rentals 40 n/a 72.3% 1.8
Property leases with fixed payments 2 1.7% n/a n/a
Leases of plant and equipment 2 1.3% na Wa
Vehicle leases 20 05% n/a n/a
114 3.5% 96.5% 2.4

()) The fixed/variable payment percentage is calculated based on the value of the lease liability outstanding as at 31 March, divided by the company's
total lease liability outstanding at that date.

The company sometimes negotiates break clauses in its property leases. On a case-by-case basis, the company will consider whether the absence of a
break clause would expose the company to excessive risk. Typically factors considered in deciding to negotiate a break clause include:
- The length of the lease term;
o What the location will be used for e.g. a break clause is more important for a location used to house older technology; and
: Whether the location represents a new area of operations for the company.

At 31 March 2024, the carrying amounts of lease liabilities are not reduced by the amount of payments that would be avoided from exercising break
clauses where it was considered reasonably certain that the company would not exercise its right to break the lease. In addition, the carrying amounts of
some leases include the period to which the company is reasonably certain that options to extend the leases will be exercised. The remaining lease
payments on all these leases is £13.6m (2023; £18.6m), of which £6.9m (2023: £11.1m) is potentially avoidable if the leases were not extended anda
further £5.3m (2023: £7.1m) is potentially avoidable were the company to exercise break clauses at the earliest opportunity.

The amount for leases not yet commenced to which the company is committed at 31 March 2024 is Enil (2023: £0.1m).
19. Derivative financial instruments

Fair value of derivative financial instruments

2024 2023
£m £m
Non-current assets
Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships
Forward foreign exchange contracts (cash flow hedges) 0.1 15
OT ° 15
Current assets
Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships
Forward foreign exchange contracts (cash flow hedges) 20 15
20 15
Current liabilities
Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships
Forward foreign exchange contracts (cash flow hedges) (1.4) (0.9)
Derivative financial instruments classified as held for trading
Index-linked swaps (12.4) (11.7)
(13.8) (12.6)
Non-current liabilities
Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting relationships
Forward foreign exchange contracts (cash flow hedges) . (0.8) (0.6)
Derivative financial instruments classified as held for trading
Indexlinked swaps : (67.4) (69.9)
(68.2) (70.5)

74

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) plc

19. Derivative financial instruments (continued)

Further details on derivative financial instruments are provided in note 20. The index-linked swaps are classified under international accounting
standards as held for trading as they do not qualify for hedge accounting.

Hedge effectiveness is determined at the inception of the hedge relationship and through periodic prospective effectiveness assessments to ensure
that an economic relationship exists between the hedged item and hedging instrument. The hedge ratio is established with reference to the cash
flows associated with the hedged item and the hedging instrument. ineffectiveness may arise if the timing of the forecast transaction changes from
what was originally estimated, or if there are changes in the credit risk of the hedging instrument counterparties.

20. Financial instruments

Capital risk management
The company manages its capital to ensure that it is able to continue as a going concern, to meet its obligations under its air traffic services licence and to

fund returns to shareholders. The capital structure of the company consists of borrowings, as disclosed in nate 17, cash and cash equivalents, as shown in
this note, and equity attributable to shareholders as disclosed in the statement of changes in equity.

External capital requirements

The air traffic services licence requires the company to use ail reasonable endeavours to maintain an investment grade issuer credit rating (BBB-/Baa3 or
better). Separately, it is the objective of the company to target a credit profile that exceeds BBB-/Baa3.

As at 31 March 2024, NERL had a credit rating of At (stable outlook) from Standard & Poor's (2023: A+ (negative outlook)) and A2 (stable outlook) from
Moody's (2023: A2 (stable outlook)).

Gearing ratio
The company sets a monitoring threshold level over its gearing ratio, measured as the ratio of net debt (as defined by its air traffic services licence) to its
regulatory asset base (RAB), ensuring that gearing remains below its financial covenant level of 85%. In addition, the CAA has set NERL a monitoring threshold

for gearing of 60% and a gearing cap of 65% of net debt to RAB with a requirement for the company to remedy the position if this cap is exceeded. NERL’s
gearing ratio at 31 March 2024 was 41.9% (2023: 52.3%).

Categories of financial instrument

The carrying values of financial instruments by category at 31 March was as follows:

2024 2023
£m £m
Financial assets
Financial assets at amortised cost
Trade and other receivables . 140.5 126.7
Cash and cash equivalents 91.1 57.7
231.6 184.4
Derivative financial instruments
In designated hedge accounting relationships 24 3.0
, 2337 197.4
Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Trade and other payables (116.0) (106.9)
Borrowings (864.9) (971.4)
Lease liabilities (43.2) (49.5)
(1,024.1) (1,067.8)
Derivative financial instruments
In designated hedge accounting relationships (2.2) (1.5)
At fair value through profit or loss (79.8) (81.6)
(82.0) (83.1)
(1,106.1) (1,150.9)

75

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) plc

20. Financial instruments

Categories of financial instrument (continued)

Financial assets at amortised cost includes balances for trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments of £19.0m (2023: £18.6m) and VAT of £3.4m
(2023: £2.3m)) and cash and cash equivalents.

Financial liabilities at amortised cost includes balances for trade and other payables (excluding contract liabilities of £57.7m (2023: £66.5m) and deferred
income of £26.4m (2023: £24.5m)), bond and bank borrowings and lease liabilities.

The index-linked swaps are categorised as held for trading. During the year £10.8m of amortisation payments (2023: £8.0m) were made in relation to the index:
linked swaps. Taking into account the index-linked swap amortisation payments, a charge arising from the change in fair value of £9.0m has been recorded in
the income statement in the year (2023: £13.7m charge) for the market value movement in the RPI swap liability, This decrease in the charge for the year
largely relates to the impact that actual inflation and future inflation expectations have had on the fair value changes for the £ 200m (notional) of 10 year index-
linked swaps that were entered into in June 2021.

Financial risk management objectives

The group's Treasury function is mandated by the Board to manage financial risks that arise in relation to underlying business needs. The function provides
services to the business, co-ordinates access to financial markets and monitors and manages financial risks relating to the operations of the group. The
function has clear policies and operating parameters. The Treasury Committee provides oversight and meets at least three times a year to approve strategy
and to monitor compliance with Board policy. The Treasury function does not operate as a profit centre and the undertaking of speculative transactions is not
permitted. The principal financial risks arising from the group's activities include market risk (including currency risk, interest rate risk and inflation risk), credit
risk and liquidity risk.

Market risk

The company's activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and inflation rates. These risks
are explained below. From time to time, the company enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to these risks, including:

- forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the exchange risk arising on services provided to UK en route customers that are billed in euro, US dollar
satellite data charges for satellite based surveillance services across the North Atlantic and other purchases from foreign suppliers in foreign currencies;

- interest rate swaps to mitigate the risk of rising interest rates; and

-  index-linked swaps to mitigate the risk of low inflation.

Foreign currency risk management
Ouring the course of the year the group continued to manage foreign exchange risk arising from UK en route services revenue. It did this by entering into

forward foreign exchange contracts on a monthly basis to hedge up to 95% of the forecast UK en route revenue up to four months hence, based on short
term forecasts of chargeable service units.

The company also enters into contracts for the purchase and sale of goods and services with overseas suppliers and customers who operate in foreign
currencies. To mitigate currency risk the contract value is hedged when a firm commitment arises, either through the use of forward foreign currency
contracts or by purchasing foreign currency at spot rates on the date the commitment arises or by setting aside already available foreign currency.

The carrying amount of the company's foreign currency denominated monetary assets and monetary liabilities at 31 March was as follows:

Assets —_Liabilities

2024 2023 2024 2023

£m £m £m £m

Euro 64.1 60.4 (10.4) (7.7)
US dollar 18 23 (1.9) (2.0)
Canadian dollar 0.5 06 (1.1) (1.4)
Norwegian krone : : : (0.1)
Swedish krona - - - (0.1)
66.4 63.3 (13.4) (11.3)

76

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) ple

20. Financial instruments (continued)
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis

The company has assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies including cash balances of £4.1m at 31 March 2024 (2023: £0.6m) in euro, US
dollars and Canadian dollars. Trade and other receivables and trade and other payables include balances of £60.2m (2023: £60.0m) and £8.5m (2023: £7.1m)
of euro denominated balances respectively. Furthermore, the company has entered into forward foreign currency contracts to hedge exchange risk relating to
customer receipts and supplier costs which will arise in future periods. .

The following table details the company’s sensitivity to a 10% increase or decrease in the value of sterling against relevant foreign currencies. 10% is the
sensitivity rate that represents the reasonably possible change in foreign currency exchange rates in a financial year. The sensitivity analysis includes foreign
currency cash balances, trade receivables, trade payables and forward foreign exchange contracts and adjusts their translation at the period end for a 10%
change in foreign currency rates.

The table below shows the effect of a 10% strengthening of sterling against the relevant currency (to the nearest £0.1m). A positive number below indicates
an increase in profit and equity and a negative number a reduction in profit and equity. There would be an equal and opposite impact on profit and equity if

sterling devalues by 10% against the relevant currency. >
2024 2023
Currency Impact Impact
£m £m
Euro 10.6 57
US dollar (1.8) (3.8)
Canadian dollar . (0.1) (0.3)
8.7 1.6

There was an overall increase in currency exposure reftecting an increase in forward contract sates of euro (due to the greater volume of flights driving higher
billings compared to prior year). The company believes that this sensitivity analysis accurately reflects its inherent foreign exchange risk.

Forward foreign exchange contracts

Throughout the year the company applied its policy of entering into forward foreign exchange contracts to sell euro forecast to be remitted to the UK by
Eurocontrol in respect of UK en route revenues. The company also continued to enter into various forward foreign exchange contracts to fund capital
purchases and services, which have been designated as cash flow hedges. At the year end, all forward foreign exchange contracts were determined to be
effective. The following contracts were outstanding at year end:

2024 2023

Average Average
exchange rate exchange rate

Euro sold £m €m £m €m
0-90 days 203.8 237.5 0.8584 163.5 184.6 0.8858
91-365 days 0.2 0.2 0.8953 37 4.2 0.8684
> 365 days 75 8.4 0.8930 77 86 0.8930
211.5 246.1 0.8596 174.9 197.4 0.8857

Euro bought ém £m €m , —m
0-90 days 117 10.1 0.8673 5.4 48 0.8838
91-365 days . 16.8 15.1 0.8942 23.4 20.6 0.8815
> 365 days 29.4 26.8 0.9102 43.6 39.5 _ 0.9057
57.9 52.0 0.8969 72.4 64.9 0.8962

US dollar sold £m USS m £m USS m
0-90 days 5.7 6.9 1.2116 5.5 6.6 1.2017
91-365 days 111 13.5 1.2133 - - :
> 365 days - - . 16.8 20.4 1.2127
16.8 20.4 1.2127 22.3 - 27.0 1.2100

77 ‘

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) pic

20. Financial instruments (continued)

2024 2023

Average Average
exchange rate exchange rate

US dollar bought ussm £m ussm £m
0-90 days 14.5 11.4 1.2679 13.1 10.4 1.2603
91-365 days 28.9 22.9 1.2634 19.5 16.1 1.2092
> 365 days 0.4 04 1.2176 ALO 33.1 1.2652
; 43.8 34,7 1.2644 74.8 59.6 1.2492

Canadian dollar bought . CAD m £m CAD m £m
0-90 days 2.6 15 1.7021 27 1.6 1.6289
91-365 days 0.7 0.4 1.6667 4.0 2.6 1.5847
> 365 days - - - 03 0.2 1.7098
3.3 19 1.6943 70 44 1.6058

At 31 March 2024, the aggregate amount of the unrealised losses under forward foreign exchange contracts deferred in the hedge reserve relating to the
exposure on these future transactions was £0.6m (2023: £0.9m unrealised gains). The majority of these contracts will mature within the next financial year
at which stage the amount deferred in equity will be realised in the income statement.

In addition to the above, on 28 March 2024 NERL entered into an average rate forward agreement with a fixing date after 31 March 2024 to sell euro
anticipated to be received in July 2024 in respect of UK en route revenues, for this reason it is not included in the table above. The value of these cash flows

is £78.4m (2023: £64.7m).

Interest rate risk management

NERL is exposed to interest rate risk to the extent that it holds borrowings at fixed, floating and index-linked interest rates. Its interest rate risk management
policies are kept under continuous review.

The company seeks to minimise exposure to movements in interest rates by ensuring that it holds an appropriate balance of fixed, floating and index-linked
. debt as a percentage of its net debt by the use of interest rate swap contracts and index-linked swap contracts.

The company's exposure to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities is detaited in the liquidity risk management section of this note. The
company held no interest rate swaps at 31 March 2024 (2023: none).

Economic interest rate exposure

The company’s cash balances were as follows:

2024 2023

Currency Economic Average Economic Average
Amount interest rate maturity Amount interest rate maturity

ém % days £m % days

Sterling 87.0 5.3 20 57.1 40 29
Euro 3.2 0.1 2 0.1 3
US dollar Os - 2 0.2 3
Canadian dollar 04 ‘ 2 03 3

91.1 57.7

The economic interest rate reflects the true underlying cash rate that the company was paying on its borrowings or receiving on its deposits at 31 March

{excluding any unwind of original issue discount).

78

Notes forming part of the accounts

20. Financial instruments (continued)

The economic interest rate exposure of the company's borrowings is presented below:

At 33 March 2024

Sterling:

£450m 1.375% Bonds due 2031
£445m 1.750% Bonds due 2033
Lease liabilities

Total

At 31 March 2023

Sterling:

£450m 1.375% Bonds due 2031
£300m 1.750% Bonds due 2033
£145m 1.750% Bonds due 2033
Bank loans

Lease liabilities

Total

Variable Fixed
Total rate rate
£m £m €m
453.1 - 453.1
412.9 - 412.9
43.2 43.2
909.2 - 909.2
446.2 446.2
297.1 - 297.1
104.4 - 104.4
65.0 65.0 -
49.5 - 49.5
962.2 65.0 897.2

NATS (En Route) plc

Economic
interest
rate

%

1.38%
1.91%
2.61%

1.38%
1.76%
240%
4.66%
2.47%

Weighted
average time
for which
rate is fixed
years

43
95
WW

49
10.5
10.5

0.0

89

The foliowing table shows the percentage of fixed, index-linked and floating rate debt as a percentage of net debt. Net debt is defined for this purpose as
borrowings and lease liabilities net of cash and cash equivalents, as distinct from the definition used for financial covenants purposes. Index-linked debt in this
table reflects the notional of outstanding inflation swaps only. As a result, the fixed debt represents total fixed debt less the notional of outstanding inflation

swaps, plus lease liabilities.

Fixed (net of bond discount and issue costs)
Index-linked (effected via inflation swaps)
Floating (net of cash and facility costs)

Net debt

Interest rate sensitivity analysis

2024

£m

688.8
220.4

(92.2)

817.0

%

84.3
27.0
(11.3)

2023

£m

666.6
230.6
60

903.2

73.8
25.5
0.7

100.0

100.0

The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates on floating rate assets and liabilities. The analysis is prepared
assuming the amount of assets or liabilities at the balance sheet date were in place for the whole year. A 1% increase or decrease is considered to represent a

reasonably possible change in interest rates.

The following table shows the effect of a 1% increase in interest rates on the company's cash and floating rate bank loans on profit for the year and on equity.

A positive number represents an increase in profit and equity and a negative number a decrease in profit and equity.

Cash at bank and short term deposits (2024: £91.1m, 2023: £57.7m)
Borrowings (2023: Enil, 2023: £65.0m)

2024
Impact
£m

0.9

0.9

2023
Impact
£m

0.6
(07)

(0.1)

At 31 March 2024 the company was not negatively exposed to an increase in interest rates, reflecting a reduction in floating rate liabilities since 31 March

2023.

79

Notes forming part of the accounts

20. Financial instruments (continued)

Inflation rate risk

NATS (En Route) ple

The regulatory charge control conditions that apply to NERL’s UK en route and North Atlantic services determines a regulatory allowance for financing charges
that is linked to inflation. To achieve an economic hedge of part of this income, NERL enters into index-linked swaps. The table below sets out the company’s

exposure to these inflation swaps:

At 31 March 2024

Inflation swaps
Amortising swap fixed to RPI,
maturing in 2026

Bullet repayment swap fixed to RPI,

maturing in 2031

At 31 March 2023

Inflation swaps
Amortising swap fixed to RPI,
maturing in 2026

Bullet repayment swap fixed to RPI,

maturing in 2031

Inflation rate sensitivity analysis

Notional index-linked swaps (by arnortisation or termination date)

Between one —_— Between five Marked to

Within one year —_and five years and 15 years Total market
£m £m £m £m £m

10.2 10.2 : 20.4 23.5

- - 200.0 200.0 56.3

10.2 10.2 200.0 220.4 79.8

10.2 20.4 30.6 34.2

- 200.0 200.0 47.4

10.2 20.4 200.0 230.6 81.6

Payable
%

4.05%

(2.14%)

4.05%

(2.14%)

Interest rate % (weighted

average,

Receivable
%

5.25%

1.53%

5.25%

1.53%

The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to inflation arising from the index-linked swaps. The analysis is prepared assuming
that the index-linked swaps at the balance sheet date were in place for the whole year. A 1% increase or decrease in inflation each year for the life of the
swaps is considered to represent a reasonably possible change in inflation. An increase in the rate of RPI inflation will increase the future index-linked
payments that the company is required to make under the swap contracts and so impact their mark to market value.

The following table shows the effect of a 1% increase in inflation on the amount of interest payable in respect of the swaps and the impact on their value when
marked to market. A positive number indicates an increase in profit and equity and a negative number a reduction in profit and equity. There would be a fairly
equal and opposite impact on profit and equity if inflation fails by 1%.

Change in mark to market value

2024
impact
£m

(17.7)

2023
Impact
£m

(20.6)

The mark to market value of the index-linked swaps is also sensitive to the discount rates that are used to determine the net present value of the cash flows
under the swap agreements. The discount rate is determined by reference to market yields on interest rate swaps. The effect of a 1% increase in the discount
rate would be to increase profit and equity by £2.6m (2023: £3.4m). There would be a fairly equal and opposite impact on profit and equity if discount rates

decreased by 1%.

80

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) plc

20. Financial instruments (continued)

Credit risk management

Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the company. The company's exposure to
credit risk arises from the risk of default by customers on settlement of trade receivables and contract assets and from the risk of a failure of a financial
institution in which funds are invested for return or held for trading purposes or with whom derivative contracts ave entered into. The risk of loss from default
by customers and the mitigations against this risk are explained in note 16. With regard to funds or contracts held with financial institutions, the company's
policy is to transact with counterparties that hold a minimum credit rating as supplied by independent rating agencies, Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch

Ratings.

The NATS group policy is to allocate limits to the value of investments, foreign exchange transactions and interest rate hedging transactions that may be
entered into with a bank or financial institution and to allocate an aggregate credit risk limit. The limits are based upon the institution's credit rating with
Standard & Poor's and Moody's; the Fitch rating is only used if one of these agencies does not provide a rating. Where there is a difference in the rating then
the lowest of the ratings is applied.

The company's cash and cash equivalents take the form of cash at bank of £2.0m (2023: £0.8m), bank term deposits of £37.0m (2023: £22.7m) and money
market fund investments of €52.1m (2023: £34.2m). Bank term deposits with maturities up to 3 months and between 3 and 6 months are only entered into
with institutions holding a long term minimum credit rating of A- and A+ respectively from Standard & Poor's or Fitch Ratings and A3 and Aj respectively from
Moody's. Money market fund investments are restricted to AAA rated liquidity funds and must have same-day access.

Investment limits for each institution are set with reference to their credit ratings.

The following table shows the distribution of the company's deposits at 31 March by credit rating (Standard & Poor's):

2024 2023
Number of By credit rating Number of By credit rating
Rating (Standard & Poor's) institutions £m % institutions £m %
ADA 4 52.1 57.2 4 34.2 59.3
At 2 20.0 22.0 2 20.8 36.0
A 1 19.0 20.8 1 27 47
91.1 400.0 57.7 100.0

Liquidity risk management

The responsibility for liquidity risk management, the risk that the company will have insufficient funds to meet its obligations as they fall due, rests with the
Board of NATS Holdings Limited with oversight provided by the Treasury Committee. The company manages liquidity by maintaining adequate reserves and
borrowing facilities by monitoring actual and forecast cash flows, including contributions to the defined benefit pension scheme, and ensuring funding is
diversified by source and maturity and available at competitive cost.

The policy is to:
a. maintain free cash at a level equivalent to between one and two months’ of UK en route services revenues (see below) and at any time not less than £50m.

Free cash is defined as cash and cash equivalents and short term investments;

b. ensure access to committed bank facilities sufficient to withstand a credible range of downside scenarios relative to the prevailing price control business
plan. At 31 March 2024 NERL had access to undrawn bank facilities totalling £400m,

c. ensure access to long term funding to finance its long term assets;
d. ensure that the ratio of bank funding to total gross borrowings does not exceed 75%; and
e. maintain a portfolio of debt diversified by source and maturity.

81

Notes forming part of the accounts

20. Financial instruments (continued)

NATS (En Route) ple

The following table shows the ratio of free cash to average monthly UK en route services income receipts during the year:

Average monthly UK en route services income

Free cash at 31 March

Ratio of free cash to UK en route services income

The following table shows the ratio of the company's bank borrowings to its gross borrowings at 31 March:

Bank borrowings

Gross borrowings (including lease liabilities)

Bank borrowings as a percentage of gross borrowings

Maturity of borrowings

2024
£m

72.1
91.1

13

2024
£m

909.2

0.0%

2023
£m

53.3
§7.7

1

2023
£m

65.0
962.2

6.8%

.
The following table sets out the remaining contractual maturity of the company's non-derivative financial liabilities. The tables have been drawn up based on
the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the company can be required to repay. The table includes both interest

and principal cash flows.

Due within one year or less
Between one and two years
Due between two and five
years

Due in more than five years

Effect of interest, discount
and unamortised bond issue
and bank facility fees

Other liabilities above include trade and other payables (excluding deferred income of £26.4m (2023: £24.5m) and contract liabilities of £57.7m (2023:

£66.5m)).

2024 2023
Unsecured Unsecured Other Unsecured Unsecured Other

leases loans liabilities Total leases loans liabilities Total
£m £m £m £m Em &m £m £m
7.0 103.6 108.5 219.1 79 61.8 103.2 172.9
77 37.7 us 66.3 7.0 61.2 - 68.2
20.2 214.5 - 234.7 20.3 236.3 oa 256.6
13.0 617.5 60 636.5 19.3 718.4 37 741.4
47.3 993.3 116.0 1,156.6 54.5 1,077.7 106.9 1,239.1
(4.1) (128.4) — (132.5) (5.0) (166.3) - (171.3)
43.2 864.9 116.0 1,024.1 49.5 911.4 106.9 1,067.8

82

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) plc

20. Financial instruments (continued)
The following table sets out the maturity profile of the derivative financial liabilities. Cash flows under the index-linked swaps are not fixed and are subject to

movements in inflation. Accordingly, the cash flows associated with the index-linked swaps have been derived from observable market prices for inflation.
The table shows undiscounted cash inflows/(outflows) on these derivatives.

Due within Betweenone Due between Due in more

one year or andtwo two and five than five
less years years years Total
£m £m £m £m : £m
2024
Index-linked swaps receivable 88 44 28.2 18.1 56.5
Indexlinked swaps payable (12.4) (85.8) : (53.4) (151.6)
(3.6) (81.4) 28.2 (38.3) (95.1)
Foreign exchange forward contract receivables 281.5 16.9 16.1 - 314.5
Foreign exchange forward contract payables (280.8) (17.5) (16.8) - (315.1)
07 (0.6) (0.7) - (0.6)
(2.9) (82.0) 27.5 (38.3) (95.7)
2023
Index-inked swaps receivable 8.4 "87 23.0 24.8 64.9
Indextinked swaps payable (11.7) (12.6) (85.6) (56.0) (165.9)
(3.3) (3.9) (62.6) (31.2) (101.0)
Foreign exchange forward contract receivables 233.4 65.2 32.9 0.3 331.8
Foreign exchange forward contract payables (232.5) (64.3) (33.7) (0.3) (330.8)
0.9 09 (0.8) - 10
(2.4) (3.0) (63.4) (31.2) (100.0)

Fair value measurements
The information set out below provides information about how the company determines fair values of various financial assets and financial liabilities.

The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3
based on the degree to which the fair value is observable.

- Level fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.

- Level 2 fair vaiue measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,
either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices).

- Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable
market data (unobservable inputs).

2024 2023

Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level + Level 2 Level 3 Total
Financial assets .
Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting - 21 : 21 - 3.0 - 3.0
relationships
Financial liabilities
Derivative financial instruments in designated hedge accounting
relationships (2.2) . (2.2) ~ (1.8) ~ as)
Derivative financial instruments classified as held for trading - (79.8) - (79.8) - (81.6) - (81.6)

(82.0) - (82.0) - (83.1) . (83.1)

There were no transfers between individual levels in the year.

83

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) plc

20. Financial instruments (continued)

Valuation techniques and key inputs

The fair value of the financial instrument is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the balance sheet date.

The fair values of the financial instruments held at fair value have been determined based on available market information at the balance sheet date, and the
valuation methodologies listed below:

- the fair values of forward foreign exchange contracts are calculated with reference to well recognised proprietary financial models used by bank
counterparties, and verified using discounted cash flow modelling;

the fair value of the index-linked swaps reflect valuations provided by bank counterparties using proprietary financial models and debt value adjustments
that are based on market parameters. This is validated using discounted cash flow modelling based on the latest published inflation index, observable
forecasts of inflation and discount rates taken from the observable interest rate swaps curve at the reporting date, as well as observable sources of credit
risk values;

the fair value of the fixed rate bonds have been derived from their externally quoted price.

Except as detailed in the following table, the directors consider that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recorded at amortised cost
in the financial statements approximate their fair values:

Carrying amount Fair value
2024 2023 2024 2023
£m £m Em €m
Financial liabilities
£450m 1.375% Bonds due 2031 (453.1) (446.2) (390.5) (386.3)
£445m 1.750% Bonds due 2033 (412.9) : (348.4) :
£300m 1.750% Bonds due 2033 . - (297.1) - (224.9)
£145m 1.750% Bonds due 2033 - (104.4) - (108.7)

(866.0) (847.7) (738.9) (719.9)

21. Financial and other liabilities
The company had balances in respect of other non-interest bearing financial and other liabilities as follows:

Trade and other payables

2024 , 2023
£m £m
Current

Trade payables 25.6 19.2
Other payables 0.1 0.3
Amounts due to parent company 43.2 49.5
Amounts due to fellow undertaking 6.4 10
Contract liabilities 12.6 14.2
Accruals and deferred income 35.0 35.0
122.9 119.2

Non-current
Trade payables 6.0 37
Contract liabilities 45.1 52.3
Accruals and deferred income 26.1 22.7
77.2 78.7

Trade payables and accruals principally comprise amounts outstanding for trade purchases and ongoing costs. The average credit period taken for
trade purchases is 23 days (2023: 26 days). The directors consider that the carrying amount of the trade payables approximates to their fair value.

84

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) ple

21. Financial and other liabilities (continued)

Amounts payable under regulatory agreement

2024 2023
£m €m
Current
Amounts payable under regulatory agreement 9.3 91.4
Non-current
Amounts payable under regulatory agreement 45.5 $0.2
Movement in amounts payable under regulatory agreement
2024 2023
£m £m
Balance at the beginning of the year : 141.6 169.1
Amounts recognised during the year 26.1 7.3
Unwind of discounting 3.3 2.2
Amounts repaid under regulatory agreement through charges (116.2) (37.0)

54.8 141.6

Amounts payable under regulatory agreement that are non-current include regulatory allowances over-recovered from previous regulatory control
periods and over recoveries in respect of the current regulatory period, which will be repaid after 31 March 2025 through future charges. Amounts
payable under regulatory agreement that are current include regulatory allowances over-recovered for previous regulatory control periods, which will
be repaid by 31 March 2025 through 2024 and 2025 charges.

22. Provisions

* Total
£m

At 1 April 2023 11.6
Additional provision in the year 3.0
Release of provision in the year (3.4)
Utilisation of provision (0.2)
At 31 March 2024 : 11.0
2024 2023
£m £m

Amounts due for settlement within 12 months 17 0.2
Amounts due for settlement after 12 months 9.3 11.4
11.0 11.6

Provisions represent the best estimate of liabilities, including property related costs. The ageing of the provision reflects the best estimate of when
. these potential liabilities will fall due.

85

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) pic

23. Deferred tax

The following are the major deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the company, and movements thereon during the current and prior reporting
periods.

Accelerated Tax credits
tax Retirement Financial and unutilised
depreciation benefits instruments. tax losses Other Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m
At 1 April 2022 191.7 619 (2.4) (15.5) (98) 2259
Charge/{credit} to income 45 - 17 18.5 (1.4) 20.3
(Credit)/charge to equity - (50.9) 03 - - (50.6)
At 31 March 2023 196.2 11.0 (0.4) - (11.2) 195.6
At 1 April 2023 196.2 11.0 (0.4) - (11.2) 195.6
Charge/{credit) to income 18.0 - (0.1) - 08 18.7
Credit to equity - (8.5) (0.4) - - (8.9)
At 31 March 2024 214.2 25 (0.9) - (40.4) 205.4

The accelerated tax depreciation deferred tax liability arises as a result of timing differences between the accounting under IFRS of other intangible assets
and property, plant and equipment and UK tax law. Of the balance at 31 March 2024, £20.9m is expected to reverse out of deferred tax liabilities within
five years. ‘ .

The deferred tax liability in respect of retirement benefits is a result of the defined benefit surplus at 31 March 2024, under IAS 19: Employee benefits. The
timing of reversal of timing differences relating to the defined benefit scheme is dependent on the scheme’s funding position, which is sensitive to
financial market conditions and which can be volatile, and the company's contributions to the scheme. The company is currently making payments under
a schedule of contributions that includes ongoing costs at 66.2% of pensionable pay as well as deficit recovery payments to repair the funding deficit by 31
December 2029. See note 28 for more details. The schedule of contributions is expected to be reassessed following the conclusion of the trustees 2023
valuation.

Other deferred tax assets arise from property reinstatement provisions and above the line tax credits. Property reinstatement conditions provide for the
cost of reinstating a leased property back to its original condition at the point of lease expiry. All property leases currently have a term of greater than five
years.

Certain deferred tax assets and liabilities have been offset. The following is the analysis of the deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting
,
purposes:

2024 2023
£m £m
Deferred tax fiabilities 216.7 207.2
Deferred tax assets (11.3) (11.6)
205.4 195.6

24. Share capital

Authorised Called up, allotted and fully paid
Number of shares £m Number of shares £m
Ordinary shares of £1 each
At 31 March 2023 and 31 March 2024 10,000,000 10.0 10,000,000 10.0

86

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) pic

25. Notes to the cash flow statement

2024 2023
£m £m
Operating profit from continuing operations 381.6 173.8
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 46.1 43.4
Amortisation of intangible assets 49.7 40.9
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 40 46
Impairment losses 16.1 9.7
Deferred grants released (0.2) {0.2)
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.2 -
R&D expenditure above the line tax credits (3.7) {1.6)
Adjustment for pension funding (78.0) (15.1)
Operating cash flows before movements in working capital 415.8 255.5
Increase in trade and other receivables, and amounts recoverable under regulatory agreement . (49.3) (42.3)
Decrease in trade and other payables, amounts payable under regulatory agreement and provisions (97.7) (34.2)
Cash generated from operations 268.8 179.0

Cash and cash equivalents, which are presented as a single class of asset on the face of the balance sheet, comprise cash at bank and short term
highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less.

Increase in trade and other receivables, and amounts recoverable under regulatory agreement represents the movement on the balance sheet
adjusted for non-cash items such as discounting and pension pass through accruals, and for capital prepayments.

Decrease in trade and other payables, amounts payable under regulatory agreement and provisions represents the movement on the balance sheet
adjusted for interest and capital accruals.

Reconciliation of net financial liabilities

The table below analyses those net financial liabilities for which cash flows arise from financing activities in each of the periods presented.

2024 2023

£m £m

Cash and cash equivalents ' on 57.7
Borrowings (864.9) (911.4)
Lease liabilities (43.2) (49.5)
Net debt {817.0) (903.2)
tndex-linked swaps (79.8) (81.6)
Net financial liabilities (896.8) (984.8)

Cash and liquid investments 91.1 57.7
Gross debt - fixed interest rates (net of unamortised bond issue costs) (909.2) {897.2)
Gross debt - variable interest rates (net of unamortised bank facility fees) 11 (63.7)
Net debt (817.0) (903.2)
Index-linked swaps (79.8) (81.6)
Net financial liabilities (896.8) (984.8)

Amounts shown in the table above under "Gross debt - variable interest rates” for 2024 relate to unamortised bank facility fees.

87

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) pic

25. Notes to the cash flow statement (continued)

The table below reconciles the movements in financial assets and financial liabilities arising from financing activities in the period.

° Liabilities from financing activities (excluding Net financial
Assets derivatives) Net debt Oerivatives liabilities
Cash and
cash Lease Index-linked
equivalents liabilities Bonds (i) Bank loans (ii) Sub-total swaps Total
£m £m £m £m £m £m £m
Net financial liabilities as at 1 April 2022 50.9 (55.1) (742.1) (196.8) (943.1) (75.9) (1,019.0)
Cash flows 68 5.8 (104.2) 135.4 43.8 8.0 51.8
New leases in the year - (0.2) - - (0.2) - (0.2)
Fair value movements - - - : - (13.7) (13.7)
Other changes .
Interest expense - (1.3) (11.6) (8.2) (21.1) - (21.1)
Interest payments (presented as - 1.3 11.5 758 20.3 - 20.3
financing cash flows)
Interest income an - - - - 73 7.3
Interest receipts (presented as - - - - - (7.3) (7.3)
financing cash flows)
Other non-cash movements (iii) : - (1.3) (1.6) (2.9) - (2.9)
Net financial liabilities as at 31 March 2023 87.7 (49.5) (847.7) (63.7) ° (903.2) (81.6) (984.8)
Net financial liabilities as at 1 April 2023 $7.7 (49.5) (847.7) (63.7) (903.2) (81.6) (984.8)
Cash flows 33.4 7.3 - 65.4 106.1 108 116.9
New leases in the year - (2.0) - - (2.0) - (2.0)
Effect of modification to lease terms - 1.0 - - 1.0 - 1.0
Fair value movements : - - : : (9.0) (9.0)
Other changes
Interest expense - (1.0) (14.0) (2.0) {17.0) (0.8) (17.8)
Interest payments (presented as - 1.0 - 2.0 3.0 09 3.9
financing cash flows)
interest income : - - - ~ e 8.4 8.4
_ Interest receipts (presented as - - - - + (8.5) (8.5)
financing cash flows)
Other non-cash movemenis (iii) - - (4.3) (0.6) (4.9) - (4.9)
Net financial liabilities as at 31 March 2024 O11 (43.2) (866.0) 1.1 (817.0) (79.8) (896.8)

i The amounts shown under bonds are net of unamortised bond issue costs.

{i}, The amount shown under bank loans is net of unamortised bank facility fees and accrued bank facility fees.

(ill) Other non-cash flow movements include amortisation of bond issue costs of £4.3m (2023: £1.3m) and amortisation of bank facility fees net of accrual
movements of £0.6m (2023: £1.6m).

26. Financial commitments

2024 2023
£m £m
Amounts contracted but not provided for in the accounts 87.5 47.4

Guarantees

NATS Holdings Limited has given guarantees to the Ministry of Defence in relation to the company's performance under its Future Military Area Radar
Services contract with the MOD.

88

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) ple

27. Share based payments

The company's parent operates an Al-Employee Share Ownership Plan for the benefit of employees to hold 5% of the share capital of NATS Holdings
Limited. The plan is administered by NATS Employee Sharetrust Limited. The scheme allows for free shares, dividend shares, partnership shares and
matching shares to be awarded to employees. Partnership shares vest at the point of issuance and are cash-settled. The free shares and matching
shares have a vesting period of three years from date of award and may be castrsettled from this date. The shares may be forfeited if the employee
leaves within three years of the date of the award, depending on conditions of departure.

A liability is recognised for the current fair value of shares in issue at each balance sheet date. Changes in fair value of the liability are charged or
credited to the income statement. The number of shares outstanding at the balance sheet date was:

No. employee No. employee
shares shares
outstanding at outstanding at
31 March 2024 31 March 2023
Date of share awards ‘
Free share awards

21 September 2007 99,817 123,614
20 October 2003 94,656 117,910
10 September 2004 136,285 176,685
11 January 2008 : 107,550 141,268
18 September 2009 118,906. 156,906

Partnership shares

1 March 2011 105,460 142,424
26 September 2012 127,853 174,729
30 May 2014 110,332 151,706
31 October 2016 149,700 221,875
31 October 2018 230,243 381,760

Matching shares

1 March 2011 105,987 142,971

26 September 2012 129,811 175,796

30 May 2074 110,515 151,872

31 October 2016 ‘ 149,928 222,036

31 October 2018 218,187 365,482
1,992,200 2,847,034

Dividend shares issued on 28 June 2005 12,483 14,995
Total emnptoyee shares in issue at 31 March 2,004,683 2,862,029

The movement in the number of employee shares outstanding is as follows:

Movement in Movement in
the no. of the no. of
shares during shares during
the yearended the year ended
31 March 2024 31 March 2023

Balance at 1 April 2,862,029 3,240,567
Exercised during the year (855,996) (368,761)
Staff transfers between group companies (1,350) (9,777)

Balance at 31 March 2,004,683 2,862,029

These shares are valued every six months by independent valuers using discounted cash flow. and income multiple methods of valuation. Valuations are
approved by HMRC for a period of six months unless a significant event arises which has a material impact on the share value. As at 31 March 2024
the price of an employee share was valued at £5.45 (2023: £3.70). The liability for the employee shares at 31 March 2024 was £10.9m (2023: £10.7m)
and is included in amounts due to parent company. The income statement includes a cost of £4.2m (2023: £5.4m cost). Payments made to leavers and
current employees for the shares they exercised during the year was £3.8m (2023: £4.7m).

89

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) pic

28. Retirement benefit schemes
Defined contribution scheme

NATS Limited, the company’s immediate parent undertaking, provides a defined contribution scheme to all qualifying employees who are not members of
the defined benefit scheme. The scheme was established on 1 April 2009 for staff who joined from that date. The assets of the scheme are held separately
from those of the company in funds under the control of a board of Trustees.

The company operates a salary sacrifice arrangement whereby employees sacrifice an element of their salary in favour of contributions to the pension
scheme. The company matches employee contributions to the scheme in a ratio of 2:1, up to a maximum employer contribution of 18%. For the year ended
31 March 2024 employer contributions of £18.3m (2023: £14.7m), excluding salary sacrifice contributions of £10.6m (2023: £8.2m), represented 16.3% of
pensionable salaries (2023: 16.4%).

The defined contribution scheme had 1,808 members at 31 March 2024 (2023: 1,532).
Defined benefit scheme

NATS Limited, the company’s immediate parent undertaking, entered into a deed of adherence with the CAA and the Trustees of the Civil Aviation Authority
Pension Scheme (CAAPS) whereby the company was admitted to participate in CAAPS from 1 April 1996. CAAPS is a fully funded defined benefit scheme
providing benefits based on final pensionable salaries. At 31 March 2001, the business of NATS was separated from the CAA. As a consequence, NATS
became a ‘non associated employer’ which requires the assets relating to the liabilities of NATS active employees at 31 March 2001 to be separately
identified within CAAPS. CAAPS was divided into two sections to accommodate this, namely the CAA section and the NATS section, and a series of
common investment funds was established in which both sections participate for investment purposes. The assets and membership of the scheme prior
to transfer were allocated between these sections in accordance with Statutory Instrument 2001 Number 853, Transport Act 2000 (Civil Aviation Authority
Pension Scheme) Order 2001. The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee administered fund. CAAPS is governed by a board of Trustees
which is responsible for implementing the funding and investment strategy. The board comprises six employer (NATS and CAA) and six member-nominated
trustees, as well as an independent chair.

Ouring 2009 the parent company introduced a number of reforms to manage the cost and risk of pensions. The defined benefit pension scheme was closed
to new joiners with effect from 31 March 2009. In addition, from 1 January 2009, annual increases in pensionable salaries were limited to a maximum.
increase in the retail price index (RPI) plus 0.5%. A defined contribution scheme was also introduced for new joiners (see above). Finally, pension salary
sacrifice arrangements were introduced with effect from 1 April 2009.

During 2013 the parent company consulted on further pension reforms to mitigate rising pension costs. These included a change to the limit on annual
increases in pensionable sataries to a maximum of the consumer prices index (CPI) plus 0.25%. In addition, the Trustees consulted members of the
scheme on a change to the indexation of future service at CPI, rather than RPI. These reforms were agreed by staff.

Trustees’ funding assessment

A Trustees’ funding assessment of the NATS section is prepared at least every three years by the pension scheme actuary at the request of the Trustees
in order to establish the financial position of the NATS section and to determine the level of contributions to be paid by NATS in the future.

The last Trustees’ funding assessment of the NATS' section was carried out at 31 December 2020 and used the projected unit credit method. The
assumptions which have the most significant effect on the liabilities assessed at the valuation and hence the contribution requirement are those relating to
the rate of return on investments, the rate of increase in salaries, the rate of increase in pensions and life expectancy.

The market value of the NATS' section's assets as at 31 December 2020 was £5,496.2m. For the purpose of the Trustees’ funding assessment assets
were taken at market value. The shortfall of assets relative to the value of benefits that had accrued to existing members was £171.9m, corresponding to a
funding ratio of 97.0%.

The 2020 valuation showed that, based on long term financial assumptions, the contribution rate required to meet the future benefit accrual was 71.9% of
pensionable pay (66.2% employers and 5.7% employees). The employer contribution includes an allowance to cover administration costs, including the
Pension Protection Fund (PPF) levy.

Contributions to the pension scheme

Following the 2020 valuation, NATS and the Trustees agreed a recovery plan which would see the funding deficit repaid by 31 December 2029. Under the
schedule of contributions, normal contributions were paid at 41.7% of pensionable pay until 31 December 2022 and increased to 66.2% from 1 January 2023.
The NATS group paid deficit recovery contributions of £26.0m, £26.6m and £27.2m in calendar years 2021, 2022 and 2023 respectively. From 1 January
2024 to 31 December 2029, deficit recovery contributions will be paid at £27.8m in 2024 and increase annually by 2.37% for 2025 to 2029. Contributions to
the scheme are funded by NATS Limited's two principal operating subsidiaries: NERL and NATS Services, in proportion to their pensionable payrolls.

NERL's share of deficit recovery contributions is c. 77%.

NATS Limited, the immediate parent of the company, is the employer of, and seconds to the company, all personnel who undertake the company's
business. In that capacity, NATS Limited participates in CAAPS and bears the employment (including pension} costs of those personnel.

90

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) pic

28. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)

Contributions to the pension scheme (continued)

The company pays fees to NATS Limited for the provision of services, including those of the staff. An element of those fees represents the employment
costs (including pension contributions) of staff provided by NATS Limited to NERL. In that way, the existence of a pension deficit or surplus may have an
indirect impact upon the company through variations in pension contributions and so the level of those fees.

During the year the company paid cash contributions to the scheme of £108.1m (2023: £68.9m). This amount included £6.8m (2023: £5.5m) of wages and
salaries sacrificed by employees in return for pension contributions. Excluding the effect of salary sacrifice and past service costs, employer cash
contributions were paid at a rate of 85.3% (2023: 67.2%) of pensionable salaries.

The estimated contributions expected to be paid to the scheme during the financial year ending 31 March 2025 is £102.0m, including salary, sacrifice
contributions estimated at £6.4m.

Company's accounting valuation under international accounting standards

For the purpose of accounting for the scheme in these financial statements, the company obtains an updated valuation from a qualified independent
actuary that is prepared in accordance with tAS 19: Employee Benefits .

This valuation differs from the Trustees’ funding assessment explained above in a number of critical respects, including for example. differences in timing
and frequency as well as in valuation assumptions. The Trustees’ last funding assessment was prepared as at 31 December 2020, whereas the company's
accounting valuation is prepared annually at 31 March. As a result, at each valuation date, the market conditions on which the assumptions are based will
be different. Also, the assumptions adopted for the Trustees’ funding assessment are set by the Trustees and include appropriate margins for prudence,
whereas those adopted for the company's accounting valuation are prescribed by international accounting standards and reflect best estimates.

If an accounting valuation reveals a surplus at the balance sheet date, this is recognised to the extent that it can be realised in full by the company. See
note 3.

An actuarial valuation for |AS 19 purposes was carried out at 31 March 2024 (based on 31 December 2023 membership data). The major assumptions used
by the actuary for the purposes of the IAS 19 figures at the relevant year ends are set out in the table and narrative below:

2024 2023 2022

RPI Inflation 2.95% 3.05% 3.40%

CPI Inflation 2.60% 2.65% 2.95%
Increase in:

- salaries 2.60% 2.65% 2.95%

- deferred pensions 2.95% 3.05% 3.40%

- pensions in payment 2.95% 3.05% 3.40%

Discount rate for net interest expense 4.90% 4.80% 2.75%

The mortality assumptions have been drawn from actuarial tables 105% S3PMA light and 103% S3PFA light (2023: 105% S3PMA light and 103% S3PFA light)
with future improvements in line with CMI 2022 (2023: CMI 2019) projections for male/female members, subject to a long term improvement of 1.5% p.a.
(2023: 1.5% p.a.) These tables assume that the life expectancy, from age 60, for a male pensioner is 27.9 years and a fernale pensioner is 29.9 years.
Allowance is made for future improvements in longevity, such that based on the average age of the current active membership (48), when these members
reach retirement, life expectancy from age 60 will have increased for males to 28.9 years and for females to 30.9 years.

The principal risks to the financial performance of the company arising from the scheme are in respect of:

a) asset volatility: for accounting purposes, scheme liabilities are determined using a discount rate set by reference to high quality corporate bond yields. If
scheme assets under-perform relative to this yield, this will create a deficit. As explained below, NATS and Trustees are reviewing measures to de-risk
the scheme by investing more in assets which better match the liabilities.

b) changes in bond yields: a decrease in the yield on high quality corporate bonds will increase scheme obligations, although this is partly mitigated by an
increase in the value of the scheme’s holdings of bonds.

C) inflation risk the scheme’s benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities. As discussed further below, the
Scheme has implemented a liability driven investment programme to partially protect the funding position from changes in inflation. Furthermore, some
of the scheme's assets (such as equities) are real in nature and so provide some additional inflation protection, but overall, an increase in inflation will
adversely impact on the funding position.

d) life expectancy (mortality): the majority of the scheme's obligations are to provide benefits for the life of a member, so an increase in life expectancy will
result in an increase in the scheme’s obligations.

91

Notes forming part of the accounts

28. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)

NATS (En Route) ple

Sensitivities regarding the principal assumptions used to measure the scheme liabilities are set out below:

Assumption: Change in assumption:

Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.5%

Rate of inflation Increase/decrease by 0.5%

Rate of pensionable salary growth Increase/decrease by 0.5%

Rate of mortality 1 year increase in life expectancy

Impact on scheme liabilities:
Decrease by 7.6%/increase by 8.6%
Increase by 8.5%/decrease by 7.6%
Increase by 1.6%/decrease by 1.5%
Increase by 2.7%

Each sensitivity above is based on changing one assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes

in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to variations in significant actuarial

assumptions, the same method (present value of the defined benefit obligation calculated with the projected unit credit method at the end of the reporting

period) has been applied as for calculating the tiability recognised on the balance sheet.

Amounts recognised in income, in the staff costs line item, in respect of the defined benefit scheme are as follows:

Current service cost
Net interest credit
Administrative expenses

Components of defined benefit costs recognised within operating profit

Remeasurements recorded in the statement of comprehensive income are as follows:

Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense)
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments

2024
£m

(33.2)
47
(1.6)

(30.1)

2024
Em

(245.5)
66.6
45.2
21.9

(111.8)

The amount included in the balance sheet arising from the company’s obligations in respect of its defined benefit scheme is as follows:

Present value of defined benefit obligations
Fair value of scheme assets

Surplus in scheme

Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligations were as follows:

AUT April

Current service cost

Interest expense on defined benefit scheme obligations.

Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustmenis

Benefits paid

At 31 March

92

2024
ém

(2,524.0)
2,534.1

10.1

2024
£m

(2,616.8)

(33.2)

(122.8)
66.6
45.2
21.9
1151

(2,524.0)

2023
£m

(60.5)
a1
(1.4)

(53.8)

2023
£m

(1,388.5)
1,340.8

(480.1)
(227.8)

2023
£m

(2,616.8)
2,660.7

43.9

2023
£m

(3,720.3)

(60.5)

(100.8)
1,340.8

(180.1)
104.1

(2616.8)

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) ple

28. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)

The average duration of the scheme's liabilities at the end of the year is 16.9 years (2023: 18.1 years). The present value of the defined benefit obligation can be analysed by

member group as follows:

2024
£m
Active members (868.6)
Deferred members (202.3)
Pensioners (1,453.1)
(2,524.0)
Movements in the fair value of scheme assets during the year were as follows:
2024
£m
AtT April ; 2,660.7
Interest income on scheme assets 1275
Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in net interest expense) (245.5)
Contributions from company 108.1
Benefits paid (115.1)
Administrative expenses (1.6)
At31 March 2,534.1
The company's share of the major categories of scheme assets were as follows:
2024
£m
Cash and cash equivalents . 638
Equity instruments
~ Emerging markets 129.3
+ Global 478.9
608.2
Bonds
- Fixed income . 4978
-  tndex-linked gilts over 5 years . 917.2
1,415.0
Other investments .
- Property 92.3
- Hedge funds 179.2
- Private equity funds 78
- Other 76.4
445.7
Derivatives
~ Futures coniracts 14
2,534.1

The scheme assets do not include any investments in the equity or debt instruments of NATS group companies or any property or other assets used by the group.

2023
£m

(909.6)
(213.2)
(1,494.0)

(2,616.8)

2023
£m

3,976.9

108.9
(1,388.5)

689
(104.1)
(1.4)

2,660.7

2023

£m

244.1

648
322.7

387.5

537.6
1,055.7

1,593.3,

84.4
165.5
106.6

78.7

435.2

0.6

2,660.7

Scheme assets of £2,534.1m (2023: £2,660.7) include equity and debt instruments of £104.1m (2023: £197.2m) with quoted prices in active markets. Investments are well
diversified, such that the failure of any single investment would not have a material impact on the overall level of assets. A large portion of the assets consist of equities,
bonds and cash, although the scheme also invests in property and investment (private equity and hedge) funds which are generally i!liquid, unquoted assets and trade ona
less regular basis. Investments that do not have a quoted market price in an active market, totalling £2,430.0m (2023: £2,463.5m), are measured using their most recent net
asset valuations adjusted for cash movements between the latest valuation date and 31 March 2024. Where appropriate, management also take into account movemenis

in external quoted benchmarks in order to determine whether a risk adjustment is required in determining fair value as at 31 March 2024.

93

Notes forming part of the accounts NATS (En Route) pic

28. Retirement benefit schemes (continued)

NATS and Trustees implemented a liability driven investment (LDI) programme in 2012 in order to hedge the impact of changes in inflation and interest
tates on the value of the scheme's obligations, which are sensitive to inflation and movements in yields in the gilt market.

As a result of discussions between NATS and the Trustee the amount of interest rate and inflation hedging has increased over time, starting out at 25% in
2012 with subsequent increases to 50% in 2014 and to 65% in 2018, as measured on the Trustee funding basis. In March 2020, NATS and the Trustee
agreed a further increase in the level of inflation and interest rate hedging to 75%, as measured on a long-term funding target basis of gifts + 0.5% p.a. and
the trades needed to achieve this were carried out between May and August 2020. Swap transactions are executed with carefully scrutinised banks and
collateral is provided in the form of index-linked gilts to protect against the unlikely event of default by a counterparty bank.

During 2018, NATS and the Trustees also agreed changes to the asset allocation to make the portfolio more efficient by reducing the overail level of risk
whilst continuing to support the valuation assumptions agreed for the 2017 funding valuation and therefore having no impact on the level of contributions
payable. This included a reduction in the allocation to equities in favour of a more diversified portfolio with a higher allocation to liquid debts.

Following the LD! events in late 2022, towards the end of 2022 NATS and the Trustees agreed to adjust the level of collateral within the LDI portfolio such
that the portfolio could withstand a 3% rise in real interest rates. In addition, the growth portfolio was restructured to include 7-10% of Scheme assets in
liquidity funds that would provide an additional collateral margin for the LD! portfolio, while retaining sufficient expected return to support the assumptions
agreed for the 2020 funding valuation.

Derivative instruments are used by investment managers to reduce risk or gain exposure to investment classes without the requirement to hold the

underlying investment. Trustees monitor derivative positions to ensure that, when combined with the underlying physical position, the aggregate falls within
specified investment guidelines.

The actual return on scheme assets for the year ended 31 March 2024 was a loss of £118.0m (2023: £1,279.6m loss).

29. Related party transactions

The NATS group has four shareholders - the Crown, The Airline Group Limited (AG), LHR Airports Limited and the NATS Employee Sharetrust Limited. During
the year transactions with the Crown have taken place with the Meteorological Office, the Department for Transport (DfT) and the Ministry of Defence
(MOD). In addition there have been transactions with LHR Airports Limited and AG. Transactions occur on an arm’s length basis.

AG is a consortium of British Airways plc, Deutsche Lufthansa AG, easyJet Airline Company Limited, the Pension Protection Fund, TUI Airways Limited, Virgin
Atlantic Airways Limited and USS Sherwood Limited. AG has a 42% stake in NATS Holdings Limited. The directors of NATS Holdings Limited are satisfied
that the seven members of the AG have not exercised undue influence on the group or the company either acting individually or in concert and therefore the
individual transactions with each member of AG have not been disclosed in this set of accounts.

Aquila Air Traffic Management Services Limited is a joint venture entity of NERL's fellow subsidiary, NATS (Services) Limited.

Trading transactions

Sales Purchases

Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 March 2024 = 31 March 2023. 31 March 2024 =—31 March 2023
£m £m £m £m

LHR Airports Limited 0.1 - 0.3 0.3
Ministry of Defence {MOD) 46.6 44.0 20 21
Department for Transport (DfT) 0.9 0.6 : -
Meteorological Office =. 0.3 0.3 0.5 0.6
Aquila Air Traffic Management Services Limited 1.2 1.0 > -

Amounts owed by related parties Amounts owed to related parties

Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended
31 March 2024 = 31 March 2023.31 March 2024 = 31 March 2023
£m £m £m £m
LHR Airports Limited . - i : 01
Ministry of Defence (MOD) 5.2 03 19.2 10.7
Department for Transport (OfT) 0.2 0.2 - -
Meteorological Office - - - 01
Aquila Air Traffic Management Services Limited 0.9 : : :

94

Notes forming part of the accounts ; NATS (En Route) ple

29. Related party transactions (continued)

The company also entered into transactions with its parent and fellow subsidiary undertakings. Sales and purchases to these related parties are disclosed in
note 4 and 6 respectively. Amounts owed from/to these related parties are shown in note 16 and 21.

Sales are made to related parties at the company’s usual rates and purchases at market prices. The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled

in cash. No guarantees have been received. No expected credit loss provisions (2023: £nil} have been made for doubtful debts in respect of amounts owed
by related parties.

Directors’ remuneration

The total remuneration earned by the directors of the company in the year was £2,093,000 (2023: £2,141,000). The number of directors paid by the company
during the year was two (2023: two). Neither director participates in a company pension scheme.

Remuneration earned by the highest paid director of the company in the year was £1,165,000 (2023: £1,400,000) and includes £1,792 (2023: £1,321) for the’
appreciation in the year in the value of employee shares held.

Remuneration of key management personnel

The remuneration of key management personnel of the company is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24: Related Party
Disclosures. Key management includes the Board of directors of the company and their executive management teams.

2024 2023

£m £m

Short term employee benefits ; 7S 8.0
Post-employment benefits . 0.2 0.4
Termination benefits : 01 -

78 8.4

30. Parent undertaking

The company's immediate parent undertaking is NATS Limited and the ultimate parent undertaking is NATS Holdings Limited. Both are private companies
incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.

There is no ultimate controlling party of NATS Holdings Limited. Under the shareholders’ agreement, The Airline Group Limited and the Crown have similar
reserve rights in respect of material decisions affecting the company.

The largest and smallest group in which the results of the company are consolidated is that of which NATS Holdings Limited is the parent company. The
consolidated accounts of NATS Holdings Limited can be obtained from the company's secretary, at its registered office, 4000 Parkway, Whiteley, Fareham,
Hampshire, PO15 7FL. .

31. Events after the reporting period

The company was served by an airline in April 2024 with a High Court claim for compensation of c.£4.6m plus interest for flight cancellations and delays said
to have arisen as a consequence of actions taken to fulfil our statutory obligation to maintain air traffic control safety following a technical incident impacting
‘our flight plan processing system in August 2023. At this very early stage, the directors do not currently expect this is likely to result in a material financial
loss to the company.

95

Alternative performance measures and explanatory notes

Alternative Performance Measures

1 Gearing: Ratio of NERL's net debt (as defined by its licence) to its Regulatory Asset Base (RAB)

Net debt for this ratio differs from statutory net debt in three areas: (i) borrowings are recorded at face value, rather than net of remaining
capitalised original issue discounts and issuance costs; (ii) leases are included, but only to the extent that they would have been treated as
finance leases prior to application of IFRS 16; and (iii) it includes a value for NERL's RP] swaps that represents the historic accretion on the
notional of the swaps. This value differs to the value of derivatives reported on the balance sheet.

The regulatory asset base (RAB) represents the capital employed in the company's economically regulated businesses and is reported
annually in regulatory accounts prepared on a calendar year basis. The regulatory accounts are published at www.nats.aero. The CAA's
economic regulatory framework determines the basis for measuring regulatory assets. The RAB is uplifted annually by RPI inflation and
increases by capital expenditure and reduces by regulatory depreciation. The RAB excludes balances relating to tax, financing and the IAS 19
pension position. The CAA sets a net debt to RAB target and bank covenants are set on a net debt to RAB basis. At 31 December 2023 the
value of NERL's RAB was £2,047.5m.

2024

£m

Net debt (per note 25) (817.0)
inclusion of iterns as defined in financial covenants:

Unamortised bond discount (37.9)

Unamartised bond issue cost and bank facility fees (6.2)

RPI swaps stated on a bank covenant valuation basis. (79.0)
Exclusion of items as defined in financial covenants:

Lease liabilities recognised on adoption of IFRS 16 42.8

Net debt (as defined in NERL’s finance documents) . (897.3)

Regulatory Asset Base at 31 March 2024 2,139.2

Gearing 41.9%

2 Debt Adjusted Cash Flows (DACF): Increase/decrease in cash and cash equivalents for the year, adjusted to remove draw down or
repayment of bank borrowings, bonds, index-linked swaps and advances of en route charges.

2024 2023 2022
£m £m £m
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 213.4 175.7 (185.1)
Net cash outflow from investing activities (101.1) (110.9) (108.8)
Net cash (outflow)/inflow from financing activities (78.9) (58.0) 172.6
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents during the year 33.4 68 (121.3)
Advances of en route charges - a 67.4
Bonds issued - (105.5) (747.0)
Bonds repaid - - 290.1
Bond and bank arrangement fees 04 V7 9.4
Repayment of obligations under finance leases 73 58 5S
Repayment of bank facilities 65.0 175.0 435.0
Drawdown on bank facilities - (40.0) (240.0)
Index-linked swap repayment 10.8 8.0 61.3
Total debt adjustments 83.5 45.0 (118.3)
Debt-adjusted cash flow . 116.9 51.8 (239.6)

96

Alternative performance measures and explanatory notes

Alternative Performance Measures (continued)

3 Adjusted revenue and regulatory allowances and profit before tax: Excludes income recognised at the reporting date that relates to
a service provided in a prior year for which variable consideration had been estimated previously. NERL was required to provide a continuous
ATC service during Covid, in spite of air travel restrictions in place. The CAA undertook a retrospective reconciliation subsequently of the
flight income and costs during the Covid period (2020 to 2022) to determine the income shortfall due to NERL. The CAA confirmed the
outcome of its retrospective reconciliation and the vatue of the Covid income shortfall alongside its decision on the NR23 price control in
November 2023. In 2024 NERL recognised the difference between the CAA's value and previously recognised variable consideration. An
equivalent adjustment for 2023 reflected an assessment of variable consideration at the seporting date based on the CAA’s initial proposals

of October 2022.
Yearended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2024 2023
£m £m
Revenue and regulatory allowances - IFRS 1,029.5 782.4
Adjustment for the assessment of regulatory allowances recognised in the period (see note 16) (123.3) (23.2)
Adjusted revenue and regulatory allowances 906.2 759.2
Yearended Year ended
31 March 31 March
2024 2023
£m £m
Profit before tax - IFRS . 397.0 156.5
Adjustment for the assessment of regulatory allowances recognised in the period (see note 76) (123.3) (23.2)
Adjusted profit before tax 273.7 133.3

4 Regulatory return — adjusted: Calendar year Regulatory profit divided by Average Regulatory Asset Base (RAB), excluding income
recognised at the reporting date that relates to a service provided in a prior year for which variable consideration had been estimated
previously.

Regulatory profit represents NERL's calendar year regulatory income less costs, as prepared under the Regulatory Accounting Guidelines
(RAGs), specified in NERL's licence; rather than on an IFRS accounting basis. Regulatory profit divided by the Calendar year average RAB
determines regulatory return. These values are derivable from NERL's 31 December 2023 regulatory accounts.

Adjusted regulatory return reflects NERL's reported regulatory return adjusted for an assessment of regulatory allowances recognised in the
Year ended Year ended
31 31 December

2023 2022

. £m £m

Regulatory return . 223.0 34.6
Adjustment for the assessment of regulatory allowances recognised in the period (regulatory basis) (125.6) (34.0)
Adjusted regulatory return 97.4 0.6
Average Regulatory Asset Base (RAB) © 1,989.2 1,589.7
Adjusted Regulated rate of return . 4.9% 0.0%

Explanatory Notes

5 An Airprox is a situation in which, in the opinion of a pilot or controller, the distance between aircraft as well as their relative positions and
speeds have been such that the safety of the aircraft involved was or may have been compromised. The severity of these incidents is
assessed periodically by the UK Airprox Board, an independent body, in the interests of enhancing flight safety.

Airprox events are classified A to D on the basis only of actual risk, not potential risk. An event classified as category B - safety not assured, is
an aircraft proximity in which the safety of the aircraft may have been compromised.

6 The three-dimensional inefficiency score (3Di) measures the environmental efficiency of a flight by comparing its actual radar track to an
optimal profile. A lower score represents better flight efficiency. NATS has made the 3Di environmental insight too! freely available to
aviation stakeholders to use to track their carbon efficiency.

7 Best Companies are employee engagement specialists, who’s methodology formerly underpinned the Times Top 100 best companies to work
for.

8 The severity of ground and airborne incidents is scored against six criteria: minimum separation achieved; rate of closure; detection of
potential conflict; plan to achieve required separation; execution of the plan; and recovery when separation is lost.

97

