Pareto Law Limited

Annual Report and Financial Statements
For The Year Ended

31 December 2023

Company Number 03119895

*ADXRLOE2* : .
A10

06/03/2025 #276
COMPANIES HOUSE

THURSDAY

,

Directors

Company secretary

Registered number

Registered office

Independent auditors

Bankers

Pareto Law Limited

Company Information

D Bruce
V Short

J Mayes (Resigned 19/07/2024)
Cathal Noel Mcdermott (Appointed 19/07/2024)

03119895

450 Capability Green
Luton

Bedfordshire

United Kingdom

LU1 3LU

Deloitte LLP

1 Station Square
Cambridge
United Kingdom
CB1 2GA

Lloyds Bank plc
48 Chiswell Street
London

EC1 4XX

Barclays Bank plc
27th Floor

1 Churchill Place
London

United Kingdom
E14 5HP

Pareto Law Limited

nos Contents

5 Page(s)
Strategic Report . 3-5
Directors’ Report 6-8
Independent Auditors’ Report 9-12
Statement of Comprehensive Income 13
Statement of Financial Position 14
Statement of Changes in Equity 15
Notes to the Financial Statements 16-41

Pareto Law Limited

Strategic Report
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Introduction

The directors present their strategic report on the company for the year ended 31 December 2023.

Principal activity

The company's principal activity continues to be that of a sales solution provider incorporating permanent and
contract placements. The company also provides sales development, management training and Government-
backed apprenticeships.

Review of the business

As shown in the company’s statement of comprehensive income on page 11, the company’s revenue has
decreased from 2022 from £38,100,000 to-£28,324,000 due to a reduction in permanent placement revenue.
Permanent placement revenues accounted for £15.2m of the 2022 revenue, reducing to £7.6m in 2023. The
company reports an operating loss of £2,397,000 (2022 — Profit £3,436,000) and a profit before taxation of
£9,725,000 of which £11,100,000 is related to the Pareto Law LLC sale (2022 — Profit of £3,442,000).

Position of the business

The company had net assets of £17,379,000 (2022 - £7,384,000). The movement is principally the result of the
sale of Pareto Law LLC. There were no dividends paid in the year (2022: £nil) and no dividends are proposed.

Key performance indicators

The company's key financial indicators during the year were as follows.

2023 2022
Revenue (£'000) 28,324 38,100
Profit before taxation (£'000) . 9,725 3,442

Profit before taxation as a % of revenue 34 9

Please see above ‘Position of the business’ and ‘Review of the business’ sections for further analysis of year-
on-year movements.

Pareto Law Limited

Strategic Report .
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Principal risks and uncertainties

The company reports regularly to Randstad NV on all areas of risk. The company's operations expose it to a
variety of risks. The company's management has examined all major risks to its business and considers the main’
tisk to be that of the general economic landscape and uncertainty and how this could affect the future profitability
of the company.

The performance of the Randstad UK trading companies impacts on Randstad UK Holding Limited because the
holding company provides group support services to its subsidiaries. The principal risks and uncertainties shown
below are relevant for the Randstad UK trading companies.

As the economic environment remains challenging, recruitment companies need to remain agile and diversified in
order to take advantage of future opportunities and avoid risk. Against the backdrop of the continued high cost of
living, post-Brexit challenges and the negative impact of inflation, client and candidate hesitancy could remain in
the short-to-medium term. The longer-term prospects of the economy remain uncertain. Technological disruption
continues to threaten traditional staffing business models and may accelerate as pressures on costs increase.
Innovative business models continue to emerge. An increased focus on engagement models for temporary
workers, in particular the gig economy, increases the potential for legal, tax and regulatory changes in the medium
term, particularly if there is a change of Government in the UK. Such changes are likely to bring with them an
increased compliance burden (at least initially), and potentially a change in established client and candidate
engagement practices. These do however also provide opportunities for compliant staffing companies who are
able to adapt quickly to changes in the market.

A description of the key risks, and mitigating action taken to protect the company and its subsidiaries against them
are as follows:

General Economic Uncertainty

While the country is facing rising inflation, a cost of living crisis, the war in Ukraine and political controversy in the
UK, there is uncertainty about the short, medium and long term impacts this will have on the economy. This has a
knock- on impact on client and candidate confidence, both of which are critical for the recruitment sector.

The Randstad business is diversified across multiple sectors. It is weighted towards temporary recruitment which
appears to be more resilient than permanent recruitment in the short term.

Technological Disruption

New business models continue to emerge that threaten to disrupt parts of the client and candidate matching ©
process. Emerging models threaten specific parts of the process e.g., candidate screening, which presents a risk
of disintermediation.

Globally, Randstad continues to invest in early-stage startups through the Randstad innovation fund. Locally, we
continue to adapt our business models to incorporate appropriate technological solutions to enhance value to
clients and candidates.

Regulatory Change

Employment and worker rights is an area which attracts a risk of regulatory change. In many cases, regulation is
influenced by traditional employment models and can often be inappropriate for modern, flexible employment
models requiring significant internal commitment to ensure continued compliance. High-profile legal cases around
employment status and worker rights increase the likelihood of further legal and regulatory change.

Globally we continuously monitor changes in labour laws and regulations across the various jurisdictions and
analyse the potential impact of regulatory changes on our operations and workforce.

Reputational Risk

As with most companies, the risk of adverse publicity arising from failure to deliver in line with expectations
(whether that be contractual, regulatory or behavioural) poses a threat to our corporate reputation.

4

Pareto Law Limited

Strategic Report
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Principal risks and uncertainties (Continued)

We have experienced teams managing and overseeing delivery, compliance and reputation management.
Identified shortcomings are subject to remediation and prevention measures and controls.

Cyber Threats

Cyber-attacks pose an increasing threat to all businesses, including in the recruitment industry, and it is likely that
these threats will persist or increase as more technology is introduced into processes and supply chains.

We have a team of experts who continuously monitor IT equipment and applications for cyber threats. All the
employees need to complete mandatory yearly training on phishing attempts and cyber attacks.

Directors’ statement of compliance with section 172(1)

The Directors of the company act in good faith, to promote the success of the company for the benefit of its
stakeholders as a whole, in line with one of our Group's core values, "the simultaneous promotion of all interests”.
The annual statement of our ultimate shareholding company, Randstad Group NV, sets out in detail how we
operate to provide value for clients, talent, employees, investors, suppliers and society. Specifically, the Directors
of this subsidiary have regard for the following matters:

a) The likely consequences of any decision in the long term:

. The Directors have set out a clear strategy for the business over the medium and long term for creating
value and growth, which has been shared with staff and shareholders, the key pillars of which are set out below:
° Technology - investing in new technologies, in order to better connect clients and candidates, by making
processes smart, simple, and efficient;

fo} Humanity - being passionate about supporting people and organisations and by creating an experience
that is more human, creating that personal connection; and

° Sustainable profitability - to ensure that the business generates sufficient profits by focusing growth on
profitable sectors and managing our cost base.

. All significant decisions are agreed by the board within the context of the strategic plan.

b) The interests of the company's employees are recognised and valued by the Directors through a variety
of mechanisms, including;

. Regular Leadership team webinars, team and department meetings, and conferences;

. Actively seeking employee feedback through Employee Network Groups, Q&A sessions, an open culture,

and a regular anonymous survey which allows all issues to be raised and tracks employee engagement across a
number of key factors; and
. The provision of learning and development opportunities for staff, covering hard and soft skills, as well as
management training and mental health.

‘An asset's carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset's carrying amount is
greater than its estimated recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of an asset is the greater of its fair value
less costs to sell and its value in use.

c) The need to foster the company's business relationships with suppliers, customers and others by
ensuring all stakeholders are treated within the spirit and detail of the Randstad Group ethics policies and core
values.

d) The impact of the company's operations on the community and the environment, including consideration
of climate change through supporting appropriate Energy Savings Opportunities Scheme recommendations,
supporting Electric Vehicles where appropriate with an 'EV first' car policy, supporting a wide variety of charities
under the Randstad with Heart initiative, and the Randstad Group VSO scheme. The company has also published
a social responsibility statement, available on its website.

e) The desirability of the company to maintain a reputation for high standards of business conduct, through
the organisation's values, culture and ethical standards, as set out in the company's business principles, which
are published on its website. Our core values represent the foundation of our culture: to know, to serve, to trust, to
strive for perfection, and simultaneous promotion of all interests. They help us develop, grow and better serve our
clients, talent and other stakeholders.

5

Pareto Law Limited

Strategic Report
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Directors’ statement of compliance with section 172(1) (Continued)

f) Since the company is a wholly owned (indirect) subsidiary of Randstad NV, it only has one shareholder:
accordingly, the need to act fairly between shareholders is not applicable for the company, although Randstad
NV's annual report does set out how it engages with key stakeholder groups, including shareholders, in its "Key
Material Topics" section.

Going Concern

The company is a subsidiary of Randstad Group UK, which is the parent company of the UK subgroup of
Randstad NV, the ultimate parent company.

The UK subgroup ("Randstad UK") has intercompany financing in place, which principally comprises the following:

. A long-term intercompany loan, for an amount of £80m, repayable in December 2025.

. An intercompany overdraft facility, for an amount of £65.5m, that is provided by the wider Randstad NV
group, under a group-wide cash pooling arrangement, which is used to finance Randstad UK's day-to-day trading
activities and in which the Company participates in; this is headed by Randstad Group UK.

The Directors of Randstad Group UK have prepared a forecast for a period of at least 12 months from the date of
signing, for the wider Randstad Group UK sub-group, which shows that the UK sub-group will remain within its
current intercompany overdraft facilities throughout the forecast period.

The nature of Randstad UK's business is such that, during periods of revenue growth, there is an adverse impact
on the group's working capital, which is required to fund that growth, whereby cash is required to fund the
resultant increase in debtors. Conversely, if revenues are declining, then the working capital unwinds, resulting in
cash being released.

As at February 2025, the UK sub-group had a substantial level of available headroom of £54m against the
intercompany overdraft facility.

Taking all of the above into account, the Directors do not consider that there are any material uncertainties, in
relation to the company's ability to continue as a going concern and are satisfied that the company will continue to
meet its obligations, as they fall due, for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of these financial
statements. Accordingly, they have prepared these financial statements on a going concern basis.

Approved by the Board and.signed on its behalf by:

OGrue.

D Bruce
Director

Date: 4th March 2025

Pareto Law Limited

to Directors’ Report 1
: For the Year Ended 31 December 2023 :

The directors present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2023.
Future developments

The business is growing in 2024, with growing demand for temporary labour and high levels of permanent
vacancies. We are confident of good growth through 2024 as activity and confidence builds in our wide client
base, and we continue to actively grow our talent base to meet demand. We are also implementing end to end
process transformation to improve profitability and service levels, which will impact through 2024 and beyond.
Dividends

The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend (2022 - £Nil).

Financial risk management objectives and policies

The Randstad NV group's corporate treasury function provides services to the company, co-ordinates access to
domestic and international financial markets, monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations
of the group through internal risk reports which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks. These risks
include credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk.

Credit risk

The Company's principal financial assets are amounts owed by group undertakings and other trade receivables.
The Company's credit risk is attributable to trade receivables and amounts due from group undertakings. An
allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is

evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows.

The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by -
international credit-rating agencies.

Liquidity risk

In order to maintain liquidity to ensure that sufficient funds are available for ongoing operations and future
developments, the company uses intercompany finance, by way of a cash pooling facility.

Cash flow risk

The Company's activities expose it to changes in interest rates on its balances with other group companies. The
Company does not hedge against this exposure. The Company has limited exposure to the financial risks of
changes in foreign currency exchange rates.

Going concern

Information on the going concern status of the Company can be found in the Strategic Report on page 6.

Pareto Law Limited

: : Directors' Report (continued) =:
: ‘ For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Directors
The Directors who served during the year and up to the date of signing this report, unless stated otherwise, were:

D Bruce
V Short

Employees

Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the respective
aptitudes and abilities of the applicant concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort
is made to ensure that their employment with the company continues and the appropriate training is arranged. It
is the policy of the Company that the training, career development and promotion of a disabled person, as far as
possible, be identical to that of a person who does not suffer from any disability.

Consultation with employees or their representatives has continued at all levels, with the aim of ensuring that their
views are taken into account when decisions are made that are likely to affect their interests and that all employees
are aware of the financial and economic performance of their business units and of the Company as a whole.
Communication with all employees continues through line management channels and regular meetings with
representatives of employees.

Statement on employee engagement

The Company places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued its practice of
keeping them informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various matters affecting the
performance of the Company. This is achieved through formal and informal meetings and internal publications.
Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting them.

Directors’ liabilities

The Company had no directors’ indemnities in place during the year.

Research and development activities

The Company had no significant activities constituting research and development in the current or prior year.
Foreign branches

The Company does not have any branches operating outside of the UK.

Political contributions

The Company made no political contributions during the current or prior year.

Pareto Law Limited

Directors’ Report (continued)
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Independent auditor
Each of the persons who are directors at the time when this Directors' Report is approved has confirmed that:

. so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are
unaware; and

: the director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a director in order to be aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies
Act 2006.

Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor.

Directors’ responsibilities statement

The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
diréctors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), including FRS 101 “Reduced
Disclosure Framework”. Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the
company for that period.

In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:
« select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
e make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
¢ prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information
included on the company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and
dissemination of .

financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

This report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf.

QBrue

D Bruce
Director
Date: 4" March 2025.

Pareto Law Limited

Independent Auditor's report to the members of Pareto Law Limited

Report on the audit of the financial statements
Opinion

In our opinion the financial statements of Pareto Law Limited (the ‘company’):
e give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of its profit for
the year then ended;
e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”, and
e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements which comprise:
the statement of comprehensive income

the statement of financial position

the statement of changes in equity; and

the related notes 1 to 22.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United
Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor's responsibilities for the audit
of the financial statements section of our report.

We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of
the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard,
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a
going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial
statements and our auditor's report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained
within the annual report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and,
except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance
conclusion thereon.

10

Pareto Law Limited
Independent Auditor's report to the members of Pareto Law Limited

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial
statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such
internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company's ability to continue
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis
of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no
realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website
at: www.fre.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures
in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities,
including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is
detailed below. :

We considered the nature of the company’s industry and its contro! environment and reviewed the company’s
documentation of their policies and procedures relating to fraud and compliance with laws and regulations. We
also enquired of management and the directors about their own identification and assessment of the risks of
irregularities including those that are specific to the company’s business sector.

We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the company operates in, and
identified the key laws and regulations that:

e had a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
These included the UK Companies Act and tax legislation; and

e do not have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental to
the company’s ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty.

1

Pareto Law Limited

: Independent Auditor's report to the members of Pareto Law Limited:

We discussed among the audit engagement team regarding the opportunities and incentives that may exist within
the organisation for fraud and how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements.

As a result of performing the above, we identified the greatest potential for fraud in the following area, and our
specific procedures performed to address it are described below:

« Revenue recognition: Revenue is recognised on a performance obligation completion basis. A risk
therefore arises around cut-off of revenue as judgments must be made based on stages of milestone
delivery. We have performed substantive tests of detail on the revenue, deferred income, and accrued
income balances in addition to limited substantive analytical procedures. .

In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also required to perform specific procedures to respond to the
risk of management override. In addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, we tested
the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments; assessed whether the judgements made in making
accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and evaluated the business rationale of any significant
transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.

In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to the risks identified included the following:

e reviewing financial statement disclosures by testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance
with provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct effect on the financial
statements;

e performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate
risks of material misstatement due to fraud;

e enquiring of management and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and
claims, and instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations; and

e reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance and reviewing correspondence with
HMRC.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements
Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:
‘e the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
e the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal

requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the
audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.

12

Pareto Law Limited

Independent Auditor's report to the members of Pareto Law Limited : :
Matters on which we are required to report by exception

Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report in respect of the following matters if, in our opinion:

e adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

e we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Matthew Hall

Matthew Hall FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP

Statutory Auditor

Cambridge

United Kingdom

4h March 2025

13

Pareto Law Limited

Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023 te

Note 2023 2022

£000 £000

Revenue 4 28,324 38,100
Gross profit 28,324 38,100
Distribution costs (26,541) = (31,997)
Administrative expenses (4,180) (2,667)
Operating (loss)/profit 5 (2,397) - 3,436
Finance costs 9 (123) (174)
Finance income 8 1,145 480
Profit on disposal of subsidiary 10 11,100 -
Profit before tax 9,725 3,442
Tax on profit 11 273 (686)

Profit and total comprehensive income

for the financial year 9,998 2,756

All results are derived from continuing activities.

The notes on pages 16 to 41 form part of these financial statements.

14

Non-current assets

Property, plant and equipment
Investments

Right-of-use assets

Deferred taxation

Current assets
Trade and other receivables
Cash Equivalents

Current liabilities :
Trade and other payables
Lease liabilities

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Non-current liabilities

Lease liabilities
Deferred taxation

Provisions for liabilities
’ Provisions

Net assets

Equity

Called up share capital
Share premium
Retained earnings

Shareholder’s funds

The financial statements were approved and authorized for issue by the board and were signed on its behalf on

4th March 2025.

QErune.

D Bruce
Director

Pareto Law Limited
Registered number:03119895

Statement of Financial Position

As at 31 December 2023

Note 2023
£000
12 339
12 -
15 1,411
16 :
1,750
13 21,465
60
21,525
14 (3,492)
15 (720)
(4,212)
17,313
19,063
15 (1,162)
16 (119)
17 (403)
17,379
18 104
19 24
19 17,251
17,379

The notes on pages 16 to 41 form part of these financial statements.

15

2022
£000

520
2,019
33
2,572
13,432

13,432

(5,222)
(936)

(6,158)

7,274

9,846

(1,971)

(491)
7,384
104
24
7,256

7,384

Pareto Law Limited

Statement of Changes in Equity

For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Called up
share
capital
£000
At 1 January 2023 104
Comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the year -
Total comprehensive income for the year -
Charge from parent company for equity-settled
payments a
Total transactions with owners -
At 31 December 2023 104
Statement of changes in Equity for the year ended 31
December 2022
Called up
share
capital
£000
At 1 January 2022 104
Comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the year . -
Total comprehensive income for the year -
Charge from parent company for equity-settled
payments
Total transactions with owners -

At 31 December 2022 104

Share 7
premium
£000

24

24

Share
premium

£000

24

24

Retained
earnings
£000

7,256

9,998

9,998

(3)

(3)

17,251

Retained
earnings

£000

4,492

2,756

2,756

7,256

Total
equity
£000

7,384

9,998

9,998

(3)

(3)

17,379

Total
equity

£000

4,620

2,756

2,756

7,384

The notes on pages 16 to 41 form part of these financial statements.

16

<< JSS S!T-/T+f[/[>Y>}]7}S]}]}7.)YY]HS]}§}+T]_,]}]>S]>]),]J}))})gSog}]}S>]}-}-}}}}}}}}}}}]x}+eoo——,
Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements’.
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

1. General information

Pareto Law Limited (the “Company”) is a private company limited by shares and incorporated and
registered in the United Kingdom (England and Wales), under the Companies Act 2006. The address of
the company’s registered office is shown on the company information page.

2. Accounting policies

2.1 Basis of preparation of financial statements

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention unless otherwise
specified within these accounting policies and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101
‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ and the Companies Act 2006. ,

These financial statements are presented in British Pounds Sterling as this is the currency of the
primary economic environment in which the company operates.

The preparation of financial statements in compliance with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical
* accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise judgement in applying the Company's
accounting policies (see note 3).

The following principal accounting policies have been applied:
2.2 Financial reporting standard 101 - reduced disclosure exemptions

The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 ‘Application of Financial
Reporting Requirements’ issued by the FRC. Accordingly, these financial statements were prepared
in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’.

As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available
under that standard in relation to share-based payments, financial instruments, capital management,
presentation of comparative information in respect of certain assets, presentation of a cash flow
statement, standards not yet effective, certain disclosure in respect of revenue from contracts with
customers, impairment of assets, certain related party transactions, and certain disclosure
requirements in respect of leases.

Where relevant, equivalent disclosures have been given in the group accounts of Randstad NV.
The reason for the exemption is due to the Company being a qualifying entity that is a member of a
group where the parent of that group prepares publicly available consolidated financial statements

which are intended to give a true and fair view and that the Company is included in the consolidation.
More details on this reporting entity can be found in note 24.

17

—
Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.3. Going concern
\
The directors have at the time of approving the financial statements, a reasonable expectation that
the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for at least the next 12
months from date of approval of the financial statements. Thus, they continue to adopt the going
concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.

Further information in relation to going concern is set out in the going concern section of the Strategic
report.

2.4 Impact of new international reporting standards, amendments and interpretations

Of the new IFRSs that are mandatorily effective for the year ended 31 December 2023, none are
materially applicable or deemed relevant.

2.5 Revenue recognition

Revenue comprises the expected consideration for services rendered during the year. Revenue from
services rendered is recognised, excluding value added tax, in the statement of comprehensive
income in proportion to the progress in execution of the contract as of the reporting date.

Revenue from temporary placements includes the amounts received or receivable for the services of
candidates, including the salary and salary-related employment costs of these candidates (gross
basis). These revenues are recognised over time and are generally based on the number of hours
worked by these candidates.

Revenue from permanent placements on a contingent basis is generally based on a fixed fee per
candidate, this income being recognised on the start date of the candidate. Revenue recognised from
permanent placements on a retained basis is generally based on a fixed fee, this income being
recognised on the completion of certain pre-agreed stages of the service, for which the fee is non-
refundable.

Revenue from training includes the fees received or receivable for training services provided.
Revenues consist of days invoiced for consultation, design and delivery and are recognised as and
when each day of service is delivered by the company to the client.

Revenue from apprenticeships represents payments from a government body. Revenue is recognised
by reference to the stage of completion of the contract.

Pareto has deferred revenues as at the end of the 2023 financial year. The revenue for contingent

placements will be recognised on the candidates start dates and the revenue for training will be
recognised as and when the training is delivered to the client.

18

2>}?Jg4/H#sf+f.ffHH,_—_—/_ [ST TTT;
Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.6 Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment under the cost model are stated at historical cost less accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Historical cost includes expenditure that is
directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable
of operating in the manner intended by management.

Depreciation is charged so as to allocate the cost of assets less their residual value over their
estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method.

Depreciation is provided on the following basis:

Leasehold improvements - 10% per annum
Fixtures and fittings - 15% - 25% per annum
Office and computer equipment - 10% - 25% per annum

The assets' residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted
prospectively if appropriate, or if there is an indication of a significant change since the last reporting
date.

Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount
and are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

Subsequent costs are included in the asset's carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as
appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow
to the company and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced
part is derecognised. All other repairs and maintenance are charged to profit and loss during the
period in which they are incurred.

An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset's

carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. The recoverable amount of an
asset is the greater of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use.

19

eT
Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.7. Investments in subsidiaries

Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses. Investments are
tested for impairment, if indicators of impairment are identified, by comparing the carrying value to the
investments recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the assets fair value less
costs to dispose and its value in use.

The value in use is determined by using the present value of estimated cash flow projections. The
discount rates are based on interest rates that align with the terms of the projections and the specific
risks of the asset or business to which the investment relates respectively.

2.8 Non-financial assets

At the end of each reporting period, the company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and
intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an
impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in
order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). When it is not possible to estimate the
recoverable amount of an individual asset, the company estimates the recoverable amount of the
cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.

Recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. In assessing
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific
to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.

if the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying
amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable
amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.

When an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-
generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the
increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined
had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years.

20

|
Pareto Law Limited

! Notes to the Financial Statements 1
: For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)
2.9 Financial instruments

Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Company's statement of financial
position when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured initially at fair value. Transaction costs that are
directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than
financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are added to or deducted
from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair
value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.

Financial assets

All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade
date basis. Regular way purchases or sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require
delivery of assets within the time frame established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.

All recognised financial assets are measured subsequently in their entirety at either amortised cost or
fair value, depending on the classification of the financial assets.

Classification of financial assets

Debt instruments that meet the following conditions are measured subsequently at amortised cost:

+ the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in
order to collect contractual cash flows; and

- the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

Debt instruments that meet the following conditions are measured subsequently at fair value through
other comprehensive income (FVTOCI): ,
* the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both
collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial assets; and
+ the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are
solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

The company did not have any debt instruments measured subsequently at FVTOCI in either the
current or the preceding year

By default, all other financial assets are measured subsequently at fair value through profit or loss
(FVTPL).

21

eeooEESSSSeeeeeeeooooeeeeeeee—eE—E—E—E—E—EeeEET oo
Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements 1
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.9 Financial instruments (continued)

Despite the foregoing, the Company may make the following irrevocable election / designation at

initial recognition of a financial asset:

- the Company may irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in fair value of an equity
investment in other comprehensive income if certain criteria are met (see (ii) below); and

+ the Company may irrevocably designate a debt investment that meets the amortised cost or
FVTOCI criteria as measured at FVTPL if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an
accounting mismatch (see (iti) below).

The company did not have any other financial assets measured subsequently at FVTPL in either the
current year or the preceding year.

Amortised cost and effective interest method

The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and
of allocating interest-income over the relevant period. :

For financial assets other than purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets (i.e. assets
that are credit-impaired on initial recognition), the effective interest rate is the rate that exactly
discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees and points paid or received that form an
integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts)
excluding expected credit losses, through the expected life of the debt instrument, or, where
appropriate, a shorter period, to the gross carrying amount of the debt instrument on initial recognition.
For purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets, a credit-adjusted effective interest rate
is calculated by discounting the estimated future cash flows, including expected credit losses, to the
amortised cost of the debt instrument on initial recognition.

The amortised cost of a financial asset is the amount at which the financial asset is measured at initial
recognition minus the principal repayments, plus the cumulative amortisation using the effective
interest method of any difference between that initial amount and the maturity amount, adjusted for
any loss allowance. The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is the amortised cost of a financial
asset before adjusting for any loss allowance.

Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method for debt instruments measured
subsequently at amortised cost. For financial assets other than purchased or originated credit-
impaired financial assets, interest income is calculated by applying the effective interest rate to the
gross carrying amount of a financial asset, except for financial assets that have subsequently become
credit-impaired (see below). For financial assets that have subsequently become credit- impaired,
interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the
financial asset. If, in subsequent reporting periods, the credit risk on the credit-impaired financial
instrument improves so that the financial asset.is no longer credit-impaired, interest income is
recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of the financial asset.

22

vaso dr odd]Y]Yy]oN}]})}).NNN>N>SyS| |[_[S a sasaaSsyfd]yS}y]y+1_—s————————,,
Pareto Law Limited

a Notes to the Financial Statements '
: For the Year Ended 31 December 2023 ‘

2. Accounting policies (continued)
2.9 Financial instruments (continued)

For purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets, the Company recognises interest income
by applying the credit-adjusted effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset from
initial recognition. The calculation does not revert to the gross basis even if the credit risk of the
financial asset subsequently improves so that the financial asset is no longer credit- impaired.

Interest income is recognised in profit or loss and is included in the ‘finance income’ line item (note
8).

Impairment of financial assets

The Company recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses on investments in debt
instruments that are measured at amortised cost, trade receivables and contract assets. The amount
of expected credit losses is updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial
recognition of the respective financial instrument.

The Company always recognises lifetime ECL for trade receivables and contract assets. The
expected credit losses on these financial assets are estimated using a provision matrix based on the
Company's historical credit loss experience, adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors,
general economic conditions and an assessment of both the current as well as the forecast direction
of conditions at the reporting date, including time value of money where appropriate.

For all other financial instruments, the Company recognises lifetine ECL when there has been a
significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition.

Lifetime ECL represents the expected credit losses that will result from all possible default events
over the expected life of a financial instrument. In contrast, 12-month ECL represents the portion of
lifetime ECL that is expected to result from default events on a financial instrument that are possible
within 12 months after the reporting date.

(i) Significant increase in credit risk

In assessing whether the credit risk on a financial instrument has increased significantly since initial
recognition, the Company compares the risk of a default occurring on the financial instrument at the
reporting date with the risk of a default occurring on the financial instrument at the date of initial
recognition. In making this assessment, the Company considers both quantitative and qualitative
information that is reasonable and supportable, including historical experience and forward-looking
information that is available without undue cost or effort. Forward-looking information considered
includes the future prospects of the industries in which the Company’s debtors operate, obtained from
economic expert reports, financial analysts, governmental bodies, relevant think-tanks and other
similar organisations, as well as consideration of various external sources of actual and forecast
economic information that relate to the Company’s core operations.

22

OO
Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December'2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.9 Financial instruments (continued)

In particular, the following information is taken into account when assessing whether credit risk has

increased significantly since initial recognition:

* an actual or expected significant deterioration in the financial instrument's external (if available)
or internal credit rating;

+ — significant deterioration in external market indicators of credit risk for a particular financial
instrument, e.g. a significant increase in the credit spread, the credit default swap prices for the
debtor, or the length of time or the extent to which the fair value of a financial asset has been less
than its amortised cost;

- existing or forecast adverse changes in business, financial or economic conditions that are
expected to cause a significant decrease in the debtor's ability to meet its debt obligations;

+ an actual or expected significant deterioration in the operating results of the debtor;

+ — significant increases in credit risk on other financial instruments of the same debtor; and

* an actual or expected significant adverse change in the regulatory, economic, or technological
environment of the debtor that results in a significant decrease in the debtor’s ability to meet its
debt obligations.

Irrespective of the outcome of the above assessment, the Company presumes that the credit risk on
a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition when contractual payments are
more than 30 days past due, unless the Company has reasonable and supportable information that
demonstrates otherwise.

Despite the foregoing, the Company assumes that the credit risk on a financial instrument has not

increased significantly since initial recognition if the financial instrument is determined to have low

credit risk at the reporting date. A financial instrument is determined to have low credit risk if:

1. the financial instrument has a low risk of default;

2. the debtor has a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flow obligations in the near term;
and

3. adverse changes in economic and business conditions in the longer term may, but will not
necessarily, reduce the ability of the borrower to fulfil its contractual cash flow obligations.

The Company considers a financial asset to have low credit risk when the asset has external credit
tating of ‘investment grade’ in accordance with the globally understood definition or if an external
rating is not available, the asset has an internal rating of ‘performing’. Performing means that the
counterparty has a strong financial position and there are no past due amounts.

The Company regularly monitors the effectiveness of the criteria used to identify whether there has

been a significant increase in credit risk and revises them as appropriate to ensure that the criteria
are capable of identifying significant increase in credit risk before the amount becomes past due.

23

OOOO
Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements :
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.9 Financial instruments (continued)
(ii) Definition of default

The Company considers the following as constituting an event of default for internal credit risk

management purposes as historical experience indicates that financial assets that meet either of the

following criteria are generally not recoverable:

+ when there is a breach of financial covenants by the debtor; or

* information developed internally or obtained from external sources indicates that the debtor is
unlikely to pay its creditors, including the Company, in full (without taking into account any
collateral held by the Company).

Irrespective of the above analysis, the Company considers that default has occurred when a

financial asset is more than 90 days past due unless the Company has reasonable and supportable

information to demonstrate that a more lagging default criterion is more appropriate.

(iii) Credit-impaired financial assets

A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the
estimated future cash flows of that financial asset have occurred. Evidence that a financial asset is
credit-impaired includes observable data about the following events:

1. significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the borrower;

2. abreach of contract, such as a default or past due event (see (ii) above);

3. the lender(s) of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower's
financial difficulty, having granted to the borrower a concession(s) that the lender(s) would not
otherwise consider;

4. itis becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation;
or

5. the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties.

{iv) Write-off policy

The Company writes off a financial asset when there is information indicating that the debtor is in
severe financial difficulty and there is no realistic prospect of recovery, e.g. when the debtor has been
placed under liquidation or has entered into bankruptcy proceedings, or in the case of trade
receivables, when the amounts are over two years past due, whichever occurs sooner. Financial
assets written off may still be subject to enforcement activities under the Company's recovery
procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised
in profit or loss.

(v) Measurement and recognition of expected credit losses

The measurement of expected credit losses is a function of the probability of default, loss given default
(i.e. the magnitude of the loss if there is a default) and the exposure at default. The assessment of the
probability of default and loss given default is based on historical data adjusted by forward-looking
information as described above. As for the exposure at default, for financial assets, this is represented
by the assets’ gross carrying amount at the reporting date.

24

ST TTT aI —TTTT _SSTSTSSSS————————————
Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements - .
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023 :

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.9 Financial instruments (continued)

For financial assets, the expected credit loss is estimated as the difference between all contractual
cash flows that are due to the Company in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that
the Company expects to receive, discounted at the original effective interest rate.

If the Company has measured the loss allowance for a financial instrument at an amount equal to
lifetime ECL in the previous reporting period but determines at the current reporting date that the
conditions for lifetime ECL are no longer met, the Company measures the loss allowance at an
amount equal to 12-month ECL at the current reporting date, except for assets for which simplified
approach was used. :

The Company recognises an impairment gain or loss in profit or loss for all financial instruments with
a corresponding adjustment to their carrying amount through a loss allowance account and does not
reduce the carrying amount of the financial asset in the statement of financial position.

Derecognition of financial assets

The Company derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from
the asset expire, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Company neither transfers nor retains substantially all
the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Company
recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Company retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial
asset, the Company continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised
borrowing for the proceeds received.

On derecognition of a financial asset measured at amortised cost, the difference between the asset's
carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and receivable is recognised in profit or
loss. In addition, on derecognition of an investment in equity instrument which the Company has
elected on initial recognition to measure at FVTOCI, the cumulative gain or loss previously
accumulated in the investment’s revaluation reserve is not reclassified to profit or loss, but is
transferred to retained earnings.

2.10 Financial liabilities and equity
Classification as debt or equity
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with
the substance of the contractual arrangements and the definitions of a financial liability and an equity
instrument.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after
deducting all of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Company are recognised at the
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Repurchase of the Company’s own equity instruments is recognised and deducted directly in equity.

No gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the
Company's own equity instruments.

25

«So TT Ta ia i i SF
Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.10 Financial liabilities and equity (continued)
Financial liabilities

All financial liabilities are measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method
or at FVTPL.

Financial! liabilities at FVTPL

Financial liabilities are classified as at FVTPL when the financial liability is (i) held for trading or (ii) it
is designated as at FVTPL.

A financial liability is classified as held for trading if: .

+ ithas been acquired principally for the purpose of repurchasing it in the near term; or

* on initial recognition it is part of a portfolio of identified financial instruments that the Company
manages together and has a recent actual pattern of short-term profit-taking; or

+ itis a derivative, except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee contract or a designated and
effective hedging instrument.

A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon

initial recognition if:

* such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency
that would otherwise arise; or

+ the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which
is managed, and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the
Company's documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the
grouping is provided internally on that basis; or

+ _ it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IFRS 9 permits the
entire combined contract to be designated as at FVTPL.

Financial liabilities at FVTPL are measured at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on changes
in fair value recognised in profit or loss to the extent that they are not part of a designated hedging
relationship (see Hedge accounting policy). The net gain or loss recognised in profit or loss
incorporates any interest paid on the financial liability and is included in the ‘other gains and losses’
line item in profit or loss.

26

OOO eee
Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial’ Statements ‘
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.10 Financial liabilities and equity (continued)
Financial liabilities measured subsequently at amortised cost.

Financial liabilities that are not (i) held-for-trading, or (ii) designated as at FVTPL, are measured
subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and
of allocating interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that
exactly discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees and points paid or received that
form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts)
through the expected life of the financial liability, or (where appropriate) a shorter period, to the
amortised cost of a financial liability.

Derecognition of financial liabilities

The Company derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Company's obligations are
discharged, cancelled or they expire. The difference between the carrying amount of the financial
liability derecognised and the consideration paid and payable is recognised in profit or loss.

2.11 Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and bank overdrafts.
At the reporting date, bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.

The company, along with other UK members of the Randstad group, is party to a cash pooling
arrangement with Barclays Bank, whereby each UK members’ sterling bank account is zero balanced
each day by transfer to or from the parent company, in order to more efficiently manage the overall
UK cash resources through the treasury department of the ultimate parent.

2.12 Foreign currency translation
(a) Functional and presentation currency

Items included in the financial statements of the company are measured using the currency of the
primary economic environment in which the company operates (‘the functional currency’). The
financial statements are presented in ‘Pounds Sterling’ (£), which is also the company’s functional
currency.

(b) Transactions and balances

Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates
prevailing at the dates of the transactions or valuation where items are re-measured. Foreign
exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the translation
at year-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are
recognised in profit or loss, except when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash
flow hedges. All other foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in profit or loss within ‘other
operating income’.

27

«_|)sdldlyd
Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements :
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023 .

2. Accounting policies (continued)
2.13 Leases
Identifying leases

The company accounts for a contract, or a portion of a contract, as a lease when it conveys the right
to use an asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. Leases are those contracts that
satisfy the following criteria: .

a) There is an identified asset;
b) The company obtains substantially all the economic benefits from use of the asset; and
c) The company has the right to the direct use of the asset.

The company considers whether the supplier has substantive substitution rights. If the supplier does
have those rights, the contract is not identified as giving rise to a lease.

In determining whether the company obtains substantially all the economic benefits from use of the
asset, the company considers only the economic benefits that arise from the use of the asset, not
those incidental to legal ownership or other potential benefits.

In determining whether the company has the right to the direct use of the asset, the company considers
whether it directs, how and for what purpose the asset is used throughout the period of use. If there
are no significant decisions to be made because they are pre-determined due to the nature of the
asset, the company considers whether it was involved in the design of the asset in a way that
predetermines how and for what purpose the asset will be used throughout the period of use. If the
contract or portion of a contract does not satisfy these criteria, the company applies other applicable
IFRSs rather than IFRS 16.

¥

Allleases are accounted for by recognising a right-of-use asset and a lease liability except for:
+ Leases of low value assets; and
+ Leases with a duration of 12 months or fess.

Lease measurement

Lease liabilities are measured at the present value of the contractual payments due to the lessor over
the lease term, with the discount rate determined by reference to the rate inherent in the lease unless
(as is typically the case) this is not readily determinable, in which case the company’s incremental
borrowing rate on commencement of the lease is used. Variable lease payments are only included in
the measurement of the lease liability if they depend on an index or rate. In such cases, the initial
measurement of the lease liability assumes the variable element will remain unchanged throughout
the lease term. Other variable lease payments are expensed in the period to which they relate.

On initial recognition, the carrying value of the lease liability also includes:

+ amounts expected to be payable under any residual value guarantee;

+. the exercise price of any purchase option granted in favour of the company if it is reasonably
certain to assess that option; and

* any penalties payable for terminating the lease, if the term of the lease has been estimated on
the basis of termination option being exercised.

28

a
Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)

2.13 Leases (continued)

Right of use assets are initially measured at the amount of the lease liability, reduced for any lease

incentives received, and increased for:

* lease payments made at or before commencement of the lease;

¢ — initial direct costs incurred; and

+ the amount of any provision recognised where the company is contractually required to dismantle,
remove or restore the leased asset (typically leasehold dilapidations) :

Subsequent to initial measurement lease liabilities increase as a result of interest charged at a
constant rate on the balance outstanding and are reduced for lease payments made. Right-of-use
assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over the remaining term of the lease or over the
remaining economic life of the asset if, rarely, this is judged to be shorter than the lease term.

When the company revises its estimate of the term of any lease (because, for example, it reassesses
the probability of a lessee extension or termination option being exercised), it adjusts the carrying
amount of the lease liability to reflect the payments to make over the revised term, which are
discounted using a revised discount rate. The carrying value of lease liabilities is similarly revised
when the variable element of future lease payments dependent on a rate or index is revised, except
the discount rate remains unchanged. In both cases an equivalent adjustment is made to the carrying
value of the right-of-use asset, with the revised carrying amount being amortised over the remaining
(revised) lease term. If the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is adjusted to zero, any further
reduction is recognised in profit or loss.

When the company renegotiates the contractual terms of a lease with the lessor, the accounting

depends on the nature of the modification:

- if the renegotiation results in one or more additional assets being leased for an amount
commensurate with the standalone price for the additional rights-of-use obtained, the modification
is accounted for as a separate lease in accordance with the above policy;

+ in all other cases where the modification increases the scope of the lease (whether that is an
extension to the lease term, or one or more additional assets being leased), the lease liability is
remeasured using the discount rate applicable on the modification date, with the right-of-use asset
being adjusted by the same amount; and

+ if the renegotiation results in a decrease in the scope of the lease, both the carrying amount of
the lease liability and right-of-use asset are reduced by the same proportion to reflect the partial
of full termination of the lease with any difference recognised in profit or loss. The lease liability is
then further adjusted to ensure its carrying amount reflects the amount of the renegotiated
payments over the renegotiated term, with the modified lease payments discounted at the rate
applicable on the modification date. The right-of-use asset is adjusted by the same amount.

For contracts that both convey a right to the company to use an identified asset and require services
to be provided to the company by the lessor, the company has elected to account for the entire
contract as a lease, i.e. it does not allocate any amount of the contractual payments to, and account
separately for, any services provided by the supplier as part of the contract.

29

CEE
Pareto Law Limited

: Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)
2.14 Provisions for liabilities

Provisions are made where an event has taken place that gives the Company a legal or constructive
obligation that probably requires settlement by a transfer of economic benefit, and a reliable estimate
can be made of the amount of the obligation.

Provisions are charged as an expense to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the year that
the Company becomes aware of the obligation and are measured at the best estimate at the
Statement of Financial Position date of the expenditure required to settle the obligation, taking into
account relevant risks and uncertainties.

When payments are eventually made, they are charged to the provision carried in the Statement of
Financial Position. .

2.15 Finance costs

Finance costs are charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income over the term of the debt using
the effective interest method so that the amount charged is at a constant rate on the carrying amount.
Issue costs are initially recognised as a reduction in the proceeds of the associated capital instrument.

2.16 Finance income

Finance income is recognised using the effective interest method. When a loan or receivable is
impaired, the company reduces the carrying amount to its recoverable amount, being the estimated
future cash flow discounted at the original effective interest rate of the instrument and continues
unwinding the discount as interest income. Interest income on impaired loan and receivables is
recognised using the original effective interest rate.

2.17 Pensions
Defined contribution pension plan
The company operates a defined contribution plan for its employees. A defined contribution plan is a
pension plan under which the company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. Once the
contributions have been paid the company has no further payment obligations.
The contributions are recognised as an expense in the Statement of Comprehensive Income when
they fall due. Amounts not paid are shown in accruals as a liability in the Statement of Financial
Position. The assets of the plan are held separately from the company in independently administered
funds.

Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a reduction in the
future payments is available.

30

OOOO
Pareto Law Limited

! Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)
2.18 Current and deferred taxation

The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in profit or loss,
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in
shareholder's funds. In this case, the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly
in shareholder's funds, respectively.

The current tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at
the reporting date in the countries where the company operates and generates taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which
applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on
the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities.

Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are
not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill; or arise from initial recognition of
an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction
affects neither accounting nor taxable profit nor loss. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and
laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date and are expected to apply
when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.

Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will
be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current
tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income
taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable
entities where there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.

2.19 Operating(loss)/profit

Operating (loss)/profit is stated before net finance income.

2.20 Government grants

Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Company will
comply with the conditions attaching to them and that the grants will be received.

Government grants that are receivable as compensation for expenses or losses already incurred or for

the purpose of giving immediate financial support to the Company with no future related costs are
recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they become receivable.

31

ooo OOOO
Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In preparing the financial statements, management has to make certain judgements, estimates and .
assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities,
revenue and expenses. The actual outcome may differ from these judgements, estimates and
assumptions, and therefore could have a material effect on the carrying amount of the asset or liability
involved. The timing of outflow of resources to settle the provisions is subject to the same uncertain factors.
Judgements, estimates and assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis and are based on historical
experience and various other factors, including expectations about future events, which are believed to be
reasonable under the circumstances and for the item involved. Revisions to accounting estimates are
recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.

The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations (which are dealt with
separately’ below), that the directors have made in the process of applying the Company's accounting
policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in financial statements.
Revenue recognition - deferral of revenue
Note 2.5 describes the accounting policy for recognising revenue with the critical judgement being the
element of service that has been delivered. At the Statement of Financial Position date, the total of deferred
revenue is £883,000 (2022: £1,017,000), which is included in note 14. Of this, deferred placement revenue
is £285,000 (2022: £237,000) and deferred training revenue is £598,000 (2022: £780,000).
Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The.directors consider that there were no key sources of estimation uncertainty at the statement of financial
position date that had a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets
and liabilities within the next financial year.

4. Revenue

The whole of the revenue is attributable to the principal activity.

All revenue arose within the United Kingdom.

5. Operating (loss)/profit 2023 2022
£000 £000
The operating (loss)/profit is stated after charging:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 181 196
Depreciation of right of use assets 567 559
Fees payable to the company's auditor:
- Audit of these financial statements 12 12

There were no non-audit fees payable to the Company's auditor (2022: none).

32


nn!

6.

Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Employees

2023 2022
: £000 £000

Staff costs, including Directors' remuneration, were as follows:
Wages and salaries 21,261 25,632
Social security costs 2,319 2,861

Cost of defined contribution scheme 414 437
23,994 28,930

2023 2022

No. No.
The average monthly number of employees, including the directors,
during the year was as follows:
Administration, management and operational 578 684

578 684

Directors’ remuneration

In the current year, the directors received remuneration paid by Randstad UK Holding Limited. in respect
of their services to group companies. No recharge is made to the company for these costs and none of
their remuneration is in respect of their services to the company. There were no directors in the company's
defined contribution pension scheme during the year.

Finance income

2023 2022
£000 £000
Interest received from group undertakings 1,145 180

33

eee >
Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

9. Finance costs
2023 2022
£000 £000
Interest on lease liabilities . 123 174
10. Profit on disposal of subsidiary
2023 2022
£000 £000

Sale of Pareto Law LLC 11,100 -—

The investment held in Pareto Law LLC as at 1% January 2023 was £100. This investment was disposed
of during 2023 by means of a sale to Randstad North America.

41. Taxation
2023 2022
£000 £000
Corporation tax
Current tax on profits for the year (425) 577
Total current tax (425) 577
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 110 83
Adjustments in respect of previous periods 35 -
Adjustments in respect of changes in rates 7 26
Total deferred tax 152 109
Total tax (273) 686

Factors affecting tax (credit)/charge for the year

The tax assessed for the year differs from the average standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 23.5%
(2022- 19%). The differences are explained below:

2023 2022
£000 £000
Profit before tax 9,725 3,442
Profit multiplied by average standard rate of corporation tax in the UK
of 23.5% (2022-19%) . 2,285 654
Effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes* (2,601) 6
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior periods 35 -
Tax rate change 8 26
_ Total tax (credit)/charge (273) 686
*Sale of Pareto Law LLC

|
Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

11. Taxation (continued)
Factors that may affect future tax charges
It was announced that from 1 April 2023, the Corporation Tax main rate for non-ring-fenced profits was to
be increased to 25% applying to profits over £250,000. Deferred taxes at the reporting date have been

measured and reflected in these financial statements using the substantively enacted tax rate at the year
end of 25%.

12. Property, plant and equipment

Fixtures,
fittings Office &
Leasehold and computer
improvements equipment equipment Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2023 682 122 683 1,487
At 31 December 2023 682 122 683 1,487
Depreciation :
At 1 January 2023 439 92 436 967
Charge for the year 65 18 98 181
At 31 December 2023 504 110 534 1,148
Net book value
At 31 December 2023 178 12 149 339

At 31 December 2022 243 30 247 520

35

aS oOo >rN0——@BM@€@V_v_—M—MTuwt—™-_"_TSYTJT-1£"21-2"#1"-"_1"-]7=-_>-2->77Y7>S}.]_-——
Pareto Law Limited

: . Notes to the Financial Statements.
' : . For the Year Ended 31 December 2023 '

13. Trade and other receivables

2023 2022
£000 £000
Due within one year .
Trade receivables 2,272 4,864
Amounts owed by group undertakings 16,955 6,171
Other receivables 27 91
Prepayments 646 349

Accrued income 1,565 1,957

21,465 13,432

Included in amounts owed by group undertakings is a cash pooling balance of £16,920,000 (2022 -

£6, 146,000) with Randstad Group UK Limited, which bears interest. Interest rates are assessed quarterly
and are based on 3-month LIBOR rates. All other amounts are owed from fellow subsidiaries and are
interest free and repayable on demand.

14. Trade and other payables

2023 2022

£000 £000
Trade payables 145 112
Amounts owed to group undertakings 215 103
Other taxation and social security 909 1,802
Corporation tax 563 988
Other payables 230 114
Accruals 547 1,086
Deferred income 883 1,017

3,492 5,222

Interest rates are assessed quarterly and are based on 3-month LIBOR rates. All other amounts are owed
from fellow subsidiaries and are interest free and repayable on demand.

36

a

Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements ‘
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

15. Leases
Company as a lessee

The company leases a number of properties. For some lease contracts payments increase each year by
inflation and in others they are reset periodically to market rental rates. For some property leases, the
periodic rent is fixed over the lease term.

The company also leases certain items of plant and equipment, in some contracts for services with
distributors, those contracts contain a lease of vehicles. Leases of plant, equipment and vehicles comprise
only fixed payments over the lease terms.

The company sometimes negotiates break clauses in its property leases. On a case-by-case basis, the
company will consider whether the absence of a break clause would expose the company to excessive
risk. Typically, factors considered in deciding to negotiate a break clause include:

a. the length of the lease term

b. the economic stability of the environment in which the property is located; and

c. whether the location represents a new area of operations for the company.

At 31 December 2023, the carrying amount of lease liabilities are not reduced by the amount of payments
that would be avoided from exercising break clauses because on both dates it was considered reasonably
certain that the company would not exercise its right to exercise any right to break the lease.

Land and Land and
buildings buildings

2023 2022
£000 £000
Right of use assets
At 1 January 2,019 2,721
Additions 102 -
Impairment charge (143) (143)
Depreciation charge (567) (559)

At 31 December : 1,411 2,019

S

37

>
Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

15. Leases (continued)
2023 2022
£000 £000
Total right of use assets 1,411 2,019

Landand Land and
buildings buildings

2023 2022
£000 £000
Lease liabilities
At 1 January 2,907 3,972
Additions 104 -
Repayment of leases (1,244) (1,231)
Interest expense 115 166

At 31 December 1,882 2,907

Landand Land and
buildings buildings

2023 2022
~ £000 £000
Maturity of leases:
Expiry date:
Within one year 720 1,117
Between one and five years 1,162 1,790
In over five years - -

1,882 2,907

38

CEE

Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements .
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

16.

17,

Deferred taxation

At 1 January 2023
Charged to profit and loss

At 31 December 2023

The deferred tax (liability) / asset is made up as follows:

Accelerated capital allowances

Right of use assets and lease liabilities
Site restoration

Provisions
Dilapidations
Provision
£000
At 1 January 2023 172
Charged/(credited) to profit and loss 8

At 31 December 2023 - ; 180

2023
£000
22
(185)
44
(119)
Other
Provision
£000
319
(96)
223 |

£000
33

(152)

(149)

2022
£000

35
(45)
43

33

Total
£000

491
(88)

403

The dilapidation provision reflects the company's liability under its leases associated with making good and
returning the company's leasehold premises to their original condition at the end of the lease term of
various properties. The company estimates the cost of making good each premises will be on average £9-
£15 per square foot based on historical trends. There is no economic outflow until the premises are handed
back to the landlord at either the break date or the end of the lease. As at 31 December 2023 the full
provision is a non-current liability. The rate of provision was reviewed for reasonableness by management

during the year.

The other provision relates to property restructuring.

39

ee

18.

19.

20.

Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial.Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Share capital

2023 2022
£000 £000
Authorised, allotted, called up and fully paid

104,028 (2022 - 104,028) Ordinary shares of £1.00 each 4 104 104

The company has one class of Ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.

Reserves

Share premium
Share premium represents the amount subscribed for share capital in excess of nominal value.
Retained earnings

Retained earnings represents cumulative profits or losses, net of dividends paid and other adjustments.

Pension commitments

The company operates a defined contribution scheme. The assets of the scheme are held separately from
those of the company in an independently administered fund. The pension cost charge of £414,000 (2022
- £437,000) represents contributions payable by the company to the fund. At the end of the year,
contributions amounting to £81,000 (2022- £91,000) were unpaid.

40

OEE

21.

22.

Pareto Law Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Related party transactions

At 31 December 2023, the company had amounts due from Randstad UK Holding Limited of £4,000 (2022
- £55,000) in relation to intercompany recharges. At 31 December 2023, the company had amounts owing
to Randstad UK Holding Limited of £245,000 (2022 - £nil) in relation to intercompany recharges. This entity
is a fellow subsidiary of Randstad N.V.

At 31 December 2023, the company had amounts due from Pareto Law LLC of £75,000 (2022 - £nil) in
relation to intercompany recharges. This entity is a fellow subsidiary of Randstad N.V.

At 31 December 2023, the company had amounts due from Randstad Solutions Limited of £3,000 (2022 -
£nil) in relation to intercompany recharges. At 31 December 2023, the company had amounts owing to
Randstad Solutions Limited of £1,000 (2022 - £nil) in relation to intercompany recharges. This entity is a
fellow subsidiary of Randstad N.V.

At 31 December 2023, the company had amounts owing to Randstad Offshore Services Limited of £2,000
(2022 - Enil) in relation to intercompany recharges. This entity is a fellow subsidiary of Randstad N.V.

Controlling party

Randstad N.V., a company incorporated in the Netherlands is the ultimate parent company and controlling
party. Randstad UK Holding Limited, a company registered in England and Wales, is the immediate parent
company. According to the register kept by the company, Randstad UK Holding Limited has a 100%
interest in the equity capital of the company at 31 December 2023.

Copies of the ultimate parent company's consolidated financial statements, which are the smallest and
largest group in which Pareto Law Limited is consolidated, can be obtained from the Company Secretary,
Randstad N.V., Diemermere 25, Diemen, the Netherlands, its registered address.

Copies of the immediate parent company's financial statements can be obtained from the Company

Secretary, Randstad UK Holding Limited. Their registered address is 450 Capability Green, Luton,
Bedfordshire, LU1 3LU.

a1

