Please find enclosed the financial statements for Places for! People Group Limited
_ (Company Number: 03777037 ye

ee \

WI Ue

tert2re004 #162
COMPANIES HOUSE

MONDAY

Places
ei for People _

sine Ayunuwog esneseg

~— ANNUAL REPORT

Annual Report 2023/24

Because
Community Matters

Places for People
Annual Report and Accounts 2023/24


Managing
Communities

Developing
Communities

Helping
Communities

We're
changing lives
by creating |

and supporting

thriving
Communities.

‘rerez0L vodey envy


Performance

Highlights 2023

Chairman and

CEO's message

Richard Gregory

Greg RED ne

—-8-

Strategic Report.

Managing Communities
Developing Communities,

Helping Communities
$172 Statement

Our approach to Environmental, Social and Governance
Finance Review and Value for Money
Risk Management & Assurance

i
i.

“08

Governance Report. 9.

Board of drectors__.
Corporate Governance:

Director's Report.

Going concern and viability staternents
Statement of boards responsibilities __._

Financial Statements __.__130
Independent auditor’ report 132
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 142.
Company statement of comprehensive income _..___ 143
Consolidated statement of financial position 144
Company statement of financial position _

Consolidated statement of changes in reservés 146
Consolidated statement of cashflows ___ 447
NNotés to the financial statements 4B
Board of directors. executives and advisors. 196

wwwoplacesforpeople.co.nk

~ yerez0g ody yenusy >


Annual Report 2022/26

Performance
Highlights 2024

Turnover £831.6m =.
Reserves -£949.9m ».

© MfordabloHousing © Development
7 = 2023/24 59.1% 74%

Operating profit  £2i1.im_ : Turnover aa 0 Howe

7 by market e a ° a

Fixedassets £5,764m =.

Social value’ £334m

‘Turnover : Profit before tax Fixed assets : Reserves Homes owned Social value”

Figures shown in £m Figures shown in £rm Figures shown in £m Figures shown in £m or managed Figures shown in £m

334

Figures shown in 1,008s properties

5699 2
. zg MS
are 2
ra
790.3 08
2en8

‘ont 226

sme 7

B69 URS gang

6.7
318.8 1,2
=r 3.8
| 8

poe ee A)

26
| |
| | |

yerezoz vodaytenuuy


| damenaperyscongents,
Pe eaewereanentegrey

Srenpntne |
Senceiors
iebogtst pine

i ;
‘We are Places for People. We change
| lives by creating and supporting

Snap
ESPenites Gee
Peayoegntecion

nal or Manatees
agri ERG)

Bree Creatawill

oy TED
nemtgmem iadibamadtam
seein, Meare paettpar aq

Romnelect recs preven on

Affordablefandy)

Cuppontediousingy
fendimarketlrent]

Over 245,000

F[Oevelopment)

Homes owned and ‘ i
' fand/Regeneration)
managed, 98 lelsure pangjRegenecation)
facilities, around 11,300
Colleagues and c£1bn of
major investors’ assets

under management.

oR

hiiwouctetone)

tt

How we will deliver our
Because Community
Matters strategy

Effortless

Ensure an effortless experience for People,
Customers and Partners. Remove barriers
and improve service.

Sustainability
Fulfil our social responsibility, balance
‘economic, environmental and social

needs to improve the lives of current
and future generations.

Customer
‘We exist because of our

Customers, we'll aim to do
the right thing. Always.

People

Engaged, developed,
and trusted People.

Growth

Unlock growth, balance social good
and commercial outcomes to deliver
‘more Communities.

Brand

Build the brand from
the inside out, unleash
a respected and trusted
brand, lead the sector
to ensure there's a fair
external narrative,

verezoz wedoy envy >

sone

A message

from our Chair

Richard J Gragory OBE

The year has seen significant progress
in all the businesses and services that
make up our remarkable Group.

&

i
i
j
:

sen

Inour core socal and affordable housing division we
1050 to the challenge of dealing with a very significant
increase in repairs. partly driven by increased
awareness of damp and moutd, white atthe same
time continuing the transformation of our operations
and the development of much needed new homes and
Communities. Improvernents in data quality systems
and processes, productivity and Customer complaint
handling are all underway and am confident will bear
{ruitas they complete this year and next. The goal is
‘high-performance Customer focussed organisation
with te capability and capacity to repair, renew, and
develop hames at scale.

{betiove this period is a turning point forthe Group and
‘many others inthe sector as we remodel our fong-
term capital deployment, committing more capital than
‘before on existing assets as we imprave our data on
asset quality, respond to well justified higher regulatory
standards and cope with climate change and net

zero challenges.

‘The results of our first Tenants Satisfaction Survey were
Aisappointing but realistic, evidencing our known need
{for improvement. It was pleasing though to see the
higher scores for our respect for our Customers.

ur Customer services are now very much under
scrutiny and we have received valuable feedback from
‘our National Customer Group, who are mandated to
hold our board and executives to account. Our thanks.
0 to all cur Customers who serve on the NCG and on
the four new regional Customer groups, established
to get closer to our Communities and mirror our new
‘regional multi disciptinary management structure.
Thanks in particular to Janet Boston, the founder Chair
‘who relied this year and a warm welcome to our new
NCG Chair Jane’Momis and deputy Stephen Miller, and
to thenew regional chairs. Welcome also to our new

The goal is a high-
performance Customer
focussed organisation
with the capability

‘and capacity to repair,
renew, and develop
homes at scale

Customers and Colleagues from Origin and South
Devon, and to Vicky Bonner, the Origin Chair who
Joined our Group board

‘Our teams in Developments, Places Leisure and
Social Impact go from strength to strength and there
‘were significant contract wins and growth in RMG,
Touchstone and Derwent FM,

‘Our stil relatively young fund management business
‘was rebranded irom PAP Capital to “Thriving
Investments - powered by PIP. Its board was
strengthened withthe appoiatment of four new very
experienced non-executive directors, £250m of assets
‘were added to our management, anew English key
‘worker fund was developed (tobe launched tater in
2024), and the team helped the Group acquie its fist
For Profit Registered Provider in Rosewood allowing
third party investment into affordable housing tenures.
‘Thriving vestments is well positioned to broker and
‘manage further significant external investment into 3
range of UK housing opportunities, supported by Group
‘expertise and assets where appropriate.

Fall, would like to again recognise Greg, our Group
CEO, who is continuing to deliver an the commitments
hhe made to me and the board when he was appointed.
Greg continues to lead with energy, passion anda vision
‘that wil see us achieve our ambition tobe the U's
leading social enterprise.

4p

Richard J Gregory OBE
Chair of Places for People

thick bldlo- Ge

e

sev

20%

Chief Executive’s
Statement

Greg Reed

Last October I met Eric Armitage, the first CEO of
Places for People (PfP). Eric is in his 90s and as
sharp as a tack. We talked about PfP back when Eric
was in charge; about the growth of the company
and the differences from his time to now. The most
impactful part of our conversation was when Eric
said the direction in which we were heading was
true to the guiding principle established by our
founder, John Foulerton, ‘to be a force for good’.

‘told Eric tha, by complete coincidence, this phrase
‘was part of our People Promises. | also said that
‘understanding why you do something can be as
important as what you do. | hear alot of noise about
how to solve the housing crisis and not enough about
why, At PIP, we think itis Because Community Matters.

{read last year’s introduction and everything that is
in there still holds true now = that we are all aligned
‘behind our Because Community Matters strategy which
says that we exist because of our Customers; that we
‘are addressing the huge challenge of dealing with the
legacy issues of underinvestment that are endemic
across the Affordable Housing sector; that our People
‘are sill a huge focus of investment for us; and that

‘we have continued to build homes when others in our
‘sector have found it dificult to do so.

There are hard choices to be made, but for us, taking
care of eur Custorners and building new homes are not
‘choices. They are our non-negotables.

‘We have a new governmentin the UK, and they have a
‘mountain to climb, but whatever they proritise..and
they won't be able to tackle everything at once. hope
housing, and particularly affordable housing is way up
their agenda, We have a housing crisis in the UK. I's
been with us for decades, but we are reaching a tipping
point now. At PIP, we are well placed to help solve this.
We are a partner in waiting for the new administration.

‘We launched our Customer Promises this year. They
‘are the third and final element of our ‘cultural trifecta
the other two being our Because Community Malters
strategy and our People Promises. They have been
very wel received by our People because they enshrine
and codify how we want to work with Customers at
every stage oftheir relationship with us. We're now
embedding these Promises in process and practice,
siving our Peopte the support and structure they need
{odo the right thing aways.

‘And on our People, we continued to invest in ther,
because we know that you gett right fr them, they
will gett right for Customers. This investment includes
the things we've talked about before - the Real Living
Wage, a Hardship Fund fo support those who may be

‘struggling financially, and this year, the roll-out of
Flight Path, our company-wide education and
development programme.

‘We continued to invest in our Communities and in our
Customers’ homes. We spent £219mon maintenance,
repairs, and planned improvements in the year. And
we'll spend more in the year zhead,

We created over £300m of social value through the
‘work we do in our homes and leisure Communities,
{and through our significant and extensive social impact,
investment. We see this as core ta who we are.

We also moved forward with two new partnerships
with South Devon Rural and Origin Housing
Associations and both organisations will be part ofthe
Group in 2024 ~ and welcomed 10 new teisure centres
in Northuinbertand into our Leisure division.

Finally, Iwas very proud that we became a strategic
delivery partner of Homewards, the Prince and Princess
‘of Wales’ initiative tend homelessness in the UK. We
‘met with His Royal Highness when he came to Sheffield
and we stated our commitment to an innovative
housing project focused on providing homes for.
homeless families from our Community. When came
{PIP sai that we're not in competition with others in
{he social housing sector because homelessness is our
‘competitor. | hope this year we have continued the ght.
‘As my colleague Scott Black says, homelessness isn't
alifesiyle choice i’ a symptom of failure to deliver a
long-term plan for affordable housing.

‘And as always, my sincere thanks go to my Chai
Richard, and our board. Their support, guidance, and
challenge is always welcome and always appreciated.

Onward!

nA

Greg Reed
Chief Executive

e120 wotoyyenmy 2

oo


SD Annval Report 2023726

Our People
Promises

These are our People Promises - it’s

what we stand for and how we roll.

When People are in our Community,

this is what they sign up to.

DO THE RIGHT

THING. ALWAYS.

We always aim to do the right thing for
‘our Customers, for our Communities,
for each other.

is the right thing? Never walking by.
Picking up the litter. Doing that

bit extra. Helping. Giving. Being transparent. :
Making choices for the right reasons. Never
letting anyone down. Running through the line.

We know what the right thing is because i's in
‘our DNA. It's who we are.

FIRED UP,
READY TO GROW.
We have a drive to improve and make things

easier, We do something new, and something
beiter, every day.

‘We have a thirst t6 learn,
We're curious.

We take care of our precious resources
sowe can reinvest them wisely. We're bold,
we're adaptable. We're passionate about
thriving Communities. :

ONE COMMUNITY.
Our differences make us who we are, our
+ shared mission makes us different,

In our inclusive Community everyone is
welcome, everyone is important, everyone is
supported, and everyone can thrive,

©)

G)

:
i

| BE RESPECTFUL,

! EARN RESPECT.

| We keep our'promises. We're not scared

{to admit we're wrong, We're open, honest, —
humble, We'll always listen, we're

{always accessible.

{ We are respectful, and we respectfully
{ challenge and question. We trust each
{other and in turn are trusted.

We recognise, appreciate, and celebrate
each other. We say thank you,a lot,

ENJOY

: WORK.

‘Work can be hard, but we have a very special

=rale to play — to be a force for good for our
Customers, for our Communities, and for

{our society.

That's why we enjoy what we do.

‘It's a rare opportunity we've been given,
live never take it for granted.

i
i

1

i


a

Annual Report 2023/26

f

) Managing
* Communities

We strive to deliver safe, sustainable
and well managed Communities that
work for everyone. Over the past year,
wwe have focused on gaining a greater
understanding of our Customer’
experience as well our homes and
Communities to keep enhancing our
services for Customers. Investment in
our existing homes has increased too
with a commitment to maximising the
impact of every pound spent.

DELIVERING AN

EFFORTLESS EXPERIENCE

‘Our commitment to continuously improve the
service we provide to our Customers has seen us
‘embrace a new Customer experience philosophy
‘and practice, Effortless. Our goal is to make it as
éasy as possible for our Customers to engage
with us and get what they need.

‘Across the Group, we began to measure Customer
Effort based on a1 to 5 Likert scale. Customers
‘are asked to rate their experience based on how
easy (5) or dificil (1) it was to engage with us.
These scores are gathered using several methods
ineluding email surveys, online tools, phone calls _
and automated phone surveys,

By the end of Mafch 2024, we achieved an average
Customer Effort score of 3.9 from 63 touchpoints
derived from 160,000 Customer effort survey
responses from across the whole Group:

NS

‘We will continue to measure Effort across more
Customer journey touchpoints through the
‘ongoing digitisation of our Customer engagement
and management systems,

CREATING INCLUSIVITY

Delivering accessible and inclusive Customer
services is a key part of our Because Community
Matters strategy. To support this aim, wehave
recruited a Head of Customer Inclusion and

following a review by our National Customer -
Group (NCG), we have identified new and ts
innovative solutions to drive Customer -
experience improvernents.

We are in the final stages of on boarding new ’

British Sign Language (BSL) technology that

will provide Custofners with on-demand access
to video relay interpreters who will speak to

‘our Customer Hub on their behalf. To support _
Customers for whom English is not their first
language, we have been testing 3 document
translation system that will save costs and time.

‘To make sure we are actively listening to under
represented Customer groups, we hosted our
second HouseProud Customer forum. This
provides a platform for our LGBTO+ Customers to
share their experiences and help us understand
how we can be more iriclusive in our services to
drive tangible change.

HAPIN
WITH CUSTOMEr
We have increased the scopt

zrézor wotoy envy Ip


8

1D Annval Report 2023726

IMPROVING EFFICIENCY,
CONSISTENCY AND QUALITY
The restructuring of our Communities team,
including four regional directors, is helping

us to deliver more consistent services for our
Customers and improve operational efficiency.

Through this new regional structure, we have
reduced patch sizes (number of homes managed
per team) from an average of 800 to 500,
improved the quality of core services, and
invested £3.5m in our front-line teams, generating
33 new rotes to support our Customers and

their Communities.

Our Customer Contact Centre is thriving
under new leadership and has been renamed
the Customer Hub. New functions, including
2 planning team, are enabling us to manage
resources, performance and training

more effectively.

This is reflected in the significant improvement
delivered against the key performance indicators
set for the team over the course of the year
Response times for calls and live chat have
surpassed the challenging targets set, with other *
‘metries on track to meet their targets in 2024/25.

UNDERSTANDING OUR HOMES

‘We are doing more than ever to know and
‘understand our homes. Over the past year, we
have continued to imptemient our stock condition
survey and worked closely with our Customers
to gain a greater insight into our homes. All data
from our ongeing stock condition survey is used
to inform the breadth and timing of our strategic
repairs and improvement programme.

Broadening our understanding, we targeted -
cirea 1,000 silent customers to ind out how they
perceive the condition of their homes. Within the
first week, we received more than 148 responses.

ur engineers completed 46,000 gas servicing
appointments where they completed a ‘Home
MOT.’ These wider quality checks, reported via
aan App, have helped us to identify and address
potential issues, including those relating to
damp and mould. A total of 11,000 repairs were
completed proactively in 2023/24 thanks to the
Home MOTs.

Average SpesdotAnzwer (ASA)

IMPROVING ENERGY EFFICIENCY
AND AFFORDABILITY i
Following a consortium bid, we secured £1.7m
from the Social Housing Decarbonisation Fund,
‘Our share of £865,000 will help us to decarbonise
162 homes in Huntingdon, Cambridgeshire.

‘rareeoe Hoda yenuuy

We also secured £300,000 from the Greater
Manchester Combined Authority. This will be used
to improve the energy efficiency and Standard
Assessment Procedure (SAP) ratings of some of
the poorest performing homes in Bolton, Bury,
Manchester and Oldham, which will in turn,
proactively prevent damp and mould

‘Across all our regulated homes, the average SAP
score increased from 73.61 to 74.98 by the end
‘of March 2026, which compares welt against the
sector. We continue to target investment towards
improving the 1,000 poorest performing homes in
our portfalio,

We have explored new approaches to
decarbonisation and funding for large scale

retrofit. Examples include HACT (the charity of

the social housing sector) carbon credits,

and a tral of diflerent funding models with 5

Pineapple Partnerships. 38

COMMITTING TO A
SUSTAINABLE FUTURE

In July 2023, we launched a four-year, major
works investment programme to upgrade
thousands of homes and generate new
opportunities across our Communities in
England and Scotland.

Driving Customer efficiency, the E104m
investment programme is being delivered

Under a new strategic framework. Five regional
contractors will undertake work across dedicated
regions while delivering social value across our
Communities. This model enables the programme
to be delivered at a greatly reduced cost, saving
‘money which willbe directly invested into local
Communities. In the programme's frst year, these
savings are expected to equate to £2.46m,

The contractors’ commitment to social value

will esult in 200 apprenticeships, 1,750 training
places ~ including places on the Construction
Skills Certificate Scheme ~ 850 work experience
places and 9,700 volunteer hours. The contractors
will also donate materials and labour for
Community refurbishment projects, run DIY
‘workshops for Customers, and donate financially
tolocal causes.


+ Anndat Report 2023/26

INVESTING IN OUR

EXISTING HOMES -

‘A total of £98m (2023: £64m) was spent on
capital improvements. As part of the investment
programme noted above, this has provided

‘our Customers with 593 new bathrooms, 130 «
kitchens, 6,490 boilers and heaters, 1,199
doors, 956 windows and 366 toftinsulations. In
addition, we Have invested in improving the safety
‘of our Customers’ Kiornes, including fire safety
requirements and electrical upgrades and testing,

ae
‘Alurther £120.5m (2023: £84m) was spent on

“maintenance and landscapes driven by a high

demand for repairs and rising costs. By the end of
the financial year, 286,809 repair requests (2023:
240435) had been raised of,which 29% (2023:
3196) were emergency.repairs.

Throughout the year, we implemented several
‘measures to improve our repairs service

and reduce completion times. This included
implementing an improved structure, new ways of
working and associated data,

Repairs were carried out on 4,600 voids tempy *
homes) and following a comprehensive review.”
_ of these properties, process improvements have
‘been rolled out including centralised trackers, .
daily huddles in all regions and more >
effective sequencing.

S

|

| :

i

1 F

)

r

1

}

t

\ a ‘
STEPPING UP TO
DAMP AND MOULD

We have proactively identified damp and mould”
ir our Customers’ homes and completed an in.
‘depth analysis of repair requests over the past'12
‘months so we can respond mote eflectively.”

Additional damp and mould training has been
rolled out for all Places Management Colleagues,
including the'landscapes team. Leaflets have been,
distributed to Customers and guidance updated
on our website offering advice, including what
sbpportis available to help Customers heat.
their homes,

_ In preparation for new legislation following the
* Government's consultation on Awaab's Law, we

+ ate redesigning our current processes for damp “

‘and mould to meet the new requirements and
minimise Potential risks.

cote ne


2B

1} Anmust Report 2023/26

Developing
Communities

The delivery of more affordable homes,
strategic growth, and ongoing support i
for our People were key outcomes in
2023/24. Combined, these achievements

are helping us to develop sustainabl
Communities across the UK and a
thriving workforce where everyone
believes Community Matters.

le

ACCELERATING NEW
AFFORDABLE HOMES

Despite economic and market challenges, we
exceeded the affordable homes targets set in
partnership with Homes England at the start
of 2023/24,

In 2018/19, Homes England named Places for
People as a strategic partner in a programme
‘which is delivering homes for affordable rent,
social rent and shared ownership. We received
74m of funding to detiver 2,603 homes, which
had all started on site by March 2023. This year we
‘completed a further 493 homes, bringing the total
completed to 1.881, 72% of the total, and are of
track to comnplete all 2,603 by March 2025.

Our 2021-26 strategic partnership with Homes.
England, which will see us deliver 4,403 affordable
homes with £281 million of grant by March 2029,
also progressed at pace. During the year we
started on site with 1,285 homes and completed
the construction of 194. This brings our total
starts on site to 1,682 homes as part of this
partnership, which represents 38% of our target.

Including sites secured for delivery of a further
1,795 homes, we are in a strong position to

achieve all the required starts on site by the March
2027 deadline and all completions by March 2029. °

Following positive discussions with Homes
England, we have received additional grant
funding to support the delivery ofthe 2021~
2b strategie partnership. We have also agreed

changes to the schemes across both strategic
partnerships, including how they are split, the
tenure mix, geographical spread, and unit grant
rates. This will enable us to double the number of
social rented homes.

‘Across the UK we delivered 1,516 affordable
homes in 2023/24, helping to shape new
Commurities'in Doncaster, Northfleet, West
Lothian and South Shields,

SALES OF NEW HOMES

Although the sales of new homes havé been
affected by high interest rates, the market began
toimprove post-Christmas. Shared ownership
and shared equity options are growing in
popularity as people seek more cost-effective
routes to homeownership.

‘We completed a total of 441 sales in the financial
year across several sites, including Carr Lodge in
Doncaster and the Engine Yard in Edinburgh.


ENHANCING OUR

PLANNING STRATEGY

Securing planning approval has continued to

be challenging across the real estate industry.
Decisions across England have taken an
average of 28 weeks rather than the statutory
Vor 16weeks. Uncertainty around engoing
planning reform, a lack of resources within local
authorities, and a volatile political ciate are all
contributing to the hurdles.

To mitigate these issues, we appointed 2 Head of
Planning in March 2024 with 18 years’ experience,
bringing specialist expertise to the Group. This
will enable us to respond to emerging planning
policies more proactively, capitalise on new
planning opportunities, and engage earlier with
key stakeholders to ensure projects meet the
aspirations ofall parties,

(Communities)

[Despiteliheshurdiestpresented byy
(thepplanningyprocessqweqcecu ccc mam
fpecmissionsyacrorsyceveralelesqwhich
Puiliibringtnundredsyof[newshomes\to)
communticsracrossytnegUKs

@ Tornagrain, Scotiand
(Desa etigeensan tor ofr :
Pinas 0%

sex oTEtS GomenualyAy nada

ee cena
S Eesha Coons

@ Cape Scotand
fchapellon ea DI

Br Dich Ws Lconlauesoe xpandiollowinc)
aes chy YWiinmaionsy

——————————
i cesolationstolgrants

planpinelvecaasl oul ele4
fr: elUdi Bir
e3gin)

 Annwat Report 2023/26

Mahan DaaaNolta Park Hil shefheld

Ppeopleen ovo ncalinyiifestyeqchanclong @ pane pennw vomgiey,

Sencha cast Preferred penn oeparre ogo)
Gries Mixqaaaats Tea

5 ae
® Fae eldest

deomiauny clemataa cEmntcciones

DouandowneaWenyssa aici
fe srateseand pisces fogbepp ning}
curate)

phevementiccy

iocalyy
oultpoa emma
eitieerapetan,


Annual Report 2023/26

Developing a great
place to work

Our inclusive workforce is central to our Community
Matters ethos. Providing an environment that makes.
‘our People feel welcome, happy and healthy is vitally
important and why we continue to develop initiatives
making Places for People a great place to work

and thrive.

CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT

Our Big Colleague Survey, which ran at the end of
2023, saw Colleague engagement increase to 75%
from 69% in 2022. Participation improved too,
rising from 90% in 2022 to 93.5% in 2023,

LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT

{In June 2023, we launched Flight Path ~ our
leadership development strategy. This provides

a bespoke development programme for every
‘manager across the business. ‘High Performance
/ High Potentiat’ programmes add to the strategy
‘to accelerate learning for our future talent.

Atotal of 421 managers began their learning
journey with Flight Path with a further 1,000
‘managers due to take-off by the end of 2024.

Inthe second quarter of 2023, we relaunched -
LinkedIn Learning and now have 2,784 active
users, with 11,000 courses completed. Colleagues
have spent 211,000 hours learning and developing
their skills using this platform.

To ensure all our People can access learning
‘opportunities, we established a learning and
development (LD) partnering model. individual
Colleagues jin forces with a specific business
‘area to ensure LED solutions are suitable and to
create a bespoke L&D strategy.

‘We have also created an L&D dashboard to
‘monitor the uptake and impact of all initiatives
and solutions, helping to demonstrate return on
investment and impact across the business.

A CULTURE OF COMPLIANCE

{tis vital all our People are aware ofthe latest
government regulations, industry best practice
and our own policies to ensure the highest levels
‘of compliance and safety. To meet this aim, we
launched the 15 minute compliance project.”
Delivered in modules, this online learning provides
Colleagues with highly relevant and engaging
content, significantly reducing the time.required
for compliance training.

On average, 9.91 hours have been saved per
Colleague per year due to this project.

NURTURING SKILLS AND TALENT.

We currently have 56 graduates taking part in

‘our Emerging Talent programme across 29 key
‘business areas. Over two-years, graduates benefit
from personal growth and skills development with.
the opportunity to make a positive diference to
people's lives and their Communities.

In 2023, we ran an Emerging Talent early careers
‘campaign which attracted 3,478 applications for
31 hired roles.

To bolster the number of apprentices across our
organisation, we launched the Skills Academy

in 2023. This two-year supported programme
welcomes apprentices at any level into all areas of
Places for People, .

Learners benefit from on-the-job training,
technical accreditations, skills-based learning,
and continuous support and coaching, A total of
75 apprentices have been hired through the Skills
‘Academy across 20 business areas including IT,
Places Management, Communities and Finance.

INCLUSIVE INTERNSHIPS

Undertining our commitment to fostering an
inclusive workplace, we launched Project Toby in
partnership with DFN Project Search, Lancashire
County Council and Preston College.

DFN Project Search is a transition to work
programme that is transforming the lives of young
adults with a learning disability or autism.

Through Project Toby, we are providing supported
internships offering a structured, work-based
{earning programme: Our goal is to empower

16 to 24 year olds with autism and/or learning
disabilities to secure full-time paid employment,
either within Places for People or elsewhere.

In January 2024, we welcomed our first three
interns who have joined our Workplace Solutions,
TT, and Millbank Wellbeing Centre teams.

ACCULTURE BUILT ON TRUST

In March 2024, Places for People was named

‘one of the UK's Best Workplaces by Great Place

to Work in the Super Large workplace category.
This is the third consecutive year we have won the
‘award, which follows an independent assessment,

Confidential Colleague surveys were analysed

by Great to Place to Work to establish feedback
‘on trust, reaching human potential, innovation,
company values, and leadership. These insights
‘were used to benchmark the effectiveness of our
employee value propositions against the culture
our Colleagues experience. Only those businesses
that achieve the highest seores after evaluation
receive Best Workplaces™ status.

werezoe wodoy yenuvy © Ip

33


Fired Up,’
Ready to Grow

<


i :

: seeual| . ' y tf

‘ im 7 : : 7 Ht : : a i
Strategically: a : : EEE :

To help strengthen our impact within our
Communities, we seek to partner. with :
like-minded organisations and identify” 7 : : ~ 5
‘opportunities for our business to grow. o : i .

a SOUTH DEVON RURAL (SDR) :
‘Oh the 20 March 2024, we welcomed South Devon
Rural (SDR) to.the Places for People Group. ©,

!

|

1

i

1

{ Set up in 1958 to provide housing for staft .
i ‘retiring from work on The Dartington Hall Trust's
i country estate, SDR has evolved into a strong,

{ Community-based organisation for South Devon.
j It now owns and manages 357 homes in the ~

' South-West of England, offering a uniquely

{ personal and caring service to Customers.

i

i

i

i

‘We will be Working in partnership with SDR’

to deliver affordable homes in rural areas, .
helping more people to'stay and thrive in

their local Community, :

ORIGIN HOUSING : : :
: ‘On the.16 Aprit 2024, the Placeé for People Group
1 ‘completed a merger with Origin Housing; which paces
H ‘owns and manages over 7,800 homes across
! London and Hertfordshire.

| ‘The merger will generate an additional £100m of 7
investrrient in Customers’ homes over the first,

+, ~~ 10years as well as improved local services anda

| _ stronger voice for Custorners. - Hi +

through new partnerships s
ilies for mem!

foe

y .

E Sa
3 : iraiftenane ofthe hi

acquisition wil enable. Thriving investm
th a new fund that builds on' Rose
s


DD Ancual Report 2029/26

9 meAUASHRSTITTG GSH CaM CTA

asta
roe ven enromee ete MNT

eluent vcagcaetod nese THAT
Grmummeredicciranni ie AreAnpes Tap
Ruma niet eaR Gita, There PeawTRh ART,

2175 matllion

216? million x
{10,390 =
AS29.5 =
197 ry
ANOS se
231055 s

tat Baranya Cet ngy Tapa (rea)

(NEAT KT as EYE TITY IieiacaaernTe SERENE (ira

PAC HUKISockl valuc(banear Nie ec
EMOTE: aroTA cea AD HA Ieee Ea GrestoieTeOM ATOM,

liane As one TTI NYS pt InHay HEratrate era Memeo,
Ptaigaecaatre te PTR re fata pacar eM. sop UTE

tear

Poe @ od ato Line — cadtmtigt lds peu aT ALE cis
Ginaixeaecahr ees ine terete FEISE eR SUR lala Dy

MIRAI LCP aT AESTT MARES OUD

‘Sociallvamergencratedibywoumiequlated|
business sini aien east HAGT model,

Ne rg nd rete to em en
Aeterna (ct (allennnodel)’

INumbeqat sioua bus magucaee
becoceeiebeeslenia eclesees peetetens

Ntumtior af Cuctenners cupped towards
feducationemploymenttoutralningy

NumbezopCustomersisuppotteditay
fonlineloguseithel ntemnety sa

Num benoqpecplclsupponeckwithxtinancialinclvsion
includingimoneyedvicerandihardsbipitundsy

(ofipeople capone! Scales
pith ae a Realthland]

—e people ermpeitad hoowgh prefect
Cagetingenstetnets tedifent Gemmuniiics,

an IOL vadey py


HELPING WITH THE
COST OF LIVING :
‘The work of our Cost of Living Taskforce has. *
‘continued throughout the year, supported by 2

+ £500,000 fund for fuel and food vouchers as well
as 2 £500,000 Service Charge and Rent Relief
Fund. Our Taskforce also ensures Customers
Linineed aré signposted to lériger term holistic
‘support from our own projects or external
Community partners. , :

“Thank you so much for all your help, 1
genuinely do really appreciate this. Great
work to yourself and tho team for supporting
those struggling - thore's not many
companies out there that are” j
ur national furniture and white goods project
bras supplied 723 households with essential items,
ranging from white goods to crockery and beds.

“Areally appreciate all tKe support you
hive given me. tis a massive help and
‘wo are very happy”

lin Westminster, the Food, Fuel and Furniture’
project which is delivered by RMG offers cost
of living support and emergency essentials
for Customers accessing the Housing Options
Service. To date, 88 Customers have been
‘supported by this project.

“Thank you so much for the assistance, my
‘0h has allergies, s0 food is expensive, really
‘approciate the ass

1
ii

ea
bles Customers to)

Lecce
ene

TACKLING FINANCIAL

"AND DIGITAL INCLUSION.

Our Money Advice Team in England and our
Financial Inclusion Team in Scotland continue to

GENERATING EMPLOYMENT
AND SKILLS.

ur natiorial employment and training
“project provides targeted, practical support

help Customers access unclaimed incomé-related to Customers'including CV advice, interview
benefits and cheaper tarifis. Together these teams . techniques and job searches. Short training

have raised over £3m in additional in income for
Customers over the past year, which equates to
an average of around £1k per Customer. .

uF partnership with Pocket Power has helped
$586 Cusiomers to move to cheaper tails.

We plan to grow the service with more in person
support through our Community hubs.

Working with Vodafone and the Good Things
Foundation, we have provided our Customers
402 data SIMs'and 255 devices to promote
igital inclusion. We also offer digital training for

‘our Customers in person and through our Digital

‘Access Points in Community centres and within
supported living schemes,

‘Our Customers in Edinburgh and the Lothians
have benefited from mentoring by the Wise
Group, a leading social enterprise. The project
has supported mare than 109 Customers with
‘complex needs to sustain their tenancy. This has
been achieved through specialist support with
financial and digital inclusion as well as mental
health and employability.

courses have also been provided for Customers
‘through discretionary grants.

In partnership with Read Easy Preston, we are
helping Customers and the local Community to. _
improve literacy skills by offering one-to-one
reading sessions, Whilst a project in Leeds has.
supported 64 chitdren with literacy in partnership
with local schools.

In Norwich, we have partnered with Volunteer it
Yourself to deliver a co-funded project to renovate
the New Routes Community Space, which
supports young people who are seeking asym
and refuge. The project delivers employability and
skill training, social integration activities and
support services for housing, health and financiat
inclusion. So far, 29 young people have completed
accredited qualifications to help them access roles
inthe construction industry. :

VOLUNTEERING _

We launched our new corporate volunteering
‘programme this year which engaged 715.People
{rom across the Enterprise in supporting 70
‘organisations this year. Our people use their
practical, trade or professional skills to engage
with a variety of activities including painting,
gardening, litter picking, mentoring, foodbank
support and Community events.

vyerezaz wodoyyenvuy

a,

a2

D - Annual Report 2023/26.

{
: 1
: :
PRIORITISING HEALTH:
AND WELLBEING 3

In Chorley, we are funding & Wellbeing Hub in
tie town centre which provides support for
Customers affected by the cost-of-tiving crisis,
social isolation, or mental health. The Hub ~
provides free meals, emergency food parcels, debt
counseling, menial health support and drop-in
medical services.

Our naticnal wellbeing project has continued to
offer practical help and signposting'to Customers.
By the end of 2023/24, 590 Customers had *
benefited fram this initiative which offers support
including befriending advice, signposting to local
services and access to specialist partners such as,
Cruse, whicti helps Customers with bereavement.
The team is also delivering social events for
Customers in our sheltered schernes:

We recently aunched a partnership with the
‘Redeeming Our Communities charity to pilot the
‘Garden Transformation Project in Bradford and
Preston. Volunteers help Customers who are,
tunable to maintain their gardens and provide -
_BWraparound mentoring service to address,

issues such as loneliness, mental health and
wellbeing, The project also aims to create

training opportunities for focal people to help

secure employment.

In 2023/24, Places Leisure secured more than
£300,000 in external funding to run Comimunity

{ projects thai are making a positive difference to

people's health and wellbeing. These include the
Homeless Help Project in Sheffield, which delivers.
weekly health and wellbeing sessions across six
‘venues, the Move through Menopause programme
‘which taunched in May 2023, and our Exercise
Referral Gold Standard which is supporting
Customers with underlying health concems.

BUILDING SUSTAINABLE AND
RESILIENT COMMUNITIES ©

To create and manage thriving Communities, it
is vital our Customers feel supported, engaged
‘and connected to their local area. As part of

this aim, we have introduced 12 Community
Connectors who are warking in the heart of local
Communities to identify our Customers’ priorities,
build partnerships with local organisations and.
develop social value activities,

Avariety of Community-focused events have been
‘organised by our'Community Connectors over the
ppast year including a summer picnic, Ramadan» ~
feast, and a culture show featuring artwork by

‘more than 600 local children,

(ur Cofmmunity Connectars have played a key
‘ole in promoting health and wellbeing too. This
fhas seen them organis¢ initiatives such as healthy
cooking sessions for families, weekly éxercise
classes for older people, and health MOTs and

* blood pressure checks in partnership with

Places Leisure, | :

To support the work otour Community :
Connectors, we have continued to provide small

grants for Customer-led activities, which have

‘Supported 50 projects over the past year. yt

2

omin
5 tom

a

the Fusio

IF

‘OMMUNITIES

meee
he


In their discussions and decisions during the year
‘ending 31 March 2024, the directors of Places for
People Group have acted in good faith to promote
the success of the company for the benefit of its
‘members as a whole, and in doing so have had
regard to the Group's stakeholders and the duties
set out in section 172(1)@)-() of the Companies
‘Act 2006,

‘As a company limited by guarantee, the Group
does not have shareholders in the traditional
sense but does recognise the importance of the

company engaging with its stakeholders at all
levels and seeking to understand their views to
ensure board decisions are made with due regard
to their impact. so

boy
_ The éllowing stakeholder groups have been

identified a8 criticat to the delivery of and
influence over the Group's Because Community
Matters strategy and ultimately the Group's
success in creating, managing and supporting
thriving Communities — their interest in and
their link to the strategy is illustrated on
the table on page 45. :
fl

s eesaae

' .
1. ia
i
.
ineeeus
4 Hy cl .

“ reputati

‘The board expects the Group to operate
fairly and properly, building strong
felationships and maintaining a good

In — this can't mean pleasing .
everyone equally all the time as

choices have to be made often between
cémpeting priorities. The board
however committed to explaining its
choices clearly to its stakeholders 50
they can understand the reasons for
making them. It means that the board
relies on established strong processes,
that these are carefully followed, and
thal the Group listens to and is open
with its stakeholders about what it
does and why. We engage with all

Stakeholders to ensure their interests

are represented as part of the Group's
decision-making processes and that
controls are in place to balance

these interests, ~

2023/24 delivered another challenging
‘economic backdrop for our Customers,
Colleagues and Communities. High .
inflation and high interest rates meant
increased costs to our Customers,
Colleagues and the business. These
challenges required tough decisions
con the allocation and investment of
‘our precious resources. The board
considered how and where it should

invest its resources to address these
needs in the short term whilst also.
building capacity for the future to
‘enable the business to deliver its long-
term ambitions as part of the Because
Community Matters Strategy.

Outlined on the following pages are
examples of decisions taken in pursuit
of our Because Community Matters.
strategy and the delivery of our

“priorities, with descriptions of how the

board considered stakeholders and
their feedback, alongside their duties .
under section 172 of the Companies
Act 2006,

“Individual Customers (renters, house purchasers,
leisure centre users) and our Communities ~

Helping with the cost of
"Fighting Fuel Poverty, page 40.222 2:
£ Gerierating Employment & Skills, page 41:

{ Prieiising Health and Wellbeing page 42 2 oe

Transforming spaces for Communities,
Tackling Homelessness, page 43 i

al Customer Groups

> National & Regi

{2Shaping Services with Customers, page 23 35.88"
Delivering 2 sfonles expe» page 22.508 S

Group registered providers /registered social
landlords (charitable/non-charitable)

__ Corporate/businessclents/suppliers/JV partners

“ekg Financial and Digital inclusion, page 41s" rai a aan

= Stronger Together, page 63 208%

Extending our property management, page 27
ECommiting toa Sustainable future,

Colleagues

‘Enbincing Coueogus’ franca! well
{Developing & great place to work: page 32 22:3" 5
# remuneration & Nominating Commit Sli (Governance Rep

Investors/lenders and rating agencies

{piping ery eens erdbiy, pge 26
£ €SG Reporv/section. pages 50-68 v=? gers
{Sustainable Finance Framework: ton th page 68

Regulators (including the Regulator of Social
Housing, Scottish Housing Regulator and the
+ Financial Conduet Authority) :

Government - National (Homes England) & Local
Authorities“ *

hing Communes page 97s =
“Donegeurpamingstaegy page 30 ae

verezoz wodoy jenuuy

4s


Annual Report 2022/26

Section 172
statement

KEY DECISIONS MADE 2023/24

MANAGING COMMUNITIES

‘Asa social housing provider, we have to make
tough choices on where best to spend our
precious resources and think about the likely
consequences of any decisions we take, in the
{ong term. Thisis especially rue when it comes
to deciding how we can effectively and efficiently
‘manage and improve our existing homes for our
Customers whilst also investing to increase the
supply of homes for our new Customers, During
the year our board continued to consider and
evaluate its approach to this challenge.

To maximise its reach and impact, the Group
‘worked in partnership with other developers and
strategic partners to oversee the delivery of more
‘ffordable homes during 2023/24, We secured
planning permissions across several sites which
will bring hundreds of new homes to the UK

and serve the needs of our future Customers ~
investing now with a view to what is needed in
the future.

We also stepped up to the repairs and
maintenance challenge as part of our
commitment to deliver safe, sustainable and well
‘managed Communities, and invested significantly
in our major works investment programme,
capital improvement works across aur social
housing, and in the tools and capabilities to
assess and understand our homes better.

‘The board took the decision to significantly
increase spend on repairs and maintenance and to
exceed the planned budget to proactively meet the
circa 20% increase in demand for repairs from the
previous year. We delivered 54,000 more repairs
than was budgeted in 2023/24 and spent £119m
‘on maintenance and landscapes in the interests
of our customers.

Damp and mould cases were a key driver of -
repairs. We continued to see increases in damp
and mould volumes, driven by increased customer
requests, and our more proactive approach to
identify damp and mould in customers’ homes.
The board also oversaw the redesign of the
Group's processes for damp and mould to

meet the new requirements and minimise
potentiat risks.

In taking such decisions we had our Customers
in mind and ensured that our processes and
approaches also delivered on the expectations
of our regulators.

Our investment programmes also held
‘opportunities for further engagement with

‘our wider stakeholder base - working with

our contractors and business Customers, we
enabled greater social value delivery in our supply
chains and facilitated over 200 apprenticeships |
and training places, delivering longer term and
sustainable outcomes to build the next generation
of those essential skills required for improving ~
and maintaining our homes.

The board guided the launch ofthe Group's
Customer Promises ~ the commitments we make
to the Communities we serve - and took key
decisions guided by these principles.

By restructuring our wider Communities Team
and investing nnew technology, it has enabled us
to understand our Customers better, and support
us on our goal to make our services Effortless for
‘our Customers.

The board andits Treasury & Investment
Committee continued the dialogue with lenders,
bond holders and rating agencies to provide
assurance in relation to the Group's ability

to perform in the face ofthe challeriges in

the operating environment, and to deliver for
Customers and Communities as per the Group's
Because Community Matters Strategy.

DEVELOPING COMMUNITIES

The board took key decisions to merge with

South Devon Rural Housing Association Limited
and Origin Housing Limited in consultation

with Customers, Colleagues, owners and our
regulatory partners. Our mergers and integrations
strategy will enable the Group to support more
Communities extending its reach to more
Customers and increasing social value.

‘The board approved the acquisition of our
first for profit registered provider, Rosewood
Housing, which will enable Thriving Investments
Limited, our socially conscious fund
management business, to grow a fund that
builds on Rosewood's existing portolio of shared
‘ownership homes and develop Communities for
even more Customers.

The expansion of our leisure services through new

~ partnerships with local authorities among others

and the growth in our f and property
management businesses demonstrated our
commitment to developing thriving Communities.

The board recognised that developing 2 great
place to work was key for the delivery of the
strategy. Manager roadshows (see pages 20 and
34 for more detail), the launch of Flight Path - our
leadership development strategy (described in
more detail on page 32) and an enhancement of
the total employment offer brought this to life and
enabled the attraction and retention of developed
and empowered People.

The board continued to equip the National and
Regional Customer Groups to give Customers an
even stronger voice to hold the board to account.
More detail can be found on page 23 which
describes our work with stakeholders to support
the NCG and this vital ink to our Customer base.

HELPING COMMUNITIES

‘The board faced several challenges in balancing
the need to invest to help even more Customers in
the longer term with the need to provide short
term additional support for Customers struggling
with the cost of living,

The board considered rent setting in the context of
sustained higher inflation and higher interest rates,
and the impact this would have on the business

in the longer term, Whitst rents were increased to
counter the effects of high inflation and to support
the development of our Communities, the board
acknowledged the potential impact on Customers,
‘and a £500k Service Charge and Rent Relief
Fund was created to support those Cistomers
experiencing financial difficulties.

Recognising the challenges brought about by the
volatile economic conditions the Cost of Living
Taskforce continued its work throughout the year,
supported by a £500,000 fund for fuel and food
vouchers for those Customers in need.

The board and its Remuneration & Nominations,
Committee continued to support and oversee

the development of the Group's ESG holistic
strategy to embed ESG at the heart of the Group's,
operations and improve the lives of current and
future generations. More information on work
undertaken during the year to drive forward the
Group's ESG activities can be found here or in the
full ESG report that can be found on our website,


Annual Report 2023/24

Our approach

to Environmental,
Socialand ~
Governance (ESG)

Here at Places for People, ESG encompasses
everything we do, from building and maintaining
the nation’s social homes, to delivering high-
quality sérvices to our Customers and supporting
and investing in our Colleagues. itis the critical
{ens through which we view the entirety of

‘our activity, and an important one to deliver
regulatory, investor and Customer requirements,

‘As a result, ESG is fully embedded within our
‘strategic priorities and business operations,
supporting the delivery of Places for People's,
core purpose: creating and maintaining thriving
Communities. As well as dedicated central
resource on ESG strategy and reporting,

ESG goals are embedded in Executive and
‘Senior Leadership Team objectives. The work
programme is managed monthly through an
ESG management group headed by the Chief
Commercial Officer and supported by a series.
‘of subject-specific working groups and
‘cross-cutting workstreams Progress is
reported quarterly to the Executive team and
the Remuneration & Nominations Committee
of the beard.

Our 2024 ESG Strategy. which we expect
to publish in Autumn 2024, will set out our
approach to creating and maintaining
sustainable Communities.

Our full ES6 report can be found here.

zpe202 vodey yenivy

_ | ENVIRONMENTAL

. HEADLINES

ENERGY PERFORMANCE IN

NEW AND EXISTING STOCK A
Greenhouse gas emissions relating to our homes
‘make up a significant proportion of our carbon
footprint. We are committed to making our homes
more energy efficent for our Customers and are

> continuing to move towards delivery of low

carbon homes.

a

 Anvuat Report 2022/26

The distribution of EPC ratings for our hotising stock
at the beginning of the 2023/24 reporting period are”
detailedbelow. =

‘We have started trialling low carbon heating solutions
in our new homes, including the installation of air
source heat pumps (ASHPs) at 14 properties. A
further 83 properties were built with electric-only
heating supply, and efficient gas boilers were installed
in other properties. We have also supported our
Customers to lower their energy bills by installing PV
Solar panels at a total of 413 properties (31% of total
properties handed over by our Developments arm),
‘with 14% of these being in affordable homes.

‘The breakdown of average SAP ratings by EPC bend
and total afférdable handovers is provided below.

678.0%)

RETROFITTING OUR HOMES

During 2023/24, Places for People completed _,
whole house retrofit utilising the Social Housing
Decarbonisation Fund to 220 homes in Hounslow and
Bedford. These works have resulted in the properties

~ achieving their maximum energy performance

and reducing their heat demand by around 70%. In
addition, a further 5,467 homes received investment
Which improved the energy efficiency of the home,

‘as we develop pathways to decarbonisation. =~
‘These installations and upgrades'provided energy
performance improvements dnd reduced the ~~
heat demand of the homes, in turn reducing the
greenhouse gas emissions associated with living ~
inither eares

‘Ar Source Heat Pumps
External Wal Insulation

Upgrades

a

&

‘yerezoz uodoy enusy

st


- Sustait

Streamlined Energy and
Carbon Reporting (SECR) 7

We adiress our environment :
3 bility strategy and relevant risk
‘mitigation in the Risk Management and
Assurance section of this report, on
page 91 and also pages 60-61.

Table 1 summarises annual energy use
and associated greenhouse gas (GHG)
‘emissions from electricity, gas and fuel
in the UK for thé 12 months up to 31
March 2026, This includes data for all
rFetevant business entities under the
Group following an emissions scoping
‘exercise undertaken in early 2024,

Data from the previous two financial,
years is also provided for comparison
but these previous years did not include
data for all business entities. As such;
the emissions reported below are not
directly comparable because there

is awider reporting boundary for j
financial year 2023/24 compared to
previous years. Emissions for the most
recent year are higher than previous
years primarily due to this wider - j
reporting boundary. H

It should also be noted that there is
inconsistent data from some entities
with gaps in 2023/24 reporting period.
Where these’gaps have been identified,
Energy and emissionshave been. |
estimated to avoid under-reporting’

‘The financial year 2023/24 reporting

year includes the fullest data set}
compared to previous years and | =<
will be used as a baseline for future

‘SECR disclosures. The reason for this
recommendation is that’the emission

«intensity wll track correctly agaist

‘turnover and full-time equivalent (FTE)
with the more comprehensive energy
data coverage provided for this report.

Scope 1 - direct emissions from
activities owned or controlied by
the company, covering stationary
combustion’of gas and fuel
consumption for owned vehicles.

+ Scope 2- indirect emissions from
the consumption of purchased
electricity. 7

+" Seopie 3~ fuel consumption from ‘
rental cars or employee-owned
Vehicles, reported against scope 3
category for business travel

‘TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND. EMISSIONS

‘Greenhouse Gas Emissions (10,0)

Annual Report:2020/24

{GHG Emissions Intensity

REPORT SCOPE,

The following entities under Places
for People Group provided data for
this report, covering their direct
‘operations and their subsidiaries:
Allenbuild Limited, Alurnno Group,

Brio Retirement, Castle Rock Edinvar .

Housing Association Limited trading
as Places for People Scotland,
Chorus Homes Developments /
ited including Hope Social
Enterprises Limited, Derwent
Facilities Management Limited, Igloo
Regeneration Limited, Places for ”
Péople Developments Limited, Places
for People Group Limited - including
Places for People Group Support
Services, Places for People Homes,

Places for People Landscapes Limited,

laces for People Leisure Limited,
Places for People Living+ Limited,
Residential Management Group
Limited, Thriving Investments
Limited, Touchstone Corporate
Property Services Limited, Zero ~
Holdings Limited,

‘as material for carbon purposes
inthe Group's carbon baselining
exercise in 2023/24 because they
have active operations with -
ssociated energy consumption,

‘Wh only Fi

the emissions intensities for 2022-23 difer from thoie disclosed ist year du

Entities that are not actively operational
hhave been excluded as non-material.
‘Two active entities that were acquifed
by Places for People Group during the
financial year have also been excluded
‘as non-material, South Devon Rural
Housing Association Limited and
Rosewood Housing Limited both
joined the Group less than ten working
days before the end of the financial
year, and their energy consumption for
this period is therefore considered to
be negligible.

METHODOLOGY

Energy data has been taken from
‘meter reads and billing information

for gas and electricity, while fuel
consumption has been taken from
‘expenses and procurement records.
Emissions have been calculated in.
line with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol
Corporate Reporting Standard, utilizing
‘greenhouse gas reporting conversion
factors for 2023 published by the
Bepartiient tor Energy Security and
Net Zero, Additional emissions factors
for market-based scope 2 reporting
hrave been used from the Association
‘of Issuing Boctes (AIB) from 2022,

in ligu of 2023 data whichis yet to

be published atthe time of writing
‘Where data gaps have been identified
for building energy use, industry
benchmarks have been used fromm
CIBSE Guide F .

_ Alurnno Group, Derwent Fati

ENERGY

Energy consumption across the entities
is outlined in Table 2. Fuel consumption
thas been divided into three different
‘categories: for construction entities
including non-road mobile machinery.
(NRMM), for road vehicles owned

by other entities, and for rented or
employee-owned vehicles.

Minor gaps in electricity and gas
‘consumption data have been identified
from a number of entities, incliding
ies
‘Management, Igloo Regeneration
and Thriving Investments. Estimates
of energy use have been used to
replace the missing data, using either
consumption data frorh corresponding
‘months from 2022/23 or using industry
benchmarks for energy use.

Data for onsite electricity generation
thas been provided by Places for People
Leisure covering gas-fired Combined
Heat and Power (CHP) and rooftop
solar PY, The Workplace Solutions
Team also has onsite PV generation at
‘some of its facilities, but insufficient
data is available for the reporting

year to estimate annual generation,
therefore this is excluded from

the figures, :

revised turnover and FTE figures for the period

+ Annual figures are not directly comparabte against most recent year because prior period data didnot include all relevant business entities

rerezoz wedayyeruy >

Streamlined Energy and © © :

Carbon Reporting

+ TABLE 2 ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND GENERATION

* TABLE 3: GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ia}
AND EMISSIONS INTENSITIES.

“kh only

** the emissions intensities for 2022/23 difer from

annual figures are n

"The Renewéble Energy Guarantees of Origin (REGO) scheme provides cert

{rom renewable sources.

i
|
i
|
|
|
|

called REGOs whi

hose disclosed last year due to revised iurnover and FTE figures for the period, ~
ieclly comparable against most recent year because prior period data didnot include all elevant business entities

EMISSIONS: :
Emissions associated with energy.
and fuel consumption are set out in.
table 1. This is reported inline with the
Greenhouse Gas protocol emission
scopes, including voluntary reporting
of fuel consumption against scope 3

“ business travel. .

Markeibased scope 2 emissions have

_ been calculated covering the whole

Group, but this is based on limited
information on énergy tarifls Places
for People Group Limited company
procures 100% REGO-backed!
electricity and Places for People”

* Leisure Limited has reported tarift-
_specific emissions factors. Otherwise

tariff information is not readily
available for other entities emissions
for this electricity consumption have

been calculated using residual grid-mix

carbon factors as a default. The overall

figure may therefore représent an over-~

estimate of market-based emissions if

~ other entities are procuring tarifls with

fullor partial REGO coverage.

Emissions intensities have been

reported using annual turnover of the

Places for People Group at £831.6m
and the number of Full Time Equivalent
(FTE) siaff at 5,937. ‘he intensity
figures are based on location-based
scope 2 emissions due to higher
confidence in these emissions figures
compared to the market-based scope
2emissions. .

demonstrate electricity has been generated

ENERGY EFFICIENCY
ACTIONS ;

Energy efficiency improvements across.
‘our offices and leisure centres continue
to be a focus in reducing the group =

«environmental impact. In particular,”

there is a focus on initiating behaviour
change amongst our Customers and
Colleagues. A summary of actions.is
presented below.

Corporate ;
Workplace Solutions rai'an energy-
saving initiative across Places For
People offices during the winter

months, aiming to feduce overall
energy usage. Facet surveys have

also been conducted with key areas,

of focus include addressing air

leakage, optimising insulation and
thermal efficiency, upgrading heating:
ventilation; and air conditioning

(HVAC) systems, installztion of LED
lighting and improving Property Energy
Performance Certificate (EPC) ratings.

Leeds
‘The refurbishment project at
Stanley House in Leeds gained
2 BREEAM (Building Research
Establishment Environmental
‘Assessment Methodology) award, °
achieving rating ‘Very Good’ due
to significant devetopments in
energy efficiency and environmental
contributions. Workplace Solutions
instigated the transition from gas
to air source heat pump technology,
as well as installing VRF air
conditioning technology and LED
lighting throughout.

“

Preston
South Rings offices in Preston have
recently commenced a refurbishment
project integrating renewable energy
sources, energy-efficient systems,
‘and resource conservation rieasures.
‘The project is due to complete in early

+2025, with goals of reducing energy .
‘demands by 80% and achieve an
EPC A rating.

Edinburgh . :
Workplace Solutions have commenced
2rrefurbishment project at 4 Hay ”
‘Avenue including energy efficient,
lighting and the integration of ah
HRVU (Heat Recovery Ventilation

Unit) system,

York

Work is underwiay to upgrade the
York office, which involves a major
refurbishment of a grade 2 listed
building. Improvements include

loft insulation, lighting upgrades.
ventilation system upgrades, with a
‘new EPC expected to achieve an EPC
Crating.

Huntingdon
In 2023, we moved out of our EPC D
rated 25,000 sq ft offices, toa recently
refurbished, 3,000 sq ft, EPC B rated
leased property. ie

London
Investigations are currently~ -
underway at the Gray's Inn Road

* workplace to explore options for

enharicing energy efficiency through
the replacement or réfurbishrnent of
the existing chiller system.

Leisure
Places for People Leisure Limited

tras implemented a full review of

the Building Management System

to optimise heating and cooling,

reducing energy waste. They have also
‘developed an energy checklist that
includes rouitine checks of electrical
equipment and reviews of the necessity
for equipment, such as replacing
traditional lighting with LED fightbulbs
cross the portfolio Additionally,
Places Leisure has distributed energy | Y
savings action reminder leaflets,

which illustrate where improvements
canbe made in consumption
behaviours. Places Leisure’are also
developing a carbon neutral leisure

centre in Dartford.

Procurement Hub
On behalf of Places Management, a
tender was conducted to appoint a sole
supplier to provide anew telematics»
‘and reporting system for the Group's.
van feet. Projections based dn current

«performace in blind vs live data

tral of the new system indicate that
annual fleetwide fuel savings could

be achieved of circa £182.5k and CO2:
savings of 374.31 tonnes: :

‘repe20t vodoyyenuiy Ip


D Annual Report 2023/24

Managing
Climate risk

Throughout 2023/24, we initiated
preparation of our mandatory climate-
‘elated financial disclosures against the
requirements of Section S414CB(A1) of
the Companies Act 2006, improving our
assessment of climate-related risks
and opportunities and understanding
cof climate impacts on our organisation
and Communities. We completed a
climate-related risk assessment of
both physical and transition risks and
‘opportunities forthe frst time in 2023,
focussing on properties owned and/

‘or managed by he Group, including

‘our Homes Plus (Regulated housing),
‘owned Private Rented Sector and
shared ownership portfolios in addition
to our workplaces (depots and offices),
‘new builds and leisure centres. We
hhave mapped out the potential impacts
that climate-related risks could have
‘on our assets and Communities and
how we plan to mitigate and manage
those risks. *

1. INTRODUCTION

challenge forall of society, including
PIP, our Customers, and the
Communities we serve. Understanding
climate-related risks and opporturities,
and the impacts they coutd have on the
Group, is vital for us to be a climate
resilient organisation and to help bring
‘our Communities on the journey too.
‘Sustainability is a core element of

our Because Communities Matters
strategy, and this is delivered thraugh
our Environmental Sustainability
Strategy which includes carson
reduction and climate resilience as

two of its key themes. This statement,
‘completed in accordance with the
requirements of Section S414CBIAl) of
the Companies Act 2006, describes our

climate-related risks and opportunities,
how we have assessed thém and how
‘we will manage them.

2. GOVERNANCE
ARRANGEMENTS
FOR ASSESSING AND
MANAGING CLIMATE-
RELATED RISKS AND
OPPORTUNITIES

2.1, Board Level
Our Group board has ultimate
responsiblity for the Group's

strategic direction and ensuring
effective risk management within

the Group, including: approval of our
Group Strategic Risk Map annually;
monitoring any changes to key risks
{including climate-related risks and
opportunities) throughout the year; and
advising and agreeing on mitigation
and control measures. They are advised
by the Audit & Risk, and Remuneration
& Nominations Committees, and meet
five times per year.

Our Audit & Risk Committee advise
the board on the Group's strategic

tisk processes and policies and is
responsible for reviewing the Group's
Strategic Risk Map a minimum of
twice per year. The Remuneration &
Nominations Committee has oversight
of ESG strategy and performance,
including climate resilience, and
receives ESG updates on a quarterly
basis from the Group ESG and
Sustainability team. More information
‘on our board is provided in on pages
94-128 of this report.

2.2. Executive Level

The Group's Strategic Risk
Management Group (SRMG) comprises
‘Senior Leadership Team members
‘who have been nominated by Executive
team members to represent their
business unit and manage risks at an
‘operational level. The Group meets
eight times a year and is accountable
for the identification, assessment

‘and mitigation of Group-wide risks
including climate-related ones.
‘Ownership of risks sits with Executive
‘team members. Climate-related risks

part of the Sustainability risk
category and other risk category,
where relevant.

2.3, Operational Level
Climate-related issues are discussed
within the Environmental Sustainability
Management Group (ESMG), which
meets on a monthly basis and is
attended by Directors and senior
management representing all
business areas. The ESMG has
oversight of climate-related risk
management and supports the
Group's climate mitigation and
adaptation planning. The ESMG reports
into he Group's ESG Working Group.

Analysis of climate-related risks is
completed cross-functionaly, and the
development and delivery of climate
mitigation and adaptation plans are the
responsitlity of each business area.

Regular risk updates are provided
through Group reporting channels
including weekly updates, the
Managernent Group Summary,
Executive Highlight reports and
Because Community Matters Council
which all occur monthly.

3, IDENTIFICATION,
ASSESSMENT AND
MANAGEMENT OF
CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS
AND OPPORTUNITIES

The Group has completed an
assessment of climate-related

risks and opportunities, using both
Quantitative and qualitative methods,
and in accordance with our Group
Risk Management Framework, Our
assessment included an analysi

of acute and chronic physical risks,
transition risks relating to society's
‘transition to a low-carbon economy,
and opportunities and impacts on our
organisation, Customers,

and Communities.

In 2023, we completed our Climate
Change Risk and Resilience
‘Assessment Report 2023 (CCRRA) for
properties owned and/or managed by
the Group, including our Homes Plus
(Regulated housing), owned Private
Rented Sector and shared ownership
portfolios in addition to our workplaces
{Gepots and offices) and leisure centres.
Our approach for assessing physical
climate-related risks was in alignment
with the UK Green Building Council's
(UKGBC's) Framework for Measuring
‘and Reporting of Climate-related
Physical Risks to Built Assets. Risks
assessed within our CCRRA included:
flooding (combined flooding defended
‘and undefended, pluvial, fluvial, coastal
and groundwater); extreme rainfall;
extreme temperatures; landslides;
wildfire and drought.

Each risk was assessed against a
combination of internally available
data, purchased mapping resources

vest

and publicly available resources,
including the JBA Comprehensive
Flood Model, Met Office Climate Data
Portal, and National Trust - 86S
geomorphological conditions. Given
that the impacts of climate change will
disproportionately impact social and
economically disadvantaged groups’,
the socioeconomic context was also
considered within the assessment
through using Indices of Multiple
Deprivation data for England, Scotland
and Wales, where our Communities
are located. Additionally, air quality
was considered to ensure we captured
potential impacts of climate change on
health and well-being.

‘Development of the CCRRA included
appointing Savills to provide a gap
analysis against the requirements
‘of the Companies (Strategic Report)
(Climate-related Financial
Disclosure) Regulations 2022

and UKGBC guidance.

Physical risks for new builds
constructed by our Developments
business area, transition risks, and
climate-related opportunities across
the Group were identified and assessed
qualitatively by senior managers and
subject matter experts.

To build on our CCRRA, in-depth
assessments of high-risk locations
will be carried out during 2024/25,
incorporating historical records and
Using low. intermediate, and high
emission climate scenarios. There
will be a focus on Edinburgh, Bristol,
the South-East and North-West, as
these are locations identified as having
multiple cimate-related risks and/or a
higher volume of properties.

4. INTEGRATION OF
CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS:
AND OPPORTUNITIES INTO
GROUP RISK MANAGEMENT
FRAMEWORK

We recognise that climate-related
risks have the potential to have a
significant impact on the Group's
activities, and material risks and
opportunities have been integrated
into the Group Risk Management
Process and risk management system.
Within the system, identified risks
have been allocated to Business Units
and risk owners within the Group, to
ensure that there is clear ownership
of risks and to allow targeted
‘mitigating activities to be defined and
implemented to minimis risk as far
as possible.

The Group's Risk Management
Framework considers risk under
three lenses: strategic risks, systemic
(permanent) risks, and operational
(temporary) risks. Climate-related
risks have been mapped to these
lenses in on page 91 of this report.

Risk categories included within the
CCRRA were assessed and risk scored
according to industry recognised
criteria, and all climate-retated risks
were scored against the Group's

risk likelihood and impact criteria
based on qualitative and quantitative
assumptions about potential impacts
and their likelihood of occurrence.

rerezoe wodoyyenuuy

Managing
Climate risk

PLACES FOR PEOPLE - GROUP RISK FRAMEWORK

Identity, assess and mitigate
strategic risks that could affect the
achievement ofthe Group Strategy,
overall, 30-year business plan or risks,
that may arise due to sector, seciely or
legislative changes.

Frequency of review: Annually with
Executive, Policy Research and Public
Affairs and Transformation Office.

‘Typical Mitigation: Strategic projects
‘and/or multiyear projects, mergers and
acquisitions or disposal,

3

Operational

(femporary)
Risks

2, Themed Risks, mitigation

Purpose: Identity and assess systemic risks
that will repeat on an on-going basis, based
‘on the activites ofthe group. Risks may
also arise due to poor processes, systems,
they could materially impact the 10-
year business plan. These risks are unlikely
tobe closed but should remain in tolerance
through regular controls.

Frequency of review: Biannual with SRMG
‘members to support annual review of
‘corporate assurances.

Mitigation: Document, record, and assess,
the appropriateness and effectiveness of
‘regular, standardised controls including
evidence) to demonstrate existence

and effectiveness.

3. Property-level risks

Purpose: Kentiy and assess specific
{individual risks that could occur in the
‘near future, which may have a detrimental
{impact on the achievernent of the Group,
‘short term (3-year) business plan or
business unit objectives. These risks are
‘immediate and temporary in nature. These
risks are likely to be closed (or reduce in”
trend with appetite) following competion
‘of mitigating actions.

Frequency of review: Twice inthe
quarter (eight times a year to align with
'SRMG meetings).

Mitigation: Docurnent time limited actions
being taken to manage specif disruptions
and close risks.

For each risk, a risk mitigation
‘approach relating to the Group risk
appetite is selected for each risk.
Controls already implemented and/

or planned to be implemented are
identified and recorded within the

risk management system and the

effectiveness of these mitigation
measures is also reviewed by the

risk owner, SRMG members are
responsible for ensuring that risk
mitigation activites are defined and
are appropriate to manage identified
risks, A high level overview of
mitigation measures for the Group's
climate-related risks is included in the
table on the following page

(The Group's climate-related risks
and opportunities).

Climate-related risks will be
subject to ongoing review as

part of the SRMG and Group Risk
Management Process. The CCRRA

will be reviewed on a 3-yearly basis,

‘or when there are significant external
or internal changes to our operating
and regulatory environment that could
impact our climate-related risks and
‘opportunities, including changes to our
property portfolios.

5. PRINCIPAL CLIMATE-
RELATED RISKS AND
OPPORTUNITIES

We considered the impacts each
climate-related risk and opportunity
could have on our organisation,
Customers and Communities. Risks
‘and opportunities were assessed using
short-term (current to 2030) and long-
term (2050 and beyond) time periods.
The short-term timeframe covers our
current operating environment and
timelines for implementing existing
Legislation, for example energy
performance certificate (EPC) targets,
whereas the long-term timeframe
aligns with UK legislation to reach net
zero by 2045 in Scotland and by 2050
in England. These timeframes also
reflect thatthe impacts of risks

except for extreme cold temperatures)
are expected to increase both over time
and with increased tevels of warming,
and therefore impact on the level of our
planned investment, At the time

of the assessment, resources and
‘maps covering a medium-term
timeframe were not available. This
timeframe will be incorporated into
planned in-depth risk assessments
‘and future disclosures covering
2024/25 and beyond.

Our climate-rolated risks and
‘opportunities and their potential
impacts on the Group are outlined in
the table on the following page. The
table atso describes our implemented
or planned mitigation measures for
each risk, Risk ratings refer

to expected residual risk ratings
following implementation of
mitigation measures.

sepezaz voday yenouy


Annual Report 2023/26

PLACES FOR PEOPLE - CLIMATE RELATED RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES

lingam
GrepeMecay Barwetunameats Case:

3 8

sto |

i

PHYSICAL RISKS

1+ aed risk assessments are completed oral new bul sites an

Flooding + Damage toasts and infarct neg ‘pprprnte fond lignin menses have been implemented
ik tings Homes Ps (Regulated housing), Prvate + We hve implemented an alert stem dig periods of igh infin
bd onto stack, workplaces nd ary ante tltng stock sine for tigation ad eosponue astra (oe akon
+ tereased capital oss for epis ant +8 ineurdarmunies
ik ype: Installation of fond miigaln measures + Mee betrling fod scars and dling reve propery
nese species migse Aone rskin ur gh fk Commonties
xtreme warm + Orhan ot bulngs impacting on the
lumperatres heath and wetbelg of ur Castomers
+ cessed cots toa and an aie
Aik rats: Cenditoning ystems in propetes we own
edn sdranage . Properties and meet he equirrens ef ung requir
+ Bunines disruption rating oimpats on
fk ype:
‘Acute and chronic heir rea Extreme warm and cold temperatures:
+ Oarageto property and lfrasructre + For our exiting propecia, wo wllnenasa monitoring through ur smart
thermos nd sense stalin programe and sport or Customers
xtrame col ——_*Dstimentalimpacton hea anéwetbeing of asad :
tampersares cazomars an Caesgus aur med an + oninuatin ort programmes tr or eising popes nuting
rranage prperes sing, wrkglaces and eburecenbes oimorove ery efceey =
ink ratings + Conte tor repair coreiated stress and + Me supor our Customers through proving guidance on managing
Mesum damage e propenies Inciting messed risk + +” iauphealdtamperauresin or Winter Toot and we ze fl
‘condensation, damp ame ‘ucher te sippr Canemers ring prod a rr cld
ik ype: gg 7 erat ening cots for be Group at lempeatres needed
‘vie sad ctron—” Gperanal bcaions ad To ou Casomers,
inthe bores
‘+ Weil one to bul snd rattan wth nds standard and
‘Ale quality ‘regulation, Including ventilation of our properties and supporting eur
paints + Pana pats nine on {istomars wih oss veninton where appbeabe
Metin Ieasrcilul Hedsilosied obec + We wil mentor and assess oa plans ad inde within cur business
+ eres ik ofcondnsationandcaistor brine
ise ype: GaanmaMawane “+ Ve widen pporates to work a parnerstp with taclwtbortes
ene an Communities toimprove utara quay
Extome rfl
isk ations ABS rata “+ Wa have implemented an lr est fo paris ih itt llow
riers . bods hich mv mitigation and response measures to be taken in our Commenites
+ feressed coil cesis for mpr where be * ewe ling Rad serra nd deeeping evi propery
Rik ype: ‘Seoup manages proper specication to mass Rood kino igh ak Conmunies
Lande
+ Damage oases ansiniastocure
Risk ‘+ Wa witcotine bid ine wih nse sant an
tog: armRamnUrRA Wow lin ine wih industry stanerts and region
Mesum « receeentanrcuesalwppyenan, ° ——* + Mevtimentr od assess cal pas adit iin ou bss
meter ceoninity pans
pews
watts
+ Poteet and ines de to ‘+ We witcontinue tobi ate wih industry sandads nd regtaton
Risk ating: ceded aly + Ourlanacoping teams minimise the isk fre though thee eivtes
Mediu + Lossetoroperty de to damage + teding eating vegetation away rom blings and clearing Gea oe
isk bp + Disruption coiefrasrocur and “+ We wtmanier nd asses cal lars und include win er business
pete supa cai, conta pane 7

Energi regulation

Als rating
roti

Risk ype:
Potey and tgat

Planning
aquremente

Riskeating:
Media

Risk ype
Poly and apa

Innurance costs
nd wally

Alsat:
Medien

Aik rypes
Poy a aga

Carbon teftrading

isang:
Medi

Rise yper
Market

OPPORTUNITIES

emand or green
developments and
operaions

‘Access to gran
finance and Fandng

*A medium-term timeframe will be incorporated into

Increased bug and rerefitcosts esting
from mare stngent reglaton and standards
torerample

For new bul: Fao ané Vater Management
‘Ae 2010, Sehedale 3 (rom 2020, regulations
for nenfssil fuel heating and Futre Homes.
Standard (implementation expected 229)
For exiting houing tock Misimun nergy
fieleney Standars (requirements h 7023
and 2030 in England and under consuiation
in Sealand) and Soil Housing Net Zoro
Standardin Seatind (expected lar 2025)

Increased cons ad projec slays as nana
poly/ocal pel introduce nawore
Stringent planning requirements
Changes in poy approaches cause delays
tect lanprodciostanning application
Getrminatin and programe for dlery
sf homes which ould potently adversely
Impact on the Group's reputation.

Incresad premiums xs etree weather
sevens become ore requent

Redced availbitiy ofinsrance, wih ik of
assets becoming unnsurable.

ik of tranded sess

Raw matecalor supply chan cests incense
Increased cons or energy and tet
Texnlan by central Govemment

Incrensed demand lor ine carbine 209
ready homes as word ansilos fone 279
and geen mortgages incense
‘Operational est savings ore Gro
ecarbonising operations at ur workplaces
and enue entes

Cost savings fr our Customers though
reteSting sur housing stock

Access tofiance at ower costa te epport
‘ew bul and velroft acti in oor
‘ting Commies

‘Accesso fndig fret
‘ecarbonisation atten

Bhutooctetay

+ We are members ofthe UK Green Bling Cone Fture Homes

Censorlum, House Buléers Federation and Future Homes Hub nd
partciate in sector woking groups

‘We engage wth Goverment and nel autores to undernand
policy ard pris and respond te conatations

‘ur horton scanning group gv insight into emerging rguaten
and potenalimpats on ou agaisalion

‘ur Long-term Strateole Asset Managernent Plan tals how we
wil fait emerging regulatory requirements or eu existing housing

For our new bls, or Strategie Land and Planing teams
ngage wih goverment and eal authorities and downers and
ance planing requrevans when assesig the vaily and
etverbiity of develapmens

We have embedded eomplance wth planing requremaent to
cur processes

‘We manter and spond to emergag planning poly at nals
level to ensure awareness of ptenal impacts te the business

+ We engage with consultant professionals to ensure we ar wel

‘eled cn evesing planning requirements and can presare fr thm

‘We wil mga te impacts of physkatchmate-reated risks a6
exer above

‘We wil eguarty engage with our insurance provider to understand
and plan for impact on nauranc pramime

‘We wil manage potential impacts on naw developments by
stehing ta lature prea dvelgeent schemes ad enuringcimsta
‘eslience as parte the design process

We have sured cur ourey to map aur carton base and alba
sng carbon reduction targets cross our vale caln|

‘ur Procurement and Supply Chain teams wl sek ts dvrsity
‘ur supply chlo oaraure materi canbe rnd sourced wilt
‘eaicing sustainable

‘We wil ensure represniation in profesional forums should here
‘be an inoductian af earben reing/tmain ta ensure tranion
and inplementation antral

We purchase REGO certed renewable energy for ur workglces,
[Letgre centres and some ofthe properties wa manage,

1+ We consider energy ficiency and climate resilene wihin the

sgn of eur new Rome nluting mitigating Noo rk and extreme
enperatures water and energy consumption

‘Wie are implerteting and continuing to develop plans to decarbenise
‘ur eeu canies and workplaces

‘ur ong-term Strategie Asset Management Plan deat our plan for
‘etafitng our housing tack

‘We have inplamented a Sustainable Finance Framework to sopport
ur fundraising efor treugh issuing sustainable debt nstruments
Including gren, soll rsusanaily bends. The ectors biggest
tre band of £500 milion waszrued rom the remark ia
November 2029

‘ur grant nding working group atively denies opportunies and
applies for funding to rere oor having soe or decabonie cor
Iwaur entes or worlaces

lanned in-depth risk assessments and future disclosures from 2025

razrezoe vodey yenury Ip

“

Managing
Climate risk

6. BUSINESS MODEL AND
STRATEGY RESILIENCE

4.1, Climate scenario analysis
Climate scenarios provide a view of
hypothetical and plausible futures.
They are based on assumptions about
ferent drivers that could impact
climate change and the potential
‘outcomes for society. We completed
climate scenario analysis based on
two Representative Concentration
Pathways (RCPs) developed by

the Intergovernmental Panel on
Climate Change (IPCC): RCP 45, an
intermediate emissions scenario with
projected warming of 2.5°C over
pre-industrial levels by 2081 ~ 2100,
and RCP8.5, ahigh emissions scenario
projecting warming of 4°C in the

‘same time period to represent a
worst-case scenario.

Our selection of climate-scenarios was
driven by the availability of resources
‘and mapping for completing our
CCRRA, Where data, mapping and
models were available, quantitative
analysis was undertaken. For
remaining risks and opportunities,
the analysis was completed
‘qualitatively. Both scenarios are
‘outlined in the description of

climate scenarios table below.

‘climate scenario representing
an orderly transition, where Paris
‘Agreement commitments are met
and warming is less than 2°C, will be
included in analysis during

future disclosures.

DESCRIPTION OF CLIMATE SCENARIOS

ame

CHRON Coreg

TAL

Intemediate 2se1-35) ‘Th senaro represents a utr where the word aks

‘solsions scenario: ‘tion oreduce greenhouse gas emissions, but ot enough

repas {omit global warming to Blow 2°.
{Emissane ae ausumed to pak around 2040 and then
lac to decline, A isordet asin occurs, with he
nd tol cst ad increased costa for meeting ster
‘landards such sth Fture Hames Standard and for
‘whale Ue carbon,

Wighemistons (93-5) ‘This scerari represents future wher Ui

Scenario: RCP BS ‘coordinated seon ha ben alten to reduce

‘Under this scenario, the severity andimpact cf raston
sks ar low, Physieal elimate-relted sks such a are
‘requert extrame weather evens Roofing nd warmer
temperatares could have grate avers impocts on cur
sets, Customers and Communities, resuling in inrensed
‘ost for adaptations and repairs Additionally, avail
tt viable land for new developments ceuld decease due (2
shri cimaterelated ks which could impact on the
{sanity fnew homes being constructed.

6.2. Resilience of strategy and
business model

‘We have started to incorporate climate
change considerations into our strategy
and planning processes and our Group
Risk Management Framework is a
fundamental part of steering the Group
towards resilience and success. AS out
climate-related risk assessment and
scenario analysis processes mature
with time, we will beter understand
how climate change may impact our
‘organisation and Communities.

Management have assessed the
Viability ofthe financial plan against the
risks identified inthis statement and
found there to be no material climate
change risks to the business model
and strategy. This is primarily because
climate change risks are already
accounted for in business-as-usual
decision making and operations and
funding is being actively sought and
secured for the necessary activities. In
the coming year, we will need to review
specifications for properties at high
risk of impact, factoring in appropriate
mitigation and adaptation measures
into the plan,

‘We know that physical climate-related
risks could have adverse impacts on
‘our owned and managed properties
and our Customers who live in them,
and that regulation is likely to
increase standards to mitigate these
impacts whilst reducing whole life
carbon emissions.

For our existing housing stock, we
are investing in retrofit activities to
improve energy efficiency and reduce
carbon emissions through our long-
term Strategic Asset Management Plan
which takes us up to 2050 and targets

delivering EPC C by 2030 and reaching
net zero by 2050. We will be reviewing
specifications for properties at high
risk of impact from physical climate-
related risks and factoring appropriate
rmitigation and adaptation measures
into the plan.

For new builds we will continue

to engage with local and national
Government and sector organisations
‘to ensure we understand policy
direction, Our Strategic Land team
will fctor this into viability
assessments, including for schernes
to be developed further into the future,
to ensure we are developing climate
resilient Communities.

Invesiment and funding will be
essential to deliver these essential
activities and access to sustainability
linked bonds and grants to decarbonise
‘our properties is aclimate-related

‘opportunity for the Group. Our Grant
Funding Working Group identifies
‘opportunities to access funding

‘and brings together our application
activities. In March 2024 we
successfully were granted €1.7 million
from Wave 2.2 of the Social Housing
Decarbonisation Fund to make some
‘of our homes more energy efficient

in partnership with Reading District
Council and Paradigrn Housing. Our
Sustainability Finance Framework also
issued the sector's biggest ever bond of
£500 million in Novernber 2023.

7. METRICS AND TARGETS
TO MANAGE CLIMATE-
RELATED RISKS AND.
OPPORTUNITIES

‘Sustainability isa core element of
our Because Communities Matter
strategy, with a focus on fulfilling

our social responsibilty, balancing

economic, environmental and
social needs to improve the lives of
‘current and future generations. AS

part of our ongoing commitment to
sustainability, we monitor and report
(on a range of targets in our annual

ESG Report. In 2023, we took steps to
start establishing our carbon baseline
across the Group, including Scope
1/3 greenhouse gas emissions, This
activity will continue into 2024/25, with
the delivery of a data improvernent
programme to enable us to establish
‘ur baseline for 2023/24 and start to
set group-wide decarbonisation plans,

Current metrics and targets related to
climate-retated risks and opportunities
are detailed on the following table.
Throughout 2024, and in alignment
‘with our mitigation planning, we

will continue to develop and

‘expand on these.

METRICS RELATING TO CLIMATE-RELATED RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES

Carbon reduction and energy efficiency

Achieve net er throughout eur valve chain 202026

sbiecve:Seope cur

TALI

1 202224 we stated working towards + Extreme temperatures

ty 2000 ema 2093 bare yer, tris andenly coublangcurcatntanine ness S050 | aqua
Scurcesmeedetoestablsh 12 Scoping our emialns an eng ata
‘Stoner netne fsoreneaederablaharsuarbrsine was * Eran reuton
Anau ence plement etHeepayandsel os stonirated + Carbontadindng
dateimgrovement plan Susie ejeine fr our Execute em. ey chology nd anvaton

te canine to improve the
curacy and granulo

carbon

Lmprove he average Standard Assessment

Mean ad mesa SAP ratings

Proceire (SAP) aig ol eur existing homes at endo! fan yar*

from 72 (202273) 10 769 by October 2027 00 ng
hee mat
eon ™
Alle curexistinghemeswillbe PCC or Oieiibuon ef EPC ratings of See page 50
sbive by 2030 in England end EPC above homes at endef franca year
by 2032 n Seat
‘Allnew bd wil be EPEC or above CGistribuon ef EPC ratings See page SO
{er new bares cemplted in
‘nancial year
Decartonse eur aferdate hemes by Number ofcempanen's See page 50

carla et energy improvement warts

replaced or upgraded per year

‘SAP ratings of existing homes at endo 202324:

‘Accesso greta
fiance and funding

adel 201079 End ef 12924

798
8

‘yeteeoz voday yenusy

{nstall6000 smart thermostats und sensors Number ol smartthermosias We have ented properties in + Extreme termperatues|

Inour properies between 2024 and 2027 ‘igh sk areas for extreme best and cold + Aiequaty
tomorior sks fertreme cold end warm ‘whch wile included nour device iatalaton
temperatures fer our Custamers| programme

Desgnorw emesioue 105 ne perArengrvaircnsmptn —agewaercnamaten ramet ght
preps deen Cmatarechones” Gantesnzenvaven WSS one | emedter
, ‘Sroleted into ar Snlopeatnn |

DD  Atnuat Report 2023/26

+ with 43 properties failing to meet.the

2. SOCIAL
HEADLIN

Asset outonpage28of ¢
the report, we completed
1,750 new homes during
the course of the year, of
which 1,516 (87%) were
affordable homes. .

Providing affordable and secure homes
to our Customers is what has been

at the heart of Places for People’s
purpose for over 50 years, Whether
it's developing, acquiring or managing
Homes 6r buildings, we ask ourselves
first how we can best ensure these

are homes where Customers can feel
‘personal sense of betonging and a
‘connection to their local Community.

OUR COMPLIANCE WITH
HOUSING QUALITY
STANDARDS

Ensuring access to safe, affordable,
and decent homes is a fundamental'+
human right, which is why we are
dedicated to maintaining absolute
compliance with the Decent Homes _,
‘Standard in England and the Scottish
Housing Quality Standard.

‘tthe end of 2023/24, our homes in
England were 99.9% compliant with the
Decent Homes Standard requirements,

required criteria: :

ES

‘SaIUar minimum standard for housing

At the’end of 2023/24, 318 of our !
homes in Scotland filed the Scotish
Housing Quality Standard. Counting
exemptions and abeyances, we were
82% compliant wth the Standard, !

WHEN THINGS GO WRONG
At Places for People, our quality of,
service should be non-negotiable,
Ensuring we listen and take action !

to pit things right in order to resolve
Customer issues and complaints t
‘supports usin continually improving
the services we provide. Our Customer
Resolution Team investigates all |

“complaints and continues towork |
closely with the Housing Ombudsman,

‘where required, to ensure we put right
any errors and continue to improve'and
drive up service standards for |

our Cornmunities.

ENGLAND '

This is the first time we have seen

* severe maladministration cases

and more details on how we are
improving our Customer experience, *
particularly around complaints can be,
found on page 24 and in our full

ESG report here. -

DELIVERING SOCIAL VALUE
We want to be ~ and be known as ~ the
‘UK's leading social enterprise, creating
‘and supporting thriving Communities:
‘AlLour social impact activity focuses on
key outcomes: .

+ Employment, training and education.
+ Financial and digital inclusion,
+ Healthandwellbeing. —/
+ Sustainable and resilient

Communit
Improving the quality of ife for our
Customeérs is fundamental to our
mission, which is why we measure
the impact we have made in our
Communities through social value
‘metrics and have an ambition to reach
££500 million in social value over time,

In 2023/24 we delivered over £330m

of social value. Over 10,000 people
hrave been helped who were homeless”
or at risk of being homeless, over °
4,000 people have been supported into
education, employment or training,
‘almost 15,000 people supported with
financial and digital inclusion including
hardship funds, over 23,000 people

supported through projects targeting.” ”,

health and wellbeing, and almost
30,000 people have been supported
through projects targeting sustainable
resilient Communities.

TENANT SATISFACTION
MEASURES :

In April 2023, the Regulator of Social
Housing introduced performarice
measures called Tenant Satisfaction _
Measures, or TSMS for short. These
measurements aim to hold all housing
providers in England accountable for
the quality of housing and services they
provide while giving Customers greater
visibility oftheir performance against
sector standards. These measures

are collected by a Customer Survey
and through managernent
performance inforrnation,

Satstaton with he repairs service

Satisfaction wth ime ten to complete repairs,

[As we have already identified through
‘our ongoing work, our Customers
identified Complaints, Repairs and
Communities as three areas of
improvement. We already have

work underway to improve these
areas ingluding

Listning te Customer vows ad acting

1.Complaints - centralising our
complaints process, increasing —
the number of complaints “rsing itunes ty sed ceoectly
handlers, and enhancing o
Customer complaints governance. : :

Keeping Custer normed

2.Repairs - Through automation of (
‘systems and investing in training our , I
Colleagues, we are transforming our :
appointment scheduling capabilities,

3.Communities = We are creating
closer relationships with ‘
‘our Customers by recruiting
more Colleagues based in our Beets :
‘Communities and improving our
visibility as an organisation. . :

Bank, State of Life, eeonomie values from National TOMS and other respected sources
Communities developed by Sport England

nd the Socal Value of Spar calculator from Moving

serezo2 vedoy yenusy


D Annual Report 2023/24

3.GOVERNANCE .

HEADLINES

7 OUR APPROACH TO EQUALITY,

DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION

At Places for People our vision is to create ‘A Place

: for Everyone’, where we value difference and build a

‘ culture of inclusion and belonging, where everyone
feels'comfortable to be themselves. To help us

: “ achieve this vision we have created our first ever
Group-wide ED! strategy, which sets out our pans.
and aspirations from November 2023 until 2027.

Our focusiis on creating an internal environment for
: ur Colleagues which is diverse, inclusive and fair,
and we will continue to seek our Colleagues’ feedback
about the progress we are making through our Great
Place to Work annual engagement survey.

+ 15% of our workforce are from Black, Asian and
z ethnic minority (BAME) populations
+ 55% of our workforce is female

+ Atexecutive tevel we have 27% female
representation

PAYING A REAL LIVING WAGE
Following the decision to implement the Real Living
A Wage across all of Places for People from 1 October
2022, we have maintained this position in our
i : subsequent annual pay reviews.

7 "Gender pay gap inthe UK - Offce for National Statistics (ons.gov.uk)

‘verezoz wodoy envy >

TACKLING THE GENDER PAY GAP
The gender pay gap is @ measure of the diflerence

._ between the average pay of men and women across

the same organisation. Places for People's mean
hourly pay gap for 2023 (the most recent period for
which data are available) was 9.5% and the median
hourly pay gap was 3.496. The pay gap has increased
since the last report, due to fewer women overall and

+ fewer women in the upper pay quartile in comparison,

to previous reporting. Although the mean figure
has increased, it remains significantly below the UK
average of 14.3% for all emplayees?.

or

(ur Gerider Pay Gap Action Plan allows us to focus
our efforts on those initiatives that will further reduce,
the gap and achieve gender equality throughout our
business. The Gender Pay Gap Action Plan sets out
‘our approach to gender- balanced representation at
senior levels, taking positive action in business areas
where femates are underrepresented, a relaunch

of our flexible working policy and processes and
providing and promoting women’s networks. You can
‘ead more about our Gender Pay Gap Action Plan and
‘more about our gender pay gap in our 2023 Gender
Pay Gap Repo,


68

SD Anmwat Report 2023726

)

SUSTAINABLE FINANCE
FRAMEWORK .

‘As noted on page 73, just over 50%
of our total £46 billion Group debt
portfolio has a sustainability link.

+ Our Sustainable Finance Framework

demonsirates our ESG credentials and
outlines our sustainability investment
priorities for the benefit of investors,
aligning with retevant international
Capital Market Association (ICMA) and
highlights our strong commitment to
‘sustainability and contributes to UN
Sustainable Development Goals 1, 7,
Vand 13.

‘Throughout 2023, Places for People
Treasury ple issued and allocated

five sustainability notes totalling

£312 million to finance or refinance
green buildings, energy efficiency and
affordable housing projects. In 2026,
wwe engaged Sustainalytics to review
the projects financed with these
proceeds. Sustainalytcs has provided
an External Review which has verified
that the allocation and impact reporting
practices adopted in this report align
with the market standards in ICMA’s
Harmonised Framework for Impact
Reporting Handbook and Working
‘Towards a Harmonised Framework for
Impact Reporting for Social Bonds.

Further information on the

bility Finance Framework and
lytics' review is available in the
full ESG report.

‘yelezoz vodeyjenuuy >

“o

DD Anousl Report 2029/24

Finance review

eased pressures rom costescalallon
estmentiyinequall) nd facilitated furtheninvestment ir
Tichomesand sevicsfonou

pine Group's trong financial pos.
ined Byte restirmationo} our

fivestirourencsl purpascy


Annual Report 2023726

OPERATING REVIEW

While most of our businesses delivered
strong performance and in many cases
surpassed budget expectations, we
have again prioritised our investment
in the safety and quality of our existing
homes and the wellbeing of our.
Customers and Communities which
has led t0 increased spend on capital
improvements and repairs (2024:
£219m, 2023: £151m).

Over the last two years we have seen
a significant rise in the demand on our
repairs business from our Customers.
We have pro-actively met this
increased demand delivering $4,000
‘more repairs than was budgeted in
2023/24 whist also extending our
work to understand the quality of our
homes through initiatives such as
Home MOTs in order to find unreported
issues around damp and mould,

"The increased demand also led

toa further increase in the use of
subcontractors whilst we increased
the size and efficiency of the in-
house team. We are now séeing the
improvements in the effectiveness

‘of the teams with a reduction in the
average number of days to complete
‘non-emergency repair from 4é days
to 35 days and our ability to fix a repair
first time improving to 93.196 from
87.5% at the end of the previous year.”

In March 2024, we completed the
merger with South Devon Rural
resulting in an increase in our net
assets of £20.dm through a one-off
profit to the Group of the same amount,
bringing 357 homes into the Group. As
noted on page 28 we also delivered

a further 1,516 new affordable homes,
through our development team.

during the year as well as laying the
groundwork for the merger with Origin
which completed on 16 April 2026, just
into the new financial year.

We also completed the sale of 703
shared ownership properties to MEG,
generating a turnover of £70.1m and
profit of £20.9m in March 2024,

Our Group's leisure facilities delivered
‘another strong year of performance
and growth, andfollowinga
‘competitive procurement process, saw
‘ur support for healthy Communities
extend to Northumberland from April
2024. The new 10-year contract will
bring 600 new People into our group
and three million Customer visits from
across the county, ;

We also saw growth in our student
accommodation and facilities
‘management services with the award
of a new five-year contract with Royal
College of Art, across three London
campuses in London, starting in

May 2024, .

‘Alongside this, we have continued

to provide financial support to our ~
Customers with £1, including rent
relief or vouchers for essentials such
{8s food and fuel, paid during the year
(2023: £750,000) through our Cost:
of-Living Taskforce. In addition, our
financial inclusion team continue to
‘work hard in supporting Customers
who are experiencing financial
<iffculty, ensuring they are aware of
the support available tothe, +

PROFIT AND LOSS
FORTHE YEAR i
Overall, Group turnover of £831.6m
‘was slightly down on the prior year
(2023; £849.6m). The Group has seen
increased income from Affordable
Housing lettings and within the leisure
business, which has been more than
offset by 2 reduction in non-social
housing development and shared
‘ownership sates. :

Profit before tax was broadly inline
with the prior year at £84m (2023:
££83,8m) with higher operating costs
being largely oftset by the profit '
generated from the sale of the Shared
‘ownership portiolo, the negative
‘goodwill arising on the merger

* with South Devon Rural and gains

recognised on interest payable.

The prior year operating profit and
‘margin (2023: £163.7m and 19.296)
included £34m relating to three
‘material impairment decisions. After
‘adjusting for this, the current year
‘operating profit and operating profit
‘margin have increased during the year
bby £13.4m and 2.196, to £211.1mand
25.4%, (adjusted 2023: £197.7m

and 23.2%).

‘The most significant drivers of the”
increase are outlined belo

+ Negative goodwill arising on
the merger with South Devor
Rural of £20.4m. .

+ Profit arising on the sale of
the shared ownership
portfolio of £209m.

+ Underlying improvement
across most of the
business areas and our
investment properties.

This was partly offset by the Customer
focused decision to continue to
increase the resources and costs
deployed to address the increased
demand and cost for reactive and
responsive repairs by £35m from

the prior year.

Net interest costs were £65.8m higher
than the prior year due to higher
interest rates and larger gains made in,
2022/23 from debt breakage.

FINANCIAL POSITION

The Group's fixed assets grew by
£401m to £5,764m (2023: €5,363m) as
‘we continue lo invest in our affordable
homes. Group stock and work in
progress has increased to £413m
(2023: £383m). Group stock includes
land held for future development,
such asthe Gilston Park estate,
work-in-progress and 152 (2023: 111)
completed units, of which 98 were
unreserved at the end of the year.
Overall net assets have increased by
£72m to £ 949m.

TREASURY MANAGEMENT
‘The table below hows the Group's key
performance indicators for treasury for
the year together with the comparative
information for the previous four years.

The Group had committed borrowings
of £4,6bn of which £3.7bn were drawn,
‘an increase in committed borrowings -
‘of £0.Sbn from 2023.

The Group's strategy isto borrow on

an unsecured basis with a medium-
term objective of rebalancing the
Portfolio of at least 60% unsecured. The
proportion of unsecured debt has again
increased, reaching 88%6 at March’ 2024
(2023:72%). This increase was due to
both the issuarice of new unsecured
debt and the repayment of legacy
secured debt,

Group gearing increased slightly to.
‘55.9%, remaining below the Group's
maximum of 60%.

ur policy is to maintain cash and
undrawn committed loan facilities
that are immediately accessibte to
finance 18 months’ cash flow. At the
year end, the Group had total liquidity
cof E1.1bn, comprising £975.0m of
tundrawn facilites and £103.6m of
cash and short-term investments, This
‘represents 25 months’ cash flow and
‘50s more than sufficient t6 meet the
Group's policy.

The borrowing strategy is to contain
interest rate risk to below 20% of
‘outstanding debt, with the board
‘exercising strict control over derivative
transactions and their associated risks.

‘This interest rate target has been met
with 76.6% of debt at fixed rates of
interest at the end of the year with

Teal as

Interest cover ater deren’

Georg?

Forward cash erent rant)

16.2% of debt at floating rates'and
7.2% index linked.

Since April 2023, the Group has
completed new funding totalling
£1,015m, This included the successful
completion of the sector's biggest
ever bond in Novernber 2023 with the
issuance of a £500m sustainability
bond alongside an “any and all” tender
offer cn an existing secured bond due
{to_mature in 2024 and a £150m capped
tender on a £400m unsecured bond due
to mature in 2026.

“In July 2023, the ‘Club’ facility was

increased by £250m to £1.15bn,
improving the Group's liquidity p
and providing further flexbility for
future merger partners. In December
2023, we also repaid the £65m non-
regulated retail bond and there is now
no extemal debt, and therefore no
‘covenants on the non-regulated side
of the business.

‘Since the inaugural £300m .
sustainability bond issuance in January
2022, new financing and proactive debt
redemption combined with the £1.156n,
Club Facility has resulted in just over
5036 of our total Group debt portfolio
having a sustainability label, *

‘The proceeds from new funding will be
“used to invest in improving the safety
and quality of Piaces for People's
existing homes and also to provide new
‘and much needed affordable housing
under the Group's Strategic Partnership
with Homes England.

On 20 March, South Devon Rural
Housing Association became a
subsidiary of the Group, and we quickly
supported the redemption of its £14.2m
legacy debt positions.

| DEBT PORTFOLIO

| LIQUIDITY
£109.60

Qpuneree tacos
(©) cath and shart term investments

| FIXED/FLOATING MIX

times the nt interest payable is
37 the available earnings, which are
‘operating profit before interest plus
the share of operating proft on jolt ventures,
} Gearing isan internal measurement that
represents total loans as apropertion of
the Group's assets (which include Housing
Properties and Othar Fixed assets at cost,
Equity loans, vestments. Investment
Properties and cash atthe earrying value).

‘verezoe wodoyyenavy

™

Annual Report 2023726

Reporting on our
value for money

Value for money is fundamental
to everything we do and critical
to the delivery of our strategy.

We know that being efficient and
effective is crucial to our success
in responding to the challenges of
our operating environment and
delivering services and changes
that make a valued impact to our

Customers and People.

Our board is committed to ensuring
that we make the best use of
resources, reinvest them wisely and
‘maximise the efficiency and quality
of our services,

Our Customer Promises are the
‘commitments we make to the
‘Communities we serve. These, along
with our People Promises, are the
‘guiding principtes for how we all do
things at Places for People. They
‘outline how we have a drive to improve
and make things easier, Innovation has
always been important in our approach.

Assessing the best delivery models and
evaluating alternatives is an integral
‘element of our business planning
process which ensures that achieving
value for money remains central to
what we do.

High inflation and interest rates, a tight
labour market and the residual impact
‘of the pandemic on supply chains have
increased costs and impacted incomes.
The cost-of-living crisis has impacted
everyone, but none more substantially
0 than those on low-income or
support, which means that providing
value for money for our Customers has
never been as important.

Throughout the year, as part of our
performance reporting, we monitor
how we are delivering value for money
across our strategic objectives. +

During our annual business planning
process, we require all areas of the
organisation to idemity and target
efciencies, These plans are subject

to rigorous review and challenge by
‘management prior to recommendation
‘and approval from our Group board.

We perform regular reviews of the
Group's asset base, appraising return
‘onassets in a tailored way that is,
appropriate for each Group business
to ensure that we are making the '
‘most effective investments in the :
right properties at the right time. AS
‘part of this approach, we monitor and
‘seek to improve our return on core
housing operations. We dlso focus on
how our other assets can consistently
deliver vatue for money through strong
financial and social returns:

Value for inoney is addressed
within reporting at every board ~
‘meeting so that scrutiny of our
performance against metrics is
Consistent and rigorous.

We conduct an annual assessment of
the Group's neighbourhoods which
‘calculates the surplus per property

for each neighbourhood and reviews

a range of Customer centric metrics.
This is then assessed against the
contribution that each individual
property needs to make to cover
management costs, interest costs and
a contribution to major works as well
as indicators of Customer satisfaction.
This enables us to clearly identify which
neighbourhoods are meeting minimum,
financial requirements and delivering
value for our Customers.

The Group continues to seek to
enhance its asset appraisal processes.
‘We have added more predictive and
forward-looking methods to identify
under performing assets at an earlier

‘stage. This is enabling mitigating
actions to be instigated sooner to
optimise asset returns,

In last year’s Anniyal Report, we
set out five areas where we believed
there was potential to improve
efficiency, and which would therefore
be given particular focus. These were
improving Customer experience,
delivering procurement savings,
increasing the level of repairs delivered
“right first time,’ implementing new
housing management software

to deliver improved service to our
Customers and improving our return
‘on capital employed.

Set out on the following pages are the
main outcomes achieved in the year
for each area.

‘y2/e20z Vodoyjenvuy


1%

D Annual Report 2023724

Reporting on our
value for money

CUSTOMER SERVICE

Inlast year's Annual Report, we
‘included a specific objective to continue
to increase the reported level of overall
Customer experience and deliver a
Customer Effort Score (CES) of 3.8.
Our goal is to make it as easy as
possible for our Customers to engage
with us and get what they need. More
information on how we collect our CES
is provided on page 22 of this report,

For the year ended 31 March 2024,
we achieved a CES of 3.9 from 63
‘touchpoints and 140,000 customer
responses for services across

the Group.

‘During the year we reset our Customer
satisfaction measurement in tine with
the new Tenant Satisfaction Measures
(TSM) developed by the Regulator

‘of Sacial Housing. Around 58,000
Customers in England are eligible to
take part in the TSM survey because
they lve in either Low-cost Rental
‘Accommodation or Low-cost Home
Ownership properties.

To ensure as many Customers as
possible could have their say and to
provide a robust baseline we adopted a
census approach, where we attempted
tocontact 100% of our Customer base.

Survey data was collected from 28+
‘August 2023 to 31 March 2024 and the
overall satisfaction of our Customers
was 57% from around 11,000 —
‘esponses. This compares with a
median score of 66% across across our
peer group (provided by Housemark).

While these results are disappointing,
they reinforce our focus on improving
both our understanding of Customer
needs and the service they expirience.
‘We will use the CES and TSM
measurements, alongside other
Customer insights, research and

best practice, to enable us to identity
opportunities tqimprove the overall
Customer experience.

Our National Customer Group continue
to meet quarterly with members of our
Group board and Executive Leadership
team to hold us to account, scrutinise
our performance and standards and to
ensure the Customer Voice is heard and
‘acted upon to continuously improve the
‘Affordable Housing we deliver. During
the year we increased our National
Customer Group membership to 15,
‘and introduced Regional Customer
Groups, aligned to our operational
regions, to further develop our
Customer Voice framework.

AFFORDABLE

HOUSING REPAIRS AND
MAINTENANCE SERVICE
Last year’s value for money report
identified Affordable Housing repairs
and maintenance service as a key
focus with a target to increase the
level of repairs delivered ‘ight first
time'.to 90% to improve efficiency and
effectiveness within the service.

Despite a continued increase in
demand, we exceeded our target and
achieved a repairs ‘right first time’

fix of 93.1%. We remain committed *
to delivering the right repairs at the *
right time, and our focus has been on,
improving our understanding of our
Customers’ homes so we can address
their urgent concerns and step up 10
damp and mould through increased
resources andinvestment. —*

More information on this is provided
on page 26'of this report. in year
‘demand exceeded 286,000 repairs
(2023: 240,435); 2996 of completed
repairs were emergency, and of those
emergency repairs, 96.9% were
completed within our target time.

‘We aim to continue to drive
improvements in our right first time
repairs through continued investment
in our tools and People.

yzrezez vedoy yeruey

Reporting on our
value for money

PROCUREMENT

In our tast report we set a target to
achieve cost reductions of a least
£2.5m through procurement savings
across a range of goods and services in
the financial year.

This goal was surpassed by 92%
with the Strategic Procurement Tearn

_ delivering just over £4.8m of cashable
savings for the Group across a range
of goods and services in 2023/24, This,
isa significant result, especially in
the difficult economic climate where
inflation and other factors are siill
impacting on commodity pricing.

A portion of cashable savings is
achieved through rebates, which is
effectively cash we receive back into
to the business. During the year, we
received around £0.5m in rebates
from the Group supply chain, largely
products required to deliver responsive
repairs, and a fuel'card rebate.

Throughout the year, our Procurement
“Team has delivered many valuable
projects to the business, including:

‘+ Renewing our Major Works contract,
‘enabling a saving of £2.1in

+ Renegotiating the terms of several
contracts, saving over £450k

+ Implementing a new telematics”
contract saving £130k :

+ Renewing our document signing
software contract, saving £70k

Our Procurement Team has delivered

a wide variety of projects to drive ,

increased efficiency and value

for money in the Group's day-to- !

day operations. This has included

considering how a post-covid working

environment can reduce costs to the -,

organisation and allow us to support

‘our Communities more.

‘Our Procurement Team has continued
in their role and relationships

across the Group to offer additional
procurement support and advice,
including spend analytics, contractual
‘Support and facilitating tocal tender
projects In particular, the team has
‘Supported Group initiatives such as
‘new fitness equipment for our
Places Leisure gyms, new vehicles
for our repairs and maintenance
‘operatives, and generating

‘income from our Procurement Hub
‘business to support social value
projects in our Communities.

We have continued fo increase and
‘optimise the use of technology to
underpin our Procurement activities,
and this has also included helping
‘the Group be prepared for the
implementation of the Procurement
‘Act in October 2024 which will

have significant implications for
both the Group and its diverse
supply chain partners.

vepez0z uodoy enury

”


§
78
:
Fy
£
2
g
ft

7 Reporting onour

value for money  _

‘SERVICE OPTIMISATION
nour last report we set a target

to continue the implementation of *
new housing management software *
to deliver improvéd service to our
Customers and achieve a further £1m
in management cost savings through
continued transformation of operating
‘models and business practices.

Inyear within the Customer Hub;
wwe hired a new experienced Senior
Leadership Team to drive our

« planning, continuous improvement
‘and operational functions. We built _
a strong five-year roadmap focusing

+ on improved service delivery and
‘operational efficiencies in our
‘Complaints and Contact Centres. We
improved our year-on-year service *
levelsin the Contact Centre from an
answer rate of in 2022/23 of 77% to
90% in 2023/24. In the Complaints
function we started to build our,
Centralised complaints function that
wile fl operational bythe end
‘of 2024.

The Communities Team has undergone, therefore, further changes tothe. ir

significant transformation during
‘the’year, with the focus being on
‘establishing a regional framework
and decentralising our specialist

5 to bring them closer to the
regional teams and our Customers. We
launched a five-year strategy delivery
plan with the ambition of mirroring

}
I
i:
4
1

|
|

|
ae
i

i

the benefits of a Community-based
housing association, whilst leveraging
our national reach, A new leadership
team has been appointed to bring this,
to life and good progress has already
been made in year. Our priorities have
involved creating consistency of service
across the regions: aligning ways ot
‘working; and driving cross-functional
collaboration at local level. We have
invested £2.5m in new frontline 1
resource, which has allowed us to |
reduce 6ur local housing patch sizes
(number of homes managed by a team)
by up to 50%. We have also introduced.
technology to enable proactive and
targeted service and support for

“customers. +

cost savirgs that were included
in the business plan for 2023/24
were delivered in year plus an
additional £800,

1
i

“he Elm targeted minagement |

|

'

{We continually sek to deliver value

for money and drive a more effortless
experience for our Customers and |
‘housing management software are’
“flanned for the financial year ending
31 March 2025. This will deliver an
additional £1.1m of management |
cost efficiencies which will help to
fund'the reduced patch sizes in the!
Communities téam, :

|

i
!
i

fF 7
'
Hy
RETURN ON CAPITAL
EMPLOYED ~

sn last year’s Annual Report, we noted

that asa debt funded businessitis ~

important that the capital we have is
deployed to generate a return and set
a specific target to increase the return
‘on capital employed to 6.996" for the
Group as a whole during the year:

‘The return on capital employed for
2023/24 was 5.836", which was

lower than the target of 6:99 due to
continuing economic challenges faced
by the Group including rent caps, utility
‘and other cost inflation, and interest
rate rises as well asthe management
decision made during the year around
increased investment in repairs

noted above. -

High levels of investment in our homes
has continued which has contributed to
our strong net asset position, however,
the above factors have resulted in
lower than projected profits and our
missing the overall ROCE target.
For the coming year the Group has
maintened the target of 6.9%.

“The target of 6.9% and outtuim of 5.8%
‘were calculated on an internal basis.
Itis measured as returns, defined

as operating proft before interest
adjusted to remove any gain/(1oss) on
revaluation of investmnent properties
and include any share of operating
profit on joint ventures, as a proportion
of debt, defined as housing and bank
loans, debenture stock and bonds.

This differs from the definition and. |
‘calculation underpinning the RSH

defined metricswhich is explained *
on page 81, .

ist

TARGETS FOR 2024/25
Our business plan clearly articulates
‘our strategic objectives, and

performance reporting to the board .. °-

ensures we are delivering value for
‘mongy in meeting those objectives.

 Allbusiness areas identified specific

‘efficiency and value for money targets
for the year including a target to
sustain or improve return on capital -
‘employed. Performance against these
targets will continue to be monitored
by the Group board and Group
‘management team,

In addition to meeting the key
perfotmance indicators identified
within our business plan, we have
identified the following specific areas of
focus for efficiency or improvement in
the 2026/25 financial year:

{Procurement ~ achieve cost

Service optimisation <further
changes to the housing management
software which will deliver an
additional £1.1m of management
ost efficiencies which will help to
fuind the reduced patch sizes in the
Communities team

reductions of at least £3m through
procurement savings across a.range’,
of goods and services.

Customer service — continue to
improve our Customer experience and
deliver a CES of 4.0.

serean The metrics below hightighted in blue
‘Affordable Housing repairs and are RSH defined value for money

maintenance service ~ maintain the i
metrics which canbe found here,
level of repairs delivered right first ime | ~ *

at 93% while continuing to improve >
efficiency and effectiveness within
the service. «

ofthe Group. While the metric includes the Group's social housing assets,
the Group's investment properties or investments int joint ventures. The Group's investment
Income stream from preperty rental whichis outside of

‘Affordable Housing and contribute tothe Group's new Affordable Housing d
brogramme, When these adional assets are taken nt secount tho Groups
end is 55.996 (see page 72).

ud nthe tbl calelatedutng the dentin provided by RSH,
which consider roturns (calculated on a consistent basis with internal eau
previous page) as a proportion of total asses less current iblities(r
cof debt whichis our internal basis of ROCE measurement).
“Affordable Housing only

vyerezor wodoyyenaey

up of severaltinterrelated,

activities, which'include:ig

oe Internal
iThe board hasvan ongoing process to xenti(yy pein control,

sible for the Group s System) 7
procedure

Tracking attestation

Koy
Performance
Indicators

Risk controls
Os and assurance
Policy framework Regulazory

Environment

Business | = Business
Planning Contiwuity

Group Risk
Suubamndeuian ere
esse

“+ enies and manages operational + Harton sane for emerging Provides independent assurance of
risks for thar aes respansbiity trate se the efletveness ofthe Grou's ak

+ Marans interratcanrls + Seta standards and frameworks ‘management andintenatconol

1+ Reports envi, incidents, {Provides experts, suppor Tramewerks ad actty

lanuar and ovis mantarig and challenge en B
rik lated mates As pachotihecormal courses
: Bisiness¥and inunewihoug

t SR EEES SESE SEES SESE SEE Dn OS SEER ESERSSSEELSESEEESEESS 1 3 Harimprovementsrare proviced)
External Assurance Providers & Reguistors Commitee


Risk management &

assurance in 2023/24

(AECeeC ene

‘Areas of focus for the Group during the
year that were closely monitored from
arrisk management perspective were:

“ “4 Asset and asset services: The

financial impact of improving repait
services for Customers: and making
better use of our resourcés.

+ Custoriers: Clear focus on
the performance of services,
provided to Customers and .
the impact of complaints and
‘maladministration determinations,

‘+ Information technology: © ~
Evaluating the robustness of
‘our IT services and plans for
‘improving resiliency. Feedback on
developments and projects planned
10 improve our offering to Colleagues
anid Customers. © ~

+ Merger and Integration: Reviewing
‘output from due diligence processes
to establish our risk exposure,
impact on business as usual
activities and ensuring mitigating
actions were implemented.

Our risk management and assurance
_attvities during the year recognised
‘and considered the following as
pertinent to our assessment of risks
and their mitigation strategies:

+ Ecoriomy: Britain continues to
face a challenging macroeconomic
environment with continued cost of
living pressures including increasi
energy costs and limited economic
growth, This will have an impact
‘on Customers, Colleagues, and the
Communities we operate in.

+ Régulation: We are subjéct to
arrange of regulatory changes,
including the Housing
Ombudsman's Complaint Handling
Code, the Regulator of Social
Housing's new Consumer Regulation
regime and Awaab's Law.

+ Political environment: Anticipation
of the general election caused a
degree of uncertainty during the
year. Local authorities have also
suflered from funding, which
is placing greater demand on

sur services and disrupting our
Developments timescales.

verezar uodoujenuuy

‘The Group undertook a range of

activities to positivly impact our”

People and Customers, in particular:

+ Developing a range of Customer
Promises to reaffirm our
‘commitments to the Communities
we serve.

+ Increased focus on ESG:
Undérstanding how changes in
the internat and external SG <
environment affect the Group and
our associated risk exposure.

+ Development of a new Risk
Management Framework, which +
will bring greater clarity on our:
risk exposure and provide better
oversight of risk mitigation activities,

: N


annua Reser 202326

Risk map & : i :
summaries . ; a '

ee

oe

3
@ 11 Aprit 2023 Net wna (where different) ® 31°March 2024 Net Risk Rating, <— Change in year

Z

Health and safety. -

Customer experience

_ Technology, data and security’
‘Legal and regulatory _

- Strategy and governance

People
Business performance "=:
Political, environment and macro-economy :

i
; i

RISK TITLE : - .
fi

wl e)alo

Sustainability and uneconomic assets
10 Businessdisruption | : ig

japayeymye.

There s a Group-wide health and safety
management system in place which supports
wellbeing af | regular reporting to the Group board,
‘ot | Group Autit & Risk Conimitie, Executive,
fto\| Management team andthe Strategic Risk

© © teamwich cares out an annual Group-wde

£52 audit programme covering fire, health and
So
oe oS ‘ASateguarding gap analysis has been created

ee
22 4 and modern slavery risk exposure.
Doe sais

P| eis aaedennd Grup Hentnansalty

2024 Rating Red/High
2023 Rating - Red/High ‘

This risk is retained as a high risk due to curent
legislation and the cost implications rather than
any material weakness in our controls. Targeted
actions are being taken to improve the condition
cof specific assets within the Group.

1H

2. Customer Experience

aiuiiermeel, 2). Te Group avctegy, Because Community
oné.ither "Matters. focuses on creating, managing and
F882 supporting tvng Communities, Tis has
‘reductions. been reinforced by the recent introduction
af Customer Promises. which outine our
Commitment o our Customers.

We actively engage with our Customers and
use feedback from dur National Customer
Group to shape decision making. This approach
is supported by key performance indicators
‘KPIs) to maritar Customer experiehce across a
5 range of touch points. The Customer Hub team
“S272 has been fully resourced, supplemented with
the ereation of acormplains task force, to aid
service improvements.

of Social Housing and completes an annual
self-assessment against regulatory standards,

2024 Rating  Red/High
2023 Rating — Amber/Medium

This risk assessment has been increased to take

account ofthe curent focus animproving asset f=

Condition, improving complaint handing, our f=
performance against key KPIs, and increases in
the number of disrepair claims received.


D Annvat Report 2023/26

Risk map &
summaries

fe

Mitigation

| 3. Technology Data and Security

5. Strategy and Projects

Data management,
‘governance, ar technology
‘unable to meet the information
‘needs or eybor security and/
‘or privacy requirements of the
‘business leading to finar
poor decision making,
inefficiency, compliance
failures, data breach, system
loss/failures, penalties and/or

‘The Group has undertaken a review against the
NIST tnformation Cyber Security Framework
and will move towards a more adaptive and
responsive approach to managing cyber security
risk; additionally, we have achieved the NCSC
Cyber Essentials certification.

Monthly dashboards and key performance
reporting ae in place covering technical,
network security, datacentre security and
encryption and device theft. Key metrics are
reported o stakeholders across the Group.

There is a data protection framework across
the Group, underpinned by a breach reporting
process, compliance reviews, training
programme. We regularly simulate phishing
activites to assess colleague vigilance and
raise awareness.

2024 Rating — Red/High
2023 Rating ~ Red/High

The risk is retained as 2high risk due to the
continued increased threat of attempted
cyber-attacks and security-related incidents in
the sector which could have a significant impact.

4. Legal and Regulatory

Not meeting legaVregulatory | The Group employs aGroup Director of Property 2024 Rating ~Green/Low
requirements placed upon the | Safety & Compliance, Director of Regulation, 2023 Rating ~ Green/Low 7
Group, including the delivery | Financial Compliance Manager and an expert

‘of Value for Money and Legal services team to identify and comply wth There has been no change to our assessment of
‘compliance with anti-bribery, | allrelevant egal and regulatory requirements, this sk during 2023/24,

anti-money laundering and

tnodern slavery regulations, | The Groupmaintins and regularly reviews _Dbring the 2023/4 nancial year, our approach

‘Safeguarding, and rent
regulations. Loss of assets and/
or reputation damage due te
fraud, bribery or theft.

alramework of polices and procedures that
reflect relevant standards. Annually senior
stakeholders complete a Corporate Assurance
‘Statement, providing further visibility to the
board and Audit & Risk Committee of concerns
‘and challenges faced.

‘SMEs across the Group continuously monitor
the extemal environment to identity changes
that may affect our operations. The Group also
rung an independent, risk-based business
‘assurance programme, and legal and regulatory
requirements are reviewed regularly.

‘has been furher strengthened with the
appointment ofa Financial Compliance Manager.

Ineffective strategy and!

‘or governance leads to

{ack of control or direction
that impacts on ability to
deliver business plan and
social impact objectives.
Operational performance is
‘compromised due to merger
acquisition failure or in
cee

‘Aboard Strategy Oay provides critical
review and challenge of our strategy and
future direction,

The Group has a dedicated mult-discptnary
Change Management Group to provide
oversight and strategic direction on change
tiatives across the Group, ensuring
appropriate resource deployment and
alignment with the Group Strategy.

We have strengthened and increased resource
in our Mergers and integration team, which
‘supports our future strategy.

‘There s a structured capital approval and
invesiment process in place and effective
‘ring-fencing arrangements to protect social
housing assets,

‘The Group also undertakes challenging stress,
testing ofits business plans. «

12026 Rating ~ Green/Low
12023 Rating ~ Green/Low

‘There has been no change to our assessment of
this risk during 2023/2,

During the year, The Regulator of Social Housing
refreshed its assessment of Places for People's
compliance with the Governance and Financial
Viability Standard via an Annual Stability

Check. Our grades were confirmed as GI for
‘governance and V2 for financat viability.

6.People

‘The Group is unable to
doliver the business plan or
provide satisfactory service

to Customers due toa failure

ty to retain, recruit or
| develop People in sufficient
| numbers or with sufficient
quality and skills.

Thereis a centralised HR function and use of 2
‘specialist recruitment function.

To altract and retain Colleagues there are
‘competitive salary and remuneration package
offerings backed by regular market reviews,

‘The Group has documented succession plans for
senior Colleagues including a focus on internal
progression and improving diversity. A range

of training and development opportunities

‘and initiatives have been launched in 2023/24,
Providing targeted support to Colleagues.

‘The Group has aligned all minimum salaries to
the Real Living Wage and continues supporting
Colleagues through a Colleague Hardship Fund.

2024 Rating ~ Amber/Medium
2023 Rating ~ Amber/Medium

‘There has been no change to our assessment of
this risk during 2023/24.

1m 2023/24 the Group undertook the Big
Colleague Survey, receiving respanses from
'94%6 of Colleagues. Resultant action plans have
been created to address areas of cancer,

{In 2023/24 The Group undertook a pay and
‘grading review to ensure consistency across the
Group and aid career progression.

B

a
a

2pez0r vodeyyenuy

29


ai 7, Business Performance

jocial

16 impacts! |The Group has ar ffectve business planning
Ne a8 process which incorporates stress testing 10

iver © 24 ensure the viability of future plans.

ie eee ae
‘sliordabie hemes: due
cu eee || An established monthly performance
| fevenue reductions: insufficient’ | Tonitoring frameworks in place, °
aegat be oi | underpinned by identified KPIs and reporting
‘to senior management and routine scrutiny
and board oversight.

"| The Group deploys in-house procurement
{ expertise, use of national contracting and
framework agreements to manage supplies
and spend: :

For development projects there is an
established risk assessment, business
case approval, project control and handover

work in progress is also undertaken betwéen
Finance and the Developments ieams.
ee
to ensure, a5 far ass possible, it wl lays
225.155 4 have sufi liquidity (minimum 18 months
© cashtton) io meets labile.

‘racesses in operation. Regular monitoring of

5 The Group's approach to managing liquidity}

2024 Rating ~ Red/High.
2023 Rating ~ Red/High

‘The risk assessment in 2023/24 has been
retained as a high risk to take accourt of the
volatile macroeconomic environment which
has affected the housing market, Group

developments and Customers... *

‘The Spring 2024 budget deliveredlimited
‘support for first time buyers and limited policy
changes to improve supply- which further

impacts our overall business performance.

review is undertaken to identiy internal and
external changes thal may affet the Group,

remains a significant government priority.

‘This uncertainty increased the volatility the

‘Avregular PESTLE and operating environment

Key members of the Executive team continue to
lobby government bth directly and through thet
Natanat Housing Federation ensure hosing

The anticipated election in 2024 delayed decision
‘making and caused ambiguity across the sector.

Group needs to consider for our future activities.

2024 Rating - Green/Low

2023 Rating -Gree/Low “= -

‘The risk asdessmentin 2023/24 has
been retained as ahigh risk to take account
ofthe volatile external envionment and

ongoing uncertainty.

oe

—

‘The business planning procéss, performance,
‘monitoring and board scrutiny processes
consider carbon reduction and climate related
challenges. The Remuneration & Nomination
‘Committee has taken ownership of the ESG
siraiegy and an Environmental Sustainability
‘structure has been implerriented, across the
Group, to provide improved governance and
insight into ESG activites. Tiss supported by

targets and appropriate KPIs.

‘The ESG téam has been strengthened, and
addtional resource provided to help mentor,
‘assess, and mitigate the impact of changes
in the ESG landscape. A climate change risk
‘assessment has been undertaken to establish

{tobe taken across the Group.
‘The Group carries out regular reviews of

Management Group, asset survéy programme
‘and capital spend allocation, to identify where

£2 we can trial and embed energy eficient options
5 to our assets. .

‘uF risk exposure and identify mitigating action

2024 Rating - Green/Low
£2023 Rating ~ Amber/Medium

This risk has been reduced in 2023/24,

‘The Group continually monitors the external

environment to ensure we are i
environmental laws and poli
changes to these:

‘a rangé of énvironmental sustainably aims. the ystainabilit landscape is constantly

‘evolving and while we consider the impacts of
imate change on our business, we recognise

‘that ongoing anel

is is required to help inform

longer-term decision making.

S| Tne Group has amjorincidemoticy and
tions | business com

ity planning approach in place,
‘supported’ a framework of guidance and
‘business continuity plans (including IT disaster
recovery plans) in each business. A range of
flaybooks outining how Group wide incidents
|} willbe managed are in place and can be
implemented through the Crisis

‘Management Group.

2026 Rating — Green/Low
2023 Rating ~ Amber/Medium

‘The risk assessment in 2023/24 has been

reduced to take account of increased visibility of

‘our If disaster recovery capabilities and review,
‘of business continuity plans. =

>

‘edsy jen,

z/ez07.


g verezez wedey jenny


Board of

i
iThe standing committees and}
working parties are

Executive and © : a cm
om 1 ; i :
Non-executive : act
o eee Sena

TeGupioniLendiedhts RTRs ons Ue eEeL Development committee]
rar erry oeneiciog  casenslecoleeckl ME Pensions Working Party
of|signing theannuallreporty : geet

comprises eightnon-executive) = someon ;

directors. and|three executive) Prendnoronimiecs snd works}
Ipactiesis described lalegininisy
‘duty loackwyinin inelk powerssa Ouly)

ri
otexercise independent idgement nN
Pianiy oavod conflcisot interest) 7
executiveroles‘andialso\a) aviy nol torsccepl Denehtsrom tira Fe!

: -
fsuitable balance|to.address the,
Challenges\workioad,and|skills) : Pocsnangemen’

requireds Details ofthe directors) :

ey ae eae
(can\befoundon\pages 98 itol029

Annual Report 2022124


cae

:

. b: 0; Zl

Delegation of responsibilities _.
by the board of directors

Ultimate authority for all aspects of the
Group's activities rests with the board,
‘The board has determined a clear
division of responsibilities between

the Group Chair and the Group Chief
Executive as set out in the Governance
‘Manual which is available on the
Group's website,

The board is responsible for setting
strategies and policies for the whole
Group's activities, including, the
approval of business and financial
plans as well as the approval of the
Group's strategy dimed at furthering
its purpose and culture, The board
remains satisfied that its policies,
practices, and behaviour throughout
the business are aligned with providing
a single and unifying purpose and
vision for the Group, and a clarity to

its aspiration — to be and be known
as the UK's leading Social Enterprise,
changing lives by creating, managing
and supporting thriving Communities,

‘The board achieves this through a
combination of an established set-

‘of matters that are reserved to the
Group board, intra-Group agreements,
schedules of delegated authority,
‘powers of attorney, the appointment of
‘board members to subsidiary boards
‘and the application of Group-wide
policy standards on key issues.

‘Where matters are not reserved

to the Group board; the scheme

of delegation operates So that
management has all necessary
authority to run the Group's business.

reezor vodoy envy 2

8

D -Aroval Report 2023/26

Non-Executive
Board Members

Richard Gregory OBE (Chair)

Richard has held the roles of chat, senior independent director and non-executive
director across a range of private and public sectors.-Currently Richard is also
Chair ofthe specialist lender Together Personal Finance Lid. Former roles
inelude Senior Advisor to Virgin Money PLC, Senior Independent Director and Risk
Committee Chair of the Clydesdale and Yorkshire Banking Group (CYBG PLC) and
Chair of the Yorkshire Bank Pension Trust.

\
Inthe NHS, two foundation trust chairmanships, a board member of the
Foundation Trust Network, member of GovernWell and the NHS Leadership
‘Academy advisory board. In regional development, Deputy Chair ofthe regional
development agency Yorkshire Forward, Chair of the Science and Industry Council,
Yorkshire innovation, and Chair of Science City York. He is a former board member
of Business in the Community and its Yorkshire Chair, former Chair of Sheffield
Hallam University and non-executive director of Sheffield University Enterprises
Ltd. His executive career was in television broadcasting first with Granada TV in
Manchester and then Yorkshire Television where he retired 2s Managing Director
Broadcasting before becoming Chair of the digital media company Imagesound
PLC. Other former memberships include the North West Business Leadership
‘Team, the Yorkshire and Humber Council of the CBI, the Team Humber Marine
Alliance advisory board and the Innovation advisory board of Sheffield

Hallam University.

Richard joined the board of Places for People Group on 1 November 2020.

Graham Waddell (Senior Independent Director) |

Graham's executive career was with Nationwide Building Society, during which he.
held @ number of senior executive positions: He was also the Managing Director
of a Nationwide subsidiary company, which was a large private landlord and
property-owning vehicle. He was Chair of Council of Mortgage Lenders in Scotland
and isa Fellow of the Chartefed Institute of Bankers.

Graham joined the board of Places for People Group on 1 September 2018 and
‘was appointed sehior independent director in 2019.

yziezor wodoy enuy >

Regina Finn

Regina is Chair of the Low Carbon Contracts Company and the Electricity
Seitlement Company, non-executive Director of Motor Fuel Group and Chair of
the Independent Scrutiny Panel for National Grid Distribution System Operator.
She is also a Director of Lucerna Partners, a consultancy specialising in public
policy, economic regulation and competition and consumer policy.

Regina has held 2 number of other board roles including Chair of Mutual Energy
Lid, non-executive director of Irish Water and non-executive Director of the
Channel Islands Competition and Regulatory Authority.

She was the first Chief Executive of Ofwat; the water regulator for England
and Wales, held the position of Commissioner for Energy Regulation in Ireland
and set up and ran a regulator for the energy post and telecommunications 9
sectors in Guernsey and set up Ireland's frst economic regulator for the
telecornmunications sector.

Regina joined the board of Places for People Group in October 2019.

Graham Kitchen

Most recently, Graham was Global Head of Equities at Janus Henderson
tavestors. Prior to joining Januss Henderson in 2005 as Head of UK Equities,
Graham was with Threadneedle Investments, and he spent 13 years at INVESCO
‘Aéset Management as a UK Fund Manager and Co-Head of Investment.

Graham is Chair of AVI Global Trust and is a non-executive Director at The
Mercantile Investment Trust ple. He was previously Chair of Invesco Select
Trust ple. Graham also acts as mentor for The Prince's Trust and The Social
Mobility Foundation.

Graham joined the board of Places for People Group in October 2017.


100

AnnualReport 2029/26

Non-Executive
Board Members

Michael Dunn

Michael is currently a Non-Executive Director, Audit Chair and Senior Independent
Director of Storm Housing Group and Interim Chair of London & Continental
Railways Limited (LCR Properties) which works between the public and private
sectors to develop housing projects with transport elements. He is also Non-
Executive Director: Auait and Risk for the Crown Prosecution Service. Hehas
previously served as non-executive and Chair of Audit and Risk on the board of the
G15 Housing Association Metropolitan Thames Valley and as Non-Executive Chair
‘of Metworks. He was a member of the advisory panel for the public bodies review
‘of Homes England.

AChartered Accountant with senior finance experience in property, construction,
treasury, regulated businesses and investor relations, he was formerly Chief
Financial Oficer ofthe regeneration specialist St Modwen Properties ple and of the
support service provider May Gurney Integrated Services ple.

Michael joined the board of Places for People Group in January 2022,

Vicky Bonner
Vicky has nearly 30 years’ experience within the social housing sector where for
‘many years she held senior positions. She is particulary interested in how to

drive improvements in resident satisfaction. Vicky began her career in housing by
‘studying for an MSc in Housing and Social Policy at the LSE. Vicky is Chair of Origin
Housing Limited having joined its board in October 2019, Shei a director and
seeretary for Danisa Ltd.

Vicky joined the board of Places for People Group in April 2024,

Angela Daniel

‘Angela currently works for a global insurance company and heads up the firm's
Finarice team within the Europe Asset Management division. Prior to joining, she
worked as the-EMEA Controller for Custody & Securities Lending (WSS) in JP
Morgan Chase and before that worked as a Client Financial Management Specialist

__ (il & Gas sector) in Accenture. Angela trained as an Accountant within a small to

medium-sized practice and is a Fellow Member of the Association of Chartered
Certified Accountants (FCCA). She received a B.A. (Hons) degree in Accounting
‘and Management from Cardiff Business School and holds a Master’s degree from
Pembroke College, Oxford, She also currently holds severat non-executive roles
within the social impact sector, including as a non-executive director and Chair of
the Audit Committee at Barnet, Enfield and Haringey Mental Health Trust.

‘Angela joined the board of Places for People Group in October 2019.

Richard Cartwright
Richard is presently Principal Enterprise Fellow at Southampton Business School,

‘a Governor at Motability and former non-executive director at Central North

West London NHS,Foundation Trust, Having trained as an auditor with KPMG, he
continues in that field as an Independent External member of the Audit, Risk &
Assurance Committee of the National Audit Office. Additionally, he is a co-optee to
the Audit & Risk Committee at Abri.

Richard, who sustained a high-level spinal cord injury in 2004, is passionate about
‘making places truly inclusive and accessible for al.

Richard joined the board of Places for People Group in November 2021,


102

Annual Report 2022/24

Executive
Board Members

Greg Reed

Greg is a purpose-driven senior executive, expert at setting strategic direction
and proven at delivering strong, sustained commercial, Customer and People
outcomes. Before Places for People, Greg was UK CEO HomeServe Pe, and this
followed a 20-plus year career in international banking with senior leadership
roles at Bank of America and RBS Group.

Greg is passionate about helping to solve the UK's housing crisis and prior

to taking on his role at Places for People, was a non-executive director with
Clarion Housing Group, the UK's largest housing association, and also chaired its
charitable foundation, Clarion Futures.

‘Anative of Smyrna, Delaware, Greg graduated from Pennsylvania State University
with a Batchelor of Science in Finance and then received a Juris Doctor from
Delaware Law School. Greg lives in Edinburgh, UK with wife Melissa and t!
three children,

Andy Winstanley

Andy is Chief Financial Officer having joined Places for People Group in 2010
‘and acting as the Group's Financial Controller until 2017. Andy qualified as an
‘Accountant at Ernst and Young where he spent nine years in its North-West
assurance practce:~ :

Scott Black

Scott Black, Chief Operating Officer is a chartered architect with over 25 years’
‘experience in the development industry ard with a passion for design and the
creation of sustainable new Communities. He has performed several roles in

his career leading up to joining Places for People in 2020 including as Managing
Director of Crest Nicholson Regeneration, with responsibilty for delivering some
of the UK's most iconic major projects and regeneration schemes with an annual
turnover of £300m a year.

[At Places for People Scott leads our Affordable Homes and Developments
and Regeneration divisions and the Places Leisure and Thriving Investment
businesses. Scott also leads on the Homes England strategic partnership, which
will see around 7,000 homes delivered by March 2029.

Corporate
Governance

The Group's governance arrangements
are described in the following pages.
‘The Group is required to adhere to
standards imposed by its Regulators
and also endeavours to comply with
the principtes and provisions of the

UK Corporate Governarice Code (2018
version) to the extent that it can and.
where it cant, suitable explanations are
contained within this report,

-AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
‘Areview of the activity of the Audit &
Risk Committee is summarised below
‘and demonstrates the Committee's
fulfilment ofits obligations as set

by the Group board. The Committee
carvies out its duties as detailed below
for the parert company, the majority of
its major subsidiary undertakings and
the Group as a whole,

‘The members of the Audit & Risk
Committee from 1 April 2023 to 31
March 2024 were:

+ MDunn (Chair)
+ ADaniel 7
+ RFinn

+ GWaddell

+ GKitchen

‘Supported by members of
management,

REMIT
The executive directors are
responsible for maintaining and

reviewing the Group's system of
internal control. The Audit & Risk
Committee is responsible for
discharging governance responsibilities
inrespect of audit, risk and internal
control and reports tothe board, as
appropriate. It oversees, reviews and
monitors the Group's application of
accounting policies and standards,

the appointment and remuneration of
the external auditors, the resources
and work programme of Business
Assurance (the intemal auditors), the
risk management framework and the
adequacy of internal control.

The Committee receives and reviews
reports from Business Assurance
‘on a regular basis. The programme
of reports reviewed in the year is
informed by, and aligned with,
business planning and ensures that
the Committee covers all material
areas of risk on a regular basis. The
external auditors submit regular
reports to the Committee and as
and when appropriate.

In 2023/24 the Committee considered
themes of business delivery during
change, Customer experience and
the importance of maintaining high
standards in core business processes.

> The Committee also reviews regular

presentations from management on
the operation of contrals throughout
the business. It takes initiatives to.
satisly itself that risk avoidance
‘measures are fully embedded within
the Group structure and to determine
the effectiveness of management
accounts. During the year a revised
risk management approach under the
newly appointed Chief Risk Officer was
embedded. This included revising the
approach to managing and reporting
tn risk, and appointing Directors of
Risk and IT Security, both of whom
presented to the Committee. Risks to
our Customers, such as damp & mould
are also covered as part of the risk
management framework reports.

103


108

Annual Report 7023/26

‘The Audit & Risk Committee has operated in accordance with its plan of work throughout the year as summarised below:

Ipiscussionenelddecisionetaken i

Risk management

‘Quarterly reports from the Chief Risk Officer, including reporting from the Strategic Risk
Management Group and the strategic risk map, Te ‘three lines of defence’ approach to risk
management was maintained.

Risk management and risk appetite statement, August 2023

Proposed stress testing assumptions for the 2024/25 business plan, November 2023,

Reporting on cyber and information security risk May and November 2023, :

Business Assurance
Services (BAS)
(internal audits)

Cuariery BAS repors delivered throughout 2023726 together with summary of any oustanding
aut action,

Group Assurance Map May 2023 .
BAS nl report delivered for 2022/2 May 2023

Approval of BAS ait plan for 2024/28 February 2026

Approve ofintema audit charter February 202%

‘Annual self-assessment against Chartered Insitute of Internal Auditor (CIIA) standards
February 2024

The Commitee emphasised the need to continue with business delivery during periods of change
‘and maintaining high standards in key business processes.

‘The Committee meets separately with representatives of Business Assurance on atleast one
F without any members of management being present.

[Topicr ares cL locus [Discussions nelijdecisinnetakeny

External audit

‘Audit plan and strategy February 2024

Review of effectiveness of external auit process 2022/23 February 2024

Year end assurance process considered and agreed May, August and November 2023
Review of non-audit foes pad to the auditor in 2023/24 May 2026

‘The Committee meets separately with the external auditors on at least one occasion in each
year without any members of management being present.

Annual/bi-annual
reviews

Project Synergy

Governance

\Whistleblowing Policy reviewed — the Committee received the annual report reviewing the terms
_and usage of the policy t provided for proportionate and independent investigation and for the
protection of any whistle-blower against subsequent untair treatment, The Committee considered
the arrangements were proportionate and appropriate May 2023

‘Anti-Money laundering - the Committee received is annual report to review compliance with
‘regulations. The annual report provided information to the Committee on the ways in which the
Group's obligations under Money Laundering Regulations had been assessed, understood and
‘addressed, The report also drew tothe attention of the Comittee the measures in place to sustain
continued compliance and to identify any failures of compliance May 2023,

Insurance - the Committee received its annual report on insurance designed to describe what the
Group insured, with whom, how, cost trends and service levels November 2023

Reports on health & salety and safeguarding were received at alternate meetings. Additionally
the Committee received reporting on fie safety in person at alternate meetings, and on paper at
‘alternate meetings.

‘The Committe approved the Tox Strategy, Senior Accounting Oficer Policy and Corporate Criminal
Office Policy February 2024

Committee considered quarterly updates regarding the implementation and costs of the project.

The Committee reviewed its terms of reference and considered its effectiveness August 2023 and
February 2026

vereeot vodeuyenuuy I

 Annuat Report 2023/24

EXTERNAL AUDITORS
‘The appointment ofthe Group's
auditors is @ matter reserved to the
Group board. The decision is reached
with the benefit of a recommendation
from the Audit & Risk Committee
working alongside the Chief
Financial Officer.

Following recommendations made by
the Audit & Risk Committee, the Group
board approved the re-appointment

‘of MHA as Group auditors for the year
ending 31 March 2024,

At the close of each financial year, the
Committee receives a report on the
external audit process and reports to
the Group board its findings regarding
the independence and effectiveness of
the external audit process. The findings
‘were that the process was effective
despite a challenging backdrop of it
‘being a frst year audit and having
secured and engaged MHA late in the
previous financial year. In February
2024, the Committee received the
external aucit plan in respect of the
2023/24 financial year.

NON-AUDIT FEES

‘The Group has instructed MHA to
camry out £67,755 (2023: nil) of non
audit work in the year ended 31 March
2024 where advantages of efficiency.
cost or expertise were identified.
Non-audit services were provided by
separate teams independent of the
‘external audit engagement team,
This related to review work in respect
of the audit of the Homes England
Strategic Partnership grant, EU grant
audits, loan covenant reporting, bond
compliance confirmations and
turnover certificates.

ISSUES CONSIDERED BY
THE AUDIT &
RISK COMMITTEE

Matters of
and risk to the Group financial
statements were presented to and
agreed by the Committee. A number

of detailed reports were presented to
the Committee and discussions were
held to ensure members had sufficient
understanding of the issues and their
potential impact on the presentation of
the financial statements. Discussions.
were also held with the external auditor
‘to ensure that resolutions of these
areas were in tine with accounting and
Buditing standards,

Valuation of investment properties
The vatuation of the Group's
investment properties is inherently
subjective as itis undertaken on the
basis ofa range of assumptions that
‘may not prove to be accurate, The
Group undertook an external valuation
of the properties during the current
year. The Committee analysed the
approach, reviewed the outcomes; and
challenged the assumptions where
itwas believed appropriate to do so.
The Committee was salisfied with the
valuation process; the effectiveness of
the internal valuers, and the results of
their work. :

Recoverability of stock
The Committee has reviewed

the judgements in relation to the

recoverability ofthe stock held

by the Group at 31 March 2024.

The Committee received a paper

prepared by management outlining

the approach and assumptions taken

by management to assess the net

realisable value of the Group's stock

and work in progress, The paper

reviewed the details of sites with

significant areas of judgernent and the
sensitivity to achenge in sales prices

for al of the Group's development

sites. The Committee was satisfied by

the review undertaken

by management. f 7

Pension scheme valuations
The Committee receives details of the
pension scheme valuations carried *
‘out at each reporting date from the
actuaries who advise the Group. The
Committee has reviewed the underlying
assumptions together with the external
auditors’ report benchmarking pension
actuarial assumptions. After reviewing
the presentations and reports from
‘management and consulting where
necessary with the auditors, the
Committee is salisfied that the financiat
statements appropriately address.

the significant judgements and key
estimates (both in respect of the
amounts reported and disclosures).
The Committee is also satisfied that
the significant assumptions used for
determining the value of assets and
liabilities have been appropriately
scrutinised, challenged and are
sufficiently robust.

2023 to 31 March 2024 wer

Treasury & Investment
Committee

A review of the activity of the Remit

Treasury & Investment Committee The Treasury & Investment

is reported below and demonstrates
the Committee's fulfilment of its
obligations as set by the Group board.
‘The Committee carries out its duties as,
detailed below for the parent company,
‘major subsidiary undertakings and the
Group as awhole.

‘The members of the Treasury &
Investment Committee from 1 April

+ G Waddell (Chair)
+ GKitchen

+ RCartwright

+ RGregory:

supported by management

Committee scrutinises on behalf

‘of the Group board the strategic
‘management of the Group's financial
assets and liabilities and its liquidity
position. The Group board has
delegated to the Committee authority
10 approve treasury transactions on
behalf of the Group parent, including
but not limited to, the terms of new
‘or extended borrowing facilities. It
has also charged the Comittee
with ensuring coordination of the
approach to treasury matters in all
parts of the Group.

The Group maintains a clear
distinction between its social housing
regulated businesses (being its
registered providers of social housing
in England and Wales or registered
social fandlord in Scotland) and

its non-social housing regulated
businesses (being its commercially-
driven entities). Places for People
Treasury plc raises finance only

for the social housing regulated
businesses and those businesses
have delegated their authority

to its board to approve treasury
transactions on their behalf. Places
for People Finance ple raises finance
‘only for the non-social housing
regulated businesses and those
businesses have delegated their
authority to its board to approve
‘treasury transactions on their behalf.

verezoz woday yenusy >

Overall treasury strategy and
‘coordination rests with the
Committee and decision-
making in relation to specific
treasury transactions rests with
the Committee for the Group
parent and with either Places for
People Treasury ple or Places for
People Finance plc for the

Group subsidiaries.”

Folfowing the expansion of its remit
in the previous year, the Committee
developed its role in scrutinising the
‘performance of the Group's assets
‘and investments, capital invéstment
planning and the delivery of ESG
KPIs and also helped to develop the
Group's overarching approach to
asset ownership.

107

The first ‘deep dive’ discussions
into topical issues were also held
during the year. This was one of the
recomméndations from the 2022/23
‘committee evaluation exercise and
reflected members’ appelite to
deepen their understanding of the
Group's Treasury strategy.

The Treasury Committee has
operated within the parameters of
its terms of reference throughout
the year as summarised on the
following pages:


ii
i"

108

DD Annvat Report 2023/24

AREAS OF FOCUS DURING 2023/24 ane
‘Amore detailed lock at the Committee's activity can be found in the table below:

ers Seagate Naan go Sn,

\ :
Remuneration &

Nominations Committee

‘A review of the activity of the
Remuneration & Nominations,
Committee is reported below and
demonstrates the Committee's
fulfilment ofits obligations as set

by the Group board. The Committee
carries out its duties as detailed ©
below for the parent company, major
subsidiary undertakings and the
Group as a whole, The members of
the Remuneration & Nominations.
Committee from 1 April 2023 to 31
March 2024 were:

+ RFinn (Chair)

+ ADaniel :
* RGregory

+ GWaddell

+ R Cartwright

REMIT

The Committee has a broad remit
encompassing remuneration,
nominations, the maintenance of the
Group's governance framework and
other aspects of Group governance,
ESG strategy and reviews on policy
relating to EOI. -

‘The Committee sets the reward and
remuneration policy for the Group and
reviews its effectiveness with regard
toll Colleagues including executive
remuneration and recommendations
‘of non-executive fee levels, Executive
remuneratioi is closely'aligned to the
Group's purpose and objectives and
linked to the successful delivery of the
Group's Because Community Matters
strategy. The overarching remuneration
policy isto set salary, benefits and a
framework for performance-related
pay which is competitive for each of
the relévant talent pools. The Group's
> businesses operate in a range of

sectors and locations and the policy
is also intended to reflect that variety.
The Committee confirmed that only
basic salary is pensionable and pension
contribution rates for executive -
directors, or payments in lieu, are
aligned with those-available to the
workforce. The piension consequences

-, and associated costs of basic salary

increases and any other changes +
in pensionablé remuneration, or
contribution rates, particularly for
directors close to retirement, are
carefully considered by the Committee.
The Committee also assured itself that
rio contract with an executive director
required a period of notice in excess

of 12 months. Détails of directors’
emoluments are set out in note 5 to the
financial statements.

Significant time was dedicated to the
‘oversight of the Group's ambition to
deliver fair pay for all. The Fair Pay
project facilitated wider engagement
with Colleagues on the topics of job
evaluation and succession plarining,
and the link to the delivery of the
Group's Because Community Matters

* strategy. Members réceived regular

updates and briefings on progress
and initiatives across the programme
providing a source of support and a
‘check and balance’ for management.
The regularity of these discussions is
evident in the table below. This topicis
‘covered in more detail on page 110,

Performance related pay was
introduced for the Senior Leadership
team (in addition to the Executive)
during the year as part of the Group's

strategy to develop a high-performance

culture - recognising and rewarding
high perforrnance in a fair and
equitable way, and driving behaviours
consistent with the Groups purpose,
values and strategy.

The bonus schemes within the Group
continue to operate on a balanced
scorecard basis and are linked to
overall Group performance.

Fee levels for non-executives are

set to attract Candidates with the
skills and experience to add value

to the board. They reflect time spent
‘on Group activity and do not include
pertormance-related elements.
Non-executive directors rernain subject
to reappointment at intervals of no
‘more thah four years and are expected
‘0 serve for to more than nine years
in total. The Committee monitors
training and development needs of all
board members and reviews these at
least annually.

The Committee is responsible for
reviewing the structure, size and
‘composition of the Group board
including its leadership needs and
arrangements for succession.
Members annually consider the
organisation’ ‘talent map! and
succession planning approach for the
Executive and Senior Leadership Team.
Recommendations for appointments.
to the Group's Execistive team are
‘considered and approved by the
Committee in ight ofthe frequent
succession planning conversations.
This approach and process is
underpinned by the overarching
ambition to develop a diverse pipeline;
whichis referenced below in relation
to the Group's refreshed Equiliy,
Diversity and Inclusion Policy. AS
‘outlined in the Group's published
Gender Gap Report for 2023, the Group
has set itself an aspirational target to
“achieve gender balance at leadership
level by 2028 - with the current fernale
representation at 27% (see page.67)
in the senior leadership team.

y2rezoz wotoy jenuuy. >

109


10

Annual Report 2023726

AREAS OF FOCUS DURING 2023/26
‘A more detailed took at the Committee's activity can be found in the table below:

Composition,
succession and
evaluation
(Nominations)

Non-Executive Director recruitment to Thriving Investments Limited (formerly PIP Capital),
‘August 2023

Four new non-executive director were welcomed ta the board of Thriving Investments Limited and
the Committee supported and endorsed the appointments.

Group board Skills Matrix & Review of Non-Executive Direclor Terms of Office, November 2023
All Group board members re-cerifed their skills and experience to update the Group board Skis
Matrix and using this information the Committee considered the existing skis base ofthe Group
board and the forecasted changes in skills composition overtime. Itwas concluded that with
support from the Executive, the Committee was on track with succession planning and it was
agreed thatthe subject would be reviewed annually.

Board member appraisals methodology, November 2023
‘The Committee reviewed and approved the approach to Group board appraisals which included 360
feedback provided by other board members and members of senior management. Appraisals were
‘conducted through March and April 2024,

Review of Executive Succession & Talent Mapping, January 2024
Committee members discussed the organisation's approach to succession planning, via a
comprehensive talent mapping exercise undertaken by management, covering the Group's
Executive Tearn minus one level. The Committee noted that by utilising the rich eversity within the
Group's wider employee population, and the succession planning process and hiring from within the
‘organisation, the diversity ofthe senior leadership population would be improved.

"Appointment of Non-executives to Castle Rock Edinvar Housing Association Limited,

January 2024
‘The Committee approved the recornmendation for two further appointments to the board to replace
‘an outgoing member. .

Remuneration

Fair Pay project updates including an update on the employee value proposition, May
2023-January 2026

‘The Commitee received regular updates in relation tothe Feic Pay project and efforts to harmonise
terms and conditions of employment and level up benefits across ihe organisation, The Far pay
broject isa key component ofthe evolving employee value proposition - the balance of rewards and
benefits that are received by employees in return for their performance inthe workplace and our
‘rive for worid class colleague engagement.

Non-Executive Director Remuneration, August 2023
Members discussed a paper on comparative non-executive director fee data. It was agreed that
‘no change be made to non-executive director remuneration levels but thatthe topic would be kept
under review.

Approval of 2022/23 bonus payments, May 2023
‘The bonus schemes within the Group continued to operate on a balanced scorecard basis for
2022/23, with all scorecards linking back to the overall Group performance.

‘Approval of 2023/24 Executive objectives, all 2023/24 bonus schemes & scorecards, and
2023/24 incentive schemes, May-July 2023

‘The Committee spent significant time in the year considering remuneration arrangements forts
Executive team in addition taal Colleagues. In doing so it had regard to the expectations of the UX
Corporate Governance Code for clarity, simplicity risk mitigation, predictability, proportionality and
alignment to culture in reward arrangements.

Toptcs/area of focus
Remuneration

Discussions hetd/de

In support ofthe CEO's recommendations, the Committee determined the total available bonus pot
and approved its distribution to members ofthe Executive Team and wider Senior Leadership Tear
inline with individual performance and their annual appraisals for the 2022/23 financial year.

Having considered the 2022/23 outturn and discussed the Graup's performance in a challenging year
for the sector it approved forthe first time, a Group-wide bonus for colleagues.

‘Committe time was spent on reviewing and agreeing the 2023/2 performance objectives in
respect ofthe CEO and the Executive Team, and the move toa performance related pay approach for
the Group CEO, Executive Team and the wider Senior Leadership Team,

(On bonus schemes and payments for the next financial year, the Committee approved the scorecard
design which furthered the previous year's focus on Group integration and alignment with Executive
and senior manager bonus potential tothe Group's overarching strategy and performance.

Pay Review 2024 & proposal, November 2023-January 2024
A differentiated pay review was implemented inthe previous year to provide higher pay awards for
the lowest paid Colleagues. This was designed to support lower paid Colleagues who were being
disproportionately aflected by the cost-of-living criss.

‘The cost-ofliving crisis continued to challenge Colleagues in 2023/24 and in order to continue to
provide the greatest support to our lowest paid Colleagues and build upon our 2023 approach, the
Committee considered and approved a diflerentiated pay award for 2024,

Half yearly check on Executive performance and bonus scorecard update, Novernber 2023,
‘The Committee was provided with an update on Executive performance atthe hal year point.

Performance Related pay update, January 2024
Members were briefed on how the risks and costs associated with performance related pay are
‘managed across the Group, and the checks and balances being used to manage these.

Update on Customer effortless measures in the Group and local bonus scorecards,
January 2026

‘The Committee was briefed onthe strategy, rationale, and progress withthe Customer
Effort Score measurement, and how this Group performance measure is linked tothe bonus
scorecards, Signifcant progress was reported on the development and the messurement of
external Customer effort.

Gender Pay Gap Report, January 2026
‘The 2023 gender pay gap report was presented and approved for publication. The Committee
discussed and held management to account on the proposed actions to narrow the gender pay gap.»

CEO Pay Ratio reporting and proposed annual disclosure, May 2024
‘The Committee reviewed and approved the draft report for publication which can be reviewed on
page 116 of the report, 7

verean2 usdey enuy

am


SH Annual Report 2023/26

Governance

ss Review, May 2023 ~ January 2024
Inddition tothe review of the equality, diversity and inclusion policy, the Committee reviewed other
‘key Group policies as part ofits cyclical review prograrame. Topics covered included onboarding
and exit policies, flexible working, and conduct and capability management. It was agreed that the
review of policies would be undertaken on an annual and consolidated basis going forward.

£F¥2022/23 Board and Committee effectiveness, August 2023
‘discussion was held regarding the results of the internally conducted Group board evaluation and
Committee evaluation results. Group board members were invited to compete a sel/-assessment
in their capacities as Group board members and in their Committee roles. The questions posed
covered a wide variety of topics inluding size and composiion, conduct, and cormmuricaton

‘and reporting to holistically assess the efecveness ofthe Group board and its committees and
highlight areas for future consideration and improvement, Following consideration ofthe results,
the Committee was content to recommend tothe Group board thal, nits opinion, the board and its
‘committees had oporated effectively in the previous financial yea. Several recommendations for
further improvernents were identied — in particular, the results highighted an appetite 10 improve
the composition ofthe board by adding greater social housing experience. This recommendation
has largely been addressed by the appointment of Vicky Bonner tothe Group board in April 2026, as
discussed on page 122.

£Y2023/24 Board and Committee effectiveness, May 2026 :
The Cornmitee received the results ofthe 2023/24 internal evaluation exercise —conductedinthe
same manner asthe previous fnoncial year. The Committee was content to recommend to the
Group board that inits opinion, the board and is committees had operated effectively in 2023/24
‘and during the course ofthe ensuing year would be considering further suggestions made for
improvements drawn fro the resulls.

Group board training, August 2023,
Using feedback from the committee evaluation and board member appraisals, the Committee
discussed the training needs and requests of the Group board and took action accordingly.

National Customer Engagement (NCG) Framework, August 2023
Committee members discussed their rte in ensuring that the governance in pace forthe NCG is
satisfactory and that it facilitates the discussions and action needed to develop it a a tue critical
friend ofthe board, Members were updated on the action taken and the future plans to further refine
{he governance arrangements in place. The NCG constitution and framework was relreshed. This
helped strengthen the two-way outcome orientated communication ané engagement between
Customers, Group board, Executive and frontine Colleagues to reflect the Tenant Satisfaction
‘Measure (TSM) focus on Customer involvement and engagement in he services provided.

The lacorting Chai was also invited toa future meeting for face-to-face engagement. Further
‘commentary on the NCG can be found on pages 23, 76.

Great Place to Work survey, November 2023 & January 2024
‘key tool for monitoring organisational culture and empoyee salistaction, the Committee
Lndertoak its annual consideration of the survey results and recommendalions. The Commitee
‘was pleased to see afurther improvement in the participation rate which exceeded 994, and an
engagement score af 75%. Further information canbe found on page 33,

Topics/area offocus | Disc

Governance Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Strategy and review of Equality, OWversty and tnelusion Policy,
November 2023,
‘The Group's newly created Equality, Diversity and inclusion (EON strategy to create place for
everyone’, and the revised Group EDI policy were presented and approved, An update was provided
‘onthe progress made in the last 12 months to improve awareness, including the establishment
‘of external partnerships and of colleague Inclusion & Belonging network groups. The Committee
‘committed to monitoring the implementation ofthe strategy and to review the EDI policy annually
alongside other Group policies,

‘Annual update on corporate governance reporting practice and changes to regulatory
standards, November 2023

‘Anupdale was provided on the proposed changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code and on the
Impact ofthe Social Housing (Regulation) Act 2023.

Joint venture governance oversight, August 2023 & January 2026
‘Members discussed and oversaw improvements developed to manage governance arrangements,
‘within the Group's joint venture entities, and how these arrangements interact with the Group's

broader governance framework,

Environment, Social The Committee received quarterty progress updates on the development of the Group's ESG

& Governance strategy and on the preparations to ready the arganisation for changing regulation and investor
requirements, More detail on this activity can be found on pages 48-69 of this report, and the
Group's ESG report cenbe viewed here.

Committee The Committe fulfilled its requirement to review its terms of reference and to review and agree its

Governance plan of work forthe next year.

yerezoz vodeyjenvuy Dp

13


™

Annual Report 2023/24

Chief Executive
Officer Pay Ratio

Chief Executive Officer (CEO? Pay
Ratios are considered by the Group's
Remuneration & Nominations
Committee ("the Committee’). The
Committee notes that the Group is
under no obligation to report on its
CEO Pay Ratios. However, it believes
that pay transparency and governance
is an important principle and therefore
wishes to go ‘above and beyond! the
basic disclosure requirements for

the Group. This is consistent with the
Group's approach to matters of broader
corporate governance.

The table below compares the 2023/24
{otal pay and benefits for the Group's
CEO with that of the Group employees
\whio are paid at the 25th percentile
(lower quartile), 50th percentile
(median) and 75th percentile (upper
quartile) ofits UK employee population.

Year Ending March 2026
Method ‘Option B
25th Percentile ed

Soth Percentile 161

‘7th Percentile 138

‘The remuneration figures for the
‘employee at each quartile were
determined with reference to the
financial year ended 31 March 2024.

Option B was used to calculate these
figures. The Committee believes

that this approach provides a fair
representation of the Group CEO to
employee pay ratios and is appropriate
in comparison to alternative methods,
balancing the need for statistical _~
accuracy with internal operational
constraints and complexities. Under
this option, the latest available gender
pay gap di that from April 2023)
was used to identify the best equivalent
for three Group UK employees whose
hourly rates of pay are atthe 25th, SOth
and 75th percentiles for the Group.
This was also sense checked against

‘a sample of employees with hourly

pay rates either side ofthe identified
individuals to ensure thatthe identified
employees reflect the best equivalents
for each quartile. A full-time equivalent
total pay and benefits figure for the
2023/24 financial year was then
calculated for each of those employees.
The pay ratios outlined above were
then calculated as the ratio of the
aggregated Group CEO's total payand
benefits to each of these employees.

Each employee's total pay and benefits
‘were catculated using the single figure
methodology applicable tolisted
‘companies, except for bonuses where
the amount paid during the year was
used instead of that earned during the
year. Periods where employees were
‘on leave at less than 100% of their
normal pay were excluded from the
calculations, Small adjustments were
‘made to the total pay and benefits
figures to allow for the up-rating of pay
elements where appropriate to achieve
full-time and full-year equivalent
values. No components of pay have
been omitted.

This year no special consideration

was needed in respect of Colleagues
being placed on paid furlough, but
consideration was given for other
periods of leave where pay was

reduced. The way ‘pay of employees on
leave’ is treated for the purposes of the
CEO pay ratio calculations is primarily
‘a matter for individual companies
permitted by the he Companies
(Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations
2018. This approach is consistent with
that taken last year.

The table below sets out the salary and total pay and

benefits for the three identified quartil

le point employees:

‘ihitercenitte

The individual atthe 50th Percentile is
‘an Assistant Accountant that works

in the Group. The Group is 2 large and
diverse organisation, the vast majority
of headcount sits within the Leisure
Management and Affordable Housing
sector businesses.

‘The Committee considers that the
‘median CEO pay ratio is consistent with
the relative roles and responsibilities

of both the CEO and the identified
employee. Large parts of the Group's
operations are in sectors where
remuneration primarily consists

of amarket competitive salary, a
pension contribution and a selection of
voluntary benefits. Broader elements of
remuneration, in the form of bonuses/
incentives, allowances and other.

CEO PAY RATIO PERCENTILES

benefits are less typical acrosé the
‘majority of the Group's Colleagues,
with the highest bonuses payable to
Management and Senior Management
roles. The Group is committed to
offering its employees a competitive
remuneration package. Remuneration
{or employees, including executive
rectors, is determined with reference
to range of factors including (but

‘not limited to) job banding, market
practice and sector. Due to the

nature oftheir roles, the Group CEO's
remuneration package has higher
‘weighting on performance-reléted
pay compared to the majority of the
workforce. This means the pay ratios
are likely to uctuate depending on
the determination ofthe Group CEO's
‘bonus in each year.

©
Salary Hepmtig oe on? bias
Totat Pay and Benefits = £24,342 £33,600) Sea 00

‘The Committee also recognises that,
due to the nature ofthe Group's
business and the flexibility permitted

._ within the regulations for identifying

and calculating the total pay and
benefits for employees, the ratios.
reported above may not be comparable
to those reported by other companies.

Previous years’ CEO Pay Ratios are
shown below. The reasons for the
change in the ratios from the year
ending March 2023 to March 2024
include: a change in the value of
and benefits for the
employees identified at the relevant

“percentiles and a change in the CEO

‘total remuneration package.

rs rereniin —-
© s0nPerenia
@ 281 Perentia

rerezoz wedoy yenusy >


16

D- Anoval Report 2023726

Development
Committee.

‘A review ofthe activity ofthe
Development Committee is
summarised below and demonstrates
the Committee's fulfilment ofits
obligations as set by the Group board.
‘The Committee carries out its duties as
detailed below for the parent company,
the majority ofits major subsidiary
undertakings and the Group as
awhole.

‘The members of the Development
Committee from 1 April 2023 to 31
March 2024 were:

+ Gkitchen (Chair)

+ ADantel

+ MDunn
eel

supported by.members of
management,

REMIT

The Development Committee monitors
the delivery of projects, approves new
projects and amendments to existing
projects within certain delegated limits
and scrutinises and helps management
refine and recommend to the Group
board proposals for new projects falling
‘outside thase limits. Management
keeps the Committee informed through
scheduled Committee meetings of
‘emerging opportunities that merit
detailed examination,

‘The Commit

2 acts as the sounding

+ board and critical friend that support

and challenges by bringing an
informed, external perspective. If
‘management presents any opportunity
that requires Group board approval,

the Committee will review it and

seek to become satisfied with any
‘ensuing proposal so that itcan be
presented to the Group board as having
the Committee's endorsement. The ”
Development Committee has operated
within the parameters of ts terms of
reference throughout the year.

Pensions
Working Party

The Pensions Working Party caries
outits duties as detailed below for
the parent company and the Group
as awhole.

The members of the Pensions
Working Party during the financial
year were:

+ RGregory
+ GWaddell
+ GKitchen
+ MDunn i :

supported by members of
management

REMIT 5
The Pensions Working Party, which

is a formally constituted committee

of the Group board, addresses.
material pensions projects and makes
recommendations to the Group board
‘on appropriate courses of action.
‘Most of the defined benefit pension
cost and risk across the Group rests
with subsidiaries involved in social
and affordable housing provision. The
Group board has further established
the Pensions Management Party, the
members of which are drawn from the
senior management team. Itis tasked
with preparing proposals on pensions-
related matters and with pursuing
courses of action on pensions matters:
_in accordance with decisions taken

by the Group board or the Pensions
‘Working Party.

Ventures -
Board

Places for People Ventures Limited
is a direct subsidiary of the Group
parent. Itis a senior company within
the Group structure that is not involved
with affordable housing provision. The
company has a controlling interest in

a number of subsidiaries within the
Group's non-social housing

regulated businesses.

To ensure that the non-sotial
housing regulated businesses receive
similar levels of scrutiny to that of the
social housing regulated businesses,
the Ventures board comprises the
same membership as that of thé
Group board.

Itmonitors operational and financial
performance on a consolidated basis
‘against the prevailing business plan.
Paying special regard to value creation/
preservation where ‘value’ may be
‘measured in several ways including
profitability leading to dividend,

capital growth, social impact and the
enhancement of the Group's wider
placemaking activity.

Board meetings provide board
members with the opportunity
toconstructively challenge the
individual operating companies

as to performance levels and also
provide an opportunity to monitor the
performance of any joint ventures or
investments made by the non-social
housing regulated businesses. The
Ventures board meetings are used in
conjunction with Group board
‘meetings to heer from the senior
‘management team.

Joint Board
Working Group

During the year the Group board
formed a Joint Board Working Group
with Origin Housing to oversee the
‘merger between the two organisations.

yeiezoz vodey jenuuy

w


Attendance at Board ; oe
and Committee meetings .

t : 7
Directors’ attendance at board and committee/working party meetings, in relation to the number of meetings held, during the
year that ended 31 March 2024 is set out in the following table: '

Feraha
Waddell ee

a 515 NA 7 OL
Baas NA NA Nh NA ENA is

Vieky Bonnér joined the board on 14 April 2024 so was ineligible to attend any of the above Group meetings,

i

Annual Report 2023726

1

~Board +
Evaluation ©

In line with the UK Corporate
Governance Code and as a measure
of its performance, the Group board
‘conducts an annual evaluation of
the effectiveness of the board, its

__ Committees and individual directors.
‘The Group board évaluation also
applies to the boards of Places for
People Homes Limited and Places for
People Living + Limited as they meet
at the same time and have identical
membership to the Group board.

Every three years an independent.
external evaluator conducts the
‘eflectiveness evaluation in accordance
‘with the UK Corporate Governance

Code; an external evaluation will

be conducted to assess the board's

effectiveness for 2024/25. This yeor the
Group board evaluation was conducted

iiternally using questionnaires
issued to board members to garner
their feedback on the effectiveness
of the board and the committees, ”
‘covering areas such as composition,
performance and responsibilty,
discussion and decision making.
‘The results were presented to the’
Group board and its committees in
May 2024 and an action plan will be
developed with the respective chairs
to address any areas of improvement.
Followingia recommendation from’
the Remuneration & Nominations...

Committee, the Group board concluded

that the board and its committees had
beeh effective during 2023/24,

In addition to the Group board
evaluation, the Group Chair has carried
‘out appraisal meetings with each board
‘member (and the Senior Independent
Director) and feedback has been sought
{rom senior management to assess
the effectiveness of each director,
identify any development needs, and
agree objectives for each director. Each
director was determined to have been
effective during 2023/24.

Code of
Governance —

2018 UK Corporate Governance Code

(the Code) :

‘The board considers that for the year
ended 31 March 2024, the principles of
good corporate governance contained

"inthe Code have been consistently

applied and the provisions ofthe Coite
have been applied in so far as they are
deemed appropriate, considering the
nature and qwnership structure of the
parent company, Where we have not
‘complied with a provision, the reasons
for non-compliance are explained on
the following pages.

The Group parent is a company limited
by guarantee and does rot issue shares
or have extérnal shareholders in the
sense contemplated by the Code. it
addresses the need for scrutiny and
evaluation through the board or an’
appropriate committee of the board
and itengages with investors directly

“through a mix of investor seminars/

roadshows. Management's interests
are alignéd with the company’s
interests through the performance-
related reward policy.

Further information on the Code can
be found on the Financial Reportir
Couneil’s website,

rzrez02 wodoy yeruwy

Ww


3D “Anniat Report 7023/26

pe

andl

of th vs of sharenede

ack a
riwich ihe Group has See res anencial
[eons ee oe

ee Te Chet rere Oe

a
poem aia seer eee)
ee rai eee nee formance)

akenold 23/24 he ne

ihe Vondon SiockExchanon

ange of governs
Beer anee See aa in 2023/26 nestor Serinar
iced in personiat iNovem’

| Fes condict

Be Sse thatdae|

(ola ocr lenders

| iaeeccne he definition of, workloree)ncludes individuals engaged under 40
Sis ieee ueeonae tan eimai omer Oso

The board cn
fellective andrermain it bre ‘ghd farsihese reasons: does notlinlend lo adopt

‘eel Re ethods suggested by ihe Code

er al exising mechanisms for workforce engagement are

Moepehicvares anette
Bunce doninteeinng cries vsaueralora ae

Continued enhancement remote engagement oplions, fox example Viva Engage,

Oeaersip posers FE cade across te organi
{Salter event whch ae thee erund ou People rome: hd ue
sevTNs eves provide Tl

Socal engogement= suchas Team fake (Paces Managemen) Criliant Pace (0
Bega > coneamstommainaracy eon fe
(Group finance; Hermes Plus‘and Places Leisure); local business area newsletter
iggatines\ Senior leaders n business areas cearman arteae ig
inmunilesacfoss Re organisajentovneel soe

|e) Monthly grop the mic = company wade live stream wilh our CEO end guest
Balter eee bcos Sees eS

(and long, ognilion

‘Weekly and

ensayo nec a Colts sity cnil) near)
Bossa echevedoseiocoreleen itd sid sAcieenentscre sl
lin lane dbvloped eaves based onthe tgedsack at ur Cl ee ne

i Regular updates on progress gains ie son plan are provided Coleague

rij ereee mento uses acceso on vin oyeoe

‘Ava lotal level ig Collecoue Sur ‘roups with Coleagues take place wi
dite er eatceemipennn ge imate \eedbock and de
Heart acisnplaneeD :
‘Career development <3 range’of oplions\or care pele eae jered’
ig Colegues based around ter: rial Gay Vee
Spprenieeshipeili oc eed mentofng! leadership development :
e

(W\Nonexecutive coe across the busness at vedio participate

in Group board deep-dive events whereithey,con hear’ deci remcale olleeaues around)
ih ee aor re Seeger deri ste iais'6
Commur pryectst 3} developments and leisure’ cones?

e|Group Executive encourage alendence by Colleagues at board and subsidiary
meetings witere nonce Remmi vga fs ta day eect fom Colleagues

[3bout the work they sre direclly involved in

‘verezoz wodoyyenuuy >


2D Anvvat Report 2023/24

or permit
annual Te

pe

nual reaction

ee re me i at
re

colony otha rt

noe released

ing
spore

eae intmentmeke very cle
ae sponte )

peecopany

iismemn

estate! cole fone SS ey
Era ie eeraere

Gey 135 to whethe

‘e-eppoiniment ol an indi

es
ibuid meet ihoee needs ani approval he bos

nsidered suitable for ihebrpcianerane,

mene receppoinimentahese mechanisms a

Subsidiary
boards

Places for People subsidiaries have
governance arrangements appropriate
to their size arid field of activity. These
(governanice arrangements feed into the
Group's overall governance structure,
Places for People Home's Limited,
Places for People Livingt Limited

+ and Castle Rock Edinvar Housing
Association Limited (trading as Places,
{or People Scotland) have all adopted
the UK Corporate Governance Code as:
its governing code. -”

Origin Housing Limited, South Devon
Rural Housing Association Lifnited
and Rosewood Housing Limited

have each adopted the 2020 National
Housing Federation (NHF) code of
‘governance which contains principles
that the Group considers to be broadly
consistent with those of the UK
Corporate Governance Code..

Origin Housing Limited, South Devon
Rural Housing Association Limited
and Rosewood Housing Limited have
their own boards Consisting of non-
‘executive and executive directors,
which also include one or more
members of Places for People Group's
Senior lead

. d

” Regulator

engagement

=

There is engagement throughout the
year with the relevant regulators of
the affordable housing providers: the
Regulator of Social Héusing (RoSH)
in England and the Scottish Housing.

Regulator (SHR). Mechanisms for ~~

engagement include quarterly and
annual data submissions, quarterly
‘management meetings with regulator
representatives, an anriual erigagement
‘meeting with the lead contact at RoSH,
‘engagement with non-executives.

‘and in the case of the SHR, annual
attendance at board meetings

of Castle Rock Edinvar Housing
‘Association Limited. Following its
‘annual risk assessment of social
landlords, the SHR confirmed that

it proposéd né changes to its level

of engagement with Castle Rock
Edinvar Housing Association Limited
‘or tots information requirements

‘of the association. The Group's «
‘current governance rating of G1 and,
financial viability rating of V2 remained
unchariged during the year.

Compliance with

. the Governance

and Financial
Viability Standard

‘The Group board has confirmed that an
assessment of the Group's compliance
with the Governance and Financial
Viability Standard, issued by the
Regulator of Social Housing, has been
completed and certifies that the Group
is compliant with the Standard.

dept volivenany


126

D Annual Report 2023/24

Directors’
Report :

DIRECTORS

‘A comprehensive list ofthe directors,
who served during the year and to the
date of signing are listed on page 186.

DISCLOSURES PROVIDED IN
THE STRATEGIC REPORT
Future developments which may
impact on the Group are described
throughout the Strategic Report. Our
approach to research and innovation

is referenced within the Principat

Risks and Uncertainties section of

the Strategic Report. Our approach
towards continued engagement with
‘our suppliers, Customers and other
stakeholders is summarised within our
Section 172(1) statement. Our position
on streamlined energy and carbon
reporting (SECR) is included on

pages 52-55 of this report.

STATEMENT OF
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ARRANGEMENTS:

‘The Group's corporate governance
arrangements are described on pages
119-122 of the Governance Report. fn
accordance with the requirements of
‘ur regulators we report our corpofate
governance arrangements against the
Uk Corporate Governance Code (2018
version) except where otherwise stated
in this report before.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
{including indication of financial risk
‘management objectives and policies

«and exposure of the company to price

risk, credit risk, liquidity risk arid cash
flow risk)

- Details of the Group's exposure to risk

and objectives and policies in relation
to financial instruments can be found in
note 24 to the financial statements.

DISCLOSURE CONCERNING
EMPLOYMENT OF PERSONS:
WITH A DISABILITY .
The Group's recruitment policy
incorporates a fair commitment to

a “disability confident” approach. All
candidates who declare a.tisabilty
and who meet the minimum essential
criteria forthe rote wil be shortlisted
and guaranteed an interview. Managers
and recruitment teams also receive
training and guidance on how to

apply reasonable adjustments during
the recruitment process, to ensure
candidates with a disability ae given
full opportunity to demonstrate their
skills and ability. The érganisation

__ takes appropriate steps to support

those Colleagues who become disabled
during their employment, including

the support of specialist occupational
health advice for Colleagues with
underlying health conditions and
additional training where this may

be appropriate.

‘We will be looking to increase the
diversity data we hold for Colleagues,
including disability data. This allows us
to.continue to work on identifying and
removing barriers that may exist in the
‘organisation and creating an inclusive
‘working environment forall,

ENGAGEMENT WITH
EMPLOYEES

‘The Group utilises a range of channels
toensure our Colleagues are kept
informed of key information relating to
‘our business plans and performance,
‘our Customers and our plans for
‘change. This includes using a blend

‘of face-to-face events, virtuaVonline
meetings and written comrhunications,
including our intranet, ‘Our Place’.

Creating platforms for discussion
‘with and amongst Colleagues

is an important underpin of our

culture and strategy. Viva Engage,

an internal social media platform,
enables Colleagues to interact more
directly with both senior leaders and
each other, and is used across all

areas of the Group to connect our
geographically dispersed organisation,
Viva Engage also hosts our all-
company livestream, ‘Drop the Mic’.
The livestream is viewed by hundreds
‘of Colleagues each month, allowing
them to hear from and engage with 2
range of leaders on strategic topics.
The Piaces Management Colleague
‘magazine launched in early 2023 for
‘our frontline Colleagues who are out

in our Communities interacting with
‘our Customers every day, went from
strength to strength. Itremained a
crucial channel for driving cultural
change by making sure that our key
‘messages about our purpose, strategy.
People Promises, and Customer
Promises reach those Colleagues who
have limited opportunity to access

our other channels. The mag;
is printed using sustainable and
compostable materials.

Colleagues are consulted through both
the relationship with UNISON 2s a
recognised trade union in relevant parts
of the organisation, and also through
informal Colleague voice forums.

Each year the Group undertakes an
anonymous Colleague survey across
everyone working for Places for
People, in conjunction with Great Place
to Work — this measures a range of
different factors and provides valuable
information to inform decision making,
both in terms of the Colleague offer and
issues more broadly. Completion rates
for the survey exceeded 93% in 2023.

During 2023/24 manager events were
introducee to support our leaders
toembed the People Promises and
Customer Promises. The conferences
provide the platform to deliver key
messages and information to all our
leaders, ensuring the organisation

is aligned behind our purpose and
strategy. Following on from the
leadership events, business areas
held all Colleague conferences which
were again based around the People
Promises and Customer Promises.

‘y2rez0z uodoy yenuuy.


126

= Annual Report 2023/26

MODERN SLAVERY ACT

The Group is completely opposed to
‘human trafficking and modem slavery
practices. The Group publishes an
annual statement to comply with the
Modern Slavery Act 2015,

We have introduced several tools
{ohelp mitigate and prevent human
Uafficking and modern slavery
practices within the Group and

its supply chain, Our supply chain

code of conduct and sustainable
procurement policies evidence our
commitment to act ethically and with
integrity throughout our business
relationships; all suppliers, no matter
how long-standing, are required to
abide by them. A confidential reporting
line is accessible to all Colleagues
(employees, workers, consultants,
agency and self-employed contractors).
This reporting line provides a further
route for grievances or whistleblowing
complaints to be raised. These
complaints can be raised anonymously.
We also operate mandatory training of
‘our workforce; which staff are required
tocomplete every 12 months and we
‘monitor compliance across the Group.

We also carry outright to work checks
inorder to adhere to our obligation to
prevent illegal working. To enhance
‘our message around equality, diversity
and zero-tolerarice of harassment or
discrimination, we have also launched
policies including the Respect Policy,
Group Procurement Policy and the
Health and Wellbeing Policy which we
consider give us strength in avoiding
‘modem slavery or human traficking
‘under the Act in our businesses.

We also conduct Modem Stavery
Audits, using the Chartered Institute
‘of Procurement and Supply (CIPS)
templates. With over 4,000 suppliers
this will always be an iterative and

‘ongoing process. Our continued work
with Unseen, cements the partnering
ethos between the organisations
that will encourage the work we do
‘on modern slavery,to be delivered in
proactive way that challenges the
Group and our supply chain.

While we acknowledge that there are
dificulties in controlling the position,
particularly within the Group's supply
chain, we are committed to working
with our suppliers to help mitigate
‘such practices from taking place within
any part of the business. The latest
iteration of the Group's statement is.
published via a link on the homepage
‘of our website and has also been added
to the Goverriment’s modern slavery
statement registry. The statement has
‘been adopted by the Group and each

‘of our subsidiaries that are required

to make a statement pursuant to the
Modern Slavery Act 2015, as set out in
the statement.

IMPORTANT EVENTS:

AFFECTING THE

COMPANY SINCE THE
FINANCIAL YEAR END

‘On 16 April 2024, Places for People
‘group announced the merger with
Origin Housing (at nil consideration).
Origin Housing brings 7,800 homes
across London and the home counties
into the Group. As part of the merger,
the Group also announced that it would
invest £100m in the Origin Housing
Portfolio over the first ten years post
merger.

Origin Housing reported a loss before
tax of £1.3m on turnover of £68.4n in
the year ended 31 March 2023 and had
net assets of £333.1m on that date.
Results for the year ended 31 March
2024 are not available at the time

‘of writing.

GOING CONCERNS
VIABILITY STATEMENTS

‘The Group produces a strategic
business plan each year. This process
inéludes review and challenge by the
board, alongside consideration of
principal risks and uncertainties. When
the business plan is approved itis

then used as the basis for monitoring
business performance and providing
guidance for our external stakeholders,
including regulators and investors.

The Group robustly assesses both its
risks and mitigating actions through
the use of a comprehensive risk
‘mapping procéss. Principal risks

‘and uncertainties are set out on

pages 87-91 of the Strategic Report.

Going Concern
The going concern assessment +
considers whether itis appropriate to
prepare the financial statements on

2 going concern basis. In making this
assessment, the principal risks and
‘uncertainties facing the Group, outlined
‘on pages 87-91 have been considered.
High inflation and interest rates, a tight
labour market and the residual impact
of the pandemic on supply chains have
increased costs and impacted incomes.
‘The Group's business planning and

the accompanying stress testing

process incorporate these challenges,

which continue to be monitored on
‘egular basis. AL 31 March 2024 the
Group had cash and undrawmn facilities
of E1.1bn. The Group continues to
actively manage its cash flows in order
to mitigate any reductions in income
and maintains a policy of having a
minimum 18 months’ liquidity. The
directors have reviewed the projected
cash flows covering a period of 12
‘months from the date of the approval
of the financial statements, which
indicate that the Group will be able to
‘operate within the levels ofits agreed

facilites and the compliance with debt
covenants. On the basis described
‘above, the directors are confident that
the Group has adequate resources to
continue to meet all abilities, as and
‘when they fall due, for 12 months from
the date of approval ofthe financial
statements and therefore consider it
appropriate to adopt the going concern
basis in preparing the consolidated
financial statements.

Viability
‘The Code requires the directors to
make a statement with regard to the
ability of the Group. This requires
consideration of solvency and liquidity
cover a longer period than the going
concern assessment. The Group's
strategic plan covers a 10-year period,
cover which the directors have made
assumptions regarding the Group's
revenues, operating costs and cash
requirements. The projections for the
first thrée years of the plan are based
con current-opportunities and include
an expectation of the rental incomes
for the Group. There is inherently
less certainty in the projections from
year four to ten. Consistent with prior
years, the directors have therefore
determined that three years is an
‘appropriate period for this
viability statement.

For the purposes of both Viability
‘and Going Concern, an annual Stress
Testing exercise is undertaken as
part of the Business Planning process
to assess the financial sirength and

robustness of the Group's plan. Using
the 10-year business plan, it aims

10 identify the circumstances which
would push the Group to breaking point
and the options available to mitigate
such circumstances and ensure the
Group meets all ofits key financial
‘metrics and loan covenants. The tests
applied include amongst others, rent
restrictions, housing market downturn,
high inflation rates and sustained high
interest rates. They show that with
appropriate mitigations applied, the
Group is able to meet all external loan
covenants, even in the most extreme
circumstances modelled.

The Group board continuously monitors
changes in internal and external
indicators which could suggest that
there is an increased risk of the stress
test scenarios arising, These “stress
test triggers” are an early warning
mechanism enabling decisions to

‘be made in relation to the potentiat
deployment of mitigations..

On the basis of these assessments, the
board is confident that the, Group will
remain financially viable for the three-
year period covered by this statement
‘and beyond.

DIRECTORS’
INDEMNIFICATION
‘Throughout the year, the Group has
maintained directors’ and officers’
insurance cover.

POLITICAL DONATIONS
‘The Group made no political donations -
during the year (2023: Enil).

DIRECTORS’ STATEMENT
OF DISCLOSURE TO THE
AUDITORS (S418)

{At the time of approval ofthis report:
So far as the directors are aware, there
is no relevant audit information of
which the Group's auditor is unaware.
The directors have taken all steps that
they are required to take as directors
to make themselves aware of any
relevant audit information and to
‘establish that the Groups aucitor is
‘aware of that information.

EXISTENCE OF BRANCHES
OF THE COMPANY OUTSIDE
THE UNITED KINGDOM
Places for People Group Limited has

a branch registered in the Republic of
Ireland (Registration number: 909305).

vefezoz wodsy yenuy

wz

128

Annual Report 2022/26

Statement of board
responsibilities

The directors are responsible for
preparing the strategic report, the
governance report and the financial
statements in accordance with
applicable law, and regulations.

Company law requires the directors

to prepare financial statements for
‘each financial year. Under that taw they
have elected to prepare the financial
‘statements in accordance with UK
accounting standards (UK Generally
‘Accepted Accounting Practice),
including FRS 102 — the Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the
UK and Republic of Ireland. Under
‘company law the directors must not
approve the financial statements unless
they are satisfied that they give a true-
and fair view of the state of affairs of
the company and of the profit or loss of
the company for that period.

{In preparing these financial statements,
the directors are required to: select
suitable accounting policies and

then apply them consistently make
judgements and estimates that

are reasonable and prudent state
whether applicable UK accounting
standards have been followed,

‘Subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial
statements assess the company’s
ability to continue as a going concern,
disclosing, as applicable, matters
related to going concem —use the
‘going concer basis of accounting
unless they intend either to liquidate
the company or to cease operations,
‘or have no realistic alternative but
todoso.

The directors consider the report and
accounts, taken as a whole, to be fair,
balanced and understandable. The
directors are responsible for keeping
adequate accounting records that

are sufficient to show and explain the
company's transactions and disclose,
with reasonable accuracy at any time,
the financial position of the company

and enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with

the Companies Act 2006, They are
responsible for such internal control

as they determine is necessary to

‘enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material
‘misstatement, whether due to fraud or”
error, and have general responsibil
for taking such steps as are reasonably
‘open to them to safeguard the assets
of the company and to prevent and
detect fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are responsible for
the maintenance and integrity ofthe
corporate and financial information
included on the company's website.
Legislation in the UK governing the
preparation and dissemination of
financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions.

By order of the board:

ip see

Group Company Secretary
26 July 2024

132

AnnualReport 2023726

Independent auditor's report

Forthe year ending 31 Maren 2028

To the members of Places
for People Group Limited

For the purpose of this report, the
terms “we" and “our” denote MHA

in relation to UK legal, professional
and regulatory responsibilities and
reporting obligations to the members
of Places for People Group Limited.
For the purposes ofthe table on
pages 134 to 135 that sets out the
key audit matters and how our audit
addressed the key audit matters, the
terms "we" and “our” refer to MHA. The
Group financial statements, 3s defined
below, consolidate the accounts of
Places for People Group Limited

and ts subsidiaries (the “Group’).

The “Parent Company’ is defined as
Places for People Group Limited,

as an individual entity. The relevant
legislation governing the Company is
the United kingdom Companies Act
2006 ("Companies Act 2006") and the
Housing and Regeneration Act 2008.

OPINION

We have audited the financial
statements of Places for People
Group Limited for the year ended
31 March 2024,

‘The financial statements that we

have audited comprise:

+ the Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income

+ the Company Statement of
Comprehensive Income

+ the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position

+ the Company Statement of
Financial Position

+ the Consolidated Statemént of
Changes in Reserves

+ the Consolidated Statement of

Cash Flows

Notes tothe financiat

statements, including material

accounting policies.

The financial reporting framework that

‘has been applied in the preparation
‘of the group and parent company’s
financial statements is applicable

law and United Kingdom Accounting

Standards, including Financial
Reporting Standard 102 The.
Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of
Ireland (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion the

financial statements:

+ give a true and fair view of the state
of the Group's and of the Parent
Company's affairs as at 31 March
2024 and of the Group's profit for the
year then ended;

+ have been properly prepared in
accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and

+ have been prepared in accordance
with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006, the Housing
and Regeneration Act 2008 and the
Accounting Direction for Private
Registered Providers of Social
Housing 2022,

Our opinion is consistent with our

reporting to the Audit &

Risk Committee.

Independent auditor's report

Forte year andég i Harch 2026

Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance
with Intemational Standards on
Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities
under those standards are

further described in the Auditor's
Responsibilities for the Aucit of the
Financial Statements section of our
report. We dre independent of the
Group in accordance with the ethical
requirements that are relevant to our
audit ofthe financial statements in

the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical
Standard, and we have fulfilled our
ethical responsibilities in accordance
with those requirements. We believe
that the audit evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our opinion.

Conelusions relating to

going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we
have concluded that the Directors’ use
‘of the going basis of accounting in the
preparation ofthe financial statements
is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed,
we have not identified any material
uncertainties relating to events

‘or conditions that, individually or
collectively, may cast significant doubt
‘on the Group's and Parent Company's
ability to continue as a going concern
for a period of at least twelve months
from when the financial statements are
authorised for issue.

Our evaluation of the Directors’
assessment of the Group's and the
Parent Company's abilty to continue

to adopt the going concern basis of

accounting included:

+ Undertaking an assessment at the
planning stage of the audit to identity
events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the Group and
Company's ability to continue as a
going concern,

+ The consideration of inherent risks to
the Group and Company's operations
and specifically its business model.

+ The evaluation of how those risks
‘might impact on the Company's
available financial resources.

+ -Making enquires of the directors
to understand the period of
assessment considered by them, the
assumptions they considered and the
implication of those when assessing
the Company's future financial
performance,

+ The evaluation of stress scensrios,

in respect of the Group, and the

respective sensitivities and rationale.

The availability of undrawn facilites.

Evaluating the appropriateness of the

directors’ disclosures in the financial

statements on going concern.

werezz wedoy yenusy Ip

In relation to the Group's reporting
‘on how it applied the UK Corporate
Governance Code, we have nothing
material to add or draw attention to
in relation to the Directors’ statement .
inthe company's financial statements
about whether the directors considered
{t appropriate to adopt the going
concern basis of accounting,
Our responsibilities and the
responsibilities of the directors with
respect to going concern are described
in the relevant sections of this report.
133

134

Annual Report 7023/24

Independent auditor's report

-yearerding 3 Moreh 202%

Key Audit Matters are those matters

Key auat martes

Recurring

Event driven

(ur aud was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Grou. ncating the Parent
(Company ands evra, incutog the Gros system oneal control and
‘sessing the fahs of material mstalentin he fanca sialemens We ao addressed
‘Herik management vere enteral cet ntudeg assesig wether there was
‘deer of as byte deters that may have represented isk cf mate missalerent.
Wo undertook i cope aus he eames Erecalintarmation 7 components and
spectedprocedies on partic aspects ane olances on components wth anata
‘reeds being undertaken one emaiing 129 sigan compere

that, in our professional judgement,
‘were of most significance in our audit
of the financial statements of the *
‘current period and include the most .
significant assessed risks of material
misstatement (whether or not due to
fraud) that we identified. These matters

a oe included those matters which had the
1880 E1642 202% 19 otro rene greatest effect on: the overall audit

strategy; the allocation of resources in
748,000 £1,365002% of eompanyeerue

the audit; and directing the efforts of
the engagement team, These matters

aaeneron were addressed in the context of our
eer ani dn eens audit ofthe Financial statements as
+ Measurement tet ened bene persian scams oan and suas whole, and in forming our opinion
(Group and Parent Campay) thereon, and we do not provide a
separate opinion on these matters.

+ Measurement and presentation of business cambinaiantransaeans (rep ont)
+ Aoprpriateness othe accouning fr contingent bits Group and Paret Company)

Key aust
eseription

How the sape of
cur audit responded
tothe kay aut

The Grouphes considerable velopment programmes inplae, eareraing a varity ef yes! property er sale and rei As 31 March 2024,

‘Place for Paople Group Line bole 413, 1m (2020 £983.) flock,

‘evelopment programmes whet the property wil eventually be ress ae requ to be measured athe ower of cost nd cet essble vale,

Property which vl leat beheld lorie provision oscil housing ondclssfled as hushg properties oncompletonel he balsa rnclered

‘nom lok to fued asses ot cost in accordance win the Hous SORP (2018 update and thereon ensured cost ess depreciation end inlet.

‘These measurements equre a pie amunt fudge eparig the recover each sit, and theinpirment risks fat maybe asserted

withthe Keyadpements intade:

atten of recaverable amourt

The group develops a sigan amount othowsng projets, bo Io re-sal andar ren. The ceca ofthese procs aleced bythe use ot
3 thee er r-sle r rant shee Ices inact the marl ala the assets. The groyphas.an aoprial process which

‘Appropriateness of alested costs
‘The group copes salaes andoverheads a afd rate, based nudged cos Theres ait the budgeted costs rence.
Interrattion of cantractul arrangements

“Tae group contacts enteral suppor ome ol he developmen. There ask that complex elements tbe contractual aangerent re
inacurtely recognize.

(rau workin the folowing precede:
‘atutln of recoverable smount

\Wehave reviewed he irairmen proces 0 ensue itis conistnt with the requrerers othe faci reporting ramework. We tested the
‘completeness the inets ita the impairment modeling the doen curent stock cing ales.

Weave benchmarked fay vation supine nung market demand, margin andinerest rates oeremal a sources.

‘Weave considered sample of pos year-end sles for posible chongesinassmptions in respect o!marghs 0 depesion of ard
‘Appropatenes of ateceted costs

‘Weperformed substantive proctdurestoceroborate he aidan accuraercognen of asocaed cosy selecting 2 sample of projec and
‘agroeng components oeat back oe oighl sures dcument and contrac forms fo conm hal hi cor ha bem acured was approved or
‘men ond appropriatly classed

Interpretation of contrat arangerants

‘Wehr reviewed canal arangemsris ona sample basi fr each sub project sss the accra
canirctaltems.

erection ao appcaten ofthe

ey sbrervtions commurtcated othe Groups Audit Risk Committee
‘We orcladed bal tere was. patent o developmen! rograrwne schemes and associated lard dng he year ended 1 Mach 2026

Independent auditor's report

Ferthe year endeg 3! March 2026

The groupie party ruber ol dfnedBenelt person schemes. The schemes are materia othe group ante measurement othe ne person
chee ebgalons and surpluses are ube igneat judgement and estnctes.
The defn bent pein obgatons ad surplsesin the franc stateinen's ef the grep’ post-employment obigalions ois eeloyes and
a ahey element of employees tes ofempeent.
Thenet pension scheme ebiatlns en 31 March 224 arm (2023£9.5m) and he et peron scheme sures an 31 March 2074 ae 1m
Key wut aoa cS

mater description escyemotel tena dened bene obzaon and suplses ic sensiv tangas such asthe inerest ae, count atorsandmertiy

‘aiming uted inthe actuarial made The aches egagt the Zee of an otar te reese te nel pensanechere obiains and
urpses in ccrdance wih generayacepiedpraice These aroun fe presented et of easels lhe schemes wich ae messed te
‘aon éeerninednsecordange wh he nquemnts lhe fecal reporting tameer, The acta models fr he pension scheme bigatons
‘Sed sures ae eb tsgneant ugtrent and etalon echeiqus bdo uch hee ohaghened kl ate asstatementia te
fewest

‘Wie azesedthe compere, copay, bet andindependece othe penton eam’ Atay.

‘We hve otsned and reviewed cones ofthe ctu repors to ensure he are conse’ wth cur expectations We engaged and insted ou oun
‘sur experto review he work peormed bythe Pan Aeuary. Tis ede
= beehraking thay assumptions on discount, aon ale, salary gow ae ad esti

How the scape of = dllrgng he assumptions the pension cher’ cuaryn raion tongs hat may have a materi econ ten pension sche

furaudt responded obligations a srleses

to the bay aut sree of ate, aby ad ups recenlitions.
ew ol ne dclsurs prepared by te Pan Actuary atin accordance wit he franc epring lamest
We reviewed ihe waka a evn actuarial expert and performed werk onthe ates cana bythe person schemes nclcing an aeseement ote
‘alu ofthe asta Perio thease were ore to valuation eprs ped byte Scere aisles We als conidered he aden)
‘ard aopropriteness oh dscosures lh el pension obligations and surpluses in finan sitemets including these around te sensi
the pension clgaions and surpluses to movements ney pas.

Key observations communicated tothe Group's Audit & Risk Commitee
‘Wecocted hat the messurerent ol he net dened benefit scheme abigatons and supuses wer accurately sted on 31 Mach 2026

Measurement -ombinationtransactio

4 presentation of b

‘The group entered nto two busines combinton raneactns inthe yar, Thess rarcacton ddd Tn (2028 El fet zat the group
‘The South Devon Rural Housing Asscitin was bought into the group on 20 March 224 This transaction ntreduced E20. of net assets inthe
_g0p lr nk conciterain- The snout 20m was Wied 98 ecrdanc wi he requemenl he Housing Ascoiatons SRP THs
‘eau ioc of €2. the Corsoated Sateen of Cmpreheraie cone

ey audit ‘The Reza Housing mie, ws rghit he group on 13 Mh 2024, This transaction inredhced ESI of nat asses the grovpinerchange

‘matter description forcasideraton of 125m, The oa was leds oodwl m acconaee wile requlement he ancl epringtramework.
‘These business embinains are mae tthe group. The measurement ofascte adic acquired hase ransacions and he consideration
‘pater thom rel iok place aa value ube! a cera exceptions a equred by ine financial eparing tramewor. Te tems and eandions
‘lth combate agreements lo sindcanty infec te mtesurement ard preseiatan of he ansaciars, These measurement are sujet 0
‘icant joigmens and estation ncgues which rene thik ol mater missiteanl he oneal staameets.

urprcedues ined:

+ Reviewed te combinton agreements

+ Revewedthe asessmentof te idenifable ase and abies acquired as prt ofthe business combitonsandossessed the fava of these
sets and Lables, Determined he actracy ofthe carpuaion of good.

+ Assesatdthe clasicatin othe bushes cebinaon sehr bung substance a gi or on sequen,

Kay observations communteaedto the Grop's Aut & lak Commitee

\Weconcaed ha ih busines cinates hve beta azounte orn acornce wit he cont stand nd goodulis ccuraaly classifedas ether ncome trough
{he Consolidated Siateren of Compreenshe acme er goo arising rm anacqusion.

Appropriateness of the accounting treatment for contingent liabilities

‘Theor statemiis ede the ecosure ot anube a maters io which the group ay hae potent exposure. These mates ree fo present
_andpossble obligations aking as ares of pact evens bl here the ture translec fay economic benef fo sel uncertain
day aa These mates have been dosed as contingent Ebiies in he ancl statemes, No provision hs been made fo these malts in (he fail
mater desrption
Hen These mates are qullthely materia thse fascia staemens and shoul ny met the requirements for ecognton may potty have &
‘materalingoct on hese fares statements
These jogements ond estinaton eiquesnreate the rick amaterial misstatement ol the frac statements

Row the scope af Werevewed the sssesimen of coningen Baltes and determined whether te bills me the erie rm the repatng ramework tobe Weted
‘eur uditresponded 26conirgel

\othe key ait The contingent aiies have been eviewed by au spacial wher appropriate. We have eviewed the disclosure ol th consingen Ubi to coniem
mater they met the requirements of the aecounting tamer.

Key observations commenteted tthe Group's Audit E Risk Commitien
‘Wecanle that caningent iahities mt the rites Kam the aerouning todas to be rated as cantnget bes on 31 March 2026,

muy

8
i

135


136

Anna Report 2020/24

Independent auditor's report

oc tho year onling 3 March 2026

OUR APPLICATION OF
MATERIALITY

Our definition of materiality considers
the value of error or omission on the
financial statements that, individually
or in aggregate, would change or
inftuence the economic decision

of a reasonably knowledgeable

user of those financial statements.
Misstatements below these levels

will not necessarily be evaluated as
immaterial as we also take account of
the nature of identified misstatements,
and the particular circumstances of
their occurrence, when evaluating their
effect on the financial statements as a
‘whole. Materialiy is used in planning
the scope of our work, executing that
work and evaluating the results.
Materiality in respect of the Group

was sel at £14,8m (2023 - £16.6m)
which was determined on the basis

cof 296 (2023: 1.996) of Group revenue.
Materialty in respect of the Parent
Company was set at £1,740,000 (2023:
£1,385,000), determined on the basis of
26 of the Parent Company's revenue,
Revenue was deemed to be the
appropriate comparative benchmark
for the calculation of materiality as this
is.a key area of the financial statements
because this is a metric by which

the performance and risk exposure

of the Group and Parent Company is
principally assessed. As the Group

and Parent Company operate in the
not-for-profit sector we assess that
any profit based benchmark would not
be appropriate. In our opinion ths is
therefore the comparative benchmark

with which the users of the financial
statements are principally concerned.
Performance materiality is the
application of materiality at the
individual account or balance level,
set at an amount to reduce, to an
‘appropriately tow level, the probability
that the aggregate of uncorrected and
‘undetected misstatements exceeds
materiality for the financiat
statements as a whole.

Performance materiality for the
Group was set at £11.64m (2023:
£11.62m) and at £1,218k (2023:
£970k) for the Parent Company which
represents 70% (2023: 70%) of the
above materiality levels.

The determination of performance
materiality reflects our assessment of
the risk of undetected errors existing,
the nature ofthe systems and controls
and the level of misstatements arising
inprevious audits q
We agreed to report any corrected or
uncorrected adjustments exceeding
£830k and £87k in respect of Group
and Parent Company respectively to
the Audit & Risk Committee as well as
differences below this threshold that
inour view warranted rep
qualitative grounds.

OVERVIEW OF THE SCOPE
OF THE GROUP AND
PARENT COMPANY AUDITS
Our assessment of audit risk,
evaluation of materiality and our
determination of performance
materiality sets our aucit scope for

‘each company within the Group.
Taken together, this enables us to
form an opinion on the consolidated
financial statements. This assessment
takes into account the size, risk
Profile. organisation / distribution and
effectiveness of group-wide controls,
‘changes in the business environment
and other factors such as recent
internal audit results when assessing
the level of work to be performed at
each component.

Inassessing the risk of material
misstatement to the consolidated
financial statements, and to ensure
we had adequate quantitative and
qualitative coverage of significant
accounts in the consolidated financial
statements of the 145 (2023: 179)
reporting components of the group,
‘we identified 16 components in the UK
which represent the principal business
‘units within the Group.

Full scope audits - Of the 16
‘components selected, audits of the
‘complete financial statements of 7
‘components were undertaken, these
entities were selected based upon their
size or risk characteristics,

Specified procedures - 9 entities
‘were subject to specified procedures: .
these procedures have been
determined based on the size and
nature of the balances.

Analytical review - 129 entities were
subject to analytical review procedures
asits results were insignificant to the
overall group results.

Independent auditor’s report

Fer the year ening >1 March 202%

THE CONTROL
ENVIRONMENT

We have evaluated the design and
implementation of those internal
controls of the Group, including the
Parent Company, which are relevant to
‘our audit, such as those relating to the
financial reporting cycle.

We deployed our internal IT audit
specialists to get an understanding of
the general IT environment,

CLIMATE-RELATED

AUDIT RISKS

In planning our audit and gaining an
‘understanding of the Group and Parent,
Company, we considered the potential
impact of climate-related risks on the
business and its financial statements,
The obtained management's climate-
related risk assessment, along with
relevant documentation relating to
management's assessment and held
discussions with management to
understand their process for identifying
and assessing those risks.

‘We then engaged internal specialists

to assess, amongst other factors, the
benchmarks used by management,

the nature of the company’s business
activites, its processes and the
geographic distribution of its activities.
We also held discussions with
‘management regarding governance
and controls over their ESG reporting
processes and the subsequent effect on
the financial reporting ofthe group.

We specifically considered physical

and transition climate risks impacting
the financial statements. The most

‘material balances and areas
reviewed were:

= tangible fixed asses

= investment property

«trade receivables

= going concern

We critically reviewed management's,
assessment and challenged the
assumptions underiying their
assessinent.‘We also designed our
audit procedures to specifically
‘consider those assets and liabilities
‘where we anticipated, based on the
work performed, thatthe highest
impact arising from climate change
might fall, We reviewed the UK
Climate-related Financial Disclosures
and challenged for consistency with the
financial statements.

We did not identify any material
inconsistencies or inaccuracies
between management's assessment
and our audit findings.

REPORTING ON OTHER
INFORMATION

The other information comprises

the information included in the

‘annual report other than the financial
statements and our auditor's report
thereon. The directors are responsible
for the other information contained
within the annual report. Our opinion
on the financial statements does not
cover the other information and, except
to the extent otherwise explicitly
stated in our report, we do not express
any form of assurance conclusion
thereon. Our responsibilty is to read

the other information and, in doing so,
consider whether the other information
is materially inconsistent with the
financial statements or our knowledge
‘obtained in the course of the audit, or
‘otherwise appears to be materially
misstated. If we identify such material
inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to
determine whether this gives rise to a
material misstatement n the financiat
statements themselves. I, based

‘on the work we have performed,

‘we conclude that there is a material
misstatement ofthis other information,
we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this
regard.

STRATEGIC REPORT AND

DIRECTORS REPORT

nour opinion, based on the work

undertaken in the course of the audi

+ the information given in the strategic
report arid the directors’ report
for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared
are consistent with the financial
statements; and

+ the strategic report and the directors
report have been prepared in
accordance with applicable legal
requirements,

Inthe light of the knowledge and

understanding of the Group and Parent

Company and their environment

obtained in the course of the audit,

we have not identified material

misstatements inthe strategic report

or the directors’ report,

relezor wedoyjenuuy >

w7

138

Annual Report 2023726

Independent auditor’s report

Forthe year ending 3) arch 2528

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
STATEMENT

We have reviewed the directors’
statement in relation to going concern,
longer-term viability and that part of
the Corporate Governance Statement
relating o the entity's compliance with
the provisions of the UK Corporate
Governance Code specified for our
review.

Based on the work undertaken as part
of our audit, we have concluded that
each of the following elements of the

+ Corporate Governance Statement is

‘materially consistent with the financial
statements and our knowledge
‘obtained during the audit:

+ Directors’ statement with regards:
the appropriateness of adopting the
going concern basis of accounting
and any material uncertainties
identified set out on page 126;

+ Directors’ explanation as to its
assessment of the group's prospects,
the period this assessment covers
and why the period is appropriate set
out on page 127;

+ Director's statement on whether it
has a reasonable expectation that
the group willbe able to continue in
operation and meets its liabilities set
‘out on page 127;

+ Directors’ statement on fair,
balanced and understandatlle set
out on page 128;

+ Board's confirmation that it has
carried out a robust assessment of
the emerging and principal risks set
out on page 126;

Section of the annual report that
describes the review of effectiveness
of risk management and internal
control systems set out on

page 82 to 84; and

Section describing the work of the
Audit & Risk Committee set out on
pages 103 to 106,

MATTERS ON WHICH WE
ARE REQUIRED TO REPORT
BY EXCEPTION

We have nothing to report in respect

of the following matters in relation to

which the Companies Act 2006 requires

Us to report to you if, in our opinion:

+ adequate accounting records have
‘not been kept, or returns adequate
{or our audit have not been received
bby branches not visited by us;-or

+ the financial statements are not
inagreement with the accounting
records and returns; or ©

+ certain disclosures of directors’
remuneration specified by law are
not made; or

++ we have not received all the
information and explanations we
requirefor our audit,

RESPONSIBILITIES

OF DIRECTORS

‘As explained more fullyin the
directors’ responsibilities statement,
the directors are responsible for the
preparation ofthe financial statements
‘and for being satisfied that they give a
‘rue and fair view, and for such internal
control asthe directors determine is.
necessary to enable the preparation of
financial statements that are free from
‘material misstatement, whether due to
fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements,
the directors are responsible for
‘assessing the Company's
tocontinue as a going concern,
disclosing, as applicable, matters
related to going concern and using
the going concern basis of accounting
unless the directors either intend to
liquidate the Company or to cease
operations, or have no realistic

. alternative but to do so,

Independent auditor's report

Forthe ear ending 2 March 702

> AUDITOR
RESPONSIBILITIES
FOR THE AUDIT OF THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
ur objectives are to obtain reasonable
‘assurance about whether the financial
stalements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to,
fraud of error, and to issue an auditor's
report that includes our opinian.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of
assurance butis not a guarantee that
an audit conducted in accordance with
ISAs (UK) will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or
error and are considered material if,
individually or in aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on
the basis of these financial statements.
‘further description of our
responsibilities for the financial
statements is located on the
FRC's website at: wwww.fre.org.uk/
auditorsresponsibilties
This description forms part of our
auditor's report

EXTENT TO WHICH THE
AUDIT WAS CONSIDERED
CAPABLE OF DETECTING
IRREGULARITIES,
INCLUDING FRAUD
Irregularities, including fraud, are
instances of non-compliance with laws
and regulations. We design procedures
in line with our responsibilities,
‘outlined above, to detect material
misstatements in respect of
irregularities, including fraud.

These audit procedures were designed
to provide reasonable assurance that
the financial statements were free from
{fraud oF error. The risk of not detecting
‘a material misstatement due to fraud
is higher than the risk of not detecting
‘oné resulting from error and detecting
irregularities that result from frauds
inherently more dificult than detecting
those that result from error, as fraud
‘may involve collusion, deliberate
concealment, forgery or intentional
rmisrepresentations. Also, the further
removed non-compliance with laws
and regulations is from events and
transactions reflected in the financial
statements, the less likely we would
become aware of it,

‘yerez0z wodoy jerry

139


SH Annual Report 2023/26

Independent auditor's report

Forthe yar ening 1 Mareh 2026

IDENTIFYING AND
ASSESSING POTENTIAL
RISKS ARISING FROM
IRREGULARITIES,
INCLUDING FRAUD

The extent of the procedures
undertaken to identify and assess
the risks of material misstatement

fraud, included the following:

= We considered the nature of the
industry and sector, the contrat
environment, business performance
including remuneration policies and
the Groups, including the Parent
Company's, own risk assessment
that irregularities might occur as
a result of fraud or error. From our
sector experience and through
discussion with the directors, we
obtained an understanding of the
legal and regulatory frameworks
applicable to the Group focusing
con laws and regulations that could
reasonably be expected to have a
direct material effect on the financial
statements, such as provisions
of the Companies Act 2006, UK
tax legislation or those that had a
fundamental effect on the operations
of the Group.

—We enquired of the directors and
‘management including internal
audit as well as the audit and risk
‘committee concerning the Group and
the Parent Company's policies and
procedures relating to:

+ identifying, evaluating and complying
with the laws and regulations and
whether they were aware of any
instances of non-compliance.

+ detecting and respcinding to the risks
of fraud and whether they had any
knowledge of actual or suspected
fraud: and

+ the internal controls established
to mitigate risks related to fraud or
‘non-compliance with laws
and regulations,

= We assessed the susceptibility of the
Company's financial statements to
material misstatement, including
how fraud it occur by evaluating
management's incentives and
‘opportunities for manipulation
of the financial statements. This
included utilising the spectrum of
inherent risk and an evaluation of
the risk of management override
of controls. We determined that
the principal risks were related to
posting inappropriate journal entries
to increase revenue or reduce costs,
creating fictitious transactions to
hide losses or improve financial
performance, and management bias
in accounting estimates particularly
in determining the classification of
‘goodwill in business combinations
and the identification of contingent
liabilities meeting the criteria of the
accounting standard.

AUDIT RESPONSE TO

RISKS IDENTIFIED

Inrespect of the above procedures:

—we corroborated the results of our
enquiries through our review of the
minutes of the Company's board and
audit and risk committee meetings.

—autlit procedures performed by the
engagement team in connection with
the risks identified included:

+ reviewing financial statement.
disclosures and testing to supporting
documentation to assess compliance
‘with applicable laws and regulations
expected to have a direct impact on
the financial statement.

+ testing journal entries, including
those processed late for financial -
statements preparation, those
posted by infrequent or unexpected
users, those posted to unusual
account combinations.

+ evaluating the business rationale
of significant transactions outside
the normal course of business and
reviewing accounting estimates for
bias.

+ enquiry of management around

actual and potentiat litigation and

claims.

challenging the assumptions and

judgments made by management in

its significant accounting estimates,
particularly those relating to the
recoverable amount of development
programme schemes and associated
land, the value of defined benefit
scheme obligations, business
combinations and contingent
liabilities as reported:in the key audit

‘matter section of our report: and

+ obtaining confirmations from third
parties to confirm existence of a
‘sample of transactions and balances.

—the Company operates in a regulated
housing association industry. As
ssuch, the Senior Statutory Auditor .
considered the experience and
‘expertise of the engagement
team to ensure that the team had
the appropriate competence and
capabilities; and

we communicated relevant laws and

“regulations and potential fraud risks
toll engagement team members,
including experts, and remained
alert to any indications of fraud
‘or non-compliance with laws and
regulations throughout the audit.

Independent auditor's report
Feria ening Hach 028

USE OF OUR REPORT

This report is made solely to the
‘Company's members, as a body, in
‘accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16
of the Companies Act 2006, Our audit
‘work has been undertaken so that we
right state to the Company's members
those matters we are required to state
{o them in an auditor's report and for
no other purpose.

To the fullest extent permitted by

law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than

the Company and the Company's
members as a body, for our audit work,
{or this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.

‘Andrew Moyser FCA FCCA (Senior
Statutory Auditor) for and on behalt
‘of MHA, Statutory Auditor London,
United Kingdom

10 August 2024

Mit sth trading ame of Maen Hudson LLP
kite abi partes in England nd les
(raised neber OC312313)

rerezae wedeyyeruy

or


142

Annual Report 2023/26

Consolidated statement of comprehensive income

th yar ending 31 Mareh 2028

Group and share of joint ventures turnover,
Less: share of joint ventures turnover
Group turnover

Coste sales

Oper
Profiton sate offixed assets

costs

Gain(oss) an revaluation o! investment properties
Operating profit
Combinations that arein substance gift

Share ol operating profit enjoin ventures

fore interest

Interest receivable and similar income’
Interest payable ind similar charges

Profit on ordinary activities before taxation
Taxation

Profit on ordinary activities after taxation

Profiv(Loss) attributable tonon-controting interests
Profit attributable parent company
Group pratitfor he financial year exctuéing joint ventures
Share ot joint ventures (oss)/profit forthe financial year

Te

members

rot forthe nancial year
Fair value gain oninterest ate and currency swaps
Revaluationtoss oninterest rate and currency swaps
Deferred tax onintrest rate and currency swans
‘Actuarial gain recogngedin the ponsion scheme
‘Actuarial loss recognisedin the pension scheme
‘etered tax arising on movement in the pension scheme
‘Total comprehonsive income for tho year

‘Thenoteson pages 148 to 197 form anintegral part ofthese financial statements.

2026 2003
Notes &m fm

839
43)

896

aaa
6538)

an,
238
15
33,

Ty
2 a wo
2 a) an
10 os) 29

7300) BTS

Company statement of comprehensive income

Forshe year ening 31 March 202

Turnover

Operating costs ’
Operating profiitloss)

Interest receivable and simitar income

Interest payable and similar charges

inary activities before and after taxation

Thenatson pages 168 to 197 form anintegralpit ofthese ancl stateméts.
There sno cther comprehensive income eter than thal reparedabove.

2028
Notes em

ft
&
a
Ef
me
tm BS
FS
698
(692)
04
i)
143

Consolidated statement of financial position

As a1 March 2028

Company statement of financial position

Fortneyearending 2 Marck2024

rerezoz uodey yenuuy >

us

Resiaied* 2028 2023
2028 2028 2023 2023 Notes tm tm
Notes fm! fm fm fm - :
Ficad essats Ficed assets
Intangibles a yy a2 : vestments 8 02 oz
Housing properties a 49769 45858 7
External investments and investment in related Current cosets
undertakings 138 + 1se0 169.0 Debtors: amounts falting due within one year ” 226 135
Investment properties. 1Sb 665.1 42. Cash and cash equivalents: 8 07
Equiytoans % 397 607 7.2 162
Other fixed assets “ 1467.3 $30.7 Current lnbilities
: 57638 saan Creditor: amounts fling due within one yeor a} an wm
Current assots Not eurenttabities an on
Pension surplus an
Peon Ee Net abies os) cS)
Debtors: amounts falling du after one year ®
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year w becLiuaeiehin a
Investments 20 Revere eserves ___as
Cashandcash equivalents es,
Current liabilities - A
Creditors: amounts fling de withinone year q i
i : 1 due with Li id 2087 0560) a The notes on pages 148 to 197 form an integral part of these financial statements.
lela oe | The financial statements of Places for People Group Limited, company number 03777037, were approved by the board of directors on 25 ity 2024.
Nénccurrent labilities 5
Ceeiters: amounts fling due alter marethananeyear 22 = (5,107.4) wn38) talsetaatelda ean
Pensiontabilty 2 9) 5)
5007.3) 47510)
baal ‘Not Assets: 551 876.5
Capital and reserves ‘1
Revenue reserves 992 2753 -
Cashflow hedge reserve (26.3) 23 .
Restricted reserve 02 N >
Total capital and reserves vsaa ane J! A ry
Non-controlling interests, 2) 02 7
= = Richard J Gregory OBE Greg Reed
, 7 Chair of Places for People -Chief Executive
‘The notes on pages 148 to 197 form an integral part of these financial statements. . :
-_Theprioryearhas been restated oaidunderstandng ofthese satements Detail of he restatement ae in ote 25. :
‘Thefinancal stalement of Paces for Pople Group Limite, company rumber 03777037 were approved bythe boadl directors an July 202,
They were signed ants behal by: 1
He b> 4 AR
Richard J Gregory OBE * Greg Reed
Chair of Places for People Chief Executive :


146

D Annual Report 2029/26

Consolidated statement of changes in reserves 7

tho year ending 31 March 202

Cash Flow * None
Revenue Restrleted —_contralling Total
Reserve Reserve Roserve Interests Reserves
em fm tm fm em
Balance at 1 Aprit 2023, 8783 23 02 12 0766
‘Total comprehensive income for the year
Profitfor the year : J 03 - - - so.
Fair value gain on interest rate and currency swaps - 0.) - - (20.8)
Revaluation toss on intrest rate and currency swaps +226 - - - 26
(Ostorred tax on interest rateandcurrency swaps - 20 - - 20°
‘Actuarial gain recognised in the pension scheme aa - - - aA
‘Actuaralloss recognised inthe jension scheme ro) - - -
Deterredtax arising on mavementia the pension scheme (0.0) - - -

Balance at 31 March 2026 792 my o2 2)

‘Thenotes on pages 168 0 197 form anintegral pat ofthese financial statements.
‘Acompany Statement of Changesin Equity as nat been presented as there were no transactions recorded within equity during the year

Consolidated statement of cash flows.

Fortheyenr ening 21 March 2024

Net eash

ated from operating actlviiles (S08 note 11)
Additional pension contributions.

Cash flow from investing activi

Purchase of housing and investment properties
Praceeds ram the disposal of housing andinvestment properties
Purchase of other fixed assets

Proceeds ror the disposatot other fixed assets
Purchase of fired and.currert asset investments

Proceeds from the disposal of fixed and current asset investments
CCach flows arising rom acquisition of subsidiaries

Cash lows arising rom dispesatol subsidiaries

Receipt of government andoother grants

Interest received

Dividends received irom investments

‘Net cash flow from investing activities

‘Cash ow from financing activities
Interest element of finance lease rental

ment
Capita elementof finance rental lease payments
Interest paid

Toxpaid

‘Settlement of Financial instruments

Drawdown ofloane inthe year

Repayment oftoansin the year

Issue of debentures inthe year

Repayment of debentures inthe year

[Net eash flow from financing activities

[Net change in cash and cash og

lente

Cash and cash equlvatents at beginning of year

Casha

cath equivalents at end af the ye

Notes

"

85

188

a"

2024
em

co)

(436.0)
1385,
22)

(298)
au
(0.4)

162.2)

15.0)

oy”
45.1)
as)
5248
(202.6)
4995

432.4)

140.8

51

668

9.7

2023
nv

waa

6a)

(a5)
1245
9)

(os)
27
an
62
206
26
26

(235)

en
0s)
5.1)
en
co)
1238
(265.9)

2H
co)

40.)

106.7

668

‘verezoe wedayyenuvy

“7


148

AnnualReport 2029/24

Notes to the financial statements

For the vear ending Moreh 2024

1 Principat accounting policies

{A summary ofthe principal accounting policies, which have been applied
‘consistently, is set out below.

Basis of accounting
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
applicable United Kingdom accounting standards, including Financial,
Reporting Standard 102 "The Financia Reporting Standard appicabl
the United Kingdem and Republic of Ireland" FRS 102), the Statement of
Recommended Practice fo Registered Socal Housing Providers 2018,
{SORP), the Accounting Direction for Private Registered Providers of
Social using 2022, and withthe Companies Act 2006,

‘Tre Companyis considered ta be a public benefit ently anda qualitying
entity fr the purposes of FRS 102 and has applied the exemptions
‘available under FRS 102.11 and FRS 102.12 (preparation ofastatement
‘ofeash flows andrelated notes)

The financial statements are presentedin Sterling (Em's).

Going Concern
‘The going concern assessment considers whetherit is appropriate to
prepare the fnancial statements ana going concern basis Inmaking this
‘atsestment, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group,
‘outlined on pages 87 te 91, have been considered. High intation and
interest ates, atight labour market and the residuatimpact ofthe
‘pandemic on Supply chains have increased costs and impactedincomes.
‘The Group's business planning and the accompanying stresstesting
process incorporate these challenges, which continue tobe monitored on
regular bass,

[AL 31 March 2024 the Group had cash and undrawn faciilies of €1Jbn. The
‘Group continues o actively manage itscash flows inorder to mitigate
‘any reductions inincome and maintains a policy ofhaving a minimum 18
‘months! iuidy.

‘The directors have roviewed the projected cash flows covering a period of
|2months trom the date ofthe approval ofthe financial statements,
‘which indicate that the Group willbe able to eperate within the levels of
its agreed facilities andin compliance with debt covenants

‘On the basi described above, the directors are confident that the Group
has adequate resources ta continue to meet alltiailties, as and when
‘hy fll du, for 12 months from the date of approval ofthe Financia
‘statements and therelare consider it appropriate to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the consolidated fnancial statements.

Basis of consolidation
The financial statements are group slatements anghave been prepared
by consolidating the cesults ofthe entities witinthe Places or People
‘Groupusing the acquisition method for subsidiary entities andthe equity,
methed for joint venture entilies as appropri

‘The consolidated accounts comprise the financial statements of Places
for People Group Limited andits subsidiary undertakings, control of
‘which are achieved where Places fr People Group Limited has the power
tegovernthe financial and operating policies ofan entity s0 aso obtain
benefits trom ts activites. A tisting of subsidiaries and related
Undertakings is providedinnote 3.

Independence and Responsibility Agreements exist between the Group
parent and the subsidiaries, which are the basi of the Group structure,
‘and enable the Boardof Directors to contrel the Group. All subsidiaries
have coterminous year ends. Paces fo People Livings Limited, Places
Foundation, Castle Rock Edinvar Housing Association andPlaces for
People Leisure Partnerships each have achartable status.

Public benoit entity combinations that arein substance agit tothe Group
‘are accounted forby calculating the excess ofthe fair value ofthe assets

‘assumed over the fairvalue of liabilities acquired. This gains recognised
inthe Statement of Comprehensive ncome.

Significant Judgements
‘Tae following are the sigiicant judgements, apart rom hose involving
‘estimations (which are st out separately below) that have been made in
the process of applying the entity's accounting policies and that have the
‘ost significant effect onthe amounts recognised inthe nancial
statements.

Going Concern
Inorderto assess whether tis appropriate fr the Group tobe reported
as a going concern, the management applyiudgement, having
Undertaken appropriate enquires and having considered the Group's
activites andthe principal risks and uncertainties. Inarriving alti
Judgement there area large numberof assumptions and estimates
involved in calculating future cath flow projections. This includes
‘management's expectations ofboth property sales and rental turnover,
‘operating costs, ing and quantum of future capital expenciture and
estimates and cost of future funding. As aresul of these considerations,
the financial statements have been prepared onagoing concern basis,

lavesiment properties
The Group owns a range of diferent property types. Ths requires the
Group to assess which properties should be classified as investment
properties as these properties are held at market valuation, not at
epreciatedcost

The Group considered the FRS 102 defition of investment property
which refers to property heldto earn entals for capital appreciation,
rather than for administrative purposes or for saeinthe ordinary course
ofbusiness, The Group has also reviewed Section 16 of FRS 102 that
precludes the classification of property helé primarily forthe provision of
social benefits being classified asinvestment properly. The Group has
_applied this by judging that rental properties without pubic subsidy
‘attached to them are investment properties.

Leose classifcotion
During the year ending 31 March 2019, the Group purchased the frecholds
of anumber of properties and assessed that he arrangement should be
classifedas a finance lease.

‘The Group considered the requirements af FRS 102 Section 20 which
requires that, fa lease substantially ranstersallthe risks and rewards,
‘of ownership it should be teatedas a finance lease. twas determined
that because the Group will retain ownership of he properties atthe end
ofthe 45 year lease period, alongside holding the risks and rewards of
owning and managing the propertios during this perio the Group
‘substantially holds the risks and rewards of ownership.

Accounting estimates
‘Thenature of estimation means thot actual outcemes may diferfrom the
estimates made. The following estimates are considered to be those hat
have amore significant impact on the amounts recognisedin the

Financial statements.

Residual vlue of soci housing properties:
IRis considered thatthe estimate of residual value of social housing
properties has a significant impact onthe carrying amount of social
housing assets. The Group consider he residual value of social housing
property structure tobe cost. The net book value of completed social
housing propertesis 4.7bn, Theresiduat value of socialhousing
property structure is £268.5m above the carrying value as at

31 March 2026,

Defined benefit pension schemes
‘The Group has defined benefit obigations relating to four pension
schemes, Note 25 sets out the details for these schemes and the
assumptions made o assess thenet scheme benefitas athe reporting
date. The Group engage qualified actuaries to advise on an appropriate
iscount rate. Adecreasein the discount rate used of O1W6isestimated to
inerease seneme dfiitsby £45.

Notes to the financial statements

Fer the year ending 21 March 202%

1. Principal accounting policies (continued)

Investment properties
In addition to judging whether or not properties are categorised as
investment properties, the Groupis also required to estimate the fair
value of investment properties onan annuat basis Tofaciltate this
‘estimation, the Group engaged Sail, aleading professional adviser, to
tse RICS guidance and the requirements of the Red Book to compete a
full valuation ofthe Group's investment properties.

Savils applied a discounted cash Row method to estimate the fair value
ofthe portale, adopting bath investment and comparable methods in
the determination f fair value. The valuation incorporates the latest
availble net operating cash Row information andthe application ofa
yield deemed appropriate based on the understanding ofeach part ofthe
portfolio, This wll ake ina account: the locaton and tenure of the
roperties he canition based on a combination of physica inspections
1ssumptions, erwiranmenial considerations and

‘Tne discount rate appliedisa significant assumption in the valuation
Based onarisk-tre rate af 4.459% (using the UK 30-year gilt aso proxy)
ast 31 March 2024 the valuation assumed a nominal discount range
‘ofbetween 5.00% and 8.50% depending upon the asset type. location,
‘oneiton and he potential for bth ental and capital grwthin thelang term,

Comparisons have also been made with similar propertasin recent
transactions to give additional comfort around the valuations. Where
applicable, an assessment is made on a similar basis fer any elated
‘commercialincome in respect of these properties. Management
interrogation and challenge has been applied ta both ihe valuation
methad andthe assumptions useé, ahead of finalising the valuation oft
investment properties.

Recoverobilty of stock
The Grouphas E413,im of stock at 31 March 2024 (2023:£383.1m),
‘comprising land of £1904, properties inconstruction of €2028m and
completed properies of £74.4m, FRS 102 section requires stockto bo
‘measuredat thelower ofcost and estimated sling priceless costs
complete and sel The Group also undertakes sensitivity analysis and
has assessediinata short-term dropin expected seing prices of

‘ur eampleted properties of 10% would nal result ina material
impairment charge.

The Group monitors development projects and properties held or saleon
‘an ongoing hasis and uses rigorous appraisal techniques to estimate the
‘recoverable amount of stock, Realistic fnancial projections are used on
~anindividval site basis to allow managernent i estimate that land and.
property are held at the appropriate amount. The Group makes
Judgements to assess the achievable seltng price for properties
‘neluding ascessing the views of specialist advicert on the UK housing
‘market and fulure house price infaton. Management also consider
4elailed information relating to geographical area and property type. AS
‘such the Group judges that stockisheld atthe tower of cost and
estimated seling price less cosisto complete and sel,

Turnover
Turnaver represents rental and service charge income receivable (net of
void tosses), income from the sale cf properties, income rem the sale of
‘tho first tranche of shared ownership properties, fees and grants from
{ocal authorities and Homes England, leisure facilities management les,
‘2quityloan ee income and other income. The turnover ofthe parent
‘enlily consists of echarges to other Group ens,

‘Charges for support services funded under Supporting People are
cecognised as they fall due under the contractuatarrangements with
‘Administering Author

Rental income is recogised from the point the property becomes
available or letting, net of any voids. Income trom land and property
sales is recognised when the rks and rewards of ownershiphave
‘passed othe purchaser.

‘Long term contract venues recognised based onthe total contrat value
‘andthe stage of completion ofthe contract. Stage of completions
etermined with referencoto separately ideifabe land andeanstruction
services within the contrac. Where not identifiable within the contract, the
stage of completion s either measuredby comparing thecastsincurred for
‘work performedto date tothe total estimated contractcostsor measured
bycertfiedvaluations of works completed and estimated workand
recoverable expenses completed butnotyet certified.

‘Mortgage fee income is recognised over the term of the contract. Other
incomes recognised upon the delivery of services. Government grant
is recognisedin turnover aver the expected tives ofthe assets to
which trelates.

‘Allturnover arises rom actives within the Und Kingdom.

‘Segmental Reporting

Operating segments FRS 102 requires entities with publicly traded debt
‘oapply ihe reporting requirements IFRS 8 Operating Segments. The
Group consider the Group Boardto be the chief operating decision maker
{CCODM") as defined by IFRS B. The information in these financial
‘statements and accompanying notes that has been producedin ine with
‘the requirements of the Accounting Direction for Private Registered
Providers 2022, aligns wih internal reporting resented tothe COOM.

Corporation tax
The Groups liable to United Kingdom Corporation Tax,

‘The charge for taxation for the years hased onthe profit forthe yoar ond.
‘andincludes current tax on the taxable profi for the year and deferred
taxation. Deferred taxationis recognised in respect of al timing
Aiflerences beween the treatment of certain items for taxation and for
‘accounting purposes which have arisen but not reversed by the
statement af financial position date,

var
‘The majority ofthe Group's turnover is exer from VAT, However,

certain activities are subject to VAT and give rise to VAT recovery. Where
appropriate, costs.ae stated inctuing irrecoverable VAT.

Pensions
‘There are thirteen pension schemes, st of whichre defined benefit
pension schemes basedon final pensionable salary. There is a Groupe
‘wide contribution based scheme, Details ofthe schemes are set out in
‘Note 25. Employees joining the Places for People Group have the option
‘of joining the Places for Peopte Group Stakeholder Scheme (Stakeholder
Scheme), a defined contribution scheme, The costs of contributing tothe
‘Stakeholder Scheme are accounted for as an expense in the year in which
‘they occur. Contributions from the Group and participating employees
‘are pad into independently administered funds. These paymenisare
‘made in accordance with iennialcaleuations by professionally qualified
independent actuaries.

Pension scheme assets are measuredby independent experts using
‘market values. Pension scheme liabilities ae measured using projected
‘nitmethed and discounted atthe current ate of return on ahigh qualty
corporate bond of equivalent term andeurrency athe ibility,

Pension scheme surpluses are recognised where there isan
‘unconstional right toa refund ofthat surplus. Pension scheme doiits
‘are recognised in tll The movement in scheme surplus or efits split
between operating charges, nance costs and, in other comprehensive
income, actuarial gains and losses.

Places for People Homes Limited and Places for People Living+
Limited participate in the Socal Housing Pension Scheme (SHPS),
‘amulticemployer defined benefit scheme. Castle Rock Edinvar
Limited and Places for People Scotland Limited (he Scottish housing
Associations) participate in the Scottish Housing Association Pension
‘Scheme (SHAPS).

Paco lnenateae ta

“9

150

1} | Annual Report 2029/26

Notes to the financial statements
Fortheyasrerding31 Moreh 22

1. Principal accounting policies (continued)

Housing Properties
Housing properties are thase held primarily forthe provision of sociat
benefit, Housing properties are stated atthe lower of depreciated cost or
ltsrecoverable amount. Cost i taken as the purchase price together with
costs of acquisition andimprovements. attributable administrative costs
and interest costs incurred, including related development and
‘administrative costs and interest payable.

‘The Group capitalises expenditure on housing properties which results in
aninerease in either the existing use vatue ofthe property or the disposat
value ofthe property.

tnvestment propeities
Properties held ar rentatincome or capital appreciation that are not eld
‘primarily forthe provision of socal benefit are heldasinvesiment
‘ropertes at fair value, wth changes to ai value recognisedin the
statement of comprehensive income.

band
Landis stated at lower of cast orits recoverable amount. Land
purchasedor the development af properties which re planned tobe
subsequently owned and managed by the Groups recordedin hsusing
properties. Land purchased for the development of properties tobe sold
isheldwithin stock incurrent assets,

Other fixed onsets
Other fed assets are recognised intially at cost and subsequently held
atthe lower of depreciated ost or its recoverable amount.

Depreciation
Fixed assets, other than freehold land andinvestment properties,
are depreciated at rates calculated to reduce thenet book value
‘ofeach component element tits estimated esidual value, on 9
straight ine basis ver the expected remaining useful economic life
‘ofthe component. Freehold land is not depreciate, The estimated
lives of assets and components is as shown in he table below.

Fixod asset investments
External investments ond investmentin related undertakings

External investments andinvestments in group undertakings are
measured atcost. An annual review is carried out by management to
‘assess ifthece are any riggers thal wouldleadtoan impairment review.
Inthe event ef any impairment, the investmentis measured the lower
ofits recoverable amount or its value in use, Investmentsin joint
ventures are recognised initially al cost and subsequently measured
Using the equity method.

Investment Properties
Properties hed for rental incorne or capital appreciation that are rot
held primarily forthe provision of social benefit areheld as investment
properties at air value, with changes to fair value recognisedinthe
statement of comprehensive income.

‘Assots

Rented housing and commercial proper

Kitchens 2
Bathrooms 7 coy

Botters 5

External windows and doors »

Roots “s

Fire safety systems cry

Fencing 0

Digital TV aerials 0

is . eB

Social alarms From 20-40
‘Surveys 5-15

Solar panels is |
Sprinklers.” 2

Heating 5

Equipment and urniture 5

Atectricals x

cctv 0

Adaptations 0

Parking spaces/garages 50

Initial and replacement scheme assets From1-5

Other elements (new bute) 400-125

(Other elements rehab) 0

Lesser of term of ea

Other elements leasehold)

or years
Shared ownership housing: :
Aletrents ew bu) as
Aelments ba 3s
Lesser of rm iene
stetments essen oa
Other feed sete
ess tw v0
Offices (rehab) + 80
oe efursemant From 10-20
ices ong easel) sii

Offices (short leasehold) Terms oflease
Plant and equipment 5
Carsandcommercal vehicles 5 .

Computer hardware, sofware andinfrastrucure From’3~ 15

Notes to the financial statements

Fortheyenr ening 2! March 2026

1. Principal accounting policies (continued)

Stock —*
Properties purchased for improvement forsale are treated as current
assets and all other housing properties are treated 2s tangible fixed
assets. Properties held as current assets are stated atthe lower ofcost
and estimated seling priceless costs to complete and ell.

Stock includes land and property hetd with the intention to sel including
‘assels under construction and those purchasedtforimpraement prior to
sale. Stockisstatedat the lawer of cost and estimated seling priceless
costs to complete and sll with any provisions being charged to cost of
sales, The cost of stocks the purchase price together with costs of
acquisition and attributable overhead casts.

Allland and property held within stocks subject to regular appratsalto
confrrn the assets are recoverable least atthe carrying valu.

Included within stock are anaunts in respect ofthe expected percentage
‘of sales under fist tranche disposal for shared ownership properties.
Proceeds from first iranche disposals are recognised in turnover. The
Lnsoid equity 6 shared ownership properties is recognised within
housing properties.

Intangible assets comprise goodwill and other intangible assets,

Goodwill represents the excess ofthe cost ofan acquisition over the fair
value of thenetidenifable assets and iabililes ofthe acquired business
‘or company at the date of acquisition. oodwillas no residual value and
the faite useful life of goodwill assessed onan individual basis for each
acquisition, taking into consideration the remaining usetul tile of
significant tangible assets heldby the acquired enity andthe planned use
‘of those assets over ther ite, Gondwills then amortised ona staight-
line basis over the course of the respective asset's useful ie. The Group
‘eviews the amarlisation period and method when events and
circumstances indicate thatthe useful ife may have changed since the
last reporting date,

Intengible assets, other than goodwill include expenditure onthe setup
of ivestment funds less accumulated amortization and accurulated
impairment losses. Intangible assets with o fit life are amarised on 8
‘steaight-ine basis over their expected useul lives, which range fromlen
ta thity years and are determined onacase-by-case basis according to
the period over which the expected benefits associated with hose assets
‘are expected tobe realised. Impairment reviews are undertaken amnually
‘onall intangible assets.

‘Goodwil and other intangible assets ae tested for impairment in
accordance with FRS 102 Section 27 (Impairment of assets) when there is
‘anindication that goodwill may be Impaired.

Impairment
Animpairment reviewis undertaken when tere isan indication the
asset may be impaired. Il assets are found tobe impaired, the amount of
impairmentis dsclosedin Note 3.

‘When undertaking impairment reviews to assess whether assets or cash
_generating units are held at the lower of cost arreceverable amount,
recoverable amount is defined as is value in use, Recoverable amaunt is
normally assessed using ciscounted ash flow techniques forall
‘anticipated cash flows to generate anet present value.

Costs are assigned toallschemes'on detailed bass, including mined
tenure schemes,

‘The Group defines cash generating units as housing developments exc
‘where its developments are nat suficienty large enough in size anditis
‘mace appropriate to consider individual assets. This approach supports
eflecive appraisal of housing schemes a it aligns with the management
and operation of the business.

Long term contracts,
{Long term contracisare stated at cost plus attributable proft after
providing for anticipated uture tosses and contingencies. Progress
symenis received are deducted trom these amounts. Cost includes
appropriate attributable overheads. Long term contract workin progress,
‘included in debtors as capital debior.

Cash retentions relating lo Customers and contractors are recognised,”
Within debtors andereditors respectively, nine with the termsandstage
‘ofthe relevant contract. Cost accruals for works completed but nat yet
invoiced by suppliers andcosts estimated for detect remediation are
recognised inline with proft recognition onthe project and held until
‘aetualeasisare incurred, this is included in creditors as capital
development crediors,

‘Sotial Housing Grant and Other Capital Grant
Government grants are included within ereitorsin the statement

‘of Financial position and redited to the statement of comprehensive
income ove the expected uselul ves ofthe assetsto which they

‘elateor in periodsin which he related costs areincurred.

\When Socal Housing Grant (SHG) in respect of housing properties
inthe course of construction exceeds the total costto date of hose
housing properties, theexcess is shownas acurrentliablity.

Where SHG or other grants are retained fellowing the disposal of
‘rope. itis shown under the Recycted Capital Grant Funds within,
creditors. These funds wil be used forthe provision of new social
housing for rent and sale and become repayable funutilsed.

Concessionary Loans
‘The Group has. a HemeBuy arrangement whichis considered to bea
concessionary toan. :

Under the HomeBuy scheme, the Group receives HomeBuy grant
‘representing a percentage of the open market purchase price of @
property in arder to advance inerest free loans to a homebuyer. The

3ns advanced by the Group meet he defntien of concessionary loans
_andare shown as Equity Loansin fixed asset investments onthe
statement of nancial postion, Equity Loans aso include loans that
‘charge interes at below market rate. These are provided by the Group to
‘homeowners under similar schemes. The HomeBuy grant providedby
the Government 1ofund all or part of a HomeBuy loans classified as
HomeBuy Grant incregitors due in more than one year.

Financial Instruments
Tre Group has elected io apply the recognition and measurement
provisions of ternational Accounting Standard 39 as allawed by FRS 102,
sections 1! and 12, Financial instruments are nitally recorded at fair
value. Subsequent measurement depends on the designation ofthe
instrument as follows:

— Debt service reserves heldin trust as securily against debt holdings
‘are categorised as held-lo-maturity and measured at amorlsed cost
‘Using the ofective interest method.

— Loans and mortgages receivable are categorised as toans and
receivables and measured at amartised cost using the effective
interest method.

= Amounts recoverable on lang term contracts areincluded with
debtors.

= Other assets, including trade investments and joint venture
investments and assets that are short-term in nature such ascash
and receivables are predominantly categorised as loans and
receivables and measured al amortised cost using the effect
interest method.

— Discounted bonds are shown at heir redemplion valueless deferred
interest, Deferred interest represents the discount on theissue ofthe
4iscounted bonds. Discounts are recognisedin the statement of
comprehensive income on an efective yield basi

‘verezoz wodayjenuy

181


182

3D Annvat Report 2020726

Notes to the financial statements

yearend 3 March 202%

1 Principel accounting policies (continued)

— Derivatives, comprising interest rate and currency swaps, areheld at
fair value. Where adervative francialinstrument is designsied as.
hedge ofthe variabltyincash flows of arecognised asset or liailty.
‘or ahighly probable forecast transaction, the elective part of any gain
‘of lors.on the derivative fnancal instrument is recognised directly in
reserves. Any ineflective portion ofthe hedge i recognised
‘immediatly in the statement of comprehensive income account.
‘Changesin the fairvalueo! derivatives that are designated and quality
2s fairvalue hedges are recorded inthe statement of comprehensive
income immediately. together with any changesinthe air value ofthe
‘hedged iter that is attributable tothe hedged risk, The associated
‘cumulative gain or less is remaved rom equity and recognised inthe
‘statement of comprehensive income account in he same period or
periods during which the hedged forecast transaction affects proft or
loss.

— The cost of raising fnancois amortised over the period ofthe
associated financial instrument. The deferred costisofset against
‘the liability reeognisedin the statement of nancial position.

= Financial liSiities are predominantly measured at amortised cost
sng the efective interest method.

Te eflectve interest rate includes interest and all directly attributable
Incremental fees and costs.

Derivatives require fair value measurement each year and consequently
‘they are subject o ealegorisation under theierarchy appreach.

{Cosh and cash equivalents inthe statement of fnancial postionare items
{that mature or are convertible within three months ortess, The Groups
required to set aside sums in espect of ture maintenance afartsin
properties subject to leasehold arrangements. These sumsare eldina
‘separate bank account which interes is added and tax deducted.
‘Amounts accumulated inthe fund are included within current asset
‘investments and within creditors in the statement of frarcial position,

‘Otner debtors, including tenant arrears, and creditors with notated
Interest rate and receivable or payable within oneyear are recarded at
‘ransaction price. Any losses arising rom impairment are recognised in
‘the statement of comprehensive income.

Foreign Currency
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded using the rate of

exchange ruling atthe date of the transactions. Monetary assets and

Uiablities denominated in foreign currencies are translated a the rate of
‘exchange ruling a the statement of nancial position date and gains or
losses on translation are includedin the statement af comprehensive
income.

Leases
‘The Group classifies nance eases as those where he risk and wordt
‘iwnership of he eased asset has transferred tothe Group. Other leases.
are classified as operating leases.

‘Assets obiained under fnance leases are capitalised os tangible fixed
assets and depreciated over the shorter ofthe ease termand their
economic useful lives. ligatiohs under finance leases are included in
‘ereditors net of he nance charge allocated to future periods. The finance
‘element of the rental is charged the statement of comprehensive
income using the elective interest rate method.

Costs.in respect of operating leases are charged tothe statement of
‘comprehensiveincerne ana straight ine basis over the lease term.
Income in respect of operating leases where the Groupis theless
recognised inthe statement of ampreheasive income ona straight tine
basis over the tease term, ceduced bythe cost of any lease incentives.

Restricted Roserves
‘The Group has a reserve whichis only expendable in accordance withthe
‘wishes othe funder, Thetransterstafrom resirited eserves are
shown in other comprehensive income.

Operating segments
FRS 102 requires entities with publicly raded debt to apply the reporting
requirements (FRS 8 Operating Segments. The Group consider the Group
‘Board tobe the chet operating decision maker ((COOM) a defined by
IFRS 8. Theinformation in these financial statemenis and accompanying
notes, that hes been produced in line withthe requirements of the
‘Accounting Direction or Private Registered Providers 202:

internal reporting presented tothe CODM for management a
purposes.

Notes 2 and 3 present segmentalinformation an income and expenditure
for the diferng operations ofthe Group. The CODM donot ceview
disaggregated fnancial information in respact of assets ond bil
thsi not presentedin these financial statements.

Early repayment of fixed interest rato debt
for embedded fixed rates within debt

‘When the Group ether repays fied rate deb or breaks an embedded
fixed rate within dobt before the original schedule of payments has.
completed, itconsiders whether ar nat such paymentshave caused a
‘substantial modification by considering qualitative ests and quantitative
tests as roquired Ifitis assessed that there has been a substantial
‘modification aay gain or lossis recognised immediately inthe income .
‘Statement, Where consideration a he tests indicates that there isnot 2
‘substantial modification then any gainorlossis recognised over the =
‘emaining life of the deb atthe point of repayment/breakage using the
‘efletive interest method.

Notes to the financial statements

02%

Fer the year onding 2! March

2 Turnover, cost of sales, oper

ing costs and operating profit,

2026
Turnover Costof sales Operating oiner operating
costs operatingitems profit
tm tm tm em tm
Soctat housing lettings (note 3) 4566 - 2095) - 6s.
‘ther socat housing activities
Social heusing property sates 59 oo 02) - 19
Shared cwnershp property sales 203 26.0) as) = 23
‘Charges fo support services 29 = ea) - as
omer - = = = =
(ara) a7.) = 1700
Non-soclal housing activities ra) - aay
Cessation of defndd benefit pension scheme H 7
(Mote 27) = = 7
my 15925) - wwr2
Surplus onsale of fixed assets (nete'4) -" - - as ns
Gain on revaluation of Investment properties
(ete 15) 5 = = = 10, 10.4
Total e314 my (925) 439 ana
223
Turnover Coste sales Operating costs Other Operating
operingiioms ———_ prfitlss)
tm tm tm im fm
Sociotnousing Lettings (ote 3) ano - 2039) - wn
‘Other soisthousingativites
+ Socathousing propery sales 70 a on - 28
Shared ownership property sles n7 ise) a2) = 17
Charges for suppor services : 30 - ea = a6
other 7 : : = "
war ory 218) - ms
NNon-social housing activites i069 «8.2, 105) - i)
Cessation of defined beneft pension scheme 7 7 7 na
‘ote 25) =
8198 oy 6838 - 1808
‘Surplus on sae of fed assets (ote) - - - 187 187
Gainon evaluation ol mvestment properties
(oote 5) 7 = = ny ny
Total 2196 fae) 50) 3 vag
Analysis of turnover 2026 02
=m em
Social housing turnover or uaa7
Non-social housing ectivities
Non-social housing development a7 1s
Leisure acities mangement 1530 139
Property management services 738 700
Non-scial housing tings za ne
Non-scialconsirvtian services a “3
other 135 12
Total a1 fy

yziezaz wodoyyeruuy


154

Annual Report 2023/26

Notes to the financial statements

Forthe year ending 31 March 2028

‘3 Income and expenditure from social housing lettings

2026 2023
Supported
Gonorot housing & © Low Cost
needs housing for Home .
housing older people Ownership Other Total Total
fm fm fm fm fm Em
Income .
Ront receivable net of entitiable service charges. 290.9 399 48 29 ans 3368
Service charge income + ne 237 4a 16 90 399
Revenue grant ba - - - 03 08
‘Amortised government grants 16.0 20 4a 03 = 225 226
Other income Ld og 1a os 10.2 na
‘Turnover from social housing lettings. 3347 66.5 262 24 656.5 ano
Expenditure on scclat housing lettings
‘etiviti -
Management (56.6) (4.0) aon
Servicechargecosts * G08) en (2.0) (69.6)
Routine maintenance * an) a2) ae (86.5)
Planned maintenance 03.3) (os) (0.8) 79)
‘Major repairs expenditure (10.0) (0.2) on an
Baddebts (2.9) (0.2) (0.8) ay!
Depreciation on) (0.3). 19} (62.7)
Impairment . - - - - -
Other costs (0.8) 10.9) 0.1) a)
T
Operating costs on social housing lettings (209.1) (50.0) (12.0) (289.4)
165.1 62h
(0.9) 79) co)

Notes to the financial statements

For theyear ening 21 March 202%
4 Group profit onsale of fixed assets

Sale ofhousing assets
Sale of ixedassetinvestments
Total

Sale ofhousing assets
Sale of fxedassetinvestments
Sale of other fixed assets

Total

5 Directors’ emoluments

‘The Group s administered by aboard of directors. The directors received remuneration as set out below.

‘Aggregate emoluments (excluding pension contributions):

Non-executive directors
Executive directors

Pension conributions:
Executivedreciors

Total remuneration

‘The numberof executive directors who received emolumenisin the following ranges was:

£300,000 - £209,999
£260,000 - £369999,
£390,000 -£399:999
£440,000 - £649,999
£450,000 - £659,999
£490,000 - £49999
570,000 - 579999
£600,000 - £609.99

2028
Sola proceeds Cost of antes Other sales, Surplus/
expenses loss)

fm stm tm em

109.0 «72s) (2.0) 35
265 (23.9) (0.0) =

1358 (99.8) ao 335

> 2023

Sate proceeds. Costotsales Other sales Surplus!
expenses loss)

tm fm Em: fm

359 193) os us
nar 106.5) an 4s
6a = 6),
as (129.4) 69 187

Group Group

2026 2023,

fm fm

03 03

cr wa

7 ot

w 21

2026 2023

No. No,

- 1

1 4

1 a

vesezaz vedeyjenuuy

155

186

D Annuat Report 2023/24

Notes to the financial statements

Fortheyear ending 31 March 2026

5 Directors’ emoluments (continued)

‘Agoregate emoluments are atributedto executive : Group Group
directors. follows: 2026 2023,
Salary Bonus Benefits Totat Total
e000 £000 000 e000 000
‘Bleck 34 104 2 450 453
Reed us 16 5 586 408
AWinstanley mn o a m 36
OMartiott-Lavery Resigned 6 August 2022 - - - 7 12
TWeightman _ Resigned 8September 2022 = = = - us
1,060 “327 2 1407 1667

‘The Group Chel Executive Olicer,G Reedis thehighest paid director as disclosed above.
Pension contributions are attributed to executive directors as follows: 2026 2083
eee e000 000
SBlack ’ 4
Greed ‘ 4
AWinstantey 2 2
OMarriou-Lavery Resigned August 2022 - ”
TWeightman ~ Resigned September 2022 = 0
7 53
‘Agaregate emoluments are attributed tonon-executive directors as follows: 2026 2023
Salary Expenses Total
000 £000 e000 £000
RGregory (Chair) a8 3 ” 8
Cartwright : a 7 ery Fo
ADaniet 30 - 30 Fd
Moun 35 - 35 3
RFian ” 3 ao 1%
GKitchen 38 - 35 FS
GWaddell : %. - 3 2
HFridell Resigned 30 June 2022 - - = 7
NHopkins Resigned 30 September 2022 - = = 2
2 B 304 320

Notes to the financial statements

Fer theyear ening 21 March 202%

5 Employoeintormation

Average number of employees Group Group Company
: 2024 2023 2026 2023

No. No. No. No.

‘Managing housing services 3.200 2,866 364 132
Developing and seling houses 266 ced ve 207
Central administration services ™ 60 “16 582
care services 7 ” 35 - -
Leisure service activities 6,385 6.410 - -
{ors 10.4673 1.018 01

‘Average number of full-time equ Group Group Company Company
2026 2023 2024 2023

No. No. No. No.

Managing housing services. 3,038 art 388 132
Developing and sellinghouses 259 29 7% 206
Central administration services . 748 ez 462 sar
Care services % ne - =
Leisure service activities 4.925 1870 - -
3937 5.166 993 885

‘Average number of employeesis calculated by ascertaining lor each calendar monthin the financial year, the number of persons bycategory.
‘employed bythe Group. The monthly bers are then added together and divided by the umber of months inthe financial year,

2026 ; 2023 2026 2023
‘Staff costs lor the above persons): tm fm &m Em
Wages and salaries 202.0" 206.0 6 485
Severance pay 09 u 03 02
Social security costs 221 93 73 58
Pension payments 178 M2 1 52
2028° 2408 wa 597

‘taf casts lor the non-executive members of the board):
Wages and salaries os os - -
os 05, - 7

Remuneration banding for key management personnelis disclosed below, whichis eons

rod by the Places fer People Group tobe members ofthe

‘Group management team responsible forthe management ofthe Group's Registered Providers. Analysis othe executive directarsisdisclosedinnote.

110.000 £118,999
£120,000-£128,999
£130,000- £19899
£150,000 £159,999
£140,000- £169,999
170.000 -£172999
£180,000 £18999
£200,000 £209,999
4£210,000-£219999
£220,000 -£229,999 ,
£250,000 - £258,999
£260,000 - £269,999
£280,000 -£269999
300,000 -£309,999°
£330,000 -£338999

2023
No,

vzrezoe uodey yeruvy

Annual Report 2023726

Notes to the financial statements

Forthe year ending 3) March 2026

7, Interest roct

(On financial assets not at fair value through the statement Group Group Company Company
cof comprehensive income:
2026 2023 2026 2923
fm fm fm
Interest onfixedasset investments Ww - -
Dividend received 26 - -
Other interest receivabe from deposits 18 = a
‘Share of join ventures intérest receivable and other income 05 - -
im 65 - -
8 Interest payable and similar charges
‘On financiat liabities nota fir vatue through the statement
cof comprehensive income:
Group Group Company
= 2026 2023 2024
fm Em fm
Bank loans and overdrafts ms 1363 we
Finance charges on hire purchase or lease agreements 15.0 02 - -
Inrespect of Reeycted Capital Grant Fund wy uw - S
8.0 1372 Ww ou
Ondetined benefit pension scheme:
Expected return on pension assets, «nay 2) - -
Interest on scheme lai 3 8 - -
“on on - -
Gain on debi breakage (26.8) 45.2) - -
‘Share of joint ventures interest payable and similar charges 10 05 - =
Less: capitalised interest (9.2) 6 = =
1554 867 w ou

(0n 20 April 2024 the association broke the embedded fixed rate within a£60:95m long-dated legacy Secured oan. Historically this had been expensive
tobrealebut due to increasing interest ratesil Became economical to do 0. This is consistent with the Group's strategy of refinancing secured debt abit
‘moves towards unsecured funding. The association held apravision against the cost of ths oan which rsuitedin anet gain on breakage of £24,8m for
‘the year ended 31 March 2024, On 13 October 2022 the Group broke the embedded fice rate within a £100rtong-dated legacy secured loan. The Grcup
hha previously provided against the cost ofthis loan which resulted ina gain on breakage of £5.2m forthe year ended 31 March 2023. The Company

Interest payable and similar charges of 17m are

9 Profit onordinary activities beforetaxation Notes Gro
2026
Profit on ordinary activities belore taxation a
is tatedalter charging:
Depreciation and impairment
Tangible fixed assets 13M 51.0
Amortsation of intangible assets 2 13
(Loss profit an disposal of tangible fied assets
other than housing assets a
Impairment of fixed asset investments =
Payments under operating leases:
Housing properties ry
Motor vehicles 63
‘ther operating leases 13
Hire ot equipment oa,

‘Auditor's remuneration:
Intheir capacity as auditor

‘Auditor's remuneration in respect of nan-auelt services was £68k (2023-ail)

Group
2023

fm

550
2a

6o)
~ bt

7
$3
10
03

a

Company
2026

tm

to Places for People Homes Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Places for Peopte Group Lid.

Company
2023

tm

a1

Notes to the financial statements
Foctheyearending 2 March 2024

10 Taxon profit on ordinary activities

(0) Analysis of charge In period
Tax on profit on ordinary activities

United Kingdom corporation tax

‘Adjustments to tax charge inrespect of prior periods

Origination and reversal of timing diferences
Adjustments o delerred taxinrespecto! prior periods

Total tax charge
‘Share of tax charge injoint ventures
Total tax charge including share of join ventures,

(8) Tox expense included in other comprehensive income.
Deferred Tax
(rigination and eeversal of timing diferences,

(€) Factors affecting tax charge far period
‘The tax assessed ediflerent than the standard rate of corporation toxin the UK of 25% (2023: 199).

‘The dtferences are explained below:

Taxable Group profit

Profi en ordinary activities mutipliod by the standard rate of corporation tax inthe UK of 25% (2023: 19%)
Fixed asset diferences

Expenses not deductible/income not taxable)

Losses carried Back

Chargeable gains .

Moverentin unrecognised deferred tax

Rate diference

‘Adjustments to tax chargeinrespect of prior periods

‘Other movements :

Deduction for Git aid

‘Tax on profit on ordinary activities (note 10a)

Group

16

860
au
0)
(29.0)
2

10.4

Group
2023,

4s
30)

10.2)
12

0)

23)

75}

as
189
aa
088)
a
1s
68
es)
a

0

75)

vrarezoe wodoy yonuey

189


Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements

7 *
10 Taxon proton ocdinary ativitios conned) ; 41 Statement of cash ows i
i 3
|
(erates that may at tree ear wes me mg
araanrn attest torterestaaren te 20% theft ram apr 202, Tietangelnrecee the cgay pcre st 7 pane |
Dungenccrdngy sodtoalarered ors beanenadatedunngihelnereserae ol dete cespecedreerilel trex ASIPTANSO Sa PSERCEMINIOEAN 5
ouvtay. aN
Priore yer tos 00
‘Theuhasenacedsewleislatnto implemen he ECDs Por Two metres. Under hes es, ato-ta nly arses whee efectne bob Hd Une HERE EEEE SESH SEREEREEEDS RSH SEREEEEEEEEEE
tax ate ofthe Group's operations in a jurisdiction, calculated using principles 2et outin the Pillar Two legislation is below 15%. Since the nevty enacted neal roi or he yor Chae inion
tax legislation is only effective from | January 2024, there is no current tax impact for the year ended 31 March 2024. Further, the Group has assessed Depreciation and impairment of fixedassets 136 51.0 ri mm
the expectedimpact ofthese rules and concluded that no material top-up tax exposure is expected to arise inthe period ended 31 March 2025, Amortisation of grants. . (22.6) 2a)
— continues to monitor the position, m lage (Profit)/toss from investment in joint ventures: 1s (0.2)
up ad Prettss abl non<onvaig interests is 3
= ace Amorisatonoitngblefied ose a a
7 7 ‘Appreciation of fixed asset invesiments - (0.9) 1.0)
ee eer ee {Loss}/gain on revaluation of investment properties (10.8) 65
Foeed asset timing diferences 1m 89 files see _ a a
Other short-term timing differences 5 15.0 59 . 7
Cerneecrensln debors an ws
Tarlessesincludngeagoraeinerestesriton «0s os
Aeereasveereas nade adobe creas ora a
imac andenincyiwap aight compete eae eo 0 Lonmmenirannuinnh in na
Pension through other comprehensive income at czy 05 maa 1 7
ae eeeee eee eee Peso agutnen 1) as
E - businesscantnans % ina) 7
‘Interest payable* + 1541 867
(Debtortiprovision at 1 April =P 7 Interest receivable (8.2) (65)
tect ofa change on pero loce 7 - joer q oe ot
~ | = expeneinthe yarn saumotalcompntanc eames = Seeseerea oem
= ie ia Ce 924
Eapenselntbeyearinstatemenol comprehen lacome inter comprehensive income =
go __-Mdismensinespecel eps cher comrcenie cone z
Cash Aegltonat nat aren
Provnlon a 31 March a 25% (2025: 25%) (ote 21) : - au apeiaeas ow Sa nae
sat Anaya of ehangen nit det tn tn tn tm
‘hc sin dae nae of 40642027960 hich aso ben recede toanogtrentnt expecting reveatin he :
foreseeable future, This deferred tax asset is in relation to accumulated corporate interest resiriction deductions that donot expire, Cash and cash equivalents ane aint (oy ia ad
tates
7 Debt due within one year 93.0 (190.5) 15.2 209.4 136.8
Orbe die ater one suse wing ia eons) sss
: 33862 ms 302 ua sam
rot aa m3 30 a 3897

D Anal Report 2023/26


Notes to the financial statements 5 7 Notes to the financial statements
12 Intangibles * 43 Housing proportiog
amie st ‘Housing ownership. properti properties in
= Lad = properties: the course of ‘the course of Totat housing
Pa te
At April 2023 35, 47 a2 fm im
‘Additions in year” Py 1s - 1s aan :
Vuananaenny es 7 - i 5 236.2 71 343.9
Amortisation charged in year 40.7) 0.6) 1.3) oui i Saal be A
‘Total Intangibles at 31 March 2024 43 4a. ah ‘Change oftenure 5 . Com oy 28 a 226
Tonteeconpeetscenes nias ws 10a won =
‘The table below sets out how the additional goodwill has been calculated: — ae 493) (62.0) {e1.6)
Housing Depreciation
pepe ens so - ar)
CI Lal Charge for year a
Goodwit | ’ Depreciation (36.6) - - - (36.6)
ee ————— Eliminated on disposal
Impairment 7 we - = = Ww
‘Useful life in years (the period over which goodwill will be amortised on a straight-line basis). “eo “At 31 March 2024, (599.6) 14.1) a ina 613.7)
a . eames Speman :
sinh onge ton toys . ‘ sana jose
Income and expenditure in Rosewood between acquisition and the reporting date are not materiat and have not been included in the Statement of ‘Net book value at 1 April 2023 3031 157.0 sm 4505.8
Conpetense home oie Sener changes nesene SaeaeeaateancaraaD
\sedenaes tease schnestr te er
m0 a
m t
Fad agua
, Longleasehold 593.9”

Shortleasehold

55386

‘Additions to housing properties in the caurse af construction during the year include an apportionment of staf time directly spent on the
administration of development activities améunting to £15.2m (2023: £11.8m).

Expenditure on major works to existing properties during the year was £98.0m,2023: £64.4er,

‘Adéiions te housing properties inthe course of construction during th year

sda capitalised interest of £9.2rn (2023: £44,

Themarket value subject to tenancies af the Groups housing properties at 31 March 2023 was E7,220m (2022: £6152).

rerezar voday yeowry Ip


164

SD Arouat Report 2023/26

Notes to the financial statements

Forihe year ending 3 March 2026

14 Group othor fixed assets

cost
‘AL Aprit2023
Additions”
Change of tenure
Disposals

AL 31 Moreh 2028

Depreciation
‘At Aprit 2023

Charge foryear
Change cfienure
‘timinatedon disposal
(A431 March 2026
Impairment

‘At April 2023
Eliminated on disposal

‘AL31 March 2024

Not book valve at
31 Mareh 2024

Net book value at
April 2023

Commercial and ofice

Plant end
Motor Computer Freehold Long Short and

vehicles offices lensehold —teasehold —_Fitings Total

Em tm Em tm fm em

13 55 53 2 165 a 40 ‘ea

06 o7 192 08 09 43 59 sea

- - - (0.4) - - - (0.8)

- = (0.9 0s - ea co) 4)

Ww 62 14.2 3g 124 329 364 240.6

re) ro) 2.8) eo, ao 1190) (12. (70.5)

- oe an 0s os) 23) eo (14.8)

= - 03 = - 29 98 30

a) 6.6) 05.5) (3.6) a9) (18.6) (24.4) 2)

- - - (0. (os) (08) - sy

a - - - - 3 - 03

- = - (0.8) 03) (0.3) = (1.2)

oe 16 70.7 Ad 13.0 140 wy 147.

- 1s 667 207 126 cs 89 1307

Notes to the financial statements

Fer theyenr ending 31 March 202%

18 Fixed assets invostmonts

Exernal investments andinvestment in related undertakings (@)
Investment property)

Total fixed asset investments

{@) External investments and investment
Inrelated undertakings

Cost at 1 April

Cost at 31 March

Accumulated:

paiement at April
Provisionraisedinthe year

ALY March

Net book value at 31 March

Debs Service Reserves,
GraceGilet Trust

Other external investments
Invebtment n associates
Investment in related undortaki
Investment i joint venture undertakings

Group Group Company Company
2026 ~ 2023 2026 2023
Em “tm tm Em
1581 490 02 02.
465.1 428.2 - =
623.2 5972 02 oz
Group Group Company ‘Company
2028 2023 2024 2023
fm Em fm fm
105.3 1027 02 02
14.4 1853 02 02
(6) 2 - 2
= 16.) - S
16.) 63) - -
1490 02 02

25 uo

02 - -

45 407 - -
10.0 m0 - a
a - 02 02
93.3 006 - a
150.1 1490 02 02

Investments in a Debt Servicing Reserve are heldin trust forthe Asseciation by the Prudential Trustee Company as security against the 6.625%
Eurobond 2038. The reserves equate tone year’s payment a interest andprincipal.

Te Grace Gillett Trust resulted from a tegacy left to support the residents of a scheme in Bristol

‘Altinvestments have been reviewed for impairment and noingaciors of impairment have been iertfied atthe reporting date,

verezor iodsuyensuy Ip

165


166

D Annual Report 2023/26

Notes to the financial statements

Foriho year eding 31 March 2625

1 Fixed assote — investments (continued)

(8) Investment proportion

ALY Aprit2023
Additions
Change ofenure
Revaluatianin year
Disposals

AL 31 Mareh 2024

1 Equity loans

Gross valuation
AL Apeit
‘Adéitionsin year

[Net oppreciationinyear
Disposatsinyear

‘ALI March

Other associat
‘ALT April
[Net appreciationin year

abilities

Disposatsin year

AU March

Net book value at 31 March

fm
426.2
as
7 1
104
26.0)
485.1
Group * Group Company Company
2026 2023 2026 2023
Em, fm Em fm
ns mm
ny us
15 1
= 3s oe
ng ns.

Notes to the financial statements
Fortheyear ending March 7024

17 Stock
Group Group ‘Company
2026 2023 2023
fm
Land 130.8 wrt -
Propertiosin construction 202.8 11a - -
‘Completed properties 6 a9 - -
‘oer aa 27 - =
a3 3831 - -
18 Debtors: amounts falling duo after more then one year
“ Group Group Group Group
2026 2023 2026 2023
em em tm fm
Derivative financiat instruments held to manage the interest rate
profileandcurrency risk 172 235 - =
Revaluation of freign currency denominated debt 288 27 - a
Mortgages 08 10 - _
438 22 - 4}
1 Debtors: smounts falling due within one yeor
Group Group Company Company
2026 ‘2023 2026 2023
Em im Em Em
Rental debtors . 28 2s - _
Less: Provision for bad and daubifuldebts 5.8) On) = =
118 8 - =
Other trade debtors 4a 3a0 os
Revaluation of foreigncurrency denominated debt ay 05) - -
Other taxes 02 - - -
Corporation tax 54 3M - -
Capial debtors 20a 7 - =
Derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate aa ia a 7
profile andeurrency risk i i
‘Amounts due from joint ventures undertakings os u - 7
Prepayments and accrued income 506 126 108 43
Sundry debtors 8 ou 13 86
Loans to employees 07 Los 02 - on
160.8 1238 22.8 A138

gerezor odo yenuuy 2p

167


SD Anowal Report 2023/26

Notes to the financial statements

Forthe year ening 3 March 2028,

20 Curront asset investments

Cash held as security,

: emounts felling due within one yoar

Housing andbank oans principal payable within one year
Debentures/stocks principal payable withinone year
Discount enbond issue

Derivative financial instrumentsheld tornanage he interest rate profile
‘and currency risk 7

Obligations under finance leases

(Other financiat abilities:
Interest on housing loans
Payments eceived on account
Prepaid rent

Other taxes

Capital development creditor
Trade creditors

Accruals

Other creditors

Deferred government grant
Recycled Copia! Grant Fund (note 23)

Group Group Company Company
2026 2023 2026 2023
fm fm em fm
1 a8 - =
Group Group Company Company
Restated
2026 2023 2028 2023
em fm tm em
1318 28 - -
4a 663 = ae
on 65) - -
Ww - - as
34 26 - =
136. 0 a ae
576 “05: 06 02
us oz -
ns 109 - -
ss 2 os 5.
rey us - -
2 na = 03
96.8 8 66 38
253 cory 19.0 oa]
219 20 - =
6s a _ =
440.2 3540 269 m9

Notes to the financial statements
For theyearening i March 2024
22 Creditor

: amounts falling due after more than one year *

Group Group Company Company
Réstated*
2026 2023 2026 2023
fm fm tm &m
Debt
Housing andbank loans 780 16317 - -
Debenture stock/bonds 1,580.2 waleg - -
Discounton bandissue ae), 23.3) - -
(Obtigations under finance leases 208.8 203 - -
Shareholdefloans 10 - - =
erie anita hat manag ieee mee vs a is
3,562.6 3.2632 - -
Other financial ibitties
Recycled Capital Grant Fund (note 23) 436 - -
Deferred government grant 13605 - -
Fairvalue of breakage costs - a - o
HomeGuy grant 305 a - -
5,107.4 4a = mi

(On i October 2022 the Group repaid the embedded fixed rate within a £100m long-dated secured loan which resulted in againot £4S.2m, The loan
was recognised as part ofa previous merger and an adjustment had been made to recognise its fir value. On 20 Octaber 2022 he Group repaid the
embedded fixed rate within a £60.95mlong-dated secured loan, The loan has aso been recognised as pat of aprevious merger and an adjustment
ha also been made to recognise is fair value. n addition, on 26 May 2023 the Group repaid afxed rate tong-term secured oan which also had fair
value adusiment recognised in respect ofthis merger. During the year ended 31 March 22, these repayments resultedina ganof £24 8m

(21 March 2023 £45.27.

(0n29 November 2023 the Group issued a unsecured sustainably bond witha nominal value and proceeds of £500m (ital discount £0.53), witha
term of years and couponrate of 4.25%, ol the Group's Euro Medium-Term Note EMTN) programme and from the sustainable finance framework

7 Restated
Analysis of debt and other financial libilties 2026 2023
‘These are repayable as follows: em fm
Inone year‘or tess. 1366 v0
Ingne year or mare but ess than two years v3.6 3681
Intwo years r more but less than five years 1095.3, 104s
In five years or more
By instalments 4208 5663
[Not by instalments : 19789 hzm3
Total more than one year 3562.6 32632

3.3562

‘The totalvatue ofthe loans subject to a guarantee is £75.0m (2023: £75.0m) .

{Allsecured loans are supported by specie charges on the Group's hausing properties and are repayableat varying rates of interest from, 3.81%
11.95%, in instalments.

Included within housing and bank loansis £15,3m (2073: €1

em) which relates tothe cost of debtissue.

verezoz’ueday yerusy

169

70

Annual Report 2023726

Notes to the financial statements

Forthe year ending 31 March 2028

28 Recycled capital grant fund

ALD Apri
Inputs to RCGF:

Grantrocycted
Interest accrued
Recyclingof grant: New build
Repayment of grant tothe HCA/GLA

AL 31 March

‘Amounts 3 years old or older where repayment may be required

Recycled capital grant fund in respect of Scotish subsidiaries

Total recycled capital grant fund

Homes England Greater London Authority
2028 2023 2026 2023
fm fm tm fm
a8 46 56 83
a 40 og 2
7 10 02 o
on as) - as
- - on mn)
39.2 36 56 36
28 28 1 oa
45 4
ox 339

Notes to the financial statements

For the year ending 31 March702

24 Financial instruments

Financial risk management
‘Tae Group's boardof directors has overallresponsibiity forthe,
‘establishment and oversight ofthe Groups risk management
{ramework. The board of directors has established the Audit & Risk
Committee, whichisresponsible for devetoping and monitoring the
‘Group's risk management policies, The Committee reports regulary 10
the board of directors onits actives.

‘The Group's risk management policies are established 1 identity and
‘analyse the risks faced by the Group to set appropriate risklimits and
controls, and to moritar risks andadherence tolimis, Risk management
policies and systems are reviewed regularly te reect changes inmarket
‘conditions and the Graups activities, The Group, through its raining and
‘management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined
‘and constructive control environment in which all employees understand
thelr roles and obligations.

‘The Group Aueit& Risk Committee oversees how management monitors
‘compliance with the Group's risk management policies and procedures,
‘and reviews the adequacy ofthe risk management frameworkin relation
to risks faced by the Group. The Group Audit & Rik Commitie is
‘assisted nits oversight role by Business Assurance, That team
‘undertakes both regular and adhoc reviews of risk management
controls and procedures, the results of which are reported tothe Audit &
Risk Cornmite.

‘The Group's treasury function i cespansible far the management of
funds and coniral ofthe associated risks. Is activities are governedin
_accordance with board approved policy and are subject toregular audit,
‘The function doesnot operate as a prof centre.

‘The net cath generated rom operating activites was £81.1m
(2023:£192.1m).Bankbalances and short-terminvesiments were
£12L.bmatthe year end (2023:€70.4-. In adéition to this, the Group
had further availble faites of £775m (2023: €735m) andhas
established a European Medium Term Note Programme of £1,448.3m
(2023: €278.7r) for future fundraising

Market risk
Market risk comprises interest rat risk, currency risk and other prices,

Interest rate.risk -

‘The Group’ strategy i to contaln interest rate risk within 30% ofthe loan
book, with the board exercising a strict control over derivative
transactions currently 77% of debts ether held at fixed rates ofimerest
arhedged against adverserate movements.

‘The Group managesits exposure to this risk through a mix of debt at
fixed rates of interest and interest rate hedging techniques.

Wis estimated that each quarter percent increase ininterest rates would
increase interest payable costs by £1.48m per annum.

Curroney risk
‘The Group has no overseas subsidiaries and trades onlyin sterling. The
‘Group has some deb whichis denominated inforeigncurrency. The
Group's strategyis to mitigate currency risk arising Irom foreign
‘currency denominated deb. This is achieved using cross currency
interest rate swaps. Currency eash flow exposure sflly hedged.
therefore achangein the foreign currency rate would be fully offset by
the swaps

Other price risk
‘The Groups impacted by general changes in rice levels and specifically
the Retail rice Index (RPI). Currently 7.2% athe Groups deb is linked to
ination,

[Nis estimated that each quarter percentincrease in RPlwould increase
interest payable costs by £0.17 per annumto amaximum of £3.sm due
tocaps in place.

Credit risk
Credit isk arises rom exposure tothe risk ofalossif counterparty
{ails to performs obligations tothe Group. This relates to exposures to
fancialinstitutions for investments and cash deposits place, with
corporates for edit granted the course of operations and with
indviduals fr rent receivable andlaans granted,

‘The Group's credit exposures virtually all within the United Kingdom,

‘ils the Group's maximum exposure to credit riskis best represented
by the carrying value af the individual assets, inmost cases the likely
‘exposure is far less due tothe nature ofthe debt held, credit status of
counterparties, security held and other actions laken tomitigate the risk
tothe Groupas described below

= Incespect ofinvestments and deposits placed, the Group has
established strict counterparty cred mits based on the overalllevel
ofits investment activity andthe credit quality ofthe nsttuions with
‘which investments are placed. External fund managers are employed
tomenage investment in government securities whichare held as
‘debt reserves to creéit enhance certain loan stocks; hese reserves
‘areheldat levels in excess of covenanted requirements inorder to
‘manage against the risk of short-term movements in nancial
markets,

= Inrospect of financial derivative instruments, the Group treasury
team currently performs aweekly review of he credit ratings of all
its nancial institution counterparties. The credit rsk on liquid funds
‘and derivative finaneal instruments is managed through the Group's
policies of monitoring counterparty exposure, concentration of credit
Fick though the use of multiple counterparties andthe use of
‘counterparties ot investor grade quality.

— Inrespect of individuals, tenant arrears are reported each working
day and dedicated teams are assigned tormaximise debt recovery. In
addition, mare than hall of arrears are collected directly from local
‘authorities, reducing the Group's exposure to individual tenant's
creditesk.

— Loans made to Customers to purchase Group developedhouses are
‘secured bya charge against the relevant property.

vareane votayenny 2


m

Annual Report 7023726

Notes to the financial statements

Forth yearending 3 areh 026

24 Financial instruments (continued)

Liquidity risk and refinancing exposure
Liquidity riskis the risk that the Group will encounter eitfculty inmeeting
‘the obligations associated withits financial ibites that are settled by
delivering cash or another nancial asset. The Group's approachto
‘managing iquidtyisto ensure, as far as possible, that it willalways have
suficient liquidity to meet is labities when they falldue, under both
‘normaland stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptablelasses
‘or risking damage tothe Group's reputation

Interest rate risks considered tobe a key companent ofboth market and
Uiguiiy risk,

‘The Groupisincompliance wit all ofits nancial covenants contained
within its loan documents and loan stocks trust deeds. The Greup defines
lis refinancing risk as toans which donot include some orm of
amortisation ar sinking fund.

‘The Grouputlises short-term revalving hank debt as aconsequence of
las sates programme. Currently 36.3% of debt matures within the next
Syears, including 3.836 that matures durin the next financial year.

He
Te Group hedges its curréncy isk by taking out fixed/ixed cross
‘currency interest swaps and fixed/Meating cross eureacy interest swaps
to fixthe GBP value ofboth interest and principal repayable under foreign
‘currency denominated debt. As at 31 March 2024 the Group heldnet
‘adverse erass currency interest rate swaps witha mark to market value
of £28.30.

Liquidity Risk
‘Theinterest rate risk analysis belawis considered tobe a key component
ofthe Groups liquidity risk.

‘Ageing Profite and int
For each class of meres! bearing fnancal asset and financial ability, the
following tables indicate the range of interest rates effective atthe
statement of franca postion date. the carrying amount onthe

sent of fancal position and the periods in which they reprice if
than the maturiy date. The tables take into account interest-
sets and abilities ont.

beari

‘The ageing profiles below include the impact of hedging iransactions, all
‘of which have cashflow movements intine with the impact inthe
statement of comprehensive income.

Notes to the financial statements

Fortheyear ending 2 March 7024

24 Financial instruments (continued)

‘Ageing profile and interest rate risk of financial asset

Fixed asset investments:
Fixed rate
“Amounts due ram related undertakings

Morigages andlosne

Derivative fnancilinstrumentsheldto
‘manage interest rate risk

Alt financial assets cary a fixed interest
rate unless otherwise shown,

Comparative igures as at
31 March 2023 were a fallows:

Fixed asset investments:
Foxedrate
Floating rate

“Amounts due from elated
‘undectakings

Mortgages and loans.
Derivative financial instruments held to
manage interest rat risk

Effective
Interest
rate

*

296%
5.12%

Effective
inerest
rate

%
250%
335%

4.059%

fs at 31 March 2024

Group

Tool Within, «1-2 2-3
‘amount year —=syears years == years, years
tm tm fm em em Em tm
= - = - - 9s
no = 02 02 0.4
ere no - 02 02 - 199
oe - - - - - 08
1 20 72 = 29 on
50.7 cd 20 7 02 09 20.8
Total Within 1-2 2-3 34 4-5 Overs.
‘amount ——lyear_—=«years,«=years. «= years «years (years
fm fm fm fm fm fm fm
20 - 26 - = - 9
65 = 7 - - - 65
ane a 19 = 02 02 34
mL m8 134 - - 02 193
10 - - - - - 10
269 mm 24 128 9 - 12
90 392 160 128 96 02 as

zrezoz wedoy jerry Op

73


m

SD Annual Report 2023/26

Notes to the financial statements

Fortheyeareniog 3 Haren 2026 ‘

24 Finaricial instruments (continued)

Ageing profile and interest r

isk of financial liabilities as at 31 March 2024

Group

Effective -
interest Total Within, «1-2 3-6 65 Overs
rate amount year years. years years. years
% &m fm fm fm fm im

‘Stocks and bonds: 7

Fede _ MS2% 23074 749TH 1,58.S
Indexed - 7 - - - - -
Discount onbond issue (ty + 66) 65) 65) 45) __13.5)
m2 ' 681 823073249

Housing and other toans:

Feed rate 4.96% 1276 19A 125, 603 1658.6
Index inked 5.00% os 03 03 03 -
Floating . 6.50% 108.7 93 336.3 93 2529

i 30789 = 236.6 203.7 460.2779 19078
Finance leases Same eat ma aa 808.2
Derivative financial instruments held to manage a 1 _ . cents

interest rate risk

3927.6 2089 795. _—_—156,0 - $30.8 4,000.6

‘Allfinancial abilities carry fined interest rate unless atherwise shown.

Comparative figures as at 31 March 2023 were as

follows:

a Group
imeret amount yer yeas 22 SoS Overs
ie . years years, years, yees,
: iy tm em Em fm tm tm

‘Stocks and bonds: 7

sedate came emia as? us? OT
Indexed a - _ - - ve - -
Discount on bend issue wey 65) GMD
vsioz 57m
Housing andthe loans: :
Fixed rate 426% 15166-19822 37 MS SB 3D
Indexed , Pe ee ee) aa 7 sin
Foatngrate 2um 60S 4+ 483595 22. tesa
22537 "Rs 199.6 5235 129.9 612 1,167.0
Financ leases er
Owe rnctnraenehetomnage ppaneenAGuAESAEaEEGA BEEEEEy
spire 0050 o925 smb sts ton 242s

Trade and other payables are not includedinthe above tables as they ae noninterest bearing and are not subject to interest rate risk.

Notes to the financial statements

Fersheyearendig 24 March202s

24 Financial instruments (continued)

crowing facilities
‘As at 31 March 2024 the Group had undrawn commited borrowing facilites

‘expiring as follows: : 2026 2023,
E 7 tm fm
Inone year erless, orondemand - -
Inmore than one year but aot more than twa years aumes - 85.0
Inmore than two years. 975.0 6500
a 975.0 7350

None ofthe undrawn committed borrowing facilities require fied charge security tobe placed with lenders (2023: €NiD.

Fate values of financial assets and financial inblities
‘Setout below s a comparison by category of carrying values andfair values of all ofthe Group's financial instruments. None of ihe financial assets or
Uiabilties have been eclasslied during the year.

Group

2026 2023
Note Book value Farvalue —ookvalie ‘aire
Financial aseis tm tm tm tm
Fredasstinvesiments Sande. ane aa az nea
Current asset investments. ic 20 Ww Ww 38 38
Cathandeash equivalents . m7 ows us us
Long-term dies er) . = E -
Mortgages and loans Vand 19 08 ory) 1 10
Desvivefnacialinirenishldiomanageineresae sk 18nd 7 ee rT!
Reeniosdllargncirencyseneninidéeht © 8 2 asa 2
Amounts owed raja ete undertakings " oe "
Financ asetsaling us wiinone yer im na 113 on eo
a7 ws ase aus,

Final aliies
Detenture stocks nd bonds did sus 807 vei uma
Discountonbordissue aiend22 8) (sn aan) as)
ols ded, died 19108 TO vasa vasa
Revalatinfoegn currency denominated edt 2 7 7 - -
Drrivnvenacalisrumentshld to managinerestraerick 2Yané22 6 9 ass ass
he Financia abies . doi 2h ans us? mse
Finances fling dv win one yor a v3.2 32 us sg
: ano gait asa can

‘Of he financial assets above £18.6m (2023: £76 9m) are derivative finapcialinsruments with the remaining amounts being measured at amortised cost.
‘Of he financial ailies above £46. (2023:£25.5m) are derivative financialinsiruments with he remaining amounts being measured! amortised cost.


76

5} Annual Report 2023/24

Notes to the financial statements

For the year ening 31 Moreh 20%

26 Financial instruments (continued)

Investments ity securities
‘The fair value of held-io-maturity investments is determined by
reference tothe quoted bid price atthe statement of nancial position
date. The far value of held-to-maturty investments aker initial
recegnitionis determinedfor disclosure purposes only

Financial azsots falling due within one year,

long-term debtors and mortgages

The fairvalue of there assets is estimated asthe present value ef future
cash tows, discounted atthe market rate of interest atthe statement of
financial position daeifie ofectis material.

FinanctoiUabitties

The fair vale of rade and other payables is estimated asthe present
value of future cash lows, discounted the market ate of interest at
the statement of fnancial postion dat if the effect is material

Cash and eash equivalents, .
‘The foir value of cash is estimaied as itscarrying amount where the cash
is repayable on demand, Whereit isnot répayable on demand then the
fairvalueis estimated atthe present value of Riture cash fw,
discounted atthe market rate of interest at the statement of financial
position date.

Int ing borrowin
Feirvalueiscalculated basedon the present value of future principal and
interest cash fows, discounted a the market rate of interest atthe
statement of fnancial position date.

Derivative financial instruments
‘Thefoir value of interest rate swapsis based onbroker quotes. Those
quotes are tested for reasonableness by ciscounting estimated future
cash fows based on the terms and maturity ofeach contract and using
rmarketinterestrates fra similar instrument atthe measurement date.

Falr value hierarchy
‘Themeasurement of fair value for Fnaneial instruments has been done
sing a level 2 valuation technique. The definition ofthis technique per
the standardis a valuation using inputs other than quoted market prices
included within evel 1 that are observable forthe asset or ibility, ether
diretlyor indirectly.

Notes to the financial statements

Fer he year ending 2! Merch 2004

28 Prior yoorrostotement

'0n 18 March 2024, the Financial Reporting Council (FRC) wrote tothe Group with a request for information
following a review of the group's annual report and accounts forthe year ended 31 March 2023,

Foltowing consideration ofthe FRC’ review. the directors have identified tha the presentation of the Consol

Statement of Financial Position

should be amended 1 include pension assets and debiors due after more than one year within current assets. As the subtotals presented in

the 2023 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are changed by this prese

ion, this constitutes a

‘The effect of his changes as follows:

2023
as originally
presented
fm
Non-Current Assots
Ocbtors: amounts falling due alter one year m2
Pension surplus es.
337
Current Assets
Pension surplus
Stock 33
Debtors: amounts aling due after one year :
Debtors: eriounts falling due within one year - me
Investments, 38
Cash and cash equivalents 86.8

507.3

Total social housing manag

statement ofthe prot year

2023
restated

tm

45
383.1
2
1338
38
666

a21.0

2023
restated

This restatement relates onl othe subtotals in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and does nat affect the reported profit, net assets or

any other information presentedin the financial statements er the annual port,

‘The FRC's review was basedon the annual report and accounts and does not benef from detailed knowledge ofthe group's business or an

understanding ofthe undertying iransactons entered into. tt does not provide assurance thal the annval report and accounts are correct inall material
respects and the FRCS rales not to verity he information provided tit but to consider compliance with reporting requirements

eae teagan


Notes to the financial statements Notes to the financial statements ft
For the yearandng3} March 2522 : For hayeorending? March2024 z
“26 Business combinations 26 Business combinstions continued) Eerie.
et 2
: 7 3
tnMorch 2026, laces for People Group accuired 1th interestin South Devon Rural Housing Assocation (SOR). Inatcordncewithparagrph ; ‘nthe 13 Maren 2026, the Group aquired 10% of RetewoodHouting Limited fr 3 ttal cash coniderainot EL. The net abies aquired a
P8E34.75 of FRS 102, this transaction has been treated as being in substance agit asthe combinatlon was at nilconsideraion. The asses and totaled £0.1m. This resulted in a goodwill consideration of £1.5m. The goodwill acquired wil be amortised ona sraigh-ine basis over 80 years. g
liabilities of SOR wore restated a fair value atthe dae of aquisition and negative goodwill was calculated on tit basis. In accordance with 8g
‘paragraph PBE34.76 of FRS 102 the excess of he fair vatue of he assets received over the fir value ol the ibilites assumed hasbeen recogrised Income and expentitue in Rosewood between acquiditon and the reporting date are nat material andhave na beenincludedin the Statement of
_ gain the group Statement of Comprehensive Income. ‘Comprehensive Income or the Statement of Changesin Reserves.
{Income and expeneiturein SOR between acquisition andthe reporting date are nat considered material and have not been included in the Staerment ‘Total por Rosewood sven to Fair Vato
‘of Comprchensve Income or the Statement of Changesin Reserves, eines ~
° tm fm tm fm
‘Assets and tablities acquired in yoar
Total per SORHA Adjustment to Feir Value Recognised in Group Fixed Assots
fm fm tm &m &m em Fixedassers : 43 20 133.
Fixad As :
pede : a ii ia Current assets :
kno a : Stock & workin progress 10s, ex 22
Investment properties 03, 53 56
Investment united ELSE S - 108 6.3)
Investmentin subsidiary EEE : 2
: Current Liabilities
i os 132 eS) Creditors: Amount filling dve within one year (0) - (4.8)
current assets ) = : (168)
Stock - - - , :
Debtors : on - 01 Net current Uabilitles “ em (26)
Investmentin subsidiary 09 09 = og -
i acer Non-eurrentliaittios 0 -. co) : ie
sanne 7 os) - (00)
‘curcen Listes a i 7
78 ecrediore nat im on Net bites aeuted : (oxy : 07. (0)
Other te) on oy
. (on (oa) 0) :
Not current sazets 06 on os
Totatasses less curentlaiites us 7 31 me OF : :
7 \
Non-current tabiities -
Wade creditors 42) 0) 42)
other 64) Su =
7 0) 34
Total net assets recognised as income wy 185 204

SD Arnal Report 2022/24


180

Annual Report 2023/26

Notes to the financial statements

Foriheyear ening 0 March 202

27 Pensianot

etione

‘The pension costs far Places for People Group relate to seven schernes of which employees,
‘and former employees are members. Details of each scheme are set out below.

Group defined benefit scheme surplus
FPL (Holdings) Limited PFPL (Holdings)

Places fr People Group Retirement Benefit Scheme “PFP Group"
Residentiat Management Group section ofthe Citrus Pension Plan RMG*

Group defined benefit scheme Lnilities
The Social Housing Pension Scheme ’SHPS"
‘The Scottish Housing Associations’ Pension Schemes "SHAPS"

The Places for People Group Retirement Benefit Scheme
The Group operates adefined benefit pension arrangement called the
Places for People Group Retirement Benefit Scheme.

‘This scheme is oparatedby he Group andis an independently
‘administered défined benef scheme based on fnal pensionable salary.
The scheme was closed to new members a¢ at! September 2004 and
‘was closed to future acervatin October 2010. The most recent format
actuarial valuation was completed as at 31 March 2021 and hasbeen
Updated by the independent actuary to take account othe requirements
of FRSI02,As part ofthe actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2021, the
Group agreed a schedule of cntribuians which included the Group
paying annual contributions of 6.4m between 1 Aprit2021 and31 March
2024. The Group expects to contribute £m tothe scheme during the
year to 31 March 2025,

‘The Groupis working wthits advisers to resolve a number ofissues that
have been identified with he Scheme Rules inthe Group's Reliernent
‘Benefit Scheme, This may result in increased lables in espectof
ome benefits. At his stage the value of any additional tables cannot
beretiably quantified.

‘The Trust Deed provides the Group with an unconditional right 10a refund
ofsurplus assets assuming the full settlement of plan tiailities in the
‘event ofaplan wind-up. Furthermore, in the ordinary course ofbusiness
the Teustee has no right touritaterally wind up, ar otherwise augment
the benefis due to members ofthe scheme. Based on these rights. any
net surplus in he UK scheme is recognisedin ful.

‘The funding planis forthe Scheme to hold asseis equal othevalue.o!
the benefis earned by employees, based ona sel of assumptions used
for funding the scheme, The funding assumptions difer from the
assumptions used toaleulate the figures for these accounts, and
therefore produce diferent sults. there isa shortfall against this,
{funding plan then the Group and Trustee agree on deficit contributions
‘meet this deficit over a period.

2028 2023
Em tm
23

ia

os

wn ce)
a2 (22)
Co) Co)

Tre mortality assumption used at 3] March 2024is 115% S3NA
(CMI_2022 extended projections witha long-term rate of improvernent of
1.086 pa, 2022 parameter of £08, and ll other parameters set at their
etault values. The mortality assumption wsed at 31 March 2023 was,
115% SNA CMI_2021 extended projections witha long-term rate of
Improvement of 1.0% pa,w2021 parameter of 20%, and al ther
‘parameters set at their default values. Based on these assumptions, 2
male currently aged 60 years oldhas life expectancy of 24.9 years,
(2023: 25.2 years, a female currenly aged 60 years old has alte
‘expectancy of 27.9 years (2023: 28.2 years), amatecurrenty aged 60
years eld wil expect tohave alte expectancy of 261 years (2023 26.4
years) when they reach age 60 anda female currently aged 40 years old
will expect to havea life expectancy of 28.0 years (2023. 293 years) when
they reach age 60.

Over the year to 31 March 2026 the Trustee the Scheme has
‘undertaken a eview ofthe commutation option factors availabe to
‘members and updated them io reflect atest market conditions.

‘This review rosultedin an update to all member option factors in
particular ac3¥6 decrease tocommutatin factors.

Updating ourtabilty calculations to reflect these updated member
‘option factors hos resultedina c3% decrease in the FRSI02 abilities 2s
‘a 31 March 2024, We assume that non-pensioners take the maximum,
taxtree cath atetiroment, whichis thesameas assumedas at *
31 March 2023.

Notes to the financial statements

Fert year anding 21 March 2024

27 Ponsion obligations (continued)

‘The Places for People Leisure Group Retirement Beriefit Scheme
PIPL (Holdings) Limitedis the sponsoring employer ofa funded

defined benefit pension scheme inthe UK, which provides retirement

benefits based on members’ pensionable salary and service when
leaving employment. The assets ofthe scheme areheldin a separately
administered fund and he planis administered by trustee body
(independent of PIPL (Holdings) Limited) who are responsible for
ensuring that the schemes suficiently funded tomeet current and future
obligations,

‘The iahiltes set out inthis note have been calculated based onthe
‘results of the full Scheme Funding Assessment, a5 at 30 April 2022,

updated 1031 March 2024, allowing for any additional benefit accrual

‘and benefits pid. The present value of he defined beneft obligation and
the related current service cost were measured using the projected unit
credit method.

PIPL (Holdings) Limited has agreed a funding plan with the
‘rusiee body, whereby contributions are agreed with the trustee
‘toreduce the funding deficit where necessary The disclosures
set out below ave based on calculations carried outas at 31 March
2024by anindependent qualified actuary. The results of the
‘calculations andthe assumptions adopted are shown below.

‘The mertality assumption vsedat 31 March 0245 9585 of S3PA ables
with fur imprevernensintne wih the CMl_2022 projection model
‘with core weighing parameters, 1AMl of 0.25% pa anda lng term
improvement rate of 1.2% pa Based on these assumptions, male
currentlyaged 85 years oldhas aif expectancy of 22.1 years (2023:
224 years). female currently aged 65 years old has ae expectancy
0245 years (2073: 25.0 years). ama currently aged ¢5 years ldhas
alte expectancy of 3.3 years (2023: 43.8 years) anda female curently
aged45 years oldhas ale expectancy of 5 B years (2023 48.3 years).

Residential Management Group Limited Retirement Benefit Scheme
Residential Management Group Limited operates

persion scheme, the Residential Management Group section ofthe Citrus
Pension Plan (Citrus), with assets held in separately administered
funds, The scheme provides retiroment benefits onthe basic of
members’ frat salary.

The Trust Deed provides Residential Managemen! Group Limited with an
Lncenéitional right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full
settlement of plan Babiities inthe event ofa plan wind-up. Furthermore,

he ordinary course of business the Trustee has no ights to
Luniaterally wind up, or otherwise augment the benefits due to members
‘ofthe scheme. Based on these rights, any net surplusin the UK scherne
Is recogrisedinful.

‘An actuariat valuation of the RMG scheme was carried out as at
31 March 2024,

Longevity assumptions are based on Club VITA tables (updated to reflect
{atest data available atime calculations were carried out with future
{improvements assumed tobe inline wth CMI 2022 model with 270
‘weighting on 2020 and 2021 data and 25% weighting on 2022 data, along
{ermimprovement rate of 1.5% pa. (lapering to zerobetween ages
£85-110)and an’ parameter of0.0%p.2. for males and 0.3% p..for
{emales. Based on these assumptions, a male currenly aged 65 years
‘oldhas file expectancy of21.2 years (2023: 21.7 years), afermate
‘currently aged 65 years oldhas aie expectancy of 2.3 years (2023: 24.7
years), a male currently aged 45 years old has alife expectancy of 440
years (2023: 4 years) and a female currentlyaged 45 years oldhas a
Iie expectancy of 4.5 years (2023: 48.9 years).

‘Social Housing Pension Scheme
Places for People Homes Limited and Places for People Lving+ Limited
participate in the Socal Housing Pensian Scheme (SHPS), a mult-

‘employer scheme which provides benefits tonon-asseciated employers

‘SHPS is defined benefit scheme in the UK andis subject to the funding
{egislation outlined nthe Pensions Act 2004 which came int force on 30
December 2005, This, together with documents issuedby the Pensions
Regulator and Technical Actuarial Standards issued by the Financial
Reporsing Council, set out the framework for funding defined benefit
‘eccupational pension schemesin the UK.

‘The ast triennial valuationol the scheme for funding purposes was.
‘carried outas at 30 September 2020. This valuation revealed adefct of
£1,540m. Arecovery plan has been putin place with he sim of removing
this deficit by 31 March 2028.

SHPS is classified as a‘last-man standing arrangement’ Therefore the
‘company is potentially able for other participating employers’
cbligationsifthose employers are unable tomneel their share ofthe
scheme defcit following withdrawal fom the scheme. Participating
‘employers are tegally required to mee! their share ol the scheme deficit
‘onan annuity purchase basis on withdrawal from the scheme.

For fnancal years ending on or beforé 28 February 2019,ithad not been
possiblefor the company to obtain sufficient information to enableitto
‘account forthe Scherneas adefined benefit scheme, therefore he Group
thas previously accounted for SHPS as a defined contribution scheme. For
‘inanciatyears ending on or ater 31 March 2019, it was possible ta obtain
‘suficient informatio to enable the company to account forthe scheme
‘as adefinedbenefi scheme,

‘The mortality assurnption used at 31 March 2024 that armale currently
‘aged 65 years old has aie expectancy of 205 years (2023:21.0 years). 2
femate currently aged years oldhas ile expectancy of 23.0 years
(2023: 23.7 years), a mate currenity aged 45 years oldhasa life
‘expectancy of 1.8 years (2023: 42.4 years) and a female currently aged
‘4S years oldhasalite expectancy of years (2023: 449 years).

repez0e vodayyensuy

182

Dé Annual Report 2023/24

Notes to the financial statements

Forthe yearending 3) March 2025:

27 Pension obligations (continued)

‘Scottish Housing Associations’ Pension Sehome
Places fr Poople Scotland Limited and Castle Rock Edinvar Housing
‘Association Limited participate inthe Scottish Housing Associations’
Pension Scheme (SHAPS), a muli-omployer scheme which provides
benefits tonon-associated employers.

'SHAPSis a defnedbeneft scheme in the UK andis subject to the funding
legislation outlined in the Pensions Act 2004 which eame nto force on
‘20 December 2005, Tis. together with documenis issued by the
Pensions Regulator and Technica Actuarial Standards issued by the
Financial Reporting Counei, set ut the framework for funding defined
‘benefit occupational pension schemesin the UK.

‘The ast trienial valuation the scheme for funding purposes was,
‘cariad out a at 30 September 2021. This valuation ceveated a deficit of
27m. No further defcit contributions are due though the position will be
reassessed atthe next valvation duein 2026

‘The major assumptions used by tho actuaries of each scheme were:

SHPS.

%
Discount rate : 470%
Rate of RPlintation 3.30%
Rate increasein laries 3.75%
Rate ofincrease inpension payments wa
Rate of CPlinfation 2.80%

*”
Discount rate 60%
Rate! RPlinfation 3.40%
Rate of increase in salaries 3.69%
Rate ofincrease in pension payments ee
Rateof CPinflation 2.90%

* RPImax 556 pa/ RPL max 2.5%pa,

SHAPS is clastifed aga ‘ast-man standing arrangement Therefore the
company is potentially liable for other participating employers’
obligations if those employers are unable to meet heir share ofthe
scheme defi following withdrawal from the scheme. Participating
‘employers are legally required to meet their share of the scheme deficit
‘onan annuity purchase basis on withdrawal from the scheme:

For fnancial years ending on or before 28 February 2019, ithad not been
possible for the company to obtain sufficient information to enableit io
‘account forthe Scheme as adefined benof scheme, thorefore the Group
tad previously accounted for SHAPS as a defined contribution scheme.
For francal years ending on or aftr 31 March 2019, twas possibte to
‘obiain suficient Information to enable the company ta account fr the
scheme as adefnedbeneft scheme,

‘The mortality assumptionused a 31 March 2024s that a mate currently
aged 65 years old has aie expectancy of 20.2 years (2023: 205 years) a
female currently aged 85 years oldhas aie expectancy o 2.7 years
(2023: 23. years). amele currently aged 4S years oldhasaalife
expectancy of I.& years (2023: 41.7 years) anda female currently aged
‘US years oldhasalife expectancy of dd. years (2023: 44. years).

2026
PrPL
SHAPS " —PFP Group (oldtigs) MG.
% % % “%
4.70% 490% 4.09% 4.75%
3.30% 3.20% 3.20% 3.30%
3.70% 3.196/2.1%6 2.19% 2.05%
ofa ala 2.09% ne
2.80% nla 2.66% 2.05%
2023
% * * %
4.60% 4.80% 4874 475%
3.40% 340% 3.1% * 330%
379% 2.60/1.90% 3.28% 2.05%
of na 20% ma
290% na 270% 205%

Notes to the financial statements

Forte earning: March 2024

27 Pension obligations (continued)

Divetsitied grow funds, hedge funds and
structure funds

ability drveninvesiments
‘Absolute return bonds
Corporate bonds

Cash and cash equivalents
‘Other fixedinterest
Insurance linked securtios
Direct ending

Property

Diversified growth funds, hedge funds and
structure funds

Equities
as

Liability diveninvestments
Absolutereturn bonds.
Corporate bonds
(Cashand cash equivalenis
Other fixedinterest
Insurance inked secures
Direct ending

Property

atvels a8 a percentage of total assets are

sHPS

14.6%
10.0%

52.9%
39%

19%
78%
05%
3.9%
4%

‘sHPS.

12%
92%

46.9%
19%

o7%
4%
29%
an
13%

149%
16%

49.0%
45%

2.6%
18%
049%
4.0%
5.0%

sHAPS.

12398
99%

43.39%
am
01%
oy
4%
2%
2.9%
13%

2023

PFP Group

FPL (Holdings)
%

27%
56.1%

59%
10%

19%
2.8%

10.9%
9.8%

35.6%
24%

711%

49%

0.0%
29%

PMG

10.096
5%

263%
92%

8.85

78%
95%

‘yerezoz wodoy envy Ip

188

AnnualReport 2023/24

Notes to the financial statements*

For the year ening 3 Hach 2828

27 Pensian obligations (continued)

‘Amounts recognised in ihe Statement of Financial Pesition

Value at 31 March 2024

PPL
supsSHAPS. PrP (Hatsings) nus Total
' fm fm tm tm tm tn
Falrvalue ofasets ae 19 ws8 1 s7 ane

Present value of the scheme’s liabilities 431.5) (23.1) (164.6) 4.9) (6.8)
Surplus/dtii inthe schome “n 12 ar og a

Vat at 31 March 2023
PrP

sips SHARS—PFPGroip —Holdgsh auc Touat
tm tm tm fm tm fm
Foirvtuefassets : 21 aa 754 n 82 2009
Present valu othe scheme’ liaiies 2m 3 ___ ono «so 9 ___e90)
Surplsteiciin he scheme ey en uw 23 os en

Notes to the financial statements

For the year ening 21 arch 202%

27 Pension obligations (cominued)

Yoor ending 31 March 2026

FPL.
SHPS SHAPS PFPGroup (Holdings) AMG Totat
tm tm tm fm &m im
Current service cost = - 7 es (oy (aay
‘Amount charged in arriving at operating profit = 7 e (or «ay
Expectedreturn onplanssets 12 10 03 03 naz
Intereston scheme liabilities as) ay (0.2) (0.2) a3)
‘Amount chargedi(cedited) to other
finance costs (0.3) cory oa o ot (or
Tota chargedio the statemeit
esapenke 0.2) (0.1) oa on = (0.2)
Year ending 31 March 2029,
PPL
SHPS —SHAPS ~ PFPGroup (Holdings) «RG. ‘Other Total
fm fm fm Em Lim fm &m
Current service cost - - - - on - on
‘Amount charged arriving 2 operating profit = = = ‘= on = on
Expected.return onplan assets uw 09 69 02 02 - 93
Cessation of defined benefit pension scheme - - - - - 45 45
Interest on schemeliabilies 02) oa co) (02) 2 - 09),
“Amount chargedi{credited) to ther
Paiobith on 01 ou = = 45 49
Total charged to the statement
‘of comprehensive income on 01 ou - coy 45 48
‘Amounts recognised In Other Comprehensive Income
Year ending 31 March 2026
HPS SHAPS —PFPGroup Totat
: Em em em Em
‘Actuarial gainioss)in pension scherne os) 0.9) 27 ws
Year ending 31 March 2023
FPL
SPS SHAPS-PFPGroup (Holdings) Rus Total
Em tm &m tm em fm
‘Actuarial gainloss)in pension scherne wa an cn) 10 oa wy

erezoz weds yenuy

185

186

WD Anoual Report 2023726

Notes to the financial statements

Forihoyear ending 3 Moreh 2ze

27 Pension obligations (continued)

‘The change inthe far value of the plan assets is unalysd as follow:
SHPS HAPS FP Group Pept anc Total
tm tm em &m fm tm
A Ape 2023 24 2a 1753 Ey 83 zane
Interest onplan assets 12 10 as os 03 ne
Company contributions “ - 46 - ou vy
Benes paid on fon en (02) 02) on
Retumonassetslessinlerest 3) a3 oe oe (on 0.0)
‘AL31 March 2026 we 1758 28 57 2338
+ PPL
‘Actual return on scheme assets HPS SHAPSPFPGrOU — Guatdngs RNC
fm fm em ‘tm fm
Fer the year ending 31 March 2026 on oy a 06 02 oe
Forthe year ending 31 March 2023, 3) oy om oo ay co
‘Tho change Inthe present value of the'dofined benefit obligations is analysed as follows:
sues SHAPS ; PFPGroup PPL uc
m fm em fm fm
‘ALT pit 2023 a4 233 1738 40 4g
Arveresteosts ‘ 1s uw a2 03 o4
Benefits paid un 9) “n 2) (02) on
‘Actuarial losses/gain) from changes to 7 a n
demographic assumptions saa bana om
‘Actuarial losses trom changes nancial i: i
Enanaan on cr) cry a)
‘Actuarial gainfoss an obligation 02 a2 07 = (ox) os
‘Aa at 31 March 2024 Ms m1. es 49 4a 269

Notes to the financial statements

Forthe year ending 2! March 7024

28 Copital commitmonts

Capita exoeniture that has been authorisedand contractedtor buthas
not heen provided orinthe financial statements

Capita expendivure that has been authorised by the board of directors.

Copitat expenditure that has been authorised and committedt, but has
‘not been provided fori the financial statements:

Group Group ‘Company
2024 2023 2026 2023
Em tm Em fm
3166 2027 - |
28208 2007 -
2,835.6 2.3264 - |

‘Te above commitments willbe financedin accordance with he treasury management policy which is detaitedinthe operating review

and note 24.0 these financial statements

‘The commitments under non-cancellable operating leases forthe following year, analysed according to the period in which each Lease expires. are

set out below,

Group Group Group Group Company Company

Motor Motor Motor Motor

Landand vehicles & Landand vehicles £ © vohieles&.—vohicles &

buildings equipment buildings equipment lpment equipment

2026 2026 2023 2023 2026 2023

em em tm fm &m fm

Ione year or tess 53 38 a 39 os 03

mone year ar more butless than 152 0 it 2 on i
five years 7

Inmore than five years : 128 = 170 u 02 on

335 19 386 m us 08

29 Contingont liabilitios
‘The Group is party to legal action arising Irom the scheme cules onthe
Group retirement benefit pension scheme. tis not practicable odlsclose
‘anestimate ofthe financial eect ofthis contingent ability or the nature
‘ofthe uncertainties relating tot, more detail eanbe found on page 180.

‘The Group is working with ts advisers to resolve issues raised by HMRC
‘eating to the Group's use ofthe VAT sporting éxemptioninits Leisure -
business tis possible his may result in a materilliabilityto the Group,
however al this stage the value of these payments cannat be quantified
‘duet the range of outcomes that ae sil he subject f discussion with
HMRC. The directors consider thatit could therefore be misleading to
_assigna value to this potenti Liablity

Prior i931 March 202, the group acquired through meer the South
Devan RralHousingAssoiton, This transaction was substantively @
sitandhas been accounted for using he purchase method acaiston
ccouning). This treatmentincdesrevaling assets and abies af the
acquired ently afr value at the date of acquisition As ares ofthis
‘evaluation, the Group has derectognised £5 385m ol eterredcaptat
‘rants relating to socithousing assets acqiredom South Daven Rural
Hovsing Association. This moun weuidbecome repayable inthe event
thatthe oszocatedhousingasces ware subject toa change ose, The
Airetorshave na plans te change the use of hese asses and consider
thatthe Uketihood of sucoha change acutingin the tre very low

‘The Group s party to certain egal actions arising inthe ordinary course
cofbusiness. While the outcome of these cases is uncertain, the directors
‘believe, on the bass of advice received, that no material loss tothe Group
willoccur. Having made due enquiries the directors are nt aware of any
further contingent liailies.

30 Related party tr
Defined benefit schemes
‘Under Section 33 of FRS 102 defined benefi pension schemes are
considered tobe related parties. Employees ofthe Group andits

subsidiaries are members ofthe ollowing defined benefit schemes: The
‘cia! using Pension Scheme, The Scolish Housing Associations
Pension Scheme, The Places for People Group Retirement Benefit
‘Scheme, The PFPL (Holdings) Limited scheme andthe Residential
Management Group section of he Citrus Pension Plan, Details of
\wansactions with he schemes ae disclosed in nate 27.

p2rezz wodoy jenuvy

187


{Annual Report 2023/24

Notes to the financial statements

Fortheyear ending 31 Moreh 2025

30 Reloted party transactions (continued)

‘The Group had the following transactions during the year with ola ventures, associates and other externalinvestments.

‘Aturno Student (Park: Hil) Limited
‘Alumno Student (Esse) Limited
‘Alurno Student Alsco) Limited
‘Alurno Student Pershore) Limited
‘Alumno Student (Lewes Road Limited
Alumnos

nt Manchester Limited
‘urn Student (Pershore) Limited
‘Alumna Student (Whitetck) Limited
‘urn Student Management Limited
ig ssue vest Limited

Boxed Energy Linited
BrooklandsULP

Countryside Paces fr People (Lower Hearne) LLP
oat Wick & Sweetwater Projects (Holding) Li

ied
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase |) Limited
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 2) Limited
Global Habit

‘The Ferry Project

Ickneilé Port Loop LLP

Impact Social Vatue Reporting Limited

PRPUS JVLLP

PRPC MMR.LP.

Utiving@Essex phase 2
Ulving@Gloucestershire Heldeo
Utving@Hertfordshire Holdco

Amounis
Services Services) outstanding at ‘Imerest: Dividends
Provided sceived 31 March 2024 received

e £ e B
7 - - 172.318 -
- - - (073,448) -
- - - 25,109 -
a - - 30987 +
= - - 25,550 -
- - - 25550 7
- - - 14.508, -
- - - 130,609 -
= - - 19237 -
= - - 5830 -
10,884,531 1,295,263 - = -
as i - 13,965 -
> 603.608 - 42,262 = is
89.205 - - - +
100,478 81.808 30) - r
- 964 - - 7
293,845 32327 - - -
867.010 = - - 7
- 2.800 - = =
ae - u 500,032 -
1985 - - 7 7
- - - - 050756
179369 - ‘90.000 - 02,038
1.511955 - 147200 - 99912
4.336.178 = sane = 1641985
19,867,666 2,978,691

2,266,669 ed

1,961,349

The Group had no transactions during the year with companies associated with Key management personnel and directors.

All amounts autstanding at 31 March 2024 are on 30 day interest iree terms. Late payment penalties

and interest charges are payable for amounts outstanding mere than 30 days.

No provisions have been made fr uncollectable receivables related tothe amount of outstanding balances with related parties and
no expensehas baen recognised during the period in respect of bad or doubtful debts due fromm related partes (223: Ei).

Notes to the financial statements
For theyenronding 2 Hach 024

31 Disclosure of Group undertakings

Places for People Group Limitedis the parent Company ofthe Group andis required by statute to prepare consolidated accounts.
Allthe Group related undertakings are incorporated in England and Wales, orn Scotland, the registered office address foreach ently

’s 305 Gray's Inn Road, London, WCIX 80R, unless otherwise stated and are set out below:

Subsidiaries
Name

Allenbuld Lites
‘Allenbuild (South East) Led

Beton House Management Company Limited

Braintree District Leisure Community Associaton Lid™*
Brio Retirement Living (Chapelton) Limited}

Brio Retirement Living (Holdings) Limited

Brio Retirement Living (IV) Limited

Brio Retirement Living (Midco) Limited

Brio Retirement Living (Poundbury) Limited

Brio Retiernent Living (Stow on the Wold) Limited
Castle Rock Edinvar Housing Association Limited"*"*
CCenteo Place Investments Limited?

Centro Place Management Limited?

{Chorus Homes Developments Limited

‘Chorus Homes Finance Limited
‘Chorus Homes Group Limited"*
‘Chorus Homes Limited".
(Christchurch Estates Limited?
Chrysalis General Partner Lis
‘Chrysalis Limited Partners
Cotman Housing Association Limite
Curzon Street Management Limited?

David Glass Associates Limited?

Derwent Facilities Management Limited?

Derwent Housing Association Limited"

Design YourHome Limited!

East Wick and Sweetwater Management Company Limited
Emblem Hommes Limit

F & $ Property Management Limited?
Girlings Retirement Rentas Limited
GrossFine?

Gross Fine Holdings) Limited?

Gross Fine Management Limited?

Gross Fine Services Limited?
Hertford Company Secretaries Limited?
Home Made Homes Limited

HN Limited |

Hope Social Enterprises Limited

latoo Regeneration Limited?

Igloo Investment Management Limited"
NCO Limited

Leisure & Community Partnership Limited"*
Lothian Housing Association Limited!
‘Lower Steenberg's Yard Company Limited?
Matildo's Academy Limited

Matilda's Blanket Limited

‘Matilda's Planet Group Limited

‘Matilda's Planet Manufacturing Limited
Matilda's Radiant Heating Limited

atida's Warm Homes Limit
Matildasplanet Houses Limited

Matiléasptanet Housing Solutions Limited
‘Matildasplandt Thecmal Systems Limited
Minton Healthcare (Buckingham) Limited
ModularWise Limited

* class of share held

Ordinary A 8°
Ordinary"
Ordinary
Na
Ordinary’
Ordinary"
Ordinary”
Ordinary"
Ordinary"
Ordinary"
National/Community,
Ordinary"
Ordinary"
Ordinary"IPreferencet
wn
Nis
Ordinary"
Ordinary"
Ordinary"
Na
National/Commurity
Ordinary*
Ordinary*
Ordinary"
Ordinary
Ordinary™
Ordinary
Ordinary VPreterencet
Ordinary”
Ordinary"
Ordinary*
Ordinary?
Ordinary
Ordinary"
Ordinary"
Ordinary"
Ordinary"IPreferencet
Ordinary"
Ordinary
Ordinary
Ordinary/Preference*
NA
Ordinary?
ordinary"
Ordinary”
Orginary*
Ordinary’. Ordinary AY & B*
Ordinary"
Ordinary A* & 8", A ordinary
Ordinary?
Ordinary*
Ordinary*
Ordinary*
Ordinary?
Ordinary*

shares held

100%
NA
00%
1056
100%
1036
100%
100%
100% of National stholding
10096
100%
10036
NA
Na
100%
100%
100%
NA
10036 of National s/holding
10036
100%
100%
100%
190%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
00st
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
rr
100%
100%
100%
100%

100%
9096

1096
10036
10036
009%
100%

we/ezoz vodeyjenuuy


190

D Annval Report 2023/24

Notes to the financial statements

Forth year ending 31 March 2028

31 Disclosure of Group undertokings (continued)

‘Subsidiaries (continued)
Namo

Officers Field Development Limited
Osterna Limited?

PFPCIGP Limited

PFPCILPS

PFPCMMRGP Limited!

PEPCMMR 1 LP!

PEP SpatiaGP Limited
PFPSpatiolP

FPL Developments Ltd

EPL (Holdings) Lid

PEPL Projects (Epping) Ltd

FPL Projects (inckley)Lid

PFPL Projects (Gosport) Lid

FPL Projects (Sandwell) Lid
FPL Projects (Sparkhil) Lid
FPL Projects (Surrey Heath Lid
FPL Projects (Wyre Forest) Lid
FP-tgloe (General Partner) Limited
PFP-tgloa Limited Partnership"
PFP-Igloo Nominees Limited
PEP MMR Developments Limited}

PEP Manco Holdings Limited”

PFPSW Avon Limited

Places Developments Holdings) timited

Placeford Properties LLP

aces Academy Limited

Places for People Arrangements Limited

laces for People Capital Markets Limited

laces for People Developments Limited

laces for People Finance ple

Places for People Financial Services Limited

Places for People Green Services Limited

Places for People Homes Limited"**

Places for People Landscapes Limited

Places for People Leisure Community Assocation Limited™
Places for People Leisure Limited"*

Places for People Leisure Management Limited

Places for People Leisure Partnerships"*
Places for People Living+ Limited"™*
Places for People Pension Car Limited
Places for People Pension Trustee Limited
Places for People Retirement Limited
Places for People Scotland Limited!

Places for People Scotland (GP) Limited!
Places for People Scotish Limited Partnership”
Places for Peopte SPV I Limited"=

Places for People SPV2Limited"*

Placesfor People Treasury ple

Places for People Ventures Limited

Places for People Ventures Operations Limited

(class of share held

OrdinaryA Ordinary*
Orinary*

Orainary*

NA

Ordinary?

rr

Ordinary”

wa

Ordinary"

Ordinary"

Orginary*

Ordinary"

Ordinary’

Ordinary’

Ordinary"

orcinary"

Oreinary*

Ordinary"

Na

Ordinary"

Ordinary"

Ordinary

Ordinary"
‘Ordinary’ Ordinary B°& Preferencet
Ne

Ordinary"

Ordinary

Ordinary
Orcinary'/Preterencet
Ordinary
Ordinary/Preterence”
inary"

Ordinary

Ordinary”

NA

NA

Ordinary"

NA

Ordinary
OrcinaryiPreterence*
Ordinary"

Ordinary Preference’
Ordinary A'/Preference”
Ordinary"

NA

Ordinary'Preterence’

100%
100%
NA

00s
wa

100%
wa

100%
100%
100%
003%
100%
100%
00%
100%
100%
‘00s
rn

100%
100%
10086
009%
10036
ws

100%
100%
009%
008%
100%
10038
100%
100%
100%
rn

rn

100%
wa

100%
100%
100%
100%:
100%
100%
NA

Nia

wa

003%
100%
100%

Notes to the financial statements

Forth yearending 2! Horch 026

31. Disclosure of Graup undartakings (continue

Subsidiaries (continued)

Name (class of share hold
Places Homes Limited Ordinary
PlacesLeisure Limited Ordinary

Places Lvings Lited ordinary

Places Management Limited Ordinary*

Places Students Limited Ordinary”

Reallmpact investment Limited! Ordinary?

Residential Management Group Limited? Ordinary*

Residential Managernent Group Scotland Limited” Ordinary?

Residential Management Property Limited? Orginary*

RMG Asset Management Limited? 7 Ordinary”

RMG Client Services Limited? Ordinary”

Rosewood Housing Limited Ordinary"

Rural Homes Limited Ordinary"

‘Sam Jones (Clubs) Limited Ordinary"

‘Shrubhil Investments Limited! Ordinary"

Smith's Dock LUP rn

South Devon Rural Housing Association Limited*™ 100%

Steenberg's Yard Management Company Limited? Na

‘The Engine Yard Edinburgh Lid Ordinary & Ordinary C*
‘The Places Foundation"™ Na

‘Theving Investments Limited Ordinary AS 8*
Thriving vestments | Limited Ordinary *

Thriving investments 2Uirited 7 Ordinary

‘Tia Commercial Limited Ordinary"

‘Touchstone Corporate Property Services Limited Ordinary" & BOrdinary
Upper Stcand Developments Limited? Ordinary"?Preferencet
Urban Matrix (Ditton) LLP NA

‘Vibrant Neighbourhoods Limited® Ordinary*

Wood Carewell Managements Limited? Ordinary*

Wood Group Trustees Limited? Ordinary?

Wood Management Trustees Limited? Ordinary*

Wood Managements Limited? Ordinary*

Wed Managements Group Limited? Ordinary?

Wood Trustees Limited? 7 Ordinary*

Zero€ Acheson Consortium Limited 7 Ordinary*

ZeroC Holdings Limited Ordinary” & A Ordinary*
Zerot Group (2008) Limited Ordinary’ Ordinary A &8*

Proportion of shares held

10%
100%
100%
00%
0%
03%
00%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
Na
100%
NA
99%
NA, :
100%
100%
10036
100%
100%
00%
NA
100%
100%
100%

"1 Hay Avenue, Edinburgh, EH16 6RW

1 Centro Place, Pride Park, Derby, England, DE26 8RF

SRMG House, Essex Road, Hoddesdon, Hertfordchie, ENIT ODR

“The white House, {0 Clifton York, North Yorkshire, YO20 6AE

5 Chellord House, Gadbrook Park, Northwich, Cheshire, England, CW9 7LN

‘clo Places for People, St Andrew Square, 2nd Floor, Edinburgh, EH2 28D

Unit 6,95 Morrison Street, Glasgow, G5 BBE

"elo gloa Regeneration Limited Huekltree Ancoats, The Express Building, 9 Great Ancosts Street, Manchester,
Greater Manchester, Unites Kingdom, M& SAD

* St Richard's House, 10 Evershol treet, London, NWI IBS

+ Shares held by other Group entities but ultimately heldby the Group
‘Acompany limited by guarantee without any share capital

"+ nrogistered society registered under the Co-operative & Cormmuniy Benefit Societiés Act 2014, Through separate written agreements,

‘the Group ukimately exercises controlover the functions and operations ofthese enities

"+ Alimited partnership.


12

Annual Report 2023/26

Notes to the financial statements

For the year ending 3 nce 2024

231 Disclosure of Group undertekings (continued)

Joint Ventures/partnerships

Name

‘Alurnno GroupLimited™

Bigg Regeneration Limited Partnershi’™
‘Bigg Regeneration (General Partner) Limited?

‘Blueprint Group Holdings LLP”

lueprint Limited Partnership"

tueprint (General Partner) Limited”

‘lveprint (Nominees) Limited”

Boxed Energy Limited?

[Brick House Port Loop Residents Management Company Limited"
Brooklands Milton Keynes LLP

Cityscape Edinburgh LLP

Countryside Places fr People (Lower Herne) LLP”

Countryside Places for People Lower Herne Management Company Limited
DundashillaaLimied —*

East Wick & Sweetwater Projects Haldings) Lt

East Wick & Sweetwater Finanee Holdings) Lid!
East Wick & Sweetwater Projects (Finance) Lid!

Founders Place LLP?

‘Global Hobitat Housing SL?

Icknield Port Loop LLP*

Ironworks (Leeds) Management Company Limited®
Lakeshore Timber LLP

Lighthouse Court LLP*

Namegrace Limited®

National Places LLP

ttern Shop LLP

PIP gtoo Developments

PFPUS (IPL) LL

PFPUS JVLLP*

FPUS JV (Nominee I) Limited*

PFPUS Residential (Park Hil) Limited*

Phate 1a Port Loop Residents Management Company Limited
Picture Living Lprve"

ort Loop Estate Management Limited!”
ort Loop Phase 2 Limitedt

Port Loop Phase 2 Residents Management Company Limited*™""~
PSL (Keynsham) Limited

‘Ruskin Square Phase One LLP

‘Shrubhill NHT LLP

‘Urban Splash (Park Ml) Limited*

Class of shares held
Ordinary, BOrdinary.
COréinary Non-voting)”
Na

‘Ordinary, 8 Ordinary”
Na

Nia

Ordinary”

ordinary”

‘AOrdinary*

Na

NA

wa

NA

‘A

Ordinary”

‘AOrdinaryiA Preference!
BOrdinaryiB Preference’

Ordinary AlPreference ®?
Ordinary"
NA
Ordinary
NA

NA

Nia

Na
rdinary 8?
Na

NA
BOrdinary*
NA

Na
Ordinary*
Ordinary*
NA

NA

NA
Ordinary
NA
Ordinary”
NA

NA
Ordinary”

Proportion of
nominal value of
share class held

100%
Nin
100%
Na
Na
si
5%
100%
NA
NA
Na
NA
NA
0%

50%

160%
50%
Nia

wa
Nia
Nia
Nia
100%
NA
Na
100%
Na
NA

50%
NA
NA
NA
50%
NA
50%
NA
WA
50%

Proportion
of all share
classes

9%

NA
50%
NA
NA
50%
50%
50%
NA
Nia
NA
Nia
Nia

rN
50%
NA
NA
NA
NA
50m
NA
NA

NA
Nia
50%
50%
NIA
NA
Nia

NA

Nia
Nia

Notes to the financial statements

Fortheyenrending 2 March 202%

31 Disclosure of Group undertakings (continued)

Other Group interests/investments

Symiconnect Limited” - rainary” 23% 23%
‘Ansaar Management Company (Private)Limited Ordinary 25% 2%
Utiving@Essex2 Holdco Limited? ordinary" 100% 10%
Uliving@Gloucestershire Holdeo Limited BOrdinary 100% 10%
Ulving@Hertfordshire Holdco Limited* ordinary" 100% 13%

+ Shares held by other Group ents but ultimately eld by the Group '

+ AScottish imited partnership

Alimited parnership

Alumno Group Limited has in

‘Alumeose LLP

Alurnose Manchester LLP

‘Alumao Brighton Holdings Limited

‘Alurono Student Management Limited

‘Alurono Student (Ascot) Limited ‘Alumna Student (Whitelock) Limited

‘Alurno Student (Gath) Limited ‘Alumno Student (Park Hill Holdings Limited

‘Alurnno Student (Bare Limited ‘Alumno Student (Park il) Limited

‘Alum Student Sondway) Limited ‘Alumno Student (gm Limited

‘Alumne Student (Essex) Limited ‘Alurnno Student Jock’s Lodge Limited

‘Alurnn Student (Glasgow) Lrited ‘Alurnno Student Rockingham) Limited

‘w+ East Wik & Sweetwater Projects (Holdings) Limited has incorporated a further seven compariesto complete the various phases ofthe
(Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park devetoprnent

East Wick & Sweetwater Projects Phase !)Limited

erated a further 20 companies to developlmanage various student sites:
‘Alurnno Student (Manchester) Limited
‘Alurnno Student (Mess Lane) Limit
‘Alumno Student Pershore) Limited
‘Alumno Student (Lewes Road) Limited

East Wick & Sweetwater Projects Phase 2) Limited
East Wick & Sweetwater Projects (Phase 3) Limited East Wick & Sweetwater Projects (Phase &) Limited
East Wick & Sweetwater Projects (Phase S) Limited East Wick & Sweetwater Projects Phase 7) Limited
East Wick and Sweetwater Projects (Phase 78) Limited (formerly East Wick & Sweetwater Projects (Phase 6) Limited)

‘see Picture Living LPis a 1090 limited partnership (10% being Group's interest) and the other entities that sit within the overall
structure and include:
Picture Living GP LLP Picture Living vestments LP
Picture Living investments GP LLP Picture Living Property Limited (68 Kingsway London WC2B 6AA)
Picture Living Trustee 1 Lid (icorporatedin Jersey, Third Floor, Gaspe House, 64-72 The Esplanade, Si. Helier, JE) 2LH, Jersey)
Picture Living Urithelder Li (incorporated in Jersey, Third Floor, Gaspe House, 66-72 The Esplanade, St. Heller, JEV 2LH, Jersey)

+++ company limited by guarantee without share capital
+ 1€pnal House. | Applecross Street, Glasgow, GL9SP

1 First Floor, 48-50St Mary's Gate, Nottingham, NGI 10A
Studio 4, Stuart House, Si. Joha’s Street, Peterhorough, England, PE! SOD

«Timber Wharf, 16-22 Worsley Street, Manchester, MIS CLD

+ Barratt House, Cartwright Way, Forest Busineés Park, Bardon Hl, Coavlle, Leicestershire, LEA? 1UF
+1 Hay Avenue, Edinburgh, EHI6 GRW

7 Countryside House, The Drive, Brentwood, Essex, UK,CMI3 347

(014 Quorum Business Park, Benton Lane, Newcastle upon Tyne NE12 8BU

+ tncorporatedin Spain with rgictered address Calle Sant Miquel 124, 08330 Premid de Mar, Spain

"© -RMG House, Essex Road, Hoddesdon, Herts, ENT? ODR

"1 London Wall Pace, London, €C2¥ SAU.

Democratic Services Cive Centre, Barras Bridge, Newcastle Upon Tyne, UK. NEI BQH

Gower Room, tnstituteof Life Sciences 1 Swansea University Singleton Park Swansea SA2 8PP

4 Incorporatedin Pakistanwith registered address 31/10-A, Abu Bakar Black, Now Garden Town, Lahore
51 Satetive Park, Macmerry. Tranent East Lothian, EH33 1RY

“nb Lever Street, Ground Flor, Manchester, MI 1DW

 Flaxbyindustrial Estate, Knaresborough, Harrogate, HGS 8X3

"Birkin Building 2 Broadway, Lace Market, Notingham, England, NGI 1PS

meperor wodey yenuvy I

193


194

3D Arovat Report 2020/26

Notes to the financial statements

For the year ending 31 barch 2028,

31 Disclosure of Group undertakings (continued)

Regulated and non-regulated ant

laces for People Group, a regulated eniy allocates overheads to seven non-regulated entities within the Group. Thisis mainly in respect ofan +
‘administration charge for finance, information technology, fclties management and human resources services.

‘The table below shows the Group overhead allocation toeach ofthe seven entities.

2026 2073

tm fm
Places for Peopte Landscapes Limited i: rn) 09
Paces for People Scotland Limited a4 01
Touchstone Corporate Property Services Limited 7 on 1
FPL (Holdings) Limited oa -
Residential Management Group Limited os 02
Places for People Developments Limited 4a 38
laces for People Ventures Operations Limited 24 -

Places for People Ventures Limited =

32. Events afterthe reporting date 7

(0n 6 April2024, Places fr People group announced he acquisition of Origin Housing and its 7,800 homes across London and the home counties for nil
‘consideration. The group also announced an investment ofa planned £100m nthe Origin Housing pertlolie over the next ten years. The acquisition has,
ro impact on he nancial statements forthe year ended 31 March 2024 asit occurred ater the end of the reporting period.

The acquisition willbe accounted for in full inthe year ending 31 March 2025 asa combination whichis in substance agi in accordance with
paragraphs PBE34.77 to PBE3479 of FRS 102, This willbe achieved by restaling the assets and liabilities of Origin Housing at fair value atthe date of
‘acquisition and consolidating these into the arcup position. Any excess ofthe fair value of the assets received over the far value of the liabilities
assumed willbe recognised.asa gain inthe Statement of Comprehensive Income. Itis not possible a the time of writing to estimate the fnanciat
impact ofthis transactions not ll af the information required is curently available.

Origin Housing reported atoss before tax of£1.3m on turnover of £68.4min the year ended 31 March 2023 and had net assets of £293.Imon that date.
Results forthe year ended 31 March 2024 are not availabe atthe time of writing.

Notes to the financial statements

Forthe year ening 1 March 2024

33 Housing stock —

‘The Group owns or manages 245.272 hausing properties, a breakdown ofthese housing propertiesis shown belaw:
Units
devetopedor Translers
Unitssoléy arom other
2023 demolished other RPs_—_ movements 2026
No. No. No. No.
Social housing owned
= Generalneeds housing 53.970 237 eo) - 40 36,557
= Affordable rent —generalneeds 34613 639 ° sn 396 4%
aati 150 10 - - aon 151
= Supporied housing 2420 mB > 8 - ew 2,620
= Housing for older people 4986 = - - © 4902
= bosdinsehiaeaandiait 5.524 320 en) - 65) 541
‘otat social housing owned 70,663, 1385 (508) «sr er nes
Social housing managed 7
=. General needs housing (neluding
iuertediierem 35.006 259 en - 250) 54,930
= Afordeble rent—geveralneeds 9u55 80 o 6.79) m2 4259
= Affordable rent — supported
te 150 no - - on 1st
— Supported housing 1350 1% 2) - wo 1360
= Housing for older people 4509 - - - @ 6541
= Loweosthome ownership 4
‘accommodation 675 81 (ea) = 8 4298
“Total social housing mana 15,879 1416 am - 408 1339
2028 2023
No. No.
Total social housing units managed
butnot owned = ual
Total sociathousing units owned
butnot managed hae a
Non-secal hous
= Market rent (ne: keyworker
accommodatisn) aay 20291
— Managed services 129,845 ness
— Leasedhousing— freehold only 9693 907
= Student accommodation 9,002 12966
‘Total non-sociat housing managed anges wi
Total sociat housing managed
‘Total housing managed 243,248 237902
‘Totathousing owned butmanaged by
another bady ~ 2227
Total housing owned oF managed 240.29
Garages, commercial premises and other non-residential wits managedr serviced 11903
Total residential and non-residential 252032

‘units managed or serviced.

vector vodeyjenvuy

195


196

De Annual Report 2023/26

Notes to financial statements

or the yar ending 3 Moreh 22%

Board of Directors

Company Secrotary

Registered Office

Rogistorod Auditor

Non-executives
RGcegory Chair

Bonner ‘Appointed 16 April 2024)
Cartwright

Daniel

Mounn

RFinn

G Kitchen

‘GWaddell Senior Independent Director
Executives

Reed Group Chief Executive
SBlack Group Chief Operating Oiticer
AWinstantoy Group Chiet Financial Oicer
Kalsop (Appointed 1 uly 2023)

Martin (Resigned 1 July 202)

4305 Gray's Inn Road, London WCIX BOR

Barclays Bank Ple 38 Fishergate Preston PRI 2AO

(MHA, 2London Wal Place, London, EC2Y SAU

‘Toe Company is registered under the Housing and Regeneration Act 2008 (Number 4236) and incorporated
‘under the Companies Act 2006 (Number 03777037). tts also affliated tothe Natianal Housing Federation.

verente votnyyemowy >

97


call HM ‘ie

bitin mt sn it ii cumin fe : et AM A
ie iL is iN Ht 4 1 118 . 1

Best
Workplaces

enon


