Charity number: 1096526
Company number: 4539003

. PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
TRUSTEES’ ANNUAL REPORT
AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

uM

AQg 29/10/2024 #131
COMPANIES HOUSE

TUESDAY

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
CONTENTS
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Pages
Legal and Administrative Information 1
Trustees’ Annual Report 2-11
Independent Auditor’s Report ; 12-14
Consolidated Statement of Financial Activities 15
Consolidated and Charity Balance Sheets 16
Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 17

Notes to the Financial statements , 18-41

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The charity is known as the Early Years Alliance. The legal entity's name remains the Pre-school Learning
Alliance.

BOARD OF TRUSTEES

The trustees of the Pre-school Learning Alliance are the charity's trustees under charity law and the directors
of the charitable company. The members of the Board of Trustees who have held office during the year and to
the date of signing this report are as follows:

Keith Appleyard (treasurer) **

Joanne Blank

Christine Cheshire * **

Emma Comer (appointed 12 April 2023)
Sathushen Kukapalan

Graham McMillan

Lorna Pendred (vice chair) **

Laura Perfetti *

Sarah Presswood (chair) *

Raymond Smith *

Emma Wohl

Anna Wright (appointed 1 August 2023)

* member of the Nominations and Procedures Committee

” member of the Audit Committee

COMPANY SECRETARY: Katharine Heeps

PRINCIPAL OFFICERS: Chief executive Neil Leitch
Director of people and technology Paul Donaldson
Director of quality improvement Michael Freeston
Director of finance Katharine Heeps

BANKERS: National Westminster Bank plc

280 Bishopsgate
London, W1U 2AR

STATUTORY AUDITOR: Crowe U.K. LLP
55 Ludgate Hill
London, EC4M 7JW

REGISTERED OFFICE: 50 Featherstone Street
London, EC1Y 8RT

WEBSITE: www.eyalliance.org.uk
CHARITY NUMBER: 1096526
COMPANY NUMBER: 4539003


PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
TRUSTEES’ ANNUAL REPORT
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The trustees of the Pre-school Learning Alliance are pleased to present their Annual Report for the year ended
31 March 2024 prepared under the Charities Act 2011 and the Companies Act 2006 (the report comprises the
Directors’ Report and the Strategic Report under the 2006 Act); together with the audited financial statements
for the year.

The attached financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set out on
pages 18 to 21 and comply with the charitable company’s Memorandum and Articles of Association, applicable
laws and the requirements of the Charities SORP FRS102.

Objectives and activities

Our values and vision
The charity's core values guide our work:

The child - putting the child first to enhance the quality of education and care and family service delivery.

The parents - empowering parents and carers to be the foundation of and foster the development of their
children.

We believe that the wellbeing and achievement of children should be a key priority for society. We will work
with policy makers, parents, early years educators and children to achieve this end. We will support the early
years workforce to carry out their vital work and gain the recognition they deserve.

Our charitable objects for the public benefit

Our charitable objects for the public benefit are set out in our Articles of Association. These include the
promotion of the care, safety, education, health and wellbeing of children and young people; promotion of
parental involvement in their education; provision of services to support children, young people and their
families and carers; and provision of services to support organisations and individuals holding membership of
the charity.

The charity's activities further the public benefit by supporting the needs of children and families and promoting
the importance of voluntary community involvement in early years education and care. The charity's
beneficiaries are the children and families who access our services and those of our members. The charity
supports central and local government initiatives and provides support to parents to engage in their children’s
learning at home, providing a range of benefits and services for families. The charity's training and learning
programme is delivered online and in the workplace allowing students to earn and learn.

The trustees have given due regard to the guidance issued by the Charity Commission on public benefit
principles and have reviewed all activities and plans outlined in this report to ensure that they comply with
those principles. The trustees set objectives based on their assessment of the public need for early years
education and care and the support needs of those caring for and working with young children and their
families.

Our activities

Our charitable purpose is to provide services which promote child development and support families, especially
those in deprived areas. We do this by delivering services for families, support and training programmes for
our members and representing the wider early years sector.

We utilise our experience, expertise and authority to advocate on behaif of children and families to government
agencies to secure polices that place children’s needs at their core. We work in partnership with a range of
organisations, our members and the wider sector to advocate for improvements in early years policy and
provision. We deliver affordable, flexible and high-quality early years provision through a portfolio of nurseries
and pre-schools. These all operate around a core belief that parents are the first and foremost educators of
their children. Our parent partnership work empowers families and carers and gives them a greater
involvement in their children’s care and education.

Page 2

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
TRUSTEES’ ANNUAL REPORT (CONTINUED)
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Objectives and activities (continued)

Our activities (continued) :
The charity has no fundraising activities requiring disclosure under S162A of the Charities Act 2011.

Achievement and performance

The Alliance has been at the forefront of representing the best interests of children and families in 2023-24.
We made major contributions on behalf of the early years sector to debates around the importance of early
education and childcare, especially for more disadvantaged children. The Alliance's activities have focused on
providing the services that bring about the benefits of early years education and help to address inequalities
and supporting our members to deliver against a challenging backdrop. A report by the University of Leeds
(November 2023) has evidenced the need for the charity's services as set out in this report: “Our findings
demonstrate the importance of early years education for children born without social advantage - helping to
narrow the gap in early development and level socioeconomic inequalities. It's essential that we facilitate
access for the families who will benefit most from this support, at this crucial stage in youngsters’ lives”. :

Provision of care and education services

Our strategic aims in this area are: promoting the importance of play in a high quality environment; support
career progression opportunities to early years staff; embedding a communication and language-rich
curriculum; and a focused programme of delivery for vulnerable families, children with complex families lives
or children with SEND.

In the year we provided 1,070,000 hours of early education and care to over two thousand children and their
families in our nurseries. Currently 97.5% of our nurseries are rated by Ofsted as good or outstanding
compared with the national average of 97%. These improvements are testimony to the hard work and
commitment of our staff in a challenging operating environment. This is reflected in the inspection outcome of
West Street nursery 31 January 2024: ‘The manager plans a highly ambitious curriculum that staff understand
and implement extremely well across all age groups. The impact of this is that all children make the best
possible progress from their unique starting points. This includes the most disadvantaged children and children
with special educational needs and/or disabilities (SEND). Staff implement the curriculum aims consistently
throughout the nursery. They seamlessly sequence the curriculum to help children gain the knowledge and
skills they need for their future education. This is particularly evident when observing what children know and
can do across the nursery. By the time children reach the pre-school room, many are confident, articulate,
independent and caring individuals.’ Ofsted Report West Street Nursery

We were awarded DayNurseries.co.uk Top 20 Nursery Group 2024, based on the reviews given by families
about the settings. Four of the settings achieved a top twenty award for their area. 93% of review scores are
9 or above and nine settings have a score of 10. ‘’m very happy with this nursery for my child .... | can see
the huge difference in her physical development, cognitive development and social and emotional
development. She’s a very confident little girl since she started the nursery. Her language development and
communication skills are getting better too.’ Foxcubs parent review on DayNurseries.co.uk

We have introduced a professional pathway training programme for our managers and deputy managers to
support their career development. Monthly online taught group sessions are supplemented by self-directed
topics on leadership and management topics including effective support for children’s speech, language and
communication development. The pilot group of eight participants will complete to programme in early 2025.
The professional pathway learning is tailored towards the early years sector making it relevant and relatable
in a way that outside training is not.

To ensure the greatest support to our most vulnerable children we have implemented group supervision where
key persons share their knowledge of, and concerns about, each child with the whole staff team to ensure all
are actively engaged in keeping them safe. This enhances our contribution to social care and welfare
investigations. We offer a wide range of services, including ‘love me again’ clothes rails, toy swaps, promotion
of food banks and signposting to a wide range of services which supports all families especially the most
vulnerable.

Page 3

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
TRUSTEES’ ANNUAL REPORT (CONTINUED)
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Achievement and performance (continued)

In all our settings we have seen an increase in the number of vulnerable children and families, affected by the
impact of cost of living, children with complex families lives or children with SEND. Over 10% (258) of our
children are eligible for Early Years Pupil Premium, slightly higher than the national average of 9%, with over
half of settings having five or more children in receipt of this additional financial support. In addition, over 10%
of children have a special educational need or disability or are on a diagnosis pathway, compared with the
DfE’s national figures of 8%.

Outreach services for children and families

The Early Years Alliance works with some of the most vulnerable families in the country through our family
learning programmes, baby and toddler groups and local support services. Our strategic aims in this area are:
targeting health and wellbeing resources for families through baby and toddler programmes; focussed services
for families who have or are waiting for a SEND diagnosis; promoting the importance of the home-learning
environment; and embedding communication and language resources in our programmes.

In its 2024 position paper Childhood Matters, the Association of Directors of Children’s Services highlighted
the damaging effects of both austerity and the pandemic on the mental and physical health of children. It found
the poorest families have been most affected by the reduction in public services with 1 in 3 parents struggling
to get any professional support due to gaps in service availability, with a resultant impact on young children’s
healthy development and parental mental health and wellbeing.

Our work with these families builds on the 2022-23 target to develop resources and support to parents and
educators that support positive engagement by parents in their children’s learning and with early years
provision.

In Bradford our baby and toddler group programme reached 88% of existing groups in targeted areas and 95%
in non-target areas exceeding target by 10% and 26% respectively. Our Baby and Toddler Quality Toolkit has
been developed to enable group leaders to access training. Over 100 groups have registered to use the Toolkit
since its launch in March 2024, and 184 training courses have been completed or are in progress. The Toolkit
received excellent feedback: “The quality Toolkit has been a really positive experience.....there are so many
things to consider when running a stay and play provision and the Toolkit has all of those in one place to refer
to... and so helpful to be able to access training and links to relevant information for areas of development”
BB Playgroup

In Lewisham, our Children’s Centre provision reached 2,564 targeted families, exceeding the target by over
200%. The Explorers Plus stay and play sessions, developed in partnership with Lewisham’s Portage service,
brings families together who have concerns about their child’s development and those waiting for, or who have,
a SEND diagnosis. As at March 2024, 225 families have benefited from the programme exceeding the target
of 220.

“Explorers Plus sessions are an invaluable resource for Lewisham families. The setting is informal but
purposeful and offers a safe space for children whose needs mean they may struggle to engage in other under
5s play provision. The sessions also provide an invaluable space for parents, who can use the regular,
predictable, safe space to speak with professionals about their child’s development, as well as opportunities
to receive support and experience feelings of solidarity with other parents. The sessions benefit children’s
development as well as child and parent wellbeing.” Senior Specialist Educational Psychologist for Early Years
in Lewisham.

Through the Flying Start Project in Luton, over 1,900 children attended universal sessions, and over 450
parents attended workshops. The Safety at Home Project in Luton provided safety information and advice to
nearly 3,000 families with 274 equipment packs supplied to eligible families and over 90 parents attending
Keeping Baby Safe antenatal workshops. The aim of the project is to help provide safer homes and to reduce
accidents which might impact on a child's longer-term health and wellbeing, supporting the most vulnerable
children to stay safe and well. 100% of service users rated the project good or very good.

Volunteers in Luton gave over 2,000 hours of time in the year, speaking a range of languages to support
vulnerable parents throughout the local community and enabling local volunteers to achieve positive personal

Page 4

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
TRUSTEES’ ANNUAL REPORT (CONTINUED)
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Achievement and performance (continued)

Outreach services for children and families (continued)

goals. “My role as a volunteer gave me the drive and the skills to progress and pursue my ambitions. | am
proud that | now work with new parents and support their baby’s early development.” Luton volunteer

The Department for Education Voluntary and Community Sector grant supported our home-learning
environment programme. Between August 2023 and March 2024, 1,431 parents engaged with the programme
either online or in person exceeding the target of 760. Sessions included Moving on Up, to prepare children
for the transition from nursery to reception, Bump to Breast, focusing on the importance of speaking with babies
at ante and neo-natal stages and Home is the Best Communication Classroom, using everyday objects and
activities to promote early language. This year’s Home is Where the Start is online festival of play and learning
attracted 2,347 participants to sessions including Makaton at home, easy money-saving cookery tips and baby
massage tasters. The programme supports educators to assess children for communication and language
delay. Since August 2023, 165 educators from 68 settings have been trained and supported to meet individual
children’s communication needs and embed a language-rich curriculum.

A total of 7,453 beneficiaries have engaged with the ten-year, National Lottery-funded A Better Start
programme in Southend. Levels of engagement with beneficiaries have remained high with over 2,200 primary
beneficiaries attending programmes each year. The breastfeeding support programmes helped 475 new
mothers 1:1 support and in group-based provision. The programme has increased the number of infants totally
or partially breastfed at 6-8 weeks from 41% in 2015-16 to 47% in 23-24. The Let’s Talk programme to support
children's language and communication reached 571 children and contributed to a 22% drop in cases loads
teferred to specialist speech and language service within the ABSS target population between 2019 and 2023.

Formative evaluation of the programme's impact is being undertaken by Essex University. Using a mixed-
methodology approach of quantitative and qualitative data they concluded the social opportunities provided by
activities were as beneficial to those attending as the programme's primary purpose.

Sector support, membership and policy development

Our strategic aims in this area are: quality improvement of early years provision for children with special
educational needs and/or disabilities (SEND); developing innovative ways to train a high-quality sector
workforce; early identification of additional needs in the early years sector; supporting the mental health and
wellbeing of the early years workforce.

Training qualification delivery increased by 73% on the 2022-23 year. This was a result of curriculum delivery
improvements made in the previous year, ensuring teaching was better sequenced and coherent. In July 2024
Ofsted welcomed these developments concluding: “Learners and apprentices are taught a well-structured
curriculum that deepens their knowledge and understanding of the taught topics. Assessors support learners
and apprentices very effectively to learn the essential knowledge and study skills they need to complete their
assessments to a suitable standard.” Ofsted 2024

In the year to March 315, 63,006 online courses were undertaken by members of the Alliance. The most
popular courses were Effective Safeguarding Practice, The Prevent Duty in an Early Years Environment and
Understanding and Addressing Behaviour in the Early Years. Live online training continues to be popular. 5,792
early years educators registered for our live online Connect, Virtual classroom and Insight sessions. These
cover a range of early years topics including Business Health Checks, Inspirational Baby Room Practice and
Working with Children with SEND.

We launched our first virtual reality training sessions, developed in collaboration with Metaverse limited. These
allow practitioners to learn skills and knowledge on potentially sensitive topics including settling a child at
nursery and undertaking an inspection learning walk in safe, simulated environments.

The cost-of-living crisis has refocused many nursery managers’ and childminders’ attention on the importance
of providing a healthy, nutritious diet for children. Our Early Years Nutrition Support Programme offers menu
checks and consultancies, advice on providing a positive food environment and how food can be an excellent
vehicle to deliver all seven areas of the EYFS curriculum. 1,398 nursery managers and chefs attended a series
of seven online sessions including portion size, nutrition balance, allergies and food refusal behaviours.

Page 5

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
TRUSTEES’ ANNUAL REPORT (CONTINUED)
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Achievement and performance (continued)
Sector support, membership and policy development (continued)

In November 2023, we published our Minds Still Matter report, exploring the mental health and wellbeing
impacts of working in the early years. We researched the impact of recruitment challenges, pay, high workloads
and inspection. It found that 81% of participants were regularly stressed about a work-related issue, with Ofsted
inspections highlighted as the most common cause of stress among educators. Our annual conference in July
also took this theme. Participants enjoyed expert contributions and workshops focused on the importance of
maintaining their own wellbeing as a prerequisite for providing effective learning and development to the
children who attend their provision. For our Play Week, launched at the Conference, over 1,000 members -
downloaded resources to help them celebrate in-the-moment play with children.

Plans for the future

The Strategic Plan 2024-2027 will work to influence the new government to ensure that the early years sector
is central to policy and funding plans in the long-term. This will include securing realistic funding and workforce
development to deliver the entitlement expansion.

We will focus on children facing particular inequalities. We will develop internal SEND training and support
materials to be introduced at a staff conference in Autumn 2024. This will launch a rolling programme of training
and support, with different SEND topics highlighted each month. The programme will support and extend a
range of new SEND projects throughout the country including the Children with Disabilities Project in
Lincolnshire and the Explorers Plus session in Lewisham.

We will increase government funded entitlement places for babies in our nurseries by 19% from 174 to 216.
Building on our successful internal programme Becoming Actively Anti-Racist we will offer guidance and
materials for family-support projects and the wider early years sector.

We will use our new web platforms to target and promote our services, training and support, and ensure our
provision is demand led. The improved data capture available through the new system will help us meet our

- strategic plan aim of measuring the effectiveness of our interventions. It will allow the publication of impact and
effectiveness reports for distribution to funders, potential funders and stakeholders.

Emphasis will be placed on supporting the early years sector to engage young children and their families in
issues of climate change. We will develop resources and advice on how to introduce issues of sustainability
into the curriculum. Our work in this area has been strengthened by our active involvement in the DfE’s Climate
Ambassadors project supporting education institutions with their climate change plans.

Structure, governance and management

Governing document and membership
The charity is a company limited by guarantee governed by its Articles of Association. The charity's members
undertake to pay no more than £1 towards the charity's assets in the event of the charity being wound up.

Board of Trustees
The Board of Trustees is the governing body of the Pre-school Learning Alliance. The Board of Trustees is the
board of directors under company law. The trustees of the charity are also members of the charity.

The Board of Trustees is currently made up of eleven Elected Trustees and one Appointed Trustee. Elected
Trustees are elected by the members and their names are presented at the annual general meeting of the
charity. Appointed Trustees are selected by virtue of their background, knowledge and experience and bring
skills that are complementary to those of the Elected Trustees. The period of office of the Board of Trustees is
three years. Trustees are given a governance handbook and attend an induction training programme to
introduce the responsibilities of their role including governance, policies and procedures. This is followed by
training sessions throughout a trustee's term based on a skills audit.

Page 6

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
TRUSTEES’ ANNUAL REPORT (CONTINUED)
' YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Structure, governance and management (continued)

Committees of the Board

The Nominations and Procedures Committee is responsible for ensuring that the charity’s governing document
and byelaws are regularly reviewed and complied with. The committee identifies individuals on behalf of the
Board of Trustees to stand as Appointed Trustees.

The Audit Committee ensures that there is an effective and transparent framework of accountability within the
charity and monitors control and risk management systems. The Audit Committee and Nominations and
Procedures Committee have agreed terms of reference and minutes are made available to the Board of
Trustees. Co-opted members who are not themselves trustees serve on some of our committees and the
trustees are grateful for the expertise, skills and experience that they bring.

The Board of Trustees is represented on the charity's Safeguarding Group. This group is responsible for
oversight of all policies and procedures to ensure that the charity keeps all children and vuinerable adults safe
and can respond to all safeguarding concerns.

Cade of governance

The trustees have reviewed the Charity Code of Governance (the Code) and mapped the charity's governance
structures and processes against the seven principles. The trustees are satisfied that the governance
framework already established and documented in is compliant with the Code and that by monitoring their
ways of working against each of the Code’s seven principles, they are compliant. The Code is integral to the
charity's governance handbook which is regularly reviewed and included in the trustee training programme.
Trustees are clear about their roles and legal responsibilities, are committed to supporting the charity to deliver
its objects most effectively for its beneficiaries’ benefit and contribute to the charity’s continued improvement.
The trustees have agreed a board diversity policy to guide the process of electing and appointing trustees.

Management

The Board of Trustees appoints the Chief Executive who is given delegated authority to implement strategy
and to run the charity efficiently. The Chief Executive and Strategic Management Team lead a consultation
process that feeds into the charity's policy making, budgets and strategic plan. Once approved, trustees
monitor implementation and progress against target at their quarterly meetings.

Remuneration of the charity's key management personnel is agreed by trustees with reference to the charity's
Employment and Remuneration Policy.

STRATEGIC REPORT

Key risks and uncertainties

The Board of Trustees’ risk management process identifies key events or incidents that could affect the
charity’s ability to achieve its aims. This process results in a record of the most significant internal and external
risks facing the charity, the possible impact or consequence of each risk and the required action to mitigate it.
The Board of Trustees seeks reasonable assurance that these risks have been adequately managed, and that
appropriate procedures and controls are in place to identify, manage and mitigate the key risks as far as
possible. Scrutiny of risk management is delegated by the Board of Trustees to the Audit Committee which
reports to the Board after every meeting.

As a charity providing care for children, the trustees recognise that the key risk relates to injury or death of
children whilst in our care. Strong safeguarding controls have been implemented and are regularly reviewed
to ensure they mitigate the likelihood of this risk. Training and vetting of staff and clear policies create an
effective safeguarding culture.

The increasing cost of employing staff, at a time of ongoing underfunding in early years, is a risk both to the
financial viability of the charity and to the strength of the early years sector. Challenges continue with
recruitment and retention of suitably qualified staff. This increases risks to staff mental health and physical
wellbeing and has, in some settings, required reduction in delivery hours to ensure quality is maintained. We
have reviewed the financial viability of each setting and developed a framework for maintaining high quality

Page 7

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
TRUSTEES’ ANNUAL REPORT (CONTINUED)
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Key risks and uncertainties (continued)

provision that can respond to expected changes to early years policy. This has resulted in improved leadership
and management, sufficiently qualified, competent and confident staff teams, effective ongoing professional
development and healthy work environments.

Financial review

Financial results

The consolidated Statement of Financial Activities for 2023-24 shows a net decrease in funds of £1,382,000
in the year. The decrease in funds is after unrealised investment gains of £364,000 and actuarial gains on the
defined benefit pension scheme of £20,000.

Overall, there has been a 1% drop in income for the charity and a 3.2% increase in costs. Revenue from care
and education places was £1,500,000 less than the previous year due to staff shortages and closure of
services. There were not corresponding cost savings due to the impact of the National Living Wage on salary
tates. This has led to financial losses across some settings.

The unrestricted deficit, before unrealised investment losses and actuarial gains, was £1,750,000 in the year.
In the year, restricted funds decreased by £17,000. The charity used donated funds in line with the wishes of
grant funders and donors to meet the needs of children and families and to support the early years sector and
received new restricted donations of £111,000.

Financial health

The 2023-24 accounts reflect a strong performance from outreach project delivery and services to support
families and the charity's members. However, the disappointing financial results show the impact of reduced
operating hours which resulted from recruitment and retention challenges in our care and education settings.
The income forecasts from nursery provision in 2023-24 were based on the assumption that early years --
recruitment and retention challenges, that had increased during the pandemic, would ease. However, our
workforce capacity position did not improve, hampering our ability to increase provision. As a result, the 2024-
26 nursery income forecasts assume there will be very limited, or no increase staff capacity.

The charity took the decision to cease to operate 15 settings in 2023-24 and steps have been taken to
restructure the operating model. The charity has taken a cautious approach to budgeting for the new
entitlements as take up is uncertain and recruitment challenges remain a concern. The results for the summer
term are already showing an improvement in performance. A key consideration has been capacity of a setting
to respond to the increased need for one- and two-year-old places when the government's 30-hour offer is
introduced in September 2024. The charity is investing in a digital transformation project bringing services in
house to maximise control of and revenue earned from our resources.

The trustees are confident this budgeting approach is realistic and presents a position that is viable and
sustainable. Taking account of the charity's response to this year’s results, cash balances at the signing date
and the overall financial health of the charity, the trustees have a reasonable expectation that the charity has
adequate resources to continue for the foreseeable future. Therefore, we have continued to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing these financial statements.

Policies

Reserves policy

The charity's unrestricted funds are held to secure the activities of the charity and can be applied in the event
of a drop in funding or other financial contingency. The general fund represents the unrestricted funds arising
from past operating results and totalled £2,950,000 at 31 March 2024. The fixed asset designated fund
contains the funds that are invested in tangible fixed assets which are held to support the continuation of
charitable activities. The funds held at 31 March 2024 totalled £1,100,000. One other designated fund totalled
£56,000. The negative designated pension reserve of £18,000 represents the present value of future deficit
contributions to The Pensions Trust Growth Plan as valued under FRS102 at 31 March 2024. The movements
on unrestricted funds and details of designations made by the trustees are set out in note 15 to the financial
statements.

Page 8

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
TRUSTEES’ ANNUAL REPORT (CONTINUED)
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Policies (continued)

Reserves policy (continued)

Restricted funds are held by the charity when donors have stipulated how their donation can be spent. These
funds cannot always be spent in the period in which they are donated and so the target is always to use
restricted funds in a manner which meets the needs of the beneficiaries and the expectations of the donors.
At 31 March 2024 restricted funds held totalled £836,000. The movements on restricted funds are set out in
note 16.

The reserves policy reflects the need to respond to changes to the major risks and be able to meet the
commitment of providing early years services to children and their families. The aim of the reserves policy is
to hold adequate general funds to sustain charitable activities in the event of future income variation or
increases in operational costs and to allow a managed review of operations and investment in development
activities.

The reserves are reviewed annually to reassess the risks and reflect changes in activities, obligations and
funding levels. The trustees recognise that the key income risks for the charity are linked to the long-term
stability of the early years sector that makes up its membership and the continuation of funded early education
places for two, three and four year olds. The Board of Trustees has established a policy which states that the
most appropriate level of the general fund should be 25% of budgeted staff costs plus a provision against
financial risks and pension liabilities.

The general reserves are currently £2,950,000 which is 31% below the target set by trustees of £4,300,000.
The charity's operational plan includes actions to generate reserves that will meet the target level in the
medium term. These include creating a new operating model for the charity's nurseries to minimise losses.

Investment policy

The trustees recognise the need to retain sufficient liquid assets to meet the charity’s short-term obligations.
The trustees’ investment policy is to minimise risk to those assets because they largely represent working
capital. Therefore, these funds are invested in low-risk cash deposits which are pooled and placed on
overnight and term deposits. These funds are managed internally.

Funds that can be invested over a longer term are invested in Common Investment Funds which are managed
by CCLA Fund Managers. The trustees selected CCLA as fund manager because of its Ethical and
Responsible Investment policy which is in line with the charity’s own investment policy. The charity has no
limitations on its investment powers. The aim is to maximise yield while maintaining the capital fund. The
portfolio is actively managed to ensure that there is a balanced approach across all asset classes. In 2023-24
76% was held in equities and 24% in property/infrastructure. Return on investment was 2.3% (2023: 1.4%).
Interest rates on bank deposits in 2023-24 was 1.39%. Average income earned from Common Investment
Funds is 3.0% (2023: 3.1%).

During the year, the investment portfolio made unrealised gains of £364,000. Equities recovered the losses
experienced in 2022-23. Property valuations remained largely unchanged due to uncertainty over office space
and industrials. The property fund has been sold and funds will be realised in September 2024.

Employment and remuneration policy

The charity is a major employer within the early years sector. It is an equal opportunities employer and all
employment related policies are developed in line with our vision and strategy. The charity provides a range of
development opportunities, including coaching and mentoring to ensure that the talents of the workforce are
fully utilised to support the achievement of the Alliance’s goals. Regular policy and procedure reviews take
place to ensure that the charity is able to meet its goals and employment law requirements.

Working within recognised good practice guidelines, the charity regularly reviews its level of investment in staff
training and development to ensure that adequate and appropriate resources are in place. E-learning and the
use of webinars complement other staff training and development policies and activities within the organisation.

Page 9

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
TRUSTEES’ ANNUAL REPORT (CONTINUED)
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Policies (continued)

Employment and remuneration policy (continued)

After a rigorous process of reassessment reviewed by Investors in People (liP), the Alliance retained its silver
level We Invest in People accreditation and We Invest in Wellbeing accreditation. Retaining the liP silver award
recognises an empowered workforce, supportive management and an embedded commitment to developing
individuals. The wellbeing award recognises the work undertaken by the Alliance to promote a culture of
wellbeing.

As part of our commitment to give attention to securing racial and ethnic equality across our structures and
activities we successfully piloted a training programme on Becoming Actively Anti-Racist. 134 managers
attended the pilot and the final programme is being rolled out to all staff.

829 staff are employed by the charity within community projects, in the charity's early years settings, in support
roles and as assessors. Systems are in place to communicate information about the charity's activities to all
employees on a regular basis, and to encourage employees to provide ideas and suggestions. These systems
have been enhanced with the introduction of a new staff forum. The charity believes that a reguiar flow of
information will enhance its effectiveness and productivity.

All trustees give their time freely and no trustee received remuneration in the year. Details of trustees' expenses
are included in note 9 and related party transactions are disclosed in note 21 to the financial statements. The
pay of the senior staff is reviewed annually, and any adjustments are subject to the performance of the charity
overall. A pay review is conducted annually whereby salary levels are benchmarked against similar sized not-
for-profit organisations.

Environmental policy

As a charity committed to supporting the futures of young children and families, the trustees are aware that
the human causes of climate change pose a threat to children’s livelihood and wellbeing. The charity promotes
sustainable citizenship and ecological awareness through the early years curriculum and promotes active
engagement of families in projects to raise environmental awareness. The charity has taken advice from
external advisers to set new strategic targets to increase positive environmental impact and minimise the
negative environmental footprint of the charity's activities and those of its supply chain. The charity secured
1S014001 for its environmental management systems.

Subsidiary companies

The financial statements included in this report represent the consolidated results of the charity and its
subsidiary company, Pre-school Learning Alliance Trading Limited (PLAT).

The objective of PLAT is to promote the aims of the Early Years Alliance by obtaining sponsorship and other
commercially derived funds. Income derived from commission on the sale of insurance services to members
is the most significant part of the company’s financial activity. PLAT pays all of its taxable profits to the charity
via Gift Aid. An operating profit of £638,000 (2023: £637,000) was made in the year.

Asummary of the company's trading results is set out in note 3 of the attached financial statements.

In July 2013, the charity made a subordinated loan of £50,000 to its trading subsidiary, PLAT, to ensure that
the company fulfilled Financial Conduct Authority capital resource requirements. The loan was unsecured and
does not bear interest and there were no set repayment terms in place.

Statement of Trustees’ Responsibilities

The trustees are responsible for preparing the Strategic Report, the Trustees’ Annual Report and the financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Company law requires the trustees to prepare

financial statements for each financial year in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards) and applicable law.

Page 10

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
TRUSTEES’ ANNUAL REPORT (CONTINUED)
YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Statement of Trustees’ Responsibilities (continued)

Under company law the trustees must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the charitable company and the group and of the group’s net
incoming/outgoing resources for that period.

In preparing these financial statements, the trustees are required to:
e select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
« observe the methods and principles in the Charities Statement of Recommended Practice;
« make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

e state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

* prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that
the charitable company and the group will continue to operate.

The trustees are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the charitable company’s and the group’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the
financial position of the charitable company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial
statements comply with the Companies Act 2006, the Charity (Financial statements and Reports) Regulations
2008 and the provisions of the charitable company’s constitution. They are also responsible for safeguarding
the assets of the charitable company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The trustees are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information
included on the charitable company's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

The following statements have been affirmed by each of the trustees of the charitable company in office at the

date of this report:

e so far as each trustee is aware, there is no relevant audit information (that is, information needed by the
company's auditor in connection with preparing their report) of which the company’s auditor is unaware;
and

° each trustee has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a trustee in order to make
himself/herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the company's auditor is aware
of that information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 under
Companies Act 2006.

Auditor

Crowe U.K. LLP has indicated its willingness to be reappointed as statutory auditor.

This Annual Report of the Trustees, under the Charities Act 2011 and the Companies Act 2006, was approved

by the Board of Trustees on 25 September 2024 including approving in their capacity as company directors
the Strategic Report contained therein, and is signed as authorised on its behalf by:

Saleen?

Sarah Presswood
Chair

Page 11

Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Pre-school Learning

Alliance

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Pre-school Learning Alliance for the year ended 31 March 2024
which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Financial Activities (SOFA), the Consolidated and Charity
Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement and notes to the Financial Statements, including a
summary of significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their
preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting
Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion the financial statements:

e give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and the charitable company’s affairs as at 31
March 2024 and of the group’s income and expenditure, for the year then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the
group in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in
the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the trustee's use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the charitable company's or the
group’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial
statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the trustees with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The trustees are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report. The other
information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and
our auditor's report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information
and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance
conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the
financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a
material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Page 12

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion based on the work undertaken in the course of our audit

e the information given in the trustees’ report, which includes the directors’ report and the strategic
report prepared for the purposes of company law, for the financial year for which the financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

e the strategic report and the directors’ report included within the trustees’ report have been prepared
in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and charitable company and their environment
obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or
the directors’ report included within the trustees’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006
requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

adequate and proper accounting records have not been kept; or

the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of trustees' remuneration specified by law are not made; or

we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of trustees

As explained more fully in the trustees’ responsibilities statement set out on pages 10 and 11 the trustees
(who are also the directors of the charitable company for the purposes of company law) are responsible for
the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for
such internal control as the trustees determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements
that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

\n preparing the financial statements, the trustees are responsible for assessing the group and charitable
company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the trustees either intend to liquidate the charitable
company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit
conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
financial statements.

Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud and
non-compliance with laws and regulations are set out below.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial
Reporting Council's website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our
auditor's report.

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We identified and
assessed the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements from irregularities, whether due to
fraud or error, and discussed these between our audit team members. We then designed and performed
audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our opinion.

We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks within which the charitable company
and group operates, focusing on those laws and regulations that have a direct effect on the determination of
material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The laws and regulations we considered in this
context were the Companies Act 2006 and the Charities Act 2011 together with the Charities SORP (FRS
102). We assessed the required compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our audit procedures

Page 13

on the related financial statement items.

In addition, we considered provisions of other laws and regulations that do not have a direct effect on the
financial statements but compliance with which might be fundamental to the charitable company’s and the
group’s ability to operate or to avoid a material penaity. We also considered the opportunities and incentives
that may exist within the charitable company and the group for fraud. The laws and regulations we
considered in this context for the UK operations included General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR),
employment legislation, Health and Safety legislation, Ofsted standards and the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) regulations in relation to the insurance business.

Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and
regulations to enquiry of the Trustees and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal
correspondence, if any.

We identified the greatest risk of material impact on the financial statements from irregularities, including
fraud, to be within the timing of recognition of grant income and the override of controls by management. Our
audit procedures to respond to these risks included enquiries of management, and the Audit Committee
about their own identification and assessment of the risks of irregularities, agreeing income to contracts or
other supporting evidence on a sample basis, testing on the posting of journals, reviewing accounting
estimates for biases, reviewing regulatory correspondence with the Charity Commission, Ofsted and the FCA
and reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance.

Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected
some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and
performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards. For example, the further removed non-
compliance with laws and regulations (irregularities) is from the events and transactions reflected in the
financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited procedures required by auditing standards would
identify it. In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of irregularities, as
these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
controls. We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance and cannot be expected to detect non-
compliance with all laws and regulations.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the charitable company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of
Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the
charitable company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for
no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone
other than the charitable company and the charitable company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for
this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

“eores

Julia Poulter
Senior Statutory Auditor

For and on behalf of
Crowe U.K. LLP
Statutory Auditor

London
16 October 2024

Page 14

Unrestricted Restricted Total Total
Funds Funds 2024 2023
Notes £7000 £'000 £000 £'000
Income from:
Donations 429 111 240 243
investments 180 - 180 138
Charitable activities: 2
Provision of care and education services 11,150 - 11,150 12,705
Outreach services for children and families 4,956 5,983 10,939 9,881
Sector support, membership and policy 2,130 61 2,191 1,986
development
Other trading activities 3 1,026 - 1,026 1,059
Total Income 19,571 6,155 25,726 26,012
Expenditure on:
Charitable activities:
Provision of care and education services 13,748 - 13,748 14,506
Outreach services for children and families 4,208 6,135 10,343 9,517
Sector support, membership and policy 2,911 37 2,948 2,624
development
Restructure costs 453 - 453 -
Total Expenditure 4 21,320 6,172 27,492 26,647
Unrealised gain/{loss) on investments 11 364 - 364 (252)
Net expenditure (1,385) (17) (1,402) (887)
Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension
schemes 20 20 - 20 21
Net movement in funds (1,365) {17) (1,382) (866)
Reconciliation of funds:
Fund balances brought forward at 1 April 2023 5,439 853 6,292 7,158
Fund balances carried forward at 31 March
2024 4,074 836 4,910 6,292

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES
(INCORPORATING AN INCOME AND EXPENDITURE ACCOUNT)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

All income and expenditure derive from continuing activities.

Included in restricted funds are endowment funds brought forward of £23,000 and carried forward of £23,000

(note 16).

The notes on pages 18 to 41 form part of these financial statements.

Page 15

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
CONSOLIDATED AND CHARITY BALANCE SHEETS
31 MARCH 2024

Group Charity
Notes 2024 2023 2024 2023
£'000 £000 £'000 £000

FIXED ASSETS

Tangible assets 10 1,086 1,012 1,086 1,012

Investments 11 4,548 4,205 4,548 4,205
5,634 5,217 5,634 5,217

CURRENT ASSETS

Stock 12 180 240 180 240

Debtors 13 929 716 914 691

Cash at bank and in hand 2,484 4,832 2,245 4,566

3,593 5,788 3,339 5,497

CREDITORS — Amounts falling due within one

year 14 (4,299) _ (4,675) _ (4,045) _ (4,384)
NET CURRENT ASSETS (706) 1,113 (706) 1,113
NET ASSETS - excluding pension liability 4,928 6,330 4,928 6,330
Defined benefit pension liability 20 — (18) (38) (18) (38)
TOTAL NET ASSETS 4,910 6,292 4,910 6,262

FUNDS OF THE CHARITY:

Unrestricted funds:

Generai fund 2,950 4,400 2,950 4,400

Pension reserve (18) (38) (18) (38)

Designated fund 1,142 1,077 1,142 1,077
15 4,074 5,439 4,074 5,439

Restricted funds 16 836 853 836 853

TOTAL CHARITY FUNDS 17 4,910 6,292 4,910 6,292

The deficit for the parent undertaking alone amounted to £2,040,000 (2023: £1,524,000 deficit). Income for
the parent undertaking alone amounted to £24,696,000 (2023: £24,593,000).

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Trustees on 25 September
2024 and signed on its behalf by

Sarah Presswood
Chair

The notes on pages 18 to 41 form part of these financial statements.

Page 16

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Notes 2024 2023
£000 £000

Net cash (used in)/from operating activities 19(a) (2,303) (1,157)
Cash flows from investing activities:
Interest from investments 180 138
Purchase of equipment (246) (142)
Proceeds from sale of investments 21 -
Net cash used in investing activities (45) (4)
Change in cash and cash equivalents in the
reporting period (2,348) (1,161)
Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of
the reporting period 4,832 5,993
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the
reporting period 19(b) 2,484 4,832

The notes on pages 18 to 41 form part of these financial statements.

Page 17

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES

(a)

(b)

(c)

Basis of preparation

The financial statements of the Charity, which is a public benefit entity under FRS 102, have
been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the revaluation of
investments, in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and
Republic of Ireland (FRS 102), the Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of
Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with the
Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) (Charities
SORP (FRS 102)) and the Companies Act 2006.

The charity is a private limited company (registered number 4539003), which is incorporated and ©
domiciled in the UK and meets the definition of a public benefit entity under FRS102. The address
of the principal place of business is 50 Featherstone Street, London EC1Y 8RT. The financial
statements include those of the charity's subsidiary company Pre-school Learning Alliance
Trading Limited (registered number 2417619) which has been consolidated on a line-by-line
basis.

The legal ownership of the freehold property occupied by the charity vests in the Pre-school
Learning Alliance Property Trust Corporation, a nominee company limited by guarantee.

After reviewing the circumstances that ted to financial losses in the last two financial years and
taking action to address budgeting assumptions around occupancy growth, the trustees have
approved a budget which reflects current operating challenges and takes advantage of new
funding streams. The trustees consider that it is reasonable to expect that the group has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future being a period of not
less than twelve months from the date that the financial statements were approved. The trustees
therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of its consolidated financial
statements.

Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the charity's accounting policies, trustees are required to make judgements,
estimates and assumptions about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily
apparent from other sources. The estimates and underlying assumptions are based on historical
experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from
these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an on-going basis. Revisions to
accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision
affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods if the revision affects the
current and future periods.

The key source of estimation uncertainty that have a significant effect on the amounts recognised
in the financial statements is the pension liability for two schemes. The charity recognises the
liabitity to its defined benefit pension scheme which involves a number of estimations as disclosed
in note 20. The Local Government Pension Scheme liability for one person has been treated as
a multi-employer scheme for the purposes of FRS 102 as the charity’s share of assets and
liabilities are immaterial to the charity's balance sheet as disclosed in notes 1(j) and 7.

Recognition of income and expenditure

All income and expenditure has been recognised on the accruals basis except donations from
member settings which are accounted for on a receipts basis and donated items and facilities.
Membership subscriptions are recognised when they are received. Subscriptions received for
renewal dates in the next financial year are deferred at year end.

Page 18

1.

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

(9)

Recognition of income and expenditure (continued)

Grants and contracts received are recognised in line with service delivery when the conditions for
receipt have been met. Where amounts received are made for service delivery in future
accounting periods, they are deferred and recognised in those future periods. Grants for
immediate financial support and receipts to reimburse costs previously incurred, are recognised
immediately. Government grants which constitute exchange agreements are accounted for as
unrestricted.

Donated services are recognised as income where the benefit to the charity is reasonably
quantifiable and measurable. They are valued at open market value, ie what it would have cost
the organisation to acquire the same or similar products or services on the open market. An
equivalent amount is also included as expenditure under the appropriate heading in the
Statement of Financial Activities. No amounts are included for services donated by volunteers.

Grants awarded to institutions by the charity are recognised in the year in which the grant is
formally approved and communicated in writing to the recipient, provided all conditions of award
have been met.

Tangible fixed assets

Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost including any incidental expenses of acquisition. All
individual assets costing more than £500 are capitalised.

Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of fixed assets on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful lives. No depreciation is charged in the year of acquisition. Land is not
depreciated. The principal estimated useful lives for this purpose are:

Freehold buildings 50 years
Leasehold building adaptations Life of lease
CRM system 10 years
Equipment and vehicles 5 years
Computer equipment 3 years
Investments

Investments held as fixed assets are stated at their mid-market value at the balance sheet date.
Gains or losses on revaluation are taken to the statement of financial activities.

Stocks
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Financial instruments

The charity only has financial assets and financial liabilities of a kind that qualify as basic financial
instruments. Basic financial instruments, including trade and other debtors and cash and bank
balances are initially recognised at transaction value. Such assets are subsequently carried at
amortised cost using the effective interest method. At the end of each reporting period financial
assets measured at amortised cost are assessed for objective evidence of impairment. Any
impairment loss is charged to the Statement of Financial Activities. Investments, including bonds
held as part of an investment portfolio are held at fair value at the Balance Sheet date, with gains
and losses being recognised within income and expenditure.

Page 19


PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

(9)

(h)

@

Financial instruments (continued)

Basic financial liabilities, including trade and other creditors, are initially recognised at transaction
value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. If the
arrangement constitutes a financing transaction the debt instrument is measured at the present
value of the future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest. Trade creditors are obligations
to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from
suppliers. Trade creditors are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or
less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.

At the balance sheet date the charity held financial assets (cash and bank balances, trade

debtors, other debtors and accrued income) at amortised cost of £3,083,000 (2023: £5,216,000),

financial assets at fair value of £4,548,000 (2023 £4,205,000) and financial liabilities (trade

creditors, other creditors, and accruals) at amortised cost of £2,489,000 (2023 £2,265,000).

Funds

(i) Unrestricted general funds are those funds available for the general purposes of the charity.
The trustees consider that core grants received should be treated as unrestricted as their
funding terms reflect the primary objects of the charity.

(ii) | Designated funds are funds transferred from the unrestricted fund for particular purposes
or projects at the discretion of the trustees.

(iii) | Restricted funds are funds subject to specific conditions imposed by the donor and are
binding on the trustees. Those funds, which are fundamental to the running of the charity,
are disclosed separately on the face of the Statement of Financial Activities.

Cost allocation

Costs are allocated to their functional categories on the following bases:

(i) Provision of care and education services costs comprise staff costs, premises costs,
resources and attributable overheads in line with the level of activity undertaken.

(ii) Outreach services comprise staff costs, resources and attributable overheads in line with the
level of activity undertaken.

(iii) Sector support, membership and policy development include staff costs and development of
resources plus training delivery, e-learning software, helpline costs and attributable staff
costs and overheads in line with the level of activity undertaken.

(iv) Governance costs are allocated in line with the level of activity undertaken.

(v) To the extent that VAT is irrecoverable the cost is included with the item of expense to which
it relates. .

Page 20

6)

()

(m)

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Pension costs

Contributions payable to the charity's defined contribution pension scheme are charged to the
Statement of Financial Activities in the period to which they relate.

Contributions are also made into defined benefit schemes for one member of staff employed
under a contract with the London Borough of Lewisham in accordance with TUPE regulations.
No liability has been included on the balance sheet for this scheme on the basis that it is
immaterial. Therefore, the schemes have been accounted for as defined contribution schemes
and contributions have been charged to the Statement of Financial Activities in the period to which
they relate.

In addition, the charity participates in the Pension Trust's Growth Plan. The scheme is a defined
benefit scheme in the UK. It is not possible for the company to obtain sufficient information to
enable it to account for the scheme as a defined benefit scheme. Therefore, the financial
statements treat the scheme as a defined contribution scheme. Where the scheme is in deficit
and where the charity has agreed to a deficit funding arrangement the charity recognises a liability
for this obligation. The amount recognised is the net present value of the deficit reduction
contributions payable under the agreement that relates to the deficit. The present value is
calculated using the discount rate detailed in these disclosures. The unwinding of the discount
tate is recognised as a finance cost.

Taxation

No taxation is payable due to the charitable status and nature of activities of the organisation. No
deferred tax needs to be provided as there are no tax timing differences.

Operating leases

Operating lease rentals are charged to the Statement of Financial Activities over the period in
which the cost is incurred on a straight-line basis.

Page 21

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

2. INCOME FROM CHARITABLE ACTIVITIES

2024 2023

Income from charitable activities is made up Unrestricted Restricted Unrestricted —_‘ Restricted
of: funds funds funds funds

£000 £7000 £000 £000
Local government grants and contracts 3,460 - 3,637 -
Department for Education 385 : 344 -
DHSC Health and Wellbeing Fund - - 230 -
Big Lottery Fund - 5,538 : - 4,222
Other grant funding : 506 11 516
Children’s Centre funding 1,301 - 1,358 -
Nursery education and two-year-old funding 6,768 - 7,802 -
Fees for care and education 4,348 - 4,711 -
Training funding and fees 305 - 277 -
Services to early years providers 1,669 : 1,464 -

18,236 6,044 19,834 4,738

3. INCOME FROM TRADING SUBSIDIARIES

The charity has a wholly owned trading subsidiary, Pre-school Learning Alliance Trading Limited (PLAT),
which is registered in England and Wales. The charity has a holding of 7 ordinary shares of £1 each in
PLAT (company number 2417619).

PLAT obtains insurance commission, sponsorship and other financial support for the charity and gift aids
all its taxable profits to the charity. A summary of its trading results is shown on page 23. At 31 March 2024,
PLAT was owed £169,000 by the charity (2023 — the charity owed £64,000 to PLAT).

Page 22

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

3.INCOME FROM TRADING SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)

Profit and loss account Total Total
2024 2023
£000 £000

Turnover 1,030 1,059

Cost of sales (218) (250)

Gross profit 812 809

Administrative expenses (174) 172,

Operating profit 638 637

Gift aid payment (638) (637)

Retained in subsidiary - =.

Balance sheet

Total assets 472 404
Total liabilities (422) 354,
Total net assets 50 50

Page 23

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

4. ANALYSIS OF EXPENDITURE

Provision of care and education services

Outreach services for children and families

Sector support, membership and policy development.
Restructure costs

TOTAL

ANALYSIS OF EXPENDITURE — PRIOR YEAR COMPARATIVE

Provision of care and education services
Outreach services for children and families
Sector support, membership and policy development

TOTAL

Notes

Notes

Staff Resources Premises,
costs andservice depreciation Total
(note 7) delivery and IT Other 2024
£000 £7000 £000 £000 £000
10,653 1,039 1,769 287 13,748
5,459 4,408 231 245 10,343
1,838 713 225 172 2,948
453 : - - 453
18,403 6,160 2,225 704 27,492

Staff Resources Premises,
costs andservice depreciation Total
(note 7) delivery and IT Other 2023
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
11,321 954 1,800 431 14,506
5,676 3,475 188 178 9,517
1,616 584 235 189 2,624
18,613 5,013 2,223 798 26,647

Page 24

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

5. BREAKDOWN OF COST OF CHARITABLE ACTIVITY

Activities

undertaken
directly | Support costs Total 2024
£000 £7000 £'000
Provision of care and education services 11,882 1,866 13,748
Outreach services for children and families 9,075 1,268 10,343
Sector support, membership and policy development 4,157 1,791 2,948
TOTAL 22,114 4,925 27,039

BREAKDOWN OF COST OF CHARITABLE ACTIVITY — PRIOR YEAR COMPARATIVE

Activities
undertaken directly Support costs Total 2023
£000 £000 £000
Provision of care and education services 12,946 1,560 14,506
Outreach services for children and families 8,309 1,208 9,517
Sector support, membership and policy development 1,162 1,472 2,624
TOTAL 22,407 4,240 26,647

Page 25

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

6. ALLOCATION OF SUPPORT COSTS

Outreach Sector
Provision of services for ‘support,
care and children and membership
education families and policy
services £000 development Total 2024
£000 £000 £000 Basis of allocation
Operational management 232 712 1,150 2,094 Level of activity
Finance and insurance 348 84 95 527 Level of activity
Governance 89 44 70 203 Level of activity
HR, training and recruitment 433 118 133 684 Level of activity
IT and premises 679 204 249 1,132 Level of activity
Irrecoverable VAT 85 106 94 285 Non-taxable income
Total 1,866 1,268 1,791 4,925

ALLOCATION OF SUPPORT COSTS — PRIOR YEAR COMPARATIVE

Outreach Sector
Provision of services for support,
care and children and membership
education families and policy
services £000 development Total 2023
£000 £000 £000 Basis of allocation
Operational management 264 765 954 1,983 Level of activity
Finance and insurance 159 38 43 240 Level of activity
Governance 61 24 51 136 Level of activity
HR, training and recruitment 406 11 125 642 Level of activity
IT and premises 598 180 219 997 Level of activity
irrecoverable VAT 72 90 80 242 Non-taxable income
Total 1,560 1,208 1,527 4,240

Page 26

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

STAFF COSTS

Total staff costs comprised:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Wages and salaries 15,829 16,288
Social security costs 1,242 1,242
Pension contributions 505 510
Agency staff 827 573

18,403 18,613

The charity operates a money purchase pension scheme. The assets of the scheme are held
separately from those of the charity in an independently administered fund. The pension charge
represents contributions payable by the charity to the fund. Contributions are also made into
defined benefit schemes for one member of staff employed under a contract with the London
Borough of Lewisham in accordance with the Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment)
(TUPE) Regulations 2006. This scheme has been treated as a multi-employer scheme for the
purposes of FRS 102 as the charity's share of assets and liabilities are immaterial to the charity's
balance sheet. Therefore, the scheme has been accounted for as a defined contribution scheme
and contributions have been charged to the Statement of Financial Activities in the period to which
they relate. In addition, the charity participates in the Pension Trust’s Growth Plan. See note 20
for further details.

The average number of employees during the year and analysed by activity, was:

2024 2023

Number Number

Provision of care and education services 507 731
Outreach services for children and families 241 147
Membership, sector support and campaigning 56 64
Operational support 39 42
843 984

The average number of staff calculated on a full-time equivalent basis was 648 (2023: 802).

The number of employees who received emoluments greater than £60,000 in the following
ranges were:

2024 2023

Number Number

£60,001 - £70,000 3 2
£70,001 - £80,000 - 3
£80,001 — £90,000 3 -
£100,001 - £110,000 * - 1
£110,001 - £120,000 * 1 -

* This employee receives no salary or pension from the charity. This is a donated service accounted
for in line with the policy as set out in note 1(c).

Pension contributions of £19,144 (2023: £16,515) were made by the charity in respect of the
remaining seven (2023: six) higher paid employees.

Page 27

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

STAFF COSTS (CONTINUED)

The aggregate employee benefits, including National Insurance and pension contributions, made
to eight key personnel (2023: eight) who were part of the Operational Management Group during
the year was £690,000 (2023: £664,000). This figure includes one salary that has been accounted
for as a donated service.

Total redundancy payments of £302,000 (2023: £93,000) were made in the year to 81 members of
staff. Redundancy pay is accrued at the year end if redundancy consultations had begun before
the year end. In 2024 £302,000 (2023: £87,000) was paid in the year and none was accrued (2023:
£6,000 accrued).

The charity participates in an insurance policy which protects the charity from loss arising from the
neglect or default of its trustees and employees by indemnifying the charitable funds against the
consequences of such neglect or default. The cost to the charity of this insurance for the year was
£7,843 (2023 — £10,295).

NET (EXPENDITURE)/INCOME

The operating deficit of £1,766,000 is after charging:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Operating lease expense 685 579
Depreciation 170 140
Statutory audit 45 43
Tax accounting 4 3

TRUSTEES’ REMUNERATION AND EXPENSES

No remuneration was paid directly or indirectly out of the funds of the charity to any trustee or to
any person or persons known to be connected with any of them.

During the year, eight (2023: 8) of the charity's trustees received reimbursement of travel and
subsistence costs of £725 (2023: £1,349).

Page 28

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

10. TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS

Leasehold
building
adaptations
£000

Total
£000

Freehold
fand and
buildings
Group and charity £'000
Cost
At 1 April 2023 419
Additions -
Disposats -
At 31 March 2024 419
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 April 2023 126
Charge for the year 8
Disposals -
At 31 March 2024 134
Net book value
At 34 March 2024 285
At 31 March 2023 293

Equipment,

vehicles & Computer Computer
furniture software equipment
£'000 £'000 £'000

309 622 223

6 124 88

(41) (3) (4)

274 743 307
286 84 78
7 62 52
(41) (1) (4)
252 145 126
22 598 181
23 538 145

All the tangible fixed assets are principally used for direct charitable purposes.

At the year end the charity had capital commitments of £233,000 in relation to the implementation of the

digital transformation project.

Page 29

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

11. FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS
Group and charity
Market value
At 1 April 2023
Purchases
Sales

Gain/(loss) on revaluation

At 31 March 2024

The charity's investments are analysed as follows:

Unit trusts (Milton Keynes Fund, note 16)
COIF Charities Property Fund

COIF Charities Investment Fund

COIF Charities Global Equity Fund
Accumulation shares

12. STOCK

Publications and resource centre goods

13. DEBTORS — Due within one year

Trade debtors
Other debtors
Prepayments
Accrued income

2024 2023

£000 £000

4,205 4,457

(21) -

__ 364 252,

4,548 4,205

: 23

551 581

2,681 2,458

1,309 1,136

7 7

4,548 4,205

Group Charity

2024 2023 2024 2023

£’000 £000 £'000 £'000

180 240 180 240

Group Charity
2024 2023 2024 2023
£000 £000 £7000 £000

16 14 6 3
46 48 46 48
330 332 330 332
537 322 537 308
929 716 914 691

Page 30

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

14. CREDITORS — Amounts falling due within one year

Group Charity

2024 2023 2024 2023

£000 £000 £'000 £'000

Trade creditors 821 665 821 665
Amounts due to group undertakings - - 169 64
Taxation and social security 532 488 532 488
Deferred income 1,278 1,925 855 1,570
Accruals 1,467 1,476 1,467 1,476
Other creditors 201 121 201 121
4,299 4,675 4,045 4,384

Total deferred income comprised:
Released

1 April during the Income 31 March

2023 year deferred 2024
£'000 £000 £'000 £'000

Subscriptions received in advance 514 (514) 74 74
Grants and service level agreements 1,012 (1,012) 731 731
Other sundry deferred income 399 (399) 473 473
1,925 (1,925) 1,278 1,278
Agency funds received and paid in the year were:
Received Paid

7 April duringthe duringthe 31 March

2023 year year 2024
£7000 £'000 £'000 £'000

Payroll services (3) (2,675) 2,607 (71)
Other agency 12 (5) 1 8

9 (2,680 2,608 (63)

Page 31

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

UNRESTRICTED FUNDS

Total

General Designated Pension unrestricted

fund funds reserve funds

£'000 £'000 £000 £000

Income 19,571 - - 19,571

Expenditure (21,138) (182) - (21,320)

Investment gains 364 - - 364

Net expenditure before transfers (1,203) (182) - (1,385)

Gains on pension fund - 20 20

Transfers between funds (247) - 247 - :

Net (expenditure)/income for the year (1,450) 65 20 (1,365)

Fund balances brought forward at 1 April 4,400 1,077 (38) 5,439
2023

Fund balances carried forward at 31 March 2,950 | 1,142 (18) 4,074
2024

The funds of the charity include the following designated funds which have been set aside out of
unrestricted funds by the trustees for specific purposes:

Transfers
Balance at Funds between Balance at
1 April 2023 spent funds 31 March 2024
£'000 £'000 £000 £'000
Nursery redecoration fund 65 (12) 3 56
Fixed asset reserve 1,012 (170) 244 1,086
1,077 (182) ‘247 1,142

Nursery redecoration fund — reserves set aside to cover the cost of redecorating early years settings
owned by the Alliance.

Fixed asset reserve — This represents the value of reserves attributable to tangible fixed assets and
has been set up to assist in identifying those funds that are not free funds.

Page 32


PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

16. RESTRICTED FUNDS

Balance Balance

brought Expenditure/ carried

forward at unrealised forward at 31

1 April 2023 Income loss March 2024

£000 £'000 £'000 £°000
A Better Start Southend 144 5,538 (5,552) 130
Luton Flying Start 129 170 (203) 96
Flying Start Community Link Worker 137 191 (202) 126
Luton Safe at Home - 72 (72) -
Foundation Economy Innovation fund - 10 (10) -
Suffolk Play & Learn - 2 (2) -
James Reckitt Foundation 30 - (2) 28
Parental Engagement 337 111 (93) 355
Other funds to support early years 27 10 (6 31
Milton Keynes Community Hub 26 51 (30) 47
Milton Keynes Endowment Fund 23 - - 23

Total funds 853 6,155 (6,172) 836

{a) Purpose of funds

The purpose of each individual fund is as follows:

(i)

(ii)

(iii)

(iv)

(v)

(vi)

(vii)

A Better Start Southend is funded by the National Lottery Community Fund. The A Better Start
programme works with Southend City Council and partner organisations to help parents in
Southend give their children a better start in life. [Reference - ABS/1/10086648]

Luton Flying Start is funded by Bedfordshire & Luton Community Foundation and aims to
improve outcomes for children in Luton from pregnancy to 5" birthday as a foundation to a
healthy future.

The National Lottery Community Fund is funding the Flying Start Community Link Worker
project to offer all children in Luton a range of early years interventions, via innovative co-
production models based on early learning emerging from A Better Start Southend - the Your
Family programme model.

Luton Safe at Home is funded by Bedfordshire & Luton Community Foundation. We work in
partnership with Bedfordshire Fire and Rescue Service to ensure that children under five in
Luton are safe from accidental injuries in the home, reducing the attendance at NHS A&E.

Foundation Economy Innovation Fund enabled the Alliance to deliver the ‘Play to Learn’
project in Oldham, which gave families an insight into the power of play with the aim to inspire
their learning journey down the qualification pathway.

Suffolk Play & Learn is funded by Community Action Suffolk to support baby and toddler
groups within the Babergh and Mid Suffolk area to raise awareness of best practice, child
development and working with families, though virtual CPD and access to Alliance resources.

The James Reckitt Foundation provides funding to the Alliance to make a positive difference
to families in the Hull area through family learning opportunities.

Page 33

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

16. RESTRICTED FUNDS (CONTINUED)

(a) Purpose of funds (continued)

(vi) The Parental Engagement project is funded by donations to provide resources and
professional development for early years professionals and to promote the importance of
parents’ engagement in their child's learning.

(vii) The Milton Keynes Community Hub is funded by the Milton Keynes Charity Shop (Kingston)
Ltd and supports direct services to the Milton Keynes Early Years Community. This includes
‘a support package for Stay and Play groups and Early Years groups, telephone support and
advice, access to network events, training and workshops. Families in Milton Keynes have
access to online support, advice and training.

(viii) Milton Keynes Fund was donated by the Milton Keynes Community Trust Limited as an
endowed fund to be retained and invested. Income is used to support programmes in the
borough of Milton Keynes.

(ix) Other funds to support early years pay for projects where the donor has specified the
geographical location of the targeted support.

17. ANALYSIS OF NET ASSETS BETWEEN FUNDS

General Designated Pension Restricted Total Total

Fund funds reserve Funds 2024 2023

£'000 £'000 £°000 £'000 £000 £'000

Tangible fixed assets - 1,086 - - 1,086 1,012
Investments 4,548 - - - 4,548 4,205
Current assets 2,701 56 - 836 3,593 5,788
- (4,299) (4,675)

Current liabilities (4,299) - -
Pension liability - - (18) - (18) (38)

2,950 1,142 (18) 836 4,910 6,292

Page 34

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

18. OTHER FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS

The total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases:

Land and buildings

Expiry date:

Within 1 year

Between 2 and 5 years
In more than 5 years

Hire of plant and machinery:
Expiry date:

Within 1 year

Between 2 and 5 years

19. CASH FLOW STATEMENT

2024 2023

£000 £'000

659 558

479 684

97 =
1,235 1,242,

26 21

9 48

35 69

{a) Reconciliation of net expenditure to net cash flow from operating activities

Net expenditure for the reporting period

Adjustments for:

Depreciation charges

(Gains)/losses on investments

Loss on disposal of tangible fixed assets
Interest from investments
Decrease/(increase) in stocks
(Increase)/decrease in debtors
(Decrease)/increase in creditors

Net cash (used in)/generated by operating activities

(b) Analysis of cash and cash equivalents

Cash in hand
Notice deposits (less than three months)

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
(1,402) (887)
170 140
(364) 252
2 -
(180) (138)
60 36
(213) (171)

(376) (389)
(2,303) (1,157)

- 12
2,484 4,820
2,484 4,832

Page 35

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

20. PENSION OBLIGATIONS

The company participates in the scheme, a multi-employer scheme which provides benefits to some 638 non-
associated participating employers. The scheme is a defined benefit scheme in the UK. It is not possible for
the company to obtain sufficient information to enable it to account for the scheme as a defined benefit scheme.
Therefore, it accounts for the scheme as a defined contribution scheme.

The scheme is subject to the funding legislation outlined in the Pensions Act 2004 which came into force on
30 December 2005. This, together with documents issued by the Pensions Regulator and Technical Actuarial
Standards issued by the Financial Reporting Council, set out the framework for funding defined benefit
occupational pension schemes in the UK.

The scheme is classified as a ‘last man standing arrangement’. Therefore, the company is potentially liable for
other participating employers’ obligations if those employers are unable to meet their share of the scheme
deficit following withdrawal from the scheme. Participating employers are legally required to meet their share
of the scheme deficit on an annuity purchase basis on withdrawal from the scheme.

A full actuarial valuation for the scheme was carried out at 30 September 2020. This valuation showed assets
of £800.3m, liabilities of £831.9m and a deficit of £31.6m. To eliminate this funding shortfall, the Trustee has
asked the participating employers to pay additional contributions to the scheme as follows:

Deficit contributions

From 1 April 2019 to 31 January 2025: £3,312,000 per annum (payable monthly) .

Unless a concession has been agreed with the Trustee the term to 31 January 2025 applies.

Note that the scheme’s previous valuation was carried out with an effective date of 30 September 2017. This
valuation showed assets of £794.9m, liabilities of £926.4m and a deficit of £131.5m. To eliminate this funding
shortfall, the Trustee asked the participating employers to pay additional contributions to the scheme as
follows:

Deficit contributions

£11,243,000 per annum (payable monthly and increasing by 3% each

From 1 April 2019 to 30 September 2025: .
on 1st April)

The recovery plan contributions are allocated to each participating employer in line with their estimated share
of the Series 1 and Series 2 scheme liabilities.

Where the scheme is in deficit and where the company has agreed to a deficit funding arrangement the
company recognises a liability for this obligation. The amount recognised is the net present value of the deficit
reduction contributions payable under the agreement that relates to the deficit. The present value is calculated
using the discount rate detailed in these disclosures. The unwinding of the discount rate is recognised as a
finance cost.

Present values of provision

31-Mar-24 31-Mar-23 31-Mar-22
{£’000s) (£’000s) (£’000s)
Present value of provision 18 38 59

Page 36

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

20. PENSION OBLIGATIONS (continued)

Reconciliation of opening and closing provisions

Year Ending Year Ending

31 March 2024 31 March 2023

(£’000s) (2000s)

Provision at start of period 38 59

Unwinding of the discount factor (interest expense) 1 1

Deficit contribution paid (21) (21)

Remeasurements - impact of any change in assumptions - (1)

Remeasurements - amendments to the contribution schedule - -

Provision at end of period : 18 38
Income and expenditure impact

Year Ending Year Ending

31 March 2024 31 March 2023

{£’000s) (£’000s)

Interest expense 1 1

Remeasurements — impact of any change in assumptions - (1)

Remeasurements — amendments to the contribution schedule - -
Contributions paid in respect of future service* - -
Costs recognised in income and expenditure account - -

*includes defined contribution schemes and future service contributions (i.e. excluding any deficit reduction
payments) to defined benefit schemes which are treated as defined contribution schemes.

Assumptions
31 March 2024 31 March 2023 31 March 2022
% per annum % per annum % per annum
_Rate of discount 5.31 §.52 2.35

The discount rates shown above are the equivalent single discount rates which, when used to discount
the future recovery plan contributions due, would give the same results as using a full AA corporate
bond yield curve to discount the same recovery plan contributions.

For details of the charity's other pension obligations, see note 7 to the financial statements.

Page 37

21,

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

The Pre-school Learning Alliance has entered into two related party transactions. During the year,
the charity incurred total costs of £19,000 (2023: £20,000) from Room 111 for design of the
charity’s magazine, Under 5. The proprietor of Room 111 is a close family member of the charity's
Chief Executive. The balance outstanding at the year-end was £nil (2023: £4,000). During the
year the charity incurred total costs of £187,000 (2023: £185,000) from VL Design and
Communication Ltd for production and design of early years publications, corporate materials
and brand management. The Chief Executive is a director of VL Design and Communication Ltd.
These arrangements were fully considered by the trustees who took steps to ensure that they
provide best value for the charity. The total annual contract value with VL Design and
Communication Ltd is agreed by the trustees and reviewed every four years. The Chief Executive
receives no remuneration from the charity.

During the year an amount of £174,000 (2023: £159,000) was paid by Pre-school Learning
Alliance Trading Ltd to the Pre-school Learning Alliance in respect of administrative costs incurred
by the parent charity on behalf of the trading subsidiary. A Gift Aid payment of £638,000 (2023:
£637,000) was also paid. At the year end, a balance of £169,000 was owed by the Pre-school
Learning Alliance to Pre-school Learning Alliance Trading Ltd (2023: £64,000 owed by the Pre-
school Learning Alliance).

During the year the charity received £51,000 (2023: £33,000) from MK Community Shop
(Kingston) Ltd. The charity holds five shares in the company which is equivalent to 50% of the
issued share capital. The charity's Director of Finance is one of four directors of the company and
accordingly the company is not a subsidiary. The balance outstanding between entities was £nil
(2023: Enil).

Page 38

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

23. STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL ACTIVITIES - PRIOR YEAR COMPARATIVES

Income from:
Donations
Investments

Charitable activities:
Provision of care and education services
Outreach services for children and families
Sector support, membership and policy
development
Other trading activities

Total Income

Expenditure on:
Charitable activities:
Provision of care and education services
Outreach services for children and families
Sector support, membership and policy
development
Restructure costs

Total Expenditure

Unrealised (loss)/gain on investments

Net (expenditure)/income

Actuarial gains on defined benefit pension
schemes

Net movement in funds

Notes

20

Unrestricted Restricted Total
Funds Funds 2023
£'000 £'000 £000
127 116 243
138 - 138
12,705 - 12,705
5,183 4,698 9,881
1,946 40 1,986
1,059 - 1,059
21,158 4,854 26,012
14,506 - 14,506
4,871 4,646 9,517
2,511 113 2,624
21,888 4,759 26,647
(249) (3) (252)
(979) 92 (887)
21 - 21
(958) 92 (866)

Page 39

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

24. UNRESTRICTED FUNDS - PRIOR YEAR COMPARATIVES

Total

General Designated Pension unrestricted

fund funds reserve funds

£'000 £'000 £000 £000

Income 21,158 - oan 21,158

Expenditure (21,745) (143) - (21,888)

Investment losses (249) - - {249)

Net expenditure before transfers (836) (143) - {979)

Gains on pension fund - : 21 21

Transfers between funds (147) 147 - -

Net (expenditure)/income for the year (983) 4 21 (958)

Fund balances brought forward at 1 April 5,383 1,073 (59) 6,397
2021

Fund balances carried forward at 31 March 4,400 1,077 (38) 5,439
2023

The funds of the charity include the following designated funds which have been set aside out of
unrestricted funds by the trustees for specific purposes:

Transfers
Balance at Funds between Balance at
1 April 2022 spent funds 31 March 2023
£000 ~=—s- £000 £7000 £000
Nursery redecoration fund 63 (3) 5 65
Fixed asset reserve 1,010 (140) 142 1,012
1,073 (143) 147 1,077

Nursery redecoration fund — reserves set aside to cover the cost of redecorating early years
settings owned by the Alliance.

Fixed asset reserve — This represents the value of reserves attributable to tangible fixed assets
and has been set up to assist in identifying those funds that are not free funds.

Page 40

PRE-SCHOOL LEARNING ALLIANCE
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

25. RESTRICTED FUNDS - PRIOR YEAR COMPARATIVES

A Better Start Southend

Community Connections North
Luton Flying Start

Flying Start Community Link Worker
Luton Safe at Home

James Reckitt Foundation

Parental Engagement

Other funds to support early years
Milton Keynes Community Hub
Milton Keynes Endowment Fund

Total funds

(a) Purpose of funds

Balance Balance
brought Income/ carried
forward at —_ unrealised forward at 31
1 April 2022 gain Expenditure March 2023
£'000 £'000 £000 £000

227 4,222 (4,305) 144

- 34 (34) -

133 171 (175) 129

- 196 © (59) 137

- 72 (72) :

34 7 (11) 30

292 98 (53) 337

33 21 (27) 27

16 33 (23) 26

26 - (3) 23
761 4,854 (4,762) 853

The purpose of each fund is set out in note 16. :

Page 41

