Profound Services Limited

Directors’ Report and Financial Statements
Year Ended
31 January 2024

Company Number 05969610

aN

NN

i

t

: *ADEWZH2X* ,
A04

31/10/2024 #152,

COMPANIES HOUSE D

we

THURSDAY

Directors

Registered number

Registered office

Independent auditor

Bankers

Solicitors

Profound Services Limited

Company Information

BS McLeish
G P Weir

05969610

Learning Curve Group
4-10 Dunelm Rise
Durhamgate
Spennymoor

England

DL16 6FS

BDO LLP

Citypoint

65 Haymarket Terrace
Edinburgh

EH12 5HD

Lloyds Bank plc

102 Grey Street
Newcastle upon Tyne
NE99 1SL

Burness Paull
50 Lothian Road
Edinburgh

EH3 9WJ

Profound Services Limited

Directors’ Report

Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
Independent Auditor's Report
Statement of Comprehensive Income
Statement of Financial Position
Notes to the Financial Statements

Contents

Profound Services Limited

Directors’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 January 2024

The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2024.
Principal activity

The principal activity of the Company during the year was the delivery of government funded training
programmes for 16 to 18 year old students and adult learners.

Results and dividends

The profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to £38,186 (2023 - £278,631).

During the year, the directors do not recommend the payment of dividends (2023 - £Nil).
Directors

The directors who served during the year were:

G S Higgins (resigned 18 March 2024)
BS McLeish
G P Weir (appointed 18 March 2024)

Going concern

The directors have reviewed detailed projections that have been produced to identify any potential impact of high
inflation, high interest rates and the cost of living crisis on the future financial performance of the business up to
and including January 2026.

The financial information reviewed by the Board includes a detailed profit and loss as well as cash flow
information together with the fevel of liquid resources available to the Group. The projections have also been
shared with lenders under the terms of the Group banking arrangement.

Further to the loss of AEB contracts after the last reporting date and tightening in the sub-contracting regulations
together with a continued high-interest rate environment the Group has had to renegotiate with their lenders.
This resulted in covenant waivers being obtained for April 2024, July 2024 and October 2024, with a reset from
January 2025. The new covenants provide the Group with sufficient levels of headroom and trading results
continue to improve. Agilitas, the Company's Ultimate Parent Company, have also injected new equity into the
business with £3.5m received in October 2024.

As part of this process a detailed forecast has been stress tested on the basis of a further reduction in revenue
with potential cost reduction mitigations also taken into account. The forecasts have been reviewed against the
new covenant requirements in place for the next 12 months and the business has sufficient levels of headroom
against its bank covenants. The cash position of the business is also expected to be sufficient over the forecast
period.

The going concern assessment has been made at group level and the directors have confirmed that the group
will provide financial support to the entity as required. Following this assessment the directors are confident that
the Company will continue for the foreseeable future and it is therefore considered appropriate to prepare the
financial statements on the going concern basis.

Qualifying third party indemnity provisions

As permitted by the Articles of Association, the directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying
third party indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. The indemnity was in force
throughout the last financial year and is currently in force. The Company also purchased and maintained
throughout the financial year Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors.

Profound Services Limited

Directors’ Report (continued)
For the Year Ended 31 January 2024

Disclosure of information to auditor

Each of the persons who are directors at the time when this Directors' Report is approved has confirmed that:

. so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditor is
unaware; and

. the director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a director in order to be aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditor is aware of that information.

Events after the reporting period

Further to the loss of AEB contracts and tightening in the sub-contracting regulations together with a continued
high-interest rate environment the Group has had to renegotiate with their lenders. This resulted in covenant
waivers being obtained for April 2024, July 2024 and October 2024, with a reset from January 2025. The new
covenants provide the Group with sufficient levels of headroom and trading results continue to improve. As part
of this process Agilitas, the Company's Ultimate Parent Company, have also injected new equity into the
business with £3.5m received in October 2024.

Auditor

The auditor, BDO LLP, will be proposed for reappointment in accordance with section 485 of the Companies Act
2006.

Small companies note

In preparing this report, the directors have taken advantage of the small companies ‘exemptions provided by
section 415A of the Companies Act 2006.

This report was approved by the boardon 31st October 2024 and signed on its behalf.

G P Weir
Director

Profound Services Limited

Directors’ Responsibilities Statement
For the Year Ended 31 January 2024

The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors' Report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law, the
directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law). Under company law,
the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.

In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:

. select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
° make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and

° prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Profound Services Limited

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of Profound Services Limited

Opinion on the financial statements
“ In our opinion the financial statements:

e give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at 31 January 2024 and of its profit for the
year then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice;
and

¢ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements of Profound Services Limited (“the Company”) for the year ended 31
January 2024 which comprise the Statement of Comprehensive Income, Statement of Financial Position and
notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting
Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK
and Republic of Ireland (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit
of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence

We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of
the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Company's ability to continue as a
going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Profound Services Limited

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of Profound Services Limited (continued)

Other information

The Directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the Directors’ report and financial statements, other than the financial statements and our auditor's
report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the
extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial
statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

e the information given in the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

¢ the Directors’ report has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of
the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006
requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

e® adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or

e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
e certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
* we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

e the Directors were not entitled to prepare the financial statements in accordance with the small companies
regime and take advantage of the small companies’ exemptions in preparing the Directors’ report and from
the requirement to prepare a Strategic report.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the Directors' Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such
internaf control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Company's ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations,
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Profound Services Limited

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of Profound Services Limited (continued)

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Extent to which the audit was capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures
in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities,
including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is
detailed below: :

Non-compliance with laws and regulations

Based on:

e Our understanding of the Company and the industry in which it operates;

e Discussion with management and those charged with governance; and

e Obtaining and understanding of the Company's policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and
regulations.

We considered the significant laws and regulations to be UK generally accepted accounting practice, the
Companies Act 2006 and UK tax legislation.

The Company is also subject to laws and regulations where the consequence of non-compliance could have a
material effect on the amount or disclosures in the financial statements, for example through the imposition of
fines or litigations. We identified such laws and regulations to be the requirements of OFSTED.

Our procedures in respect of the above included:

e Review of minutes of meeting of those charged with governance for any instances of non-compliance with
laws and regulations;

e« Review of correspondence with tax authorities and latest OFSTED reports for any instances of non-
compliance with laws and regulations; .

« Review of financial statement disclosures and agreeing to supporting documentation; and

e Review of legal expenditure accounts to understand the nature of expenditure incurred.

Fraud

We assessed the susceptibility of the financial statements to material misstatement, including fraud. Our risk

assessment procedures included:

« Enquiry with management and those charged with governance regarding any known or suspected instances
of fraud;

e Obtaining an understanding of the Company's policies and procedures relating to:
° Detecting and responding to the risks of fraud; and
° — Internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud.

e Review of minutes of meeting of those charged with governance for any known or suspected instances of
fraud;

e Discussion amongst the engagement team as to how and where fraud might occur in the financial
statements; .

« Performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks
of material misstatement due to fraud; and

e Considering group banking covenants in place and the associated financial statement areas which may
present a higher risk.

Profound Services Limited

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of Profound Services Limited (continued)

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements (continued)

Based on our risk assessment, we considered the areas most susceptible to fraud to be revenue and
adjustments to EBITDA in respect of covenant calculations.

Our procedures in respect of the above included:

« Testing a sample of journal entries throughout the year, which met a defined risk criteria, by agreeing to
supporting documentation;
Testing revenue and accrued income for existence with a focus on year end cut off;
Auditing the adjustments made in arriving at adjusted EBITDA to ensure they were in line with the lending
agreement.

We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team
members who were alt deemed to have appropriate competence and capabilities and remained alert to any
indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit.

Our audit procedures were designed to respond to risks of material misstatement in the financial statements,
recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not
detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery,
misrepresentations or through collusion. There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures performed and the
further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in the
financial statements, the less likely we are to become aware of it.

A further description of our responsibilities is available on the Financial Reporting Council's website at:
https:/Awww.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the
Company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

‘DocuSigned by:
[nese
BOF 16ASEFOFD4ED...
Martin Gill (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of BDO LLP, Statutory Auditor
Edinburgh
United Kingdom

31 October 2024
BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales (with registered number OC305127).

Profound Services Limited

Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the Year Ended 31 January 2024

Note

Turnover
Cost of sales

Gross profit

Administrative expenses

Profit before tax :
Tax on profit 5

Profit for the financial year

There was no other comprehensive income for 2024 (2023 - ENil).

The notes on pages 10 to 19 form part of these financial statements.

2024

1,611,163
(1,150,433)

460,730

(410,465)

50,265
(12,079)

38,186

2023

1,663,705
(790,916)

872,789

(527,158)

345,631

(67,000)

278,631

Profound Services Limited
Registered number: 05969610

Statement of Financial Position

As at 31 January 2024

Fixed assets

Intangible assets
Tangible assets
Investments

Current assets

Debtors: amounts falling due within one year
Cash at bank and in hand

Current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due within one
year

Net current assets
Net assets

Capital and reserves

Called up share capital
Profit and loss account

Total equity

Note

~

10

1
12

2024
£

2,970,499
128,402

3,098,901

(1,085,963)

2024

2,012,938

2,012,938

105
. 2,012,833

2,012,938

2023 2023

£ £
3,135,129
12,882
3,148,011
(1,173,259)

1,974,752

1,974,752

105

1,974,647

1,974,752

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the provisions applicable to companies subject
to the small companies regime and in accordance with the provisions of FRS 102 Section 1A - small entities.

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the board and were signed on its behalf on

G P Weir
Director

The notes on pages 10 to 19 form part of these financial statements.

31 October 2024

Profound Services Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 January 2024

General information

Profound Services Limited is a private company limited by shares and incorporated in England and Wales
under the Companies Act 2006. The address of the registered office is given on the Company Information
page and the nature of the Company's operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors’
Report.

Accounting policies

2.1

2.2

Basis of preparation of financial statements

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention unless otherwise
specified within these accounting policies and in accordance with Section 1A of Financial Reporting
Standard 102, the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and the Republic of Ireland and
the Companies Act 2006.

The preparation of financial statements in compliance with FRS 102 requires the use of certain
critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise judgement in applying the
Company's accounting policies (see note 3).

The presentational and functional currency of these financial statements is GBP. Values are rounded
to the nearest pound.

The following principal accounting policies have been applied:
Going concern

The directors have reviewed detailed projections that have been produced to identify any potential
impact of high inflation, high interest rates and the cost of living crisis on the future financial
performance of the business up to and including January 2026.

The financial information reviewed by the Board includes a detailed profit and loss as well as cash
flow information together with the level of liquid resources available to the Group. The projections
have also been shared with lenders under the terms of the Group banking arrangement.

Further to the loss of AEB contracts after the last reporting date and tightening in the sub-contracting
regulations together with a continued high-interest rate environment the Group has had to renegotiate
with their lenders. This resulted in covenant waivers being obtained for April 2024, July 2024 and
October 2024, with a reset from January 2025. The new covenants provide the Group with sufficient
levels of headroom and trading results continue to improve. Agilitas, the Company's Ultimate Parent
Company, have also injected new equity into the business with £3.5m received in October 2024.

As part of this process a detailed forecast has been stress tested on the basis of a further reduction
in revenue with potential cost reduction mitigations also taken into account. The forecasts have been
reviewed against the new covenant requirements in place for the next 12 months and the business
has sufficient levels of headroom against its bank covenants. The cash position of the business is
also expected to be sufficient over the forecast period.

The going concern assessment has been made at group level and the directors have confirmed that
the group will provide financial support to the entity as required. Following this assessment the
directors are confident that the Company will continue for the foreseeable future and it is therefore
considered appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis.

10

2.

Profound Services Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 January 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

2.3

2.4

2.5

2.6

Exemption from preparing consolidated financial statements

The Company, and the Group headed by it, qualify as small as set out in section 383 of the
Companies Act 2006 and the parent and Group are considered eligible for the exemption to prepare
consolidated accounts.

Turnover

Turnover comprises revenue recognised by the Company in respect of goods and services supplied
during the year, exclusive of Value Added Tax and trade discounts.

Turnover is primarily made up on income derived from the delivery of government funded training
programmes for 16 to 18 year old students and adult learners as well as provision of learning content
and recruitment services.

Turnover is recognised over the life of each training contract adjusted for the impact of upfront costs
and completion milestones. Turnover represents the amount of work done in the year including
amounts accrued at the year end which are not yet invoiced. An appropriate reserve is made in
respect of expected withdrawals.

Taxation

Tax is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income, except that a charge attributable to an
item of income and expense recognised as other comprehensive income or to an item recognised
directly in equity is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax rates and laws that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date in the countries where the Company operates
and generates income.

Intangible assets

Intangible fixed assets are stated at cost less amortisation. Amortisation is provided at rates
calculated to write off the cost of fixed assets, less their estimated residual value, over their expected
useful lives on the following basis:

Development costs - 2 years straight line

The carrying values of intangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in
circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.

11

2.

Profound Services Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 January 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

2.7

2.8

29°

Tangible fixed assets

Tangible fixed assets under the cost model are stated at historical cost less accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Historical cost includes expenditure that is
directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of
operating in the manner intended by management.

Depreciation is charged so as to allocate the cost of assets less their residual value over their
estimated useful lives, on a reducing balance basis.

Depreciation is provided on the following basis:

Fixtures and fittings - 15% straight line
Computer equipment - 33% straight line

The assets' residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted
prospectively if appropriate, or if there is an indication of a significant change since the last reporting
date.

Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount
and are recognised in profit or loss.

Valuation of investments

Investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost less accumulated impairment.

Debtors

Short-term debtors are measured at transaction price, less any impairment. Loans receivable are

measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are measured subsequently at amortised
cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.

2.10 Cash and cash equivalents

Cash is represented by cash in hand and deposits with financial institutions repayable without penalty
on notice of not more than 24 hours. Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments that mature in no
more than three months from the date of acquisition and that are readily convertible to known
amounts of cash with insignificant risk of change in value.

2.11 Creditors

Short-term creditors are measured at the transaction price. Other financial liabilities, including bank
loans, are measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are measured subsequently at
amortised cost using the effective interest method.

12

2.

Profound Services Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 January 2024

Accounting policies (continued)
2.12 Financial instruments

The Company only enters into basic financial instrument transactions that result in the recognition of
financial assets and liabilities like trade and other debtors and creditors, loans from banks and other
third parties, loans to related parties and investments in ordinary shares.

Debt instruments (other than those wholly repayable or receivable within one year), including loans
and other accounts receivable and payable, are initially measured at present value of the future cash
flows and subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Debt instruments that
are payable or receivable within one year, typically trade debtors and creditors, are measured, initially
and subsequently, at the undiscounted amount of the cash or other consideration expected to be paid
or received. However, if the arrangements of a short-term instrument constitute a financing
transaction, like the payment of a trade debt deferred beyond normal business terms or in case of an
out-right short-term loan that is not at market rate, the financial asset or liability is measured, initially
at the present value of future cash flows discounted at a market rate of interest for a similar debt
instrument and subsequently at amortised cost, unless it qualifies as a loan from a director in the
case of a small company, or a public benefit entity concessionary loan.

Financial assets that are measured at cost and amortised cost are assessed at the end of each
reporting period for objective evidence of impairment. If objective evidence of impairment is found, an
impairment loss is recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

For financial assets measured at amortised cost, the impairment loss is measured as the difference
between an asset's carrying amount and the present value of estimated cash flows discounted at the
asset's original effective interest rate. If a financial asset has a variable interest rate, the discount rate
for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective interest rate determined under the
contract.

For financial assets measured at cost less impairment, the impairment loss is measured as the
difference between an asset's carrying amount and best estimate of the recoverable amount, which is
an approximation of the amount that the Company would receive for the asset if it were to be sold at
the reporting date.

Financia! assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the Statement of Financial
Position when there is an enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an
intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty

The preparation of the financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported for assets and liabilities as at the reporting date and the
amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year. However, the nature of estimation means
that actual outcomes could differ from those estimates. The following judgements (apart from those
involving estimates) have had the most significant effect on amounts recognised in the financial
statements. .

The most significant area of judgement in the financial statements relates to amounts included within the
Statement of Financial Position relating to ‘accrued income. The directors are satisfied that accrued
income balances are fully recoverable.

The Company is charged an element of direct and indirect costs incurred by other Companies in the

Group. The recharges are based on the judgement that all Companies in the Group are delivering similar
education and training courses, so profit margins should reflect this.

13

Profound Services Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 January 2024

Employees

There are no direct employees of this entity. All individuals are employed by Learning Curve Group

Limited and an appropriate recharge of costs is made as referred to in note 3.

Taxation

Corporation tax
Current tax on profits for the year

Group taxation relief

Total current tax

Factors affecting tax charge for the year

2024

12,079

12,079

2023

27,196
39,804

67,000

The tax assessed for the year is lower than (2023 - higher than) the standard rate of corporation tax in

the UK of 24.03% (2023 - 19.00%). The differences are explained below:

Profit before tax

Profit multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 24.03%
(2023 - 19.00%)

Effects of:

Group relief claimed

Payment for group relief

Expenses not deductible for tax purposes
Other differences

Total tax charge for the year

2024 2023

£ £
50,265 345,631
12,079 65,670

(12,079) (39,804)
12,079 39,804
- 1,331

- (1)
12,079 67,000

Factors that may affect future tax charges

The corporation tax rate increased from 19% to 25% with effect from 1 April 2023.

There were no factors that may affect future tax charges.

14.

Intangible assets

At 1 February 2023
Disposals

At 31 January 2024

At 1 February 2023
On disposals

At 31 January 2024

Net book value

At 31 January 2024

At 31 January 2023

Profound Services Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 January 2024

15

Course
development
cost

£

34,227
(34,227)

34,227
(34,227)

Profound Services Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 January 2024

Tangible fixed assets

Fixtures and

fittings
£
Cost
At 1 February 2023 3,946
Disposals (3,946)
At 31 January 2024 :
At 1 February 2023 3,946
Disposals (3,946)

At 31 January 2024 -

Net book value

At 31 January 2024 -

Computer

equipment
£

211,474
(211,474)

211,474

(211,474)

Total

215,420
(215,420)

215,420
(215,420)

At 31 January 2023 -

16

Profound Services Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 January 2024

Fixed asset investments

Investments
in subsidiary
companies
£
Cost -
At 1 February 2023 62,014
At 31 January 2024 62,014
Impairment
At 1 February 2023 62,014
At 31 January 2024 62,014
Net book value
At 31 January 2024 -
At 31 January 2023 -
Subsidiary undertakings
The following were direct subsidiary undertakings of the Company:
Name Class of shares Holding Principal activity
Northern Care Training Limited Ordinary 100% Education training provision
Profound National Apprenticeship Ordinary 100% Dormant

Company Limited

The registered address of the above subsidiaries is Learning Curve Group, 1-10 Dunelm Rise,
Durhamgate, Spennymoor, DL16 6FS.

17

10.

41.

Profound Services Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 January 2024

Debtors: amounts falling due within one year

2024
£
Trade debtors 1,859
Amounts owed by group undertakings 2,739,332
Other debtors 1,080
Prepayments and accrued income 188,423
Corporation tax recoverable 39,805
2,970,499
Amounts owed by group undertakings are interest free and repayable on demand.
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2024
£
Trade creditors : -
Amounts owed to group undertakings : 1,038,775
Corporation tax : -
Other taxation and social security 17,912
Accruals and deferred income 29,276
1,085,963
Amounts owed to group undertakings are interest free and repayable on demand.
Share capital
2024
£
Allotted, called up and fully paid

105 (2023 - 105) Ordinary shares of £1 each 105

Ordinary shares each carry one voting right and are eligible for dividends.

18

2023

2,759,858
7,004
368,267

3,135,129

2023

£

56,560
1,080,016
27,180

9,503

1,173,259

2023

105

12.

13.

14,

15.

16.

Profound Services Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

For the Year Ended 31 January 2024
Reserves
The Company's capital and reserves are as follows:
Called up share capital
Called up share capital represents the nominal value of the shares issued.
Profit and loss account
The profit and loss account represents cumulative profits or losses, net of dividends paid and other
adjustments.
Commitments and contingencies
The entity is party to a multi-lateral guarantee in relation to borrowings held by Boyd Bidco Limited. The
total debt at 31 January 2024 was £86.06m (2023 - £82.06m).
Related party transactions
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption available in Section 1AC.35 of FRS 102 Section 1A
whereby it has not disclosed transactions with the ultimate parent company or any wholly owned
subsidiary undertaking of the Group.
Events after the reporting period
Further to the loss of AEB contracts and tightening in the sub-contracting regulations together with a
continued high-interest rate environment the Group has had to renegotiate with their lenders. This resulted
in covenant waivers being obtained for April 2024, July 2024 and October 2024, with a reset from January
2025. The new covenants provide the Group with sufficient levels of headroom and trading results
continue to improve. As part of this process Agilitas, the Company's Ultimate Parent Company, have also
injected new equity into the business with £3.5m received in October 2024.
Ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party
The Company's immediate parent undertaking is Learning Curve (NE) Group Limited, a company
tegistered in England and Wales, at Learning Curve Group, 1-10 Dunelm Rise, Durhamgate,
Spennymoor, Durham, United Kingdom, DL16 6FS.
The smallest group in which the results of the Company are consolidated is that headed by Boyd Topco
Limited, a company registered in England and Wales, at Learning Curve Group, 1-10 Dunelm Rise,
Durhamgate, Spennymoor, Durham, United Kingdom, DL16 6FS.
The ultimate parent undertaking and largest group in which the results of the Company are consolidated is
that headed by Boyd Holdco Limited. The registered address of Boyd Holdco Limited is 6th Floor, 125
London Wall, London, England, EC2Y 5AS.

The ultimate controlling party is considered to be Agilitas Private Equity by virtue of their controlling
interest in Boyd Holdco Limited.

19

