Registration number: 02413137

QA Limited
Annual Report and unaudited Financial Statements
for the Year Ended 31 May 2024

FRIDAY

wo

23/05/2025 #14
COMPANIES HOUSE

QA Limited

Contents

Company Information

Strategic Report

Directors’ Report

Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
Income Statement

Statement of Financial Position
Statement of Changes in Equity

Notes to the Financial Statements

2 to 5

6 to 8

1

12

13 - 36

QA Limited

Company Information

Directors
Phillip Young (Appointed | January 2025)

Joshua Hubbert (Appointed 3 March 2025)

Nathan Runnicles (Resigned 31 December 2024)

Richard Townsend (Appointed | June 2023 and Resigned 30 January 2025)
Paul Geddes (Resigned | June 2023)

Company secretary
Philip Young (Appointed 1 January 2025)

Nathan Runnicles (Resigned 31 December 2024)

Registered office
International House
1 St Katherine’s Way
London

Berkshire

EW LUN

Solicitor

DLA Piper UK LLP
1 St Paul's Place
Sheffield

S1 25x

QA Limited
Strategic Report fur the Year Ended 31 May 2024

The Directors present their Strategic Report for the year ended 31 May 2024.

Principal activity and business review

At QA Limited (herein referred to as “QA") we help our clients and learners to win in the digital revolution.
Through our unique combination of world-class digital and live skills development capabilities we deliver proven
workplace outcomes. We are technology and digital specialists - providing a comprehensive suite of talent and
training services which support businesses and government organisations to tackle the global skills shortage.

More than 509,000 (2023: 528,000) people learnt with QA last year. We deliver services to over 7,000 (2023: >
6,000) corporate clients, including a significant portion of FTSE350 firms. We have leading practices in Agile,
Cyber Security, Cloud and DevOps — as well as many other technology domains and soft skills development. We
partner with the world’s largest tech companies, with accreditations including being a Microsoft Cloud Solutions
Partner - Training Services. Our deep-rooted vendor partnerships mean that we deliver a significant portion of the
UK’s cloud training.

We specialise in the people side of technology transformation - our training programmes help organisations to
upskill or reskill their existing employees and our funded learning programmes and bootcamps are used to identify,
recruit and develop diverse technology talent.

For nearly 40 years QA has responded to a market that is changing at an ever more rapid pace. Our investment in
trainers, technology, content and facilities means we’re a trusted training partner for global businesses and
government organisations around the world. Our courses reflect the dynamic nature of technology and its impact
across an organisation, from Al and complementary technologies like data, cloud, cyber security, dev-ops, agile,
project management to empowering commercial teams in marketing technology, SEO, analytics, customer-
centricity and digital advertising.

Through our powerful proprietary platform we’re able to offer multi-modality solutions in one place delivering
training individually or in cohorts in dynamic, fun ways that increase retention and application of knowledge. Our
public schedule and private client events offer a broad spectrum of instructor-led and blended training programmes
that are delivered digitally and virtually to learners (and also in the classroom if requested).

Supporting QA is a network of hundreds of trusted learning partners and more than 40 global technology vendor
relationships. We are Microsoft’s largest training provider in Europe and one of just a handful to hold the status
of Cloud Training Services Solutions Partner.

QA is the UK market leader in digital and technology apprenticeships, and is the second largest in data. QA has
trained over 48,000 apprentices. Our funded leaming programmes offer apprenticeship qualifications from Level
3 all the way up to masters-degree Level 7, supporting organisations looking to maximise the use of the
apprenticeship levy.

Results and dividends

In 2024 revenues increased by 0.6% to £191.6m (2023: £190.4m). Reported operating profit decreased by 57.2%
to £7.8m (2023: £18.2m), the Adjusted EBITDA (operating profit pre-adjusting costs, depreciation and
amortisation, see table on page 3) decreased by 22% to £32.6m (2023: £41.9m) with adjusted operating margin
reducing to 8% (2023: 16%). Demand for digital instructor led training ("digital ILT”) courses was stable in-year
with growth in enterprise client demand off set by the public sector as central Government budget restrictions took
hold. Apprenticeships performed well growing our larger enterprise relationships which helped mitigate lower job
roles in market as the IT recruitment sector cooled after a strong period of growth since the pandemic. Digital
subscriptions had a challenging year as the exposure to consumer & packaged goods, retail and health sectors led
to client chum and reduced demand at renewal. Gress profit increased to £1 !].0m (2023: £109.9m) in line with
revenue growth as the business continues to benefit from digital delivery in its learning and apprenticeships
programmes. Administration expenses (pre-adjusting costs of £7.8m (2023: £11.5m) incurred on restructuring
management teams and the implementation of a customer relationship management software, (see table on page
3)) increased to £95.4m (2023: £80.2m) as the Company increased headcount to drive business growth, with
average FTE increasing to 1,062 for sales and administration staff (2023: 946).The Company made a profit after
tax of £14.6m (2023: £24.3m). The Company declared and paid a dividend of £17.1m (2023: £nil) and following
a corporate restructure, acquired the trade and assets as part of a hive up of Circus Street London Limited which
resulted in net assets increasing in the year to £227.5m (2023: £198.5m).

QA Limited
Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

Financial key performance indicators
The Company’s key financial performance and other performance indicators during the year were as follows:

Financial performance indicators

£'m 2024 2023
Revenue 191.6 190.4
Gross profit 111.0 109.9
Adjusted administration expenses* 95.4 80.2
Adjusted EBITDA** 32.6 4L9
Net Assets 227.5 198.5

Other performance indicators

2024 2023
Learner numbers 509,000 §28,000
£'m 2024 2023
Operating profit 7.8 18.2
Adjusting items [1] 78 11.5
Depreciation and amortisation [1] 17.0 12.2
Adjusted EBIFDA** 32.6 41.9
£'m 2024 2023
Administration expenses 103.2 91.7
Adjusting items [1] (78) (11.5)
Adjusted administration expenses* 95.4 80.2

[1] see note 4 in the financial statements.

Future prospects

Workforce Learning (WL) is focusing on equipping organisations with vital skills in data, cloud, and security
while enabling businesses to effectively harness Al potential. Significant progress has been made in integrating
Al-powered content, production, and user experience with market-leading instructor-led training and
apprenticeships. Strengthened in-market teams in EMEA and the US have removed barriers to cross-selling
products, offering truly blended, multi-modal, and complementary learning solutions. By providing a unique end-
to-end learning experience, the business aims to support organisations in applying A! technologies and addressing
evolving business priorities.

Looking ahead, the focus is on leading Al implementation both internally and for clients. Recent initiatives include
the launch of a Learning Assistant in partnership with Bain & Co, delivering tailored learning opportunities with
high satisfaction rates, and a trial of Microsoft Copilot to enhance productivity. Further developments include a
gamified scenario-based collaboration tool to embed skills, Al-assisted cloud labs, and a bespoke virtual
production studio for rapidly creating engaging content. The establishment of an AI Governance Committee
ensures alignment with risks and opportunities as the business broadens its content offerings and supports
organisations in applying AJ to drive collaboration and operational impact.

The transformations we have driven across the business puts us in a far stronger position than previously to drive
accelerated growth. In addition, we are watching the UK Government's position on a new Skills and Growth Levy
with interest. The policy proposes a reform to the current Apprenticeship Levy to enable employers to broaden
out use of their funds for shorter, more flexible courses. Skills England's initial report has already cited Digital &
Al skills as a priority need and area of focus. Once the reform comes into effect it will

QA Limited
Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

Future prospects (continued)

provide incremental opportunity for QA, which is well positioned to serve associated employer needs through our
combination of Apprenticeships. short courses and digital learning, and laser focus on providing Al and associated
skills.

Principal risks, uncertainties and financial risk management

Market risk

The Company operates in a competitive market and has a number of key competitors. The Company manages this
risk by providing competitively priced, high quality, flexible learning solutions and maintaining strong
relationships with its customers.

To manage these market risks the Company continues to invest in virtual instructor-led, self-paced and blended
learning products to ensure that the proposition and experience evolves to provide multi-modal learning solutions
for our clients. Further we continue to target the range of services we sell to existing clients alongside adding new
clients to mitigate the impact of a performance issue in a particular trading activity or relationship. The Directors
are confident in the prospects of the Company and that it can successfully navigate the economic environment.

Credit risk
The Company’s principal financial assets are bank balances, receivables owed by group undertakings and trade
debtors. The Company’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade debtors.

Management continually reviews outstanding receivables and debtor recovery plans together with credit limits
across for our customers. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of provision for doubtful debts.

The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned by
international! credit rating agencies. The Company has no significant concentration of credit risk, with exposure
spread over a large number of counterparties and customers.

Liquidity risk

In order tu itaintain liquidity to ensure that sufficient funds are available for ongoing operations and future
developments, the Company operates a centralised treasury function, features of which include intercompany cash
transfers and cash forecasting by individual subsidiary.

The Company has sufficient funds through existing cash balances, free cash flow and its Revolving Credit facility,
to service the annual cost of its financing and meet its other business needs. The Company enters derivative
contracts to mitigate exchange and interest rate risk. The Company does not use derivative financial instruments
for speculative purposes.

Other risks
Other risks such as cyber risks, regulatory and fraud risks are managed at Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited group level
and are disclosed in the Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited group financial statements, see note 23.

Statement by the Directors in performance of statutory duties in accordance with s172

Throughout the Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited Annual Report, we provide examples of how we: take into account
the likely consequences of long-term decisions; build relationships with stakeholders; understand the importance
of engaging with our employees; understand the impact of our operations on the communities and the environment
we depend upon; and attribute importance to behaving as a responsible business. The Board appreciates the
importance of effective stakeholder engagement and that stakeholders’ views should be considered in its decision-
making.

The Board of Directors of QA Limited consider, both individually and together, that they have acted in the way
they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its
shareholders as a whole and having regard (amongst other matters) to factors (a) to (f) S172 Companies Act 2006,
in the decisions taken during the year ended 31 May 2024.

Our governance is designed to ensure that we take into account the views of all our stakeholders, so that our
decision-making is collaborative and well-informed.

QA Limited
Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

Statement by the Directors in performance of statutory duties in accordance with s172 (continued)
We engage with our stakeholders as follows:

Customers - our ambition is to deliver best-in class service to our customers. We build strong lasting relationships
with our customers and spend considerable time with them to understand their needs and views and listen to how
we can improve our offer and service for them. We use this knowledge to inform our decision-making, for example
to tailor our proposition to suit customer demands.

People - our people are key to our success, and we want them to be successful individually and as a team. There
are many ways we engage with and listen to our people including colleague surveys, forums, listening groups,
face-to-face briefings, internal communities, newsletters and through our anonymous colleague concern line. Key
areas of focus include health and well-being, development opportunities, pay and benefits. Regular reports about
what is important to our people are made to the Board ensuring consideration is given to our people’s needs.

Suppliers — our aim is to work closely and transparently with our key suppliers; having a point of contact who
engages regularly, use of fair contract terms, paying to terms and providing safe working conditions.

Shareholders - the Board aims to understand the views of its shareholders and always to act in their best interests.
The Board engages with both CVC as majority shareholder and management shareholders throughout the year
providing updates on trading performance. As part of these meetings shareholders are able to ask questions of the
Directors. The Board has a dividend strategy that takes into account sufficient reserves, available cash and debt
servicing, Any dividends declared by the Company are for group restructuring purposes only.

We believe these actions are in line with our culture and the high standards of business conduct and good
governance we set ourselves. A Director of the Company must act in the way he considers, in good faith, would
be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole, and in doing so
have regard (amongst other matters) to:

* the likely consequences of any decision in the long term;

* the interests of the Company's employees;

+ the need to foster the Company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others;

+ the impact of the Company's operations on the community and the environment;

¢ the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct; and
+ the need to act fairly as between members of the Company.

Approved by the Board on 21 May 2025 and signed on its behalf by:

Philip Young
Director

QA Limited
Directors' Report for the Year Ended 31 May 2024

The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 May 2024.
The Company has elected to present future developments and dividends in the Strategic Report on page 3 and 4.

Directors of the Company
The Directors, who held office during the year and subsequently, were as follows:

Phillip Young (Appointed | January 2025)

Nathan Runnicles (Resigned 31 December 2024)

Richard Townsend (Appointed | June 2023 and Resigned 30 January 2025)
Paul Geddes (Resigned | June 2023)

Directors’ indemnities
The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors and officers
and these remain in force at the date of this report.

Financial risk management

Objectives and policies

The Company's activities expose it to a number of financial risks including market risk, credit risk and liquidity
risk. Market, credit and liquidity risk are disclosed in the Strategic Report on page 4. The Company does not use
derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.

Post Balance Sheet Events
There have been no events since the balance sheet date requiring disclosure.

Going concern

The Company's business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance
and position are set out on pages 2 to 5. The Company, QA Limited, is part of is part of the Ichnaea UK Bidco
Limited Group “the Group” which is in turn part of the IndigoCyan Topco Limited Group. The Directors have
considered the adoption of the going concern basis of preparation of these financial statements with consideration
to the wider group position and its business model.

The Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited Group’s cashflow from operating activities of £48m (2023: £40.0m) and balance
sheet strength enabled the wider Group to refinance its debt facilities and reduce its external debt by £25.0m
(2023: £30.0m) while also funding debt issue costs of £10.0m. In addition, the balance sheet strength supported
the Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited Group to acquire the remaining shares held by management in Circus Street for
£11.9m and end the year with cash of £23.5m (2023: £62.4m).

The forecasting process undertaken by the Directors recognises the inherent uncertainty of the current economic
environment where inflationary, geopolitical and recessionary risks are heightened. The Directors believe, given
Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited Group performance through the recent economic pressures (including restructuring of
the Group’s Workforce Learning business), that trading results will be robust and that there are growth
opportunities for the business to pursue. The Directors have assessed Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited Group’s various
revenue and cashflow scenarios that factor in the impact of an economic recession and geopolitical risks on the
demand for the Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited Group’s services. The analysis confirmed the Ichnaea UK Bidco
Limited Group has sufficient liquidity and is forecast to comply with its financial covenants.

In October 2023, the Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited Group entered into a new financing agreement with a term loan
of £265m and revolving credit facility of £40m. The facilities are in place until October 2029 and April 2029,
respectively. The Company has received a letter of support from IndigoCyan Holdings Jersey Limited the Parent
Company for IndigoCyan Topco Limited confirming their financial support to satisfy the debts and obligations of
the company as they fall due for at least 12 months from the date of signing and approving these financial
statements. The Directors have reviewed the ability of IndigoCyan Holdings Jersey Limited to provide the support
and are satisfied that this can be provided.

QA Limited
Directors' Report fur the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

Going concern (continued)
On this basis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being a period of at least 12 months from
the date of signing and approving these financial statements. In making this assessment, the Directors have
considered the cash flow forecasts of the Group, the availability of financial resources and facilities and
compliance with covenants.

Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and financial
statements.

Employment of disabled persons

Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of
the applicant concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that
their employment within the Company continues, and that appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of the
Company that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible be
identical with that of other employees.

Employee involvement
The Company places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and continues to keep them informed
on matters affecting them as employees and on various factors affecting the performance of the Company.

We use a combination of communication channels, platforms, and techniques to ensure our people feel engaged,
informed and connected. This year we launched a new intranet platform which balance both people and business
focused news and has been a key channel to help shape our diversity and inclusion (D&I) communities and
wellbeing initiatives. The Executive team continue to hold quarterly ‘All Hands’ employee calls where updates
are given on financial performance, key strategic initiatives and used as an opportunity to celebrate Company and
individual successes. In addition, the Executive team also host regular Senior Leadership Group (SLG) calls which
are more collaborative in their nature and are used to cover key issues or people initiatives. The sessions ensure
management buy-in, along with consistency in the way managers were communicating with and running their
teams. We continue to seek employee feedback to measure employee engagement levels and we do this through
short and regular pulse surveys, allowing us to measure in the moment — for example, our most recent pulse survey
explored the impact our hybrid working arrangement has had on employee engagement. The benefit of this
approach is that we can measure the effectiveness of our actions over time — capitalising on things that are working
well and focusing on areas which need a bit more attention. Over the past 12 months the pulse survey identified
several areas of improvement based on feedback from our people. We then focused our efforts in the areas and
delivered various initiatives across the Company important to our people, including reward and recognition.

Reward and recognition needed to have greater impact and to reach more people. QA Spirit enabled us to do this,
and our recognition programme was brought to life through regular communications and events throughout the
year — celebrating and recognising our values.

Research and development

During the year, the Company continued to develop its client and learner platforms, build high quality engaging
content, release new courses that blend digital self-paced and virtual instructor-led traiing, and launch market
leading offers. A corporate restructure during the year meant capital expenditure on intangibles increased to
£14.9m (2023: £4.0m) in 2024, with the Company continuing to add new functionality, new learning pathways,
and new content ranges. There was no impairment charge on intangibles in the year (2023: £5.1m). Prior year
impairment related to software that was assessed to have £nil value following changes to the Company’s
technology strategy.

QA Limited
Directors' Report for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

Environmental matters

Streamlined energy and carbon reporting disclosures are disclosed within the Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited accounts,
see note 11.

Approved by the Board on 2} May 2025 and signed on its behalf by:

Philip Young
Director

QA Limited

Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities

The Directors acknowledge their responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom adopted
international accounting standards. The financial statements also comply with Internationa! Financial Reporting
Standards (IFRSs) as issued by the IASB. Under company law the directors must not approve the financial
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of
the profit or loss of the company for that period.

In preparing the Company financial statements, the Directors are required to:

e select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently:

« make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

e state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

© prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Company will continue in business.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included
on the company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

QA Limited
Income Statement for the Year Ended 31 May 2024

2024 2023

Note £m £m

Revenue 3 191.6 190.4
Cost of sales (80.6) (80.5)
Gross profit 111.0 109.9
Administrative expenses (103.2) (QL)
Operating profit 4 18 18.2
Finance income 13.8 12.1
Finance costs (2.0) (2.3)
Net finance income 5 11.8 9.8
Profit before tax 19.6 28.0
Income tax 7 (5.0) G.7)
Profit for the year 14.6 24.3

The above results were derived from continuing operations. There were no items of other comprehensive income.

10

The notes on pages 13 to 36 form an integral part of these financial statements

QA Limited
Statement of Financial Position as at 31 May 2024

31 May 31 May
2024 2023
Note £m £m
Assets
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 9 13.6 38.1
Intangible assets 0 28.7 23.7
Investments in subsidiaries 1 38.5 75
Deferred tax assets 8 1.3 2.3
Investments: receivables owed by group undertakings 1 187.8 161.4
269.9 233.0
Current assets
Inventories 2 0.1 0.1
Trade and other receivables 3 32.1 33.6
Cash and cash equivalents 4 5.4 46.8
37.6 80.5
Total assets 307.5 313.5
Equity and liabilities
Equity
Share capital 15 - -
Share premium (34.6) (G.6)
Share based payment reserve (4.5) (4.0)
Retained earnings (188.4) (190.9)
Total equity (227.5) (198.5)
Non-current liabilities
Provisions 17 (0.1) (3.0)
Other non-current financial liabilities 16 (10.3) (37.6)
(10.4) (40.6)
Current liabilities
Current portion of long-term lease liabilities 16 (2.8) (3.4)
Trade and other payables 18 (27.6) (33.7)
Corporation tax liability G.5) -
Deferred income (2.9) G4.1)
Provisions 17 (2.8) (3.2)
(69.6) (74.4)
Total liabilities (80.0) (115.0)
Total equity and liabilities (307.5) (313.5)

For the financial year ended 31 May 2024 the Company was entitled to exemption from audit under section 479A
of the Companies Act 2006 relating to subsidiary companies. The members have not required the Company to
obtain an audit of its financial statements for the year in question in accordance with section 476. The Directors
acknowledge their responsibilities for complying with the requirements of the Act with respect to accounting
records and the preparation of accounts.

The financial statements were approved by the Board on 21 May 2025 and signed on its behalf by:

&

Philip Young, Director
11

The notes on pages 13 to 36 form an integral part of these financial statements

QA Limited
Statement of Changes in Equity for the Year Ended 31 May 2024

2023
Share based Retained
Share capital Share premium payment reserve earnings Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At | June 2022 - 3.6 2.2 166.6 172.4
Profit for the year - : : 24.3 24.3
Total comprehensive
income - - - 24.3 24.3
Share based payment - - 1.8 - 1.8
At 31 May 2023 - 3.6 4.0 190.9 198.5
2024
Share based Retained
Share capital Share premium payment reserve earnings Total
£m £m £m £m £m
At | June 2023 - 3.6 4.0 190.9 198.5
Profit for the year : - 14.6 14.6
Total comprehensive
income - - - 14.6 14.6
Issue of share capital - 31.0 - - 31.0
Dividend - - - (17.1) (7.1)
Share based payment - - 0.5 : 0.5
At 31 May 2024 - 34.6 4.5 188.4 227.5

12

The notes on pages 13 to 36 form an integral part of these financial! statements

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024

1 General information

The Company is a private company limited by share capital, incorporated in the United Kingdom and
registered in England and Wales under the Companies Act 2006.

The address of its registered office is:
International House

1 St Katherine's Way

London

Berkshire

EIW 1UN

United Kingdom

The principal activities of the Company are disclosed in the strategic report on page 2.

2 Accounting policies

Basis of preparation

These financial statements were prepared in accordance with United Kingdom adopted international
accounting standards in conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the parent
Company's financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced
Disclosure Framework. These financial statements have been prepared on a historical cost basis. The
functional and presentational currency of the Company is considered to be Pound Sterling because that is the
currency of the primary economic environment in which the Company operates.

Summary of disclosure exemptions
The parent company meets tie definition of a qualifying entity under FRS 100 "Application of Financial
Reporting Requirements" issued by the FRC and has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions:

e the requirements of paragraphs 62, B64(d), B64(e), B64(g), B64(h), B64(j) to B64(m), BO4(n)(ii),
B64(o)(ii), B64(p), B64(q)(ii), B66 and B67 of IFRS 3 Business Combinations
the requirements of [FRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures
the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement

e the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS | ‘Presentation of Financial Statements' to present comparative
information in respect of:
- paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment;
- paragraph 11 8(e) of IAS 38 Intangible Assets,

e the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38A, 38B, 38C, 38D, 40A, 40B. 40C, 40D, 111 and 134-
136 of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements

® the requirements of [AS 7 Statement of Cash Flows

e the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of [AS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates
and Errors

© the requirements of paragraph 17 and 18A of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures

e the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into
between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction
is wholly owned by such a member.

Where appropriate equivalent disclosures are provided in the group financial statements. See note 23

Exemption from preparing consolidated financial statements

The Company is a parent company that is also a subsidiary included in the consolidated financial statements
of a larger group by a parent undertaking incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and
Wales under the Companies Act 2006 and is therefore exempt from the requirement to prepare consolidated
financial statements under section 400 of the Companies Act 2006.

13

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

Accounting policies (continued)

Going concern

The Company's business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development,
performance and position are set out on pages 2 to 5. The Company, QA Limited, is part of is part of the
Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited Group “the Group” which is in turn part of the IndigoCyan Topco Limited Group.
The Directors have considered the adoption of the going concern basis of preparation of these financial
statements with consideration to the wider group position and its business model.

The Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited Group's cashflow from operating activities of £48m (2023: £40.0m) and
balance sheet strength enabled the wider Group to refinance its debt facilities and reduce its external debt by
£25.0m (2023: £30.0m) while also funding debt issue costs of £10.0m. In addition, the balance sheet strength
supported the Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited Group to acquire the remaining shares held by management in Circus
Street for £11.9m and end the year with cash of £23.5m (2023: £62.4m).

The forecasting process undertaken by the Directors recognises the inherent uncertainty of the current
economic environment where inflationary, geopolitical and recessionary risks are heightened. The Directors
believe, given Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited Group performance through the recent economic pressures
(including restructuring of the Group’s Workforce Learning business), that trading results will be robust and
that there are growth opportunities for the business to pursue. The Directors have assessed Ichnaea UK Bidco
Limited Group’s various revenue and cashflow scenarios that factor in the impact of an economic recession
and geopolitical risks on the demand for the Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited Group’s services. The analysis
confirmed the Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited Group has sufficient liquidity and is forecast to comply with its
financial covenants.

In October 2023, the Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited Group entered into a new financing agreement with a term
loan of £265m and revolving credit facility of £40m. The facilities are in place until October 2029 and April
2029, respectively. The Company has received a letter of support from IndigoCyan Holdings Jersey Limited
the Parent Company for IndigeCyan Topco Limited confirming their financial support to satisfy the debts and
obligations of the company as they fall due for at least 12 months from the date of signing and approving these
financial statements. The Directors have reviewed the ability of IndigoCyan Holdings Jersey Limited to
provide the support and are satisfied that this can be provided.

On this basis, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being a period of at least 12 months
from the date of signing and approving these financial statements. In making this assessment, the Directors
have considered the cash flow forecasts of the Group, the availability of financial resources and facilities and
compliance with covenants.

Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and financial
statements.

14

QA Limited
Notes tv (he Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Changes in accounting policy

In the current year, the Company has applied a number of amendments to IFRS Accounting Standards issued
by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) that are mandatorily effective for an accounting
period that begins on or after 1 January 2023. Their adoption has not had any material impact on the disclosures
or on the amounts reported in these financial statements.

+ IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts (including the June 2020 and December 202] Amendments to IFRS 17);
+ Amendments to [AS | Presentation of Financial Statements and IFRS Practice Statement 2 Making
Materiality Judgements—Disclosure of Accounting Policies;
* Amendments to [AS 12 Income Taxes—Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a
Single Transaction;
* Amendments to [AS 12 Income Taxes— International Tax Reform — Pillar Two Model Rules; and
+ Amendments to IAS 8 Accounting Polices, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors—Definition
of Accounting Estimates.
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the Company has not applied the following new and
revised IFRS Accounting Standards that have been issued but are not yet effective:

* Amendments to IFRS 10 and IAS 28- Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its
Associate or Joint Venture;

* Amendments to [AS 1- Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current:

. Amendments to [AS I- Non-current Liabilities with Covenants;

* Amendments to IAS 7 and IFRS 7- Supplier Finance Arrangements; and

+ Amendments to IFRS 16- Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback.
The Directors do not expect that the adoption of the Standards listed above will have a material impact on the
financial statements of the Company in future periods.

Revenue recognition

Revenue represents amount receivable for services provided in the normal course of business together with
non-refundable fees, exclusive of value added tax. The Company’s principal activity is the provision of
training courses and recognises revenue from rendering services upon delivery of training. The undelivered
amount is included within deferred income and the majority is expected to be recognised within the next 12
months.

Revenue relating to the expected unused portion of training contracts is recognised over the term of the contract
period. The estimation of the unused portion is updated annually. Third party revenues arising from services
outsourced on behalf of customers are recognised gross where the Company is the principal in the arrangement
with the associated risks and rewards flowing to the Company.

The Company’s main training activities consist of supplying learning services, providing courses in IT
technical skills, project and service management, business applications and management and personal
development to Corporate and Government clients with revenue streams arising from the training of
apprenticeships, recruiting, training and deploying consultants, and the teaching of degrees in partnership with
our University partners.

15

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Revenue recognition (continued)

Skills licenses sold to our training clients are typically 12-month non-cancellable licenses providing courses
at pre-agreed rates that are pre-paid, and then drawn down by the customer as needed. Revenue is recognised
upon the delivery of training, as the performance obligation is satisfied. The undelivered amount is included
within deferred income and the majority is expected to be recognised within the next twelve months. The
estimate of the unused portion at the end of a license is updated annually.

The Company provides courses paid for through the Apprenticeship levy, with funding drawn from the
relevant funding bodies in England and Scotland. The performance obligation is the provision of educational
and training services to apprentices over a period of time and therefore revenue is recognised over time. For
apprenticeships that require an End Point Assessment this is treated as a separate performance obligation and
the transaction price is allocated using the cost-plus method. End Point Assessment revenue is recognised ata
point in time, when the End Point Assessment has been successfully completed.

There are two Talent services from which revenue is derived; Recruit, Train, Deploy (“RTD”) and skills
bootcamps. For RTD, we recruit and train graduates looking for a technical role predominantly on a twelve-
to-sixteen-week training programme at our academy who are then deployed at customer sites to provide
consulting services over a contract period of up to two years. Alongside our academy trained tech specialists,
we also employ senior tech specialists to assist in the provision of consulting services. The customers receive
benefits from the consultancy services provided as the Company, via the consultant, performs the service.
Therefore, the performance obligation is deemed to be satisfied over time. Customers are invoiced monthly in
arrears on a time and materials basis.

Under the skills bootcamp programme we recruit and train graduates for a specific customer whereby the
graduate would join the customer at the start or at the end of a training programme. We recognise revenue on
skills bootcamp straight line over the period that the training is provided. In some cases, the customer contracts
include variable consideration. In this case the Company estimates the level of variable consideration that will
be earned. Some of our customers take on our RTD tech specialists for which a transfer fee is paid. This is
recognised upon transfer.

Finance income and costs policy
Interest income is recognised in the Statement of comprehensive income using the effective interest method.

Finance costs (including interest payable) which are directly attributable to interest bearing bank loans are
capitalised as part of the cost of that financial liability. Finance costs of financial liabilities are recognised in
the income statement over the term of such instruments at the effective interest rate.

Tax

The tax expense for the period comprises tax. Tax is recognised in the income statement, except that a change
attributable to an item of income or expense recognised as other comprehensive income is also recognised
directly in other comprehensive income.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax rates and laws that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the reporting date in the countries where the company operates and generates taxable
income.

Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements and on unused tax losses or tax credits in the
company. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively
enacted by the reporting date. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date
and a valuation allowance is set up against deferred tax assets so that the net carrying amount equals the highest
amount that is more likely than not to be recovered based on current or future taxable profit.

16

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

2

Accounting policies (continued)

Tangible assets
Property, plant and equipment is stated in the statement of financial position at cost, less any subsequent
accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.

The cost of property, plant and equipment includes directly attributable incremental costs incurred in their
acquisition and installation.

Depreciation
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land and properties under construction
over their estimated useful lives, as follows:

Asset class Depreciation method and rate
Right of use assets Straight line over the life of the lease
Land and buildings and leasehold improvements Straight line over the life of the lease
Furniture, fittings and equipment 2 to 5 years straight line

Office equipment 2 to 5 years straight line

Intangible assets

Goodwill arising on the acquisition of an entity represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the
company’s interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the
entity recognised at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is
subsequently measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, Goodwill is held in the currency of
the acquired entity and revalued to the closing rate at each reporting period date.

Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment annually.

Negative goodwill arising on an acquisition is recognised directly in the income statement. On disposal of a
subsidiary or a jointly controlled entity, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination
of the profit or loss recognised in the income statement on disposal.

Research and development

Research and development costs are expensed except in cases where development costs meet certain
identifiable criteria for deferral. Deferred development costs, which have probable future economic benefits,
can be clearly defined and measured, and are incurred for the development of new products or technologies,
are capitalised. These development costs, net of related research and development investment tax credits, are
not amortised until the products or technologies are commercialised or when the asset is available for use, at
which time, they are amortised on straight-line basis over the estimated life of the commercial production of
such products or technologies of up to 3 years.

The amortisation method and the life of the commercial production are assessed annually, and the assets are
tested for impairment whenever an indication exists that an asset might be impaired.

Investments
Investments are carried at cost before impairment. The Company has re-presented £1.4m of investments as
goodwill. Dividends on equity securities are recognised in income when receivable.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and call deposits, and other short-term highly liquid
investments that are readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of
changes in value.

47

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 3] May 2024 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Trade receivables

Credit approvals and other monitoring procedures are also in place to ensure that follow-up action is taken to
recover overdue debts. Furthermore, the Company reviews the recoverable amount of trade receivables on an
individual basis at the end of the reporting period to ensure that adequate loss allowance is made for
irrecoverable amounts.

Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, spread across diverse industries and geographical
areas. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable. In this regard,
the Directors consider that the Company’s credit risk is significantly reduced.

The Company always measures the loss allowance for trade receivables at an amount equal to lifetime expected
credit losses ("ECL"). The expected credit losses on trade receivables are estimated using a provision matrix
by reference to past default experience of the debtor and an analysis of the debtor’s current financial position,
adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions of the industry in which the
debtors operate and an assessment of both the current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at the
reporting date. The Company has recognised a loss allowance of 100% against all receivables over 180 days
past due because historical experience has indicated that these receivables are generally not recoverable. There
has been no change in the estimation techniques or significant assumptions made during the current reporting
period.

The Company writes off a trade receivable when there is information indicating that the debtor is in severe
financial difficulty and there is no realistic prospect of recovery. None of the trade receivables that have been
written off are subject to enforcement activities.

Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.

Cost comprises direct materials for the courseware that have been incurred in bringing the inventories to their
present location and condition.

Trade payables

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of
business from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year
or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer). If not, they are presented as non-current
liabilities.

Trade creditors are recognised initially at the transaction price and subsequently measured at amortised cost
using the effective interest method.

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a
past event, it is probable that the company will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can
be made of the amount of the obligation.

Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at
the reporting date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.

Share capital

Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Equity instruments are measured at the fair value of the cash or other
resources received or receivable, net of the direct costs of issuing the equity instruments. If payment is deferred
and the time value of money is material, the initial measurement is on a present value basis.

18

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Share premium and other reserves
Share premium reserve records the amount above the nominal value received for shares sold, less transaction
costs.

Share-based payment reserve relates to equity-settled share-based payments to employees and others providing
similar services which are measured at the fair value of equity instruments at the grant date. Details regarding
the determination of the fair value of equity-settled share-based transactions are set out in note 15. The fair
value determined at the grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is expensed on a straight-line
basis over the vesting period, based on the Company's estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest,
with a corresponding increase in equity. At the end of each reporting period, the Company revises its estimate
of the number of equity instruments expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the original estimates, if
any, is recognised in profit or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a
corresponding adjustment to the share-based payments reserve.

Defined contribution pension obligation

A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which fixed contributions are paid into a separate entity
and has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold sufficient
assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods.

For defined contribution plans contributions are paid publicly or privately administered pension insurance
plans on a mandatory or contractual basis. The contributions are recognised as employee benefit expense when
they are due. If contribution payments exceed the contribution due for service, the excess is recognised as an
asset.

Financial instruments

Initial recognition

Financial assets and financial liabilities comprise all assets and liabilities reflected in the balance sheet,
although excluding tangible assets, investment properties, intangible assets, deferred tax assets, prepayments,
deferred tax liabilities and employee benefits plan.

The Company recognises financial assets and financial liabilities in the statement of financial position when,
and only when, the company becomes party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.

Financial assets are initially recognised at fair value. Financial liabilities are initially recognised at fair value,
representing the proceeds received net of premiums, discounts and transaction costs that are directly
attributable to the financial liability. Subsequent to initial measurement, financial assets and financial
liabilities are measured at either amortised cost or fair value.

Classification and measurement
Financial instruments are classified at inception into one of the following categories, which then determine the
subsequent measurement methodology:

Financial assets are classified into one of the following three categories:

- financial assets at amortised cost;

- financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (FVTOCD); or
- financial assets at fair value through the profit or loss (FVTPL).

Financial liabilities are classified into one of the following two categories:
- financial liabilities at amortised cost; or

- financial liabilities at fair value through the profit or loss (FV TPL}.

The classification and the basis for measurement are subject to the company’s business model for managing
the financial assets and the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial assets, as detailed below:

19

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Financial assets at amortised cost

A financial asset is measured at amortised cost if it meets both of the following conditions and is not designated
as at FVTPL:-

‘ the assets are held within a business model whose objective is to hold assets in order to collect contractual
cash flows; and

- the contractual terms of the financial assets give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments
of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

If either of the above two criteria is not met, the financial assets are classifted and measured at fair value
through the profit or loss (FVTPL).

If a financial asset meets the amortised cost criteria, the company may choose to designate the financial asset
at FVTPL. Such an election is irrevocable and applicable only ifthe FVTPL classification significantly reduces
a measurement or recognition inconsistency.

Financial assets at fair value through the profit or loss (FVTPL)
Financial assets not otherwise classified above are classified and measured as FVTPL.

Financial liabilities at amortised cost
All financial liabilities, other than those classified as financial liabilities at FYTPL, are measured at amortised
cost using the effective interest rate method.

Financial liabilities at fair value through the profit or loss
Financia! liabilities not measured at amortised cost are classified and measured at FVTPL. This classification
includes derivative liabilities.

Derivative financial instrumenis

Derivative financial instruments are contracts, the value of which is derived from one or more underlying
financial instruments or indices, and include futures, forwards. swaps and options in the interest rate, foreign
exchange, equity and credit markets.

Derivative financial instruments are recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value. Fair values
are derived from prevailing market prices, discounted cash flow models or option pricing models as
appropriate.

In balance sheet, derivative financial instruments with positive fair values (unrealised gains) are included as
assets and derivative financial instruments with negative fair values (unrealised losses) are included as
liabilities.

The changes in the fair values of derivative financial instruments entered into for trading purposes are included
in trading income.

Leases

At the inception of a contract, the Company assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract is,
or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time
in exchange for consideration.

At inception or on reassessment of a contract that contains a lease component, the Company allocates the
consideration in the contract to each lease component on the basis of their relative stand-alone prices. However,
for the leases of land and buildings, the Company has elected not to separate non-lease components and
account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.

20

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements fur the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Leases (continued)

The Company recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-
of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for
any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an
estimate of costs to dismantle and remove underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site on
which it is located, less any lease incentives received.

The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date
to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-to-use asset of the end of the lease term. The estimated
useful lives of right of-use assets are determined on the same basis as those of property and equipment. In
addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain
remeasurements of the lease liability.

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at
commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily
determined, the Company’s incremental borrowing rate. Generally, the Company uses its incremental
borrowing rate as the discount rate.

Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise the following:

* Fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments, and

* Variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate initially measured using the index or rate as at the
commencement date.

The lease liability is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is
remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, if there
is a change in the Company’s estimate of the amount expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee,
or if the Company changes its assessment of whether it will exercise a purchase, extension or termination
option.

When the lease liability is remeasured in this way, a corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount
of the right-to-use asset or is recorded in profit or loss if the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been
reduced to zero. The Company presents right-of-use assets in “property, plant and equipment” and lease
liabilities in “loans and borrowings” in the statement of financial position.

The Company has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases of
machinery (such as photocopiers) that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low value assets
(assets that fall below the Company’s capital equipment recognition policy), including IT equipment. The
Company recognises the lease payments associated with these assets as an expense on a straight-line basis
over the lease term.

Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the Company’s accounting policies described above, the Directors are required to make
judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily
apparent from other sources.

The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other factors that are
considered relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period
or in the period of revision and future periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.

In the opinion of the directors there are no critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation
uncertainty impacting the financial statements.

21

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

3 Revenue

The analysis of the Company's revenue for the year from continuing operations is as follows:

2024 2023

£m £m

Rendering of services 191.6 190.4

4 Operating profit
Arrived at after receiving/(charging):

2024 2023

Note £m £m

Depreciation expense on tangible fixed assets 9 (2.3) (2.8)

Depreciation on right of use assets 9 (2.0) (5.2)

Amortisation of intangible assets 10 (12.7) (4.2)

Staff costs 6 (112.0) (100.4)
Adjusting items (7.8) (11.5

Adjusting items

The Directors consider that disclosing certain items as adjusting items which are non-recurring and strategic
in nature provides an alternative and enhanced understanding of the financial statements. Adjusting items
include the items below:

Cyber related net income £nil (2025: net income £1.0m)
The Company has net income of £nil (2023: £1.0m income) in the year related to the Cyber incident in
September 2021. The income in the prior year relates to costs reimbursed by insurers.

Impairment of intangibles £nil (2023: £5.1m)

There was an impairment charge relating to intangibles of £nil (2023: £5.1m) with the prior year charge
relating to software that was assessed to have £nil recoverable value following changes to the Company’s
technology strategy.

Strategic review and digital transformation £3.6m (2023: £0.3m)

Strategic review and digital transformation £3.6m (2023: £0.3m) have been incurred in the year to leverage
new technologies. The most significant of these being the implementation of a customer relationship
management software. The costs are considered to be adjusting because they are unusual and non-recurring.

22

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

4 Operating profit (continued)

Restructuring expenses £3.3m (2023: £3.1m)
Restructuring costs of £3.3m (2023: £3.1m) have been incurred in the year as a result of the integration of the
Learning operations,

Other specific items £0.9m (2023: £4.0m)

Other specific items include share-based payment expenses £0.5m (2023: £1.8m) and other legal and
professional costs in relation to significant non-recurring projects. In the prior year, the Company incurred
expenses associated with both the buy-back of loan notes during the year in addition to due diligence costs
incurred as part of the refinancing of long-term debt which occurred during 2023. In the current year the
Company capitalised part of these transaction costs which resulted in a credit to exceptional costs of £0.4m.

5 Finance income and costs

2024 2023
£m £m
Finance income
Interest income on bank deposits 0.7 0.7
Interest receivable on loans to Group undertakings 13.1 4
Total finance income 13.8 12.1
Finance costs
Interest aud charges on bank deposits (0.1) (0.1)
Interest expense On leases (0.7) (2.2)
Interest payable on loans from Group undertakings (1.2) :
Total finance costs (2.0) (2.3)
Net finance income 11.8 9.8

23

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

6 Staff costs

The aggregate payroll costs for employees (including Directors’ remuneration) were as follows:

2024 2023

£m =m

Wages and salaries 97.5 86.0
Social security costs 10.9 9.8
Pension costs, defined contribution scheme 3.1 2.8
Share-based payment expenses 0.5 L8
112.0 100.4

The average number of persons employed (including Directors) during the year, analysed by category was as
follows:

2024 2023

No. No.

Trainers, tutors and coaches 515 510
Sales and administration 1,062 946
1,577 1,456

The Company has remunerated two Directors in the year (2023: two). Remuneration for the Directors was
£0.7m (2023: £2.0m) of which £0.3m was incurred by a fellow Group company and was not recharged. The
highest paid Director received £0.8m (2023: £1.3m). Pension contributions for Directors for the year ended 31
May 2024 were less than £0.1m (2023: less than £0.1m).

24

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

7

Income tax
Tax charged in the income statement

2024 2023
£m £m

Current taxation
UK corporation tax 47 6.1
UK corporation tax adjustment to prior periods (0.6) (2.1)
4.1 4.0

Deferred taxation
Arising from origination and reversal of temporary differences 0.1 (0.2)
Adjustment in respect of prior periods 08 0,2
Arising from changes in tax rates and laws - (0.3)
Total deferred taxation 0.9 (0.3)
Tax expense in the income statement 5.0 3.7

During the year ended 31 May 2024 UK Corporation tax has been calculated at a blended rate of 25% (2023:
20% on estimated assessable profits for the year.

The differences are reconciled below:

2024 2023

£m £m

Profit before tax 19.6 28.0

Corporation tax at standard rate 4.9 5.1
Increase from effect of expenses not deductible in determining

taxable profit - 0.8

Adjustments to prior periods 0.1 (1.9)

Deferred tax credit relating to changes in tax rates or laws - (0.3)

Total tax charge 5.0 3.7

The tax charge in the current year is higher (2023: higher) than the standard tax as a result of the level of the
Company’s disallowable expenses, related principally to interest which is non-deductible under the Corporate
Interest Restriction rules.

25

QA Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

8 Corporation tax (continued)

Deferred tax
Deferred tax assets and liabilities

Deferred tax assets - Accelerated capital allowances

Deferred tax movement during the year:

Accelerated capital allowances

Deferred tax movement during the prior year:

Accelerated capital allowances

31 May 31 May
2024 2023
im £m

1.3 2.3

Recognised in
At 1 June 2023 income At 31 May 2024
£m £m £m

2.3 0.9 13

Recognised in
At 1 June 2022 income At 31 May 2023
£m £m im

19 0.4 2.3

26

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

9 Property, plant and equipment

Furniture,
Right of use Leasehold fittings and Office
assets improvement equipment equipment Totat
=m £m £m £m £m

Cost
At 1 June 2022 67.4 15.7 3.2 12.7 98.9
Additions 56 2.5 0.1 09 9.1
Transfers to fellow group
undertakings (8.8) (0.1) - - (8.9)
Disposals (13.1) (4.5) - (6.0) (23.6)
At 31 May 2023 51.1 13.6 3.3 7.6 75.6
Additions - (0.1) - 1.0 0.9
Transfers (to)/from fellow
group undertakings (27.4) (1.1) - 0.4 (28.1)
Disposals (5.3) (0.1) (0.4) (1.8) (7.6)
Category re-classifications - - - 0.2 02
At 31 May 2024 18.3 12.3 29 74 40.9
Accumulated Depreciation and Impairment
At 1 June 2022 30.4 13.3 3.0 10.5 57.2
Charge for the year 52 1.4 0.1 [3 8.0
Transfers to fellow group
undertakings (7.7) (0.3) - - (8.0)
Disposals (9.1) (4.6) - (6.0) (19.7)
At 31 May 2023 18.8 9.8 3.1 5.9 37.5
Charge for the year 2.0 0.8 0.1 14 42
Transfers (to)/from fellow
group undertakings (6.2) (0.6) - 0.3 (6.5)
Impairment (1.2) - - - (1.2)
Disposals 4.72 0.4 (0.4) (1.8) (6.6)
At 31 May 2024 8.6 10.4 2.8 5.6 27.3
Carrying amount
At 31 May 2024 9.8 2.0 0.1 1.8 13.6

At 31 May 2023 32.3 3.8 0.2 18 38.1

27

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

10 Intangible assets (continued)

Development
Goodwill costs Total
£m £m £m

Cost
At 1 June 2022 15.4 29.7 45.1
Additions - 4.0 4.0
Transfers from fellow group undertakings - 5.8 5.8
Disposals - (0.4) (0.4)
At 31 May 2023 15.4 39.1 54.5
Additions - 14.9 14.9
Transfers from tellow group undertakings - 11.6 11.6
Category re-classifications - (0.2) (0.2)
At 31 May 2024 15.4 65.4 80.8
Accumulated Amortisation and [mpairment
At I June 2022 3.5 12.7 16.2
Amortisation charge - 4.2 42
Transfers from fellow group undertakings - 5.3 5.3
Impairment - S.1 5.1
At 31 May 2023 3.5 27.3 30.8
Amortisation charge - 12.7 12.7
Transfers from fellow group undertakings : 8.6 8.6
At 31 May 2024 3.5 48.6 __ §2.1
Carrying amount
At 31 May 2024 11.9 16.8 28.7
At 31 May 2023 Lg 11.8 23.7

28

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

11 Investments

2024 2023
£m Em
Investments: receivables owed by group undertakings 187.8 161.4

Receivables owed by group undertakings include interest-bearing amounts. These amounts are unsecured and
repayable on demand.

Company subsidiaries
Details of the Company’s subsidiaries as at 31 May 2024 are as follows:

Proportion of ordinary
share ownership
interest and voting
rights held

Name of subsidiary Principal activity
2024 2023
Focus Project Management (Europe) Limited = Training Company 100% 100%
QA Consulting Services Limited Non-trading 100% 100%
QA Talent Limited Provision of Consulting 100% 100%
Services
Circus Street London Limited (UK) Training Company 100% 0%

The registered office of all of the Company’s subsidiaries is International House, | St Katherine's Way,
London, E1W 1UN, UK.

Subsidiaries £m
Cost

At | June 2022, 31 May 2023 8.2
Additions 31.0
At 31 May 2024 39,2
Impairment

At I June 2022, 31 May 2023 and 31 May 2024 (0.7)
Carrying amount

At 31 May 2024 38.5
At 31 May 2023 75

On 31 March 2024, the Company acquired 100% of the share capital of Circus Street London Limited from
Seckloe 208 Limited in exchange for the issue of one ordinary share. On | April 2024, Circus Street London
Limited transferred its business and assets to the Company.

29

QA Limited

Notes tv (he Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

12 Inventories

Finished goods and goods for
resale (training material)

13 Trade and other receivables

Trade receivables
Other receivables
Accrued income

Prepayments and other
debtors

Not past due

<30 days past due

30 - 60 days past due
60 - 180 days past due

Not past due

0<30 days past due
30 - 60 days past due
60 - 180 days past due

31 May 31 May

2024 2023

£m £m

0.1 0.1

31 May 31 May

2024 2023

£m £m

15.8 16.6

9.2 8.4

7A 8.6

32.1 33.6

Gross Carrying Provision Net Carrying
Amount 2024 2024 Amount 2024
£m £m £m

10.3 (0.1) 10.2

3.8 (0.2) 3.6

1.3 (0.1) 1.2

1.3 (0.5) 0.8

16.7 (0.9) 15.8

Gross Carrying Provision Net Carrying
Amount 2023 2023 Amount 2023
£m £m £m

10.5 (0.5) 10.0

5.1 (0.1) 5.0

16 (0.1) 1.5

0.7 (0.6) 0.1

17.9 (1.3) 16.6

30

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

14 Cash and cash equivalents

31 May 31 May
2024 2023
£m £m
Cash at bank 5.4 46.8
15 Share capital
Allotted, called up and fully paid shares
31 May 31 May
2024 2023

No. £ No. £
Ordinary shares of £1 each 1,511 1,511 1,510 1,510

During the year, the Company issued | ordinary share to its parent Seckloe 208 in consideration for 100% of
the share capital of Circus Street London Limited (see note 11).

16 Loans and borrowings

31 May 31 May
2024 2023
£m £m
Non-current loans and borrowings
Non-current lease liabilities 10.3 37.6
31 May 31 May
2024 2023
£m £m
Current loans and borrowings
Current portion of long-term
lease liabilities 2.8 34

The Company has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases of
machinery (such as photocopiers) that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low value assets
(assets that fal! below the Company’s capital equipment recognition policy), including IT equipment.

31

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

17 Provisions for liabilities

Onerous contracts Restructuring Dilapidations Total
£m im £m im
At | June 2023 0.5 0.8 49 6.2
Additional provisions - 1.3 - 13
Provisions used (0.3) (0.8) (0.7) (1.8)
Unused provision reversed - - (1.3) (1.3)
Transfer to fellow group
undertakings - - (1.6) (1.6)
Unwind of discount on
provision - - 0.1 0.1
At 31 May 2024 0.2 1.3 1.4 2.9
Provisions for liabilities are
expected to be settled as
follows:
Within one year 0.2 13 0.4 19
In the second to fifth years
inclusive - - 0.3 0.3
Afier five years : - 0.7 0.7
At 31 May 2024 0.2 1,3 1.4 2.9
Onerous contracts Restructuring Dilapidations Total
£m £m =m £m
At 1 June 2022 14 - 4.9 63
Additional provisions - L4 1.3 2.7
Provisions used (0.9) (0.6) - (1.5)
Unused provision reversed - - (0.4) (0.4)
Transfer to fellow group
undertakings - - (1.0) (1.0)
Unwind of discount on
provision - : 0.1 0.1
At 31 May 2023 0.5 0.8 4.9 6.2
Provisions for liabilities are
expected to be settled as
follows:
Within one year 0.4 0.8 2.0 3.2
In the second to fifth years
inclusive 0.1 - 0.5 0.6
After five years : : 2.4 24
At 31 May 2023 0.5 0.8 4.9 6.2

Provisions include dilapidations £1.4m (2023:

£4.9m). The provision for dilapidations represents
management’s best estimate of the future dilapidations associated with leased properties.

32

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

17 Provisions for liabilities (continued)

The provisions are based on the best estimate of the management with reference to past experience, of the
expected future cash flow. The cash flows are expected to occur in between | and 15 years. The provision has
been discounted to reflect the time value of money. The discount rates used were varied based on the time to
settlement and ranged from 0.9% to 2.1%.

Provisions further include onerous contract provisions £0.2m (2023: £0.5m) and restructuring provisions
£1.3m (2023: £0.8m).

The provision for onerous contracts includes both vacant leasehold property provisions and the provision for
onerous Customer contracts.

The restructuring provision includes managements estimate of staff costs associated with restructuring the
organisation which includes redundancy costs and pay in lieu of notice.

Should a provision ultimately prove to be unnecessary then it is credited back into the income statement.
Where the provision was originally established as an adjusting item, any release is shown as an adjusting
credit.

18 Trade and other payables

31 May 31 May

2024 2023

£m £m

Trade payables 12.0 13.4

Accrued expenses 95 12.8
Social security and other

taxes 3.1 6.1

Other payables 1.0 14

27.6 33.7

19 Pension and other schemes

Defined contribution pension scheme
The Company operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The pension cost charge for the year represents
contributions payable by the Company to the scheme and amounted to £2.8m (2023: £2.4m).

20 Capital Commitments
The has no capital commitments as at 31 May 2024 (2023: £nil).

21 Financial Instruments

The Company’s activities expose it to a number of financial risks including liquidity, price risk and credit risk.
The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. The Company’s principal
financial instruments are amounts receivable from customers, bank balances, bank overdrafts and receivables

from group undertakings.

33

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

21 Financial Instruments (continued)

Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will have insufficient liquid resources available to fulfil its
operational plans and/or to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.

In order to maintain liquidity and to ensure that sufficient funds are available for ongoing operating and future
developments, the Group operates a centralised treasury function, features of which includes intercompany
cash transfers and management of operating lease contracts.

Credit Risk

Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to financial instrument
fails to meet its contractual obligations, and arises principally from the Company ’s receivables from customers
and bank balances.

The Company’s principal financial assets are bank balances and trade receivables.

The Company’s credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the
statement of financial position are net of provisions for doubtful debts. Impairment provisions for trade
receivables are recognised based on the simplified approach within IFRS 9 using the lifetime expected credit
losses. During this process the probability of the non-payment of the trade receivables is assessed. This
probability is then multiplied by the amount of the expected loss arising from default to determine the lifetime
expected credit loss for the trade receivables.

The credit risk on liquid funds is limited because the counterparties are banks with high credit-ratings assigned
by international credit-rating agencies. The Company has no significant concentration of credit risk other than
with UK government bodies. The remaining exposure is spread over a large number of counterparties and
customers.

Price Risk
The Company is exposed to limited price risk which may impact the attractiveness of the Company’s services
and historically market prices have shown a high level of stability.

Foreign Currency Risk Management

The Company undertakes transactions denominated in foreign currencies; consequently, exposures to
exchange rate fluctuations arise. Exchange rate exposures are managed within approved policy parameters
utilising forward foreign exchange contracts, where appropriate.

Interest Rate Risk
The Company is exposed to limited interest rate risk through bank deposits and overdrafts at variable interest
rates.

Fair Values of Financial Assets and Liabilities

Financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value in the statement of financial position are grouped
into three levels of a fair value hierarchy. The three levels are defined based on the observability of significant
inputs to the measurement, as follows:

* Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities;

+ Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability,
either directly or indirectly; and

* Level 3: unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.

34

QA Limited
Notes tu the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

21

Financial Instruments (continued)

The following table sets out the carrying value of the Company’s financial assets and liabilities by category:

22

Financial Assets
Cash and bank balances
Trade and other receivables

Financial Liabilities
Trade and other payables

31 May 31 May
2024 2023
£m Em
5.4 46.8

15.8 16.6
21.2 63.4
13.0 14.8
13.0 14.8

Share-based payments

During the year ended 31 May 2024, the Company issued nil (2023: 30,025) shares to management. Vesting
of the shares occurs at two points; 80% of the shares are vested at the balance sheet date with the remaining
20% vesting on change of control of the Group. The estimated fair value of the shares granted is £nil (2023:
£2.7m). This has resulted in a charge to the income statement in the year ended 31 May 2024 of £0.5m (2023:

£1,8m).

The market value of the shares at the grant date is calculated using the Black-Scholes formula. The key

assumptions used in the calculation are set out below:
Grant date

Expected volatility

Expected term

Risk free rate

Dividend yield

Scheme movements
The movements in the number of share options during the year were as follows:

Outstanding, start of period
Granted during the period
Forfeited during the period
Vested during the period

2023 awards

Not vested at the end of the year

43.1%

2.0 years

0.9-3.9%

0.0%

31 May 31 May
2024 2023
Number Number
16,286 12,014
- 32,865
(3,767) (2.301)
: (26,292)
12,519 16,286

35

QA Limited
Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 May 2024 (continued)

23 Parent and ultimate parent undertaking
The Company's immediate parent is Seckloe 208 Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales.

The Directors regard IndigoCyan Holdings Jersey Limited, a company registered in Jersey, through its holding
of 85% of the voting rights of IndigoCyan Topco Limited as the ultimate holding company. IndigoCyan
Holdings Jersey Limited is controlled by funds managed by CVC Credit Partners LLC.

The only parent entity producing publicly available consolidated financial statements is Ichnaea UK Bidco
Limited. These financial statements are available at www.qa.com and from Ichnaea UK Bidco Limited’s
registered address:

International House Third Floor, 1 St Katharine's Way, London, United Kingdom, ELW 1UN

24 Post Balance Sheet Events

There have been no events since the balance sheet date requiring disclosure.

36

