amy hin
el

Mh D tl AnnualReport and
Financial Statements

20032028 #213 ; 2 023/24

COMPANIES HOUSE

, THURSDAY

Roehampton University Company Registration Number 5161359
(Engtand and Wales)


COMPANY
REGISTRATION NUMBER

5161359

REGISTERED NAME
Roehampton University

TRADING NAME
University of Roehampton

REGISTERED OFFICE

Grove House
Roehampton Lane
London

SW15 5PJ

AUDITORS

BDO LLP

2 City Place
Beehive Ring Road
Gatwick

West Sussex

RH6 OPA

BANKERS

Lloyds Bank

4th Floor

25 Gresham Street London
EC2V 7HN

SOLICITORS
Shakespeare Martineau
No 1 Colmore Square
Birmingham

B4 6AA


Contents

CHAIR OF COUNCIL'S WELCOME
STRATEGIC REPORT
Key Performance Indicators
Financial Review
Student Education
Research and Knowledge Exchange
Supporting Staff
Outreach and Widening Participation
Environmental Objectives
Risk and Uncertainty
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL REPORT
Statement of Public Benefit
Committee Membership
Statement of Corporate Governance

Statement of the Responsibilities of
Members of Council

Disclosure of Information to Auditors

Statement on the Structure of the University's
Corporate Governance

Statement of Internal Control

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO
MEMBERS OF COUNCIL

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

10
14
18
22
24
26
28
30
32
33
34

35
35

36
38

40
46

Chair of
Council's
welcome

1am delighted to introduce the University of
Roehampton's annual report for 2023/24. This report
highlights the remarkable accomplishments of the
University’s students and colleagues over the last year.
2024 marks the 20th anniversary of the University of
Roehampton's independence. In this anniversary year,
we were ranked in the top 15% globally in the Times
Higher Education Young University Rankings - a real
testament to all we have achieved.

The University began the academic year with

an award of TEF Silver, and also concluded the
year positively, ranked 8th in England for student
satisfaction in the latest National Student Survey.
At the heart of the mission of Roehampton and
our four founding Colleges is widening success
through higher education and we are pleased that
2023/24 has seen improvements in engagement
and outcomes for our diverse student body.

In what has continued to be a challenging higher
education sector, the University has adapted. We
launched online programmes and new partnerships,
and grew our campus portfolio. We have developed
exciting new programmes, such as in Sustainable
Engineering and Cyber Security, to ensure that we
respond to the demand for graduates with these
specialist skills to address the urgent challenges
facing our society.

4 = Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

Research and Knowledge Exchange at the University
of Roehampton addresses some of the most
pressing issues facing societies, governments,
businesses and communities around the world -
from the climate crisis, to health, to homelessness.
2023/24 was another successful year for us both

in terms of grant capture and our impact outside of
the institution.

The University plays an important role in the local
community and in South West London more broadly,
as recognised in November, with the award of
Collaborators of the Year at the BIG South London
Innovation summit. Partnership and collaboration
are central to much of what we do. In May, we

were delighted to celebrate our many partnerships
with an event at the House of Lords, hosted by our
Chancellor, Baroness Sandip Verma.

| offer my sincere thanks to our University
community for your hard work and dedication

over the past twelve months. As we reflect on an
anniversary year, we are launching our new Strategy
at the end of 2024 and | look forward to what the
future will bring.

Yast emley

Phil Walker
Chair of Council
December 2024

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

5


S10] COIPU]
VoUeUIOJIag Avy

z
a
q
|
a
a
5
3
a
i

Student enrolments [—_J Oncampus [BM Offcampus HE Online
25000
20,567 19,071 19,281 20,105 18,242
20000
15000
10000
5000
0
2018/19 2019/20 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
Domicile First in family UG, UK Gender
9
2% EU 52% UK ; 58% 0.03% 56%
. First in the Female
family
Not first in 44% Male
46% Non-EU the family
Ethnicity Religion
11% 25% 5%
Other/mixed White Other 30%
Christian
16% Hindu
45% Asian 19%

19% Black

30% Muslim No religion

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 9

At a glance

2024 ('000)

Total net assets:
£84,865
Deficit: £8,568

Deficit: £12,045
excluding pension movements
and pension interest

Total income: £144,626

1ew

2023 ('000)

Total net assets:
£94,324
Surplus: £6,947

Surplus: £8,067
excluding pension movements
and pension interest

Total income: £148,539

1 Rev

4°)
: =
Indicator
© Staffing
-- Liquidity
Surplus/(deficit)
4°] Surplus excluding pension movements
fm. Net cash flow from operating activities
S|

Discretionary reserves

Earnings before Interest, Taxes,
Depreciation and Amortisation

F

10 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

0.8%

0.6%

Measure

Staff costs as a % of Income

Net liquidity days

Surptus/(deficit) as a % of income

As a % of total income

Total net cash inflow from
operating activities

as a % of total income
Reserves as a % of income
(excluding pension provision)

EBITDA as % of income

Breakdown of
Income in 2024

Tuition fees and

education contracts
Funding body grants
Research grants and

contracts

Other income

Investment income,

endowments and donations

Breakdown of
Income in 2023

Tuition fees and

education contracts
Funding body grants
Research grants and

contracts

Other income

Investment income,

endowments and donations

AAD | July 2024

41.6%

91

4.7%

5.4%

2.8%

65.8%

12.5%

43.2%
56
(5.9)%

(8.3)%

3.7%

59.1%

(1.3)%

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA)

EBITDA is a commonly used measure of financial performance. EBITDA allows for comparability between organisations
and also measures an organisation's actual operating performance. For the purpose of calculating EBITDA as a percentage
of income the University uses the measure specified in its banking covenants, such that adjustments are made for interest
(note 8), deferred capital grants (note 2), depreciation (note 11), amortisation (note 12), pension liability charges (note 7),
and pension interest (notes 5 and 8). In 2023-24 EBITDA was £(1.93)m (i.e. a deficit position) or -1.3% (2022-23: 12.5%)
which was below the University target of 10% as a percentage of turnover. However, this is after exceptional bad debt
charges of £10m, a provision of £5.58m in respect of a number of property obligations and £1.2m of exceptional severance
costs (out of total severance costs of £1.9m). Adjusting for these, EBITDA would be £14.85m, or 10.3%.

Results

The consolidated deficit for 2023-24 is £8.6m and

this compares with a surplus of £6.9m in the previous
financial year. The main reasons for the worsening
position in performance are: (i) a reduction in tuition fee
income; (ii) an exceptional bad debt charge of £10m;
(iii) a provision of £5.58m charged in the year in respect
of a number of property obligations; and (iv) £1.2m of
exceptional severance payments (out of total severance
costs of £1.9m). This has been partly offset by a
provision release in respect of the USS pension deficit
recovery plan and lower service costs on the LPFA
pension scheme in light of its surplus position.

The result without the pension movements reflects a
deficit of £12.0m in 2023-24 compared with a surplus of
£8.1m in 2022-23.

Income

income has decreased by £3.9m (-2.6%) (2022-23: £16.1m
increase, or 12.2%). Tuition fee income saw a £4.2m (8%)
reduction in full-time UK and EU student income (2022-23:
£15.1m reduction, or 22%) and a £1.9m (3.3%) increase in
international student fees (2022-23 £26.8m increase, or
90%). The University’s January and April intakes continued
to benefit from strong international performance, with
undergraduate programmes introduced to the April intake
for the first time.

Residences, catering and conferencing income increased
to £15.8m in 2023-24, a 12% increase as a result of
consistent accommodation take up and a continued
increase in conferencing activities. Elsewhere, income
from research grants and contracts increased by 17% to
£2.6m, with the pipeline of research grants improving.
Funding body grant income decreased by £1.1m, with
reductions in both Office for Students (OfS) Teaching grant
and Research England funding. The active management
of cash balances resulted in improved investment returns
given prevailing interest rates, with investment income
(excluding pension scheme interest) increasing from
£0.8m to £1.1m.

Expenditure

Expenditure was impacted by a number of one-off
items. The increase in bad debt provision charge of
£5.4m (from £4.6m in 2022-23 to £10m in 2023-24), the
increase in voluntary severance costs of £0.9m (from
£1m to £1.9m) and the impact of the dilapidations
provision charge of £5.58m in 2023-24 together added
£11.9m of cost. Offsetting this was an increase in
pension provision releases of £3.8m (from a £0.4m
charge to a £3.4m credit). After adjusting for these
variances, the underlying increase in expenditure was
largely due to inflationary pressures.

The bad debt charge of £10m reflects a review of aged
debtor balances which have grown as the composition
of the University's student base has moved away from

a predominance of UK Undergraduates, for whom fee
payments are typically supported by student loans, to

a sizeable proportion of students who are self-payers.
The University is making a significant investment in its
Accounts Receivable function, both in terms of personnel
and processes, and has appointed a debt collection
agency to address older debtor balances. The University
is committed to collecting all sums due, but is of the view
that additional provision is appropriate for the purposes
of financial reporting. As at 31 July 2024, the total
provision for bad and doubtful debts stood at £18.6m.

Staff costs

Staff costs (including the movement in pension provision)
of £62.5m are £0.8m higher than in 2022-23. Salaries
increased by £2.3m (2022-23: an increase of £2.4m),
which includes the impact of the annual pay rise and
incremental pay spine point progression for staff not

on the top of their pay grade. 2023-24 also saw higher
severance costs, which increased from £1m to £1.9m.
LPFA and USS pensions adjustments within staff costs
benefited results by £3.4m (2022-23: £0.4m net charge).

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

lh

Pensions

In 2023-24 the actuarial loss on the LPFA scheme within total comprehensive
income was £0.9m (2022-23: an actuarial gain of £20.7m). The LPFA scheme
is currently in surplus, but the requirements of Financial Reporting Standard
102 (FRS 102) are such an asset can only be recognised when it can be
recovered and management has assessed that in this instance a net asset in
respect of the surplus should not be recognised. Instead, as in the prior year,
the balance sheet position recorded in the financial statements for the LPFA
scheme has been stated at £nil. Each year the University reviews the pension
assumptions with the support of our external pension advisors, to ensure

that they are appropriate. The assumptions used are outlined in note 23. The
remaining USS pension liability in respect of obligations under the former USS
deficit recovery plan was released in light of the surplus position arising from
the 2023 valuation.

Balance sheet

Tangible fixed assets total £209.5m (2022-23: £209.3m), a small increase

as Capital additions of £8.9m offset the depreciation (before amortisation of
negative goodwill) of £8.7m in the year. Total net debt increased from £42.8m
to £47.1m as a result of reduced cash balances as at 31 July 2024. Two of the
smaller tranches of the Lloyds loan facility were fully repaid in the year, to leave
total outstanding bank loans of £65.9m (2022-23: £72.3m).

Cash, liquidity and reserves

Cash balances fell from £33.5m to £22.4m. Operating cash flow slightly
improved, but capital expenditure was £2.7m higher at £8.9m, driven by
strategic investments in the new Sustainable Engineering facilities (SETEC,
part-funded by the OfS), and the final bullet payments of two smaller tranches
of the Lloyds loan were made, with repayments of loans increasing from
£3.3m to £6.3m. As a result, net liquidity days fell from 91 to 56.

The level of total reserves has reduced from £94.3m to £84.8m, reflecting the
deficit in the year.

Investments

The University uses a cash management service to manage its treasury
activity. In February 2020, the University agreed an investment policy to ensure
that funds are invested ethically to maximise returns and minimise risks within
appropriate investments. This policy is reviewed by the Finance and Resources
Committee. The Dove Bowerman and the Gerhard Weiler endowment funds
are invested directly with Investec Wealth & Investment Limited. As of 31 July
2024, these funds had a value of £328k and £73k respectively and are included
in note 19, Endowment Reserves.

Financial Review

12 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

Going concern

The University's Council has reviewed the University's forecasts for the period to 31 July 2026 and considered how adverse events
could impact on cash flow, banking covenants and the going concern assessment made by the University's Executive Board.

The going concern assessment has focused on two principal considerations: (i) whether the University is likely to be in
breach of its Lloyds bank loan covenants at the 31 July 2025 assessment point, as a breach would cause what is currently
long-term debt to fall due within one year, creating significant current net liabilities; and (ii) the liquidity position of the
University on a monthly basis over the forecast period assuming the bank loan covenants are not breached.

This analysis shows that in the 2024-25 financial year the University is forecast to have minimal headroom on one of its
Lloyds’ bank loan covenants, with a risk of breach consequently heightened (although not currently forecast). The University
has a constructive dialogue with Lloyds to amend or temporarily waive any covenants in order to avoid any such breach.

The analysis of the monthly cash flow forecast shows that the University will retain sufficient liquidity to meet its short-term
obligations as they fall due. A sensitivity analysis has been performed which considers the impact of an acceleration of
some identified property costs from 2025-26 into 2024-25 and a reduction in tuition fee income in 2025-26. In respect of
the 2024-25 tuition fee income position, September 2024 recruitment achieved budget and reductions in recruitment for the
January and April 2025 intakes have already been assumed in the base case forecast.

Whilst uncertainties exist in retation to January and April 2025 recruitment and non-completion for enrolled students, the level
of discretionary spend, contingencies in the forecast and actions already being implemented to generate financial savings

give comfort that the University will remain a going concern. Council recognises that, while there is uncertainty, these matters
described above do not constitute a material uncertainty and consider that the University has adequate resources to continue
in operational existence for a period of more than twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements. For this
reason, the University continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.

Outlook

The Higher Education environment remains difficult. While the UK government recently announced an increase to the cap on
tegulated UK Undergraduate tuition fees, the likely revenue benefit will be offset by the effect of the increase in employers’
National Insurance contributions effective from April 2025, which will cost the University approximately £1m on an annualised
basis. Student recruitment continues to be challenging, with pressure on both UK and International student growth, although
the University was able to meet its September 2024 recruitment targets. As noted above, the budget assumptions for student
recruitment on the January and April 2025 intakes are lower than the actual performance in the equivalent 2024 intakes.

The University is continuing to develop its academic programmes, including the launch of its Sustainable Engineering and
Technology portfolio in September 2024, white evolving its models of programme and professional services delivery to ensure
they remain cost-effective.

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 13

At the University of Roehampton, we
change lives by helping our students
develop the knowledge, skills and
confidence needed for a successful
professional career and fulfilling

life, irrespective of their background
or circumstances. Our institutional
priorities focus on widening
participation, enriching the student
experience and providing excellent,
professionally focused education.

Student Education

14 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

In September we were awarded TEF Silver under the UK
government's Teaching Excellence Framework review.
Roehampton was commended by the review panel for its
dedication to fostering excellent academic practices throughout
the institution and outstanding commitment to the professional
development of its staff. The panel also concluded that
Roehampton excels in articulating a comprehensive range

of educational objectives that are not only highly relevant

to its diverse student body but also aligned with their future
ambitions.

Our commitment to excellence and putting students at

the heart of everything we do was further reflected in an
outstanding performance in the 2023/24 National Student
Survey (NSS), an annual exercise that gathers feedback from
final-year undergraduate students across the UK on their course
and university experience, including teaching quality, learning
opportunities, and how the student voice is heard. On the
Overall Positivity measure, Roehampton rose 61 places to 12th
in the UK, 8th in England, and 3rd in London.

The University’s portfolio covers life and health sciences,
education, psychology, computing, law, business, accountancy
and finance, humanities and social sciences, and creative

and performing arts. Roehampton continues to be a top 10
national teacher training provider. Our strategic curriculum
development is creating a growing portfolio of professionally
focused courses, designed and taught to enable students to be
successful in their studies and as graduates.

Over the past year, we have continued to innovate in support of
this goal:

5 Our new strategic partnership with FutureLearn delivers
100% online degrees through an initial suite of nine
postgraduate business programmes launched in May
2024, We have ambitious growth plans for the venture, with
future expansion across our subject range planned. The
partnership will enable students seeking online education
to access Roehampton’s quality portfolio of future focused
degrees.

8 During the year, work got underway on a £10 million
refurbishment project to create a state-of-the art facility
that will host our new range of Sustainable Engineering
programmes which launched in September 2024.
£5.8 million of the funding for this major campus upgrade
came from the Office for Students, with the remainder
funded by the University directly.

We have launched new modes of delivery, with our first
cohort of extended Masters students successfully
completing their 10-week course and progressing onto
postgraduate study. The course is designed to help
international students develop the necessary skills to pursue
a Masters degree in Business or Computing at Roehampton.

= We created the new School of Arts, Humanities and Social
Sciences, bringing together a number of cogent academic
disciplines under single leadership and blending vibrant
creativity with rich traditions of Roehampton scholarship for
1,800 students.

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 15

fimage sm Eslidereciegg BiacleyastUdiosy

® Roehampton entered into a new strategic partnership with Harrow,
Richmond, and Uxbridge Colleges (HRUC) aimed at broadening
educational opportunities and industry partnerships in London.
Roehampton and HRUC will collaborate to create new educational
pathways in vital sectors such as sustainable engineering and the
built environment, and the University will also become a member
of HRUC’s West London Institute of Technology.

= We have continued to invest in Study Coaches, working with our
students throughout their Roehampton journey and supporting them to
successful outcomes. The coaches allow for a level of engagement that
goes beyond the traditional academic-student contact time and allows
us to identify early on, and offer solutions to, any issues and problems
that our students may be experiencing.

= To support our work in improving student outcomes, we have
developed several data dashboards to give colleagues insight into
how they might support students to be successful in their studies. The
dashboards, which focus on student engagement and attendance,
programme and module performance, NSS, career readiness and
student intersectionality are available for all colleagues to identify areas
of improvement for their programmes and modules and to target the
support they give to students. The success of this insight-led approach
is becoming evident as there has been a 6pp drop in the number of ist
year students leaving unsuccessfully when compared with 2022/23.
in addition, there has been a 4pp reduction in the number of non-
submissions and nearly a 5pp increase in the number of students who
have passed on their first attempt, in comparison to the previous year.

16 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

In September we
were awarded TEF

Silver under the

UK government's

Teaching Excellence
Framework review.

Silver


Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 17

Research and Knowledge Exchange

at Roehampton addresses some

of the most pressing issues facing
societies, governments, businesses
and communities around the

world. As well as strengthening our
partnerships with local communities
and organisations, these initiatives are
central to our social mission and the
founding ethos of our four colleges.

Research and
Knowledge Exchange

18 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

Collaboration and Partnership

As part of the University’s 20th anniversary
celebrations, our Chancellor, Baroness Verma,
hosted a successful event at the House of Lords.
The event celebrated the University’s role and
impact in delivering London's workforce through
partnership. The event was attended by Fleur
Anderson MP public and private sector partners and
civic leaders, alongside members of the University
staff and student community.

We have been recognized as leaders in our region
for our approach to collaboration and partnership.

In November, the University was distinguished

with three awards at the BIG South London annual
innovation summit. The University was awarded the
overall ‘Collaborators of the Year’ category, reflecting
the commitment to support inclusive innovation
across South London and beyond.

The University continues to provide an exceptional
environment for doctoral researchers to flourish.

in July, Roehampton hosted the TECHNE Doctoral
Training Partnership’s summer congress, focused on
the theme of the ‘Scholar's Voice’.

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023,


Grant capture

2023/24 was the University's most successful year for
grant capture. Highlights include:

© Professor Anne Robertson (School of Life and Health
Sciences) and Dr Robert Grabowski (Cranfield University)
were awarded £2.2m by the Leverhulme Trust, under its
doctoral scholarship programme. The project, Connected
Waters, will study the interactions between humans and
freshwater ecosystems.

= Professor Lauren Stewart (School of Psychology), who
joined Roehampton from Goldsmiths, University of London,
secured NIHR funding of £2.7 million. She will be conducting
a psychological study focusing on the effects of traditional
music in pregnant women suffering from depression in
Congo and South Africa. This project has incredible impact
value, bringing knowledge exchange from Africa into the
western world, through a potential cost-effective therapy to
tackling a global issue.

A cross-departmental application to the Southwest
London NHS Integrated Care Partnership was successfully
awarded £243,000 to support the sub-regional workforce
development. I-CAN (Initiating and Supporting Care
Leavers into Apprenticeships in Nursing) is the University
of Roehampton’s 12-month pilot initiative to support care
experienced young people aged 18-29 to pursue a career
in healthcare.

20 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

Impact

Dr Melissa Jogie (School of Education) has reframed policy
and practice to address homelessness. Dr Jogie and her team
took part in the British Academy Summer Showcase, which
featured their project with charity partner Sutton Night Watch,
which used GPS trackers to capture how people experiencing
homelessness spent their time. The showcase challenged and
inspired visitors with its groundbreaking way of presenting
data through 3D models and scenarios that involved visitors in
gaming awful dilemmas. The project gained media coverage
from the BBC and Big Issue.

Professor Hoskin’s (Faculty of Business and Law) work in the
G-EPIC project has been instrumental in developing and piloting
a gender empowerment intervention in schools, addressing
political self-efficacy among disadvantaged girls. This initiative
has engaged teachers, students, and policy advisors across
multiple countries in Europe, using innovative methods with

an emphasis on inclusive practice. Early findings from teacher
testimonials and pre and post intervention questionnaire data
among participants show that the intervention is effective in
boosting students’ political confidence, as well as challenging
entrenched stereotypes regarding girls’ political self-efficacy
within the education system. Using this foundation, the G-EPIC
project will also now seek to influence policy and implement the
intervention in additional countries when possible.

Within the scope of environmental impact, research conducted
at Roehampton reached COP28, with My Extinction, a
documentary by Josh Appignanesi (School of Arts, Humanities
and Social Sciences) screened and the focus of a panel
discussion. The film turns the camera on the award-winning
filmmaker himself and features the likes of Zadie Smith, Mark
Rylance, Juliet Stevenson, Simon Schama, and many other
leading voices. Some scenes were filmed at Roehampton,
having received funding from Southlands Methodist Trust.

On a local level, research developed by experts in the School
of Psychology and Faculty of Business and Law is leading

to changes in a local charity. Roehampton’s first Knowledge
Transfer Partnership in two decades - led by Dr Jonathan
Isserow (Psychology), Dr Paul Faulkner (Psychology) and Bari
Malik (Business and Law) - in collaboration with Mind (Brent,
Wandsworth & Westminster) was launched in 2023-24. This
was the first step towards developing a new mental health
intervention service which will play a key role in supporting the
local community while contributing to the organisation's long-
term sustainability.

Another
Day fin
Paradise?

Mtnezon bighe RIKI Pecan Misawn Coewe
‘for Merewenurend brapaet OOH, Wehvorsity,

T adinbewiledecee Frade saad .
henrinanvadt ante hee A Nemo
poem AE An ne
ata, ore Sot oer yp toe ilaae
pecan uniter reste)
Per beskakerar set?
amt pose a

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 21

The University aims to provide an
inclusive, supportive, and collaborative
community for all colleagues, and to
continue to diversify its workforce

to reflect the communities it serves.
Over the 2023-24 academic year, we
continued to develop and implement
initiatives that support enhancing the
staff experience.

Supporting Staff

22 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

The University aims to provide an inclusive, supportive, and
collaborative community for all colleagues, and to continue
to diversify its workforce to reflect the communities it serves.
Over the 2023-24 academic year, we continued to develop
and implement initiatives that support enhancing the staff
experience.

Following launch in 2022-23, we continued our three flagship
leadership development programmes for different groups
within our staff community. Our Enhancing Programme Leaders
development programme has been profiled by Advance HE as

a groundbreaking collaboration. We also supported colleagues
through the Advance HE Aurora and Diversifying Leadership
development programmes that support women and diversifying
leadership in HE.

Our University Leadership Forum, which brings together
approximately 70 leaders from across the university, met on six
occasions over the academic year. A key event had a specific
focus on international Women’s Day; former Deputy Chair of
Council, Janet Cooper OBE and Head of HE Practice at Society
Search, Victoria Sanders-Clarke, shared their experience and
insights on advancing gender equality.

The University's Staff Society has led a busy and diverse
timetable of activities open to all staff across the University,
from sports and wellbeing (e.g. basketball, running, yoga and
Pilates), to book and cinema clubs.

In recognition of the commitment and efforts of our community,
the Vice-Chancellor hosted colleague engagement lunches,

events for our promoted academic colleagues, and two all-staff
community social events at Christmas and Summer. Both
events brought together hundreds of colleagues to socialise
and connect and recognise the commitment and contributions
of everyone from across the Roehampton community. Our
summer 2024 party formed part of our 20th anniversary year
celebrations, and we were pleased to also welcome former
staff and friends of the University.

Trade Union (Facility Time Publication
Requirements) Regulations 2017

The regulations came into force on 7 April 2017. These
regulations place a legislative requirement on the University
to collate and publish a range of data, on an annual basis.
The relevant data to 31 March 2024 is as follows:

= The percentage of total salary costs spent on facility time
totals 0.16%

a The number of employees who acted as trade union officials
during the year totaled 16 staff

= The percentage of their time spent on trade union activities
was as follows:

0% of working hours: 0 representatives

1 to 50% of working hours: 16 representatives

51 to 99% of working hours: 0 representatives
100% of working hours: 0 representatives

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 23

10n

t

icipa

Outreach and Widening

Part

Roehampton’'s commitments to fair
access and equal opportunities are
central to our mission as a university,
dating back to the founding of our
constituent colleges in the nineteenth
century to provide teaching training
for women. Our heritage is rooted

in social justice and widening
educational opportunities and the
success of all our students is at

the core of Roehampton’s strategic
vision to be a leading university for
mobilising the potential of students
from all backgrounds and improving
the communities around us. We
consider it our mission to transform
lives through professionally focused
education, which equips our students
with the confidence, knowledge and
skills they need for a successful
career and fulfilling life.

24 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

Over 80%

of our students have at least one widening
participation characteristic.

40%

of students have
been eligible for free
school meals.

We are proud of the diversity of our student population and

our success at encouraging students who might not enter
university to come to Roehampton. The University partners with
schools, further education providers, and other organisations
to undertake activities that raise aspirations among under-
represented groups, and help bridge the gap between school,
college and university.

(n 2023-24, the University continued to host events and
activities to engage young people in Higher Education, and did
so in partnership with leading civic and industry partners. In
2023-24 1,338 students were supported (a 63% increase on the
previous year) and 33 widening participation events took place
(an 83% increase).

Highlights include:

Aimhigher partnership: 331 under-represented secondary
school students (KS3-5) visited campus to learn about
university opportunities and gained information to support
their progression into higher education. The University of
Roehampton won ‘HE Institution of the Year’ at the Aimhigher
Practitioner Awards 2024.

IntoUniversity partnership: 373 disadvantaged students
(KS2-3) were invited to explore university for the first time,
sparking early interest and inspiring university aspirations. From
feedback received, 91% enjoyed the programme and 69% were
more likely to attend university.

Talent Foundry partnership: The Powering Transformation
programme continued to welcome KS3 students to campus to
fearn about higher education and technology careers. 2023-24

64%

of our students
come from Black,
Asian, mixed and
other ethnicity
backgrounds.

52%

of students come
from Indices of
Multiple Deprivation
quintiles 1 and 2.

21%

are over the age of
21 when they start
their studies and are
mature students.

18%

have a declared
disability.

58%

of entrants are the
first in their family
to attend higher
education.

saw an increase in the number of students provided with this
opportunity, up from 200 students in 2022-23 to 304 students.

Horizons programme: A two-year collaborative project with
Putney High School, which engaged Years 5 and 6 students
from local schools in three workshops per year. 100% of
teachers who provided feedback agreed or strongly agreed
that their students learnt something new, and 100% agreed or
strongly agreed that they would recommend the programme.

Teen Tech Festival: An interactive festival that exposed c.200
students from Years 6-12 to opportunities in digital, science,
and technology through meeting leading industries and
engaging in hands-on workshops.

Wimbledon BookFest Open Day: We continued our work with
partner Wimbledon BookFest to deliver an Introduction to
University’ Open Day in May 2024, attended by almost 500 year
12 students from state schools in Merton and Wandsworth. The
event was particularly aimed at disadvantaged students who are
prevented from attending open days across the UK for economic
and social reasons. 27% of attendees surveyed were more likely
to consider applying to university, after attending the event.

Webinars: A year-round webinar series provided prospective
students with essential information on university navigation,
including preparing for results day and applying for
accommodation. The total number of webinars in the 2023-24
series increased from 13 to 17, and attendance increased from
250 to 427.

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 25

Environmental
Objectives

26 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

Decarbonisation

The University is continuing its ongoing commitment to
decarbonisation. Building on 13 years and £3.4m of historic
spending into energy efficiency, the University has completed
another LED lighting refit in two busy areas of the campus:
Digby Chapel and Froebel Diner. These new lighting systems
employ smart controls and sensors to reduce energy
consumption. A further project, upgrading the University's
Building Management Systems (BMS) is scheduled for
completion by March 2025, which will improve our ability to
monitor and reduce energy consumption across our buildings.
We continue to purchase our electricity through a renewably
sourced green tariff, to support the national transition towards
cleaner energy generation.

Food & Catering

Together with our catering partner, Elior, we have implemented
carbon footprinting for meal choices in canteens across our
campuses, enabling staff and students to make informed

decisions about their food, based on their environmental
impact. Elior have also been managing Too Good to Go
collections from catering outlets, achieving an estimated 50%
meals diverted from food waste. Food waste that is produced
at our catering outlets is separated and fed to our on-site
biodigester, producing a soil-enhancing product. New bottle
refill stations (including reusable bottle dispensers) have been
installed in Digby and Whiteland colleges, to help discourage
single-use bottles and containers.

Facilities & Procurement

The University has formed a Sustainable Facilities &
Procurement Working Group, linking together the procurement
of goods and services with the resultant waste produced at
the university. Due for publication in early 2025, the Working
Group has developed a strategy and supporting action plan

to measure and control the environmental impacts of the
university's supply chain and waste streams. This is also an
important milestone as the University continues work towards
an Environmental Management System.

Emissions & energy
consumption annual report
disclosures

The Annual quantity of energy
consumed

Energy Profile

The annual quantity of
emissions, in tonnes of carbon
dioxide equivalents

Location-based

Scope 1 & 2 Emissions per
FTE Student

The annual quantity o
emissions, in tonnes of carbon
dioxide equivalents

Market-based

269 265 228 234

Scope 1 & 2 Emissions per
FTE Student

177 181 136 144

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 27

The University’s Council has
overall responsibility for risk
management, which is delegated
to theVice-Chancellor to manage
on a day-to-day basis.

Risk and Uncertainty

28 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

The University’s Council has overall responsibility for risk
management, which is delegated to the Vice-Chancellor to
manage on a day-to-day basis.

The University maintains a fully scored and prioritised Strategic
Risk Register. The Strategic Risk Register and Detailed Risk
Register are updated and presented at each meeting of the
Audit Committee. The Strategic Risk Register is presented at
each subsequent meeting of Council.

The Vice-Chancellor and the senior members of staff in the
University who are members of the University Executive Board
(UEB) have executive responsibility for risk management and
regularly review the Strategic Risk register as set out in the Risk
Management Policy.

Building on the refinement to the University's risk approach
introduced in 2022-23, we have successfully embedded the use
of risk projections that show the projected risk level over the next
12 months for each risk into the Strategic Risk register. We also
continue to undertake regular ‘deep dive’ exercises into key risks.
in 2024, the University developed a new Operational & Compliance
Risk Register to capture risks which are material to the running

of the University and the delivery of its strategic objectives. This
register is reported to the Audit Committee annually and supports
the University in ensuring that these risks are at acceptable levels,
particularly as the University continues its strategy of diversifying
its academic portfolio and business models.

At the point of signing the Annual Report and Financial
Statements, the University considers that the following
represent the greatest risks to the institution.

= If we do not continue to improve our financial sustainability,
cash generation and resilience, then it will be difficult for
us to adapt to changing policy and economic contexts. The
University has a rigorous financial sustainability strategy
which includes continued portfolio development, the further
growth and diversification of our student community, and the
active identification and implementation of efficiencies and
cost savings within the University’s operations.

\f we do not meet our loan covenants, then the lenders could
impose additional costs and constraints, and this could also
impact going concern assurance. The University actively
monitors and manages its loan covenant requirements
through detailed financial reporting and forecasting and
maintaining a constructive dialogue with Lloyds bank, its
principal lender. Alongside the implementation of the financial
sustainability strategy, the University proactively identifies and
tolls out enhancements to financial and broader operational
mechanisms to support cost effectiveness and efficiencies.
Council's current assessment of going concern is presented in
the Financial Review section.

8 If we fall significantly short of student recruitment targets
without being abie to address underlying costs, then it wilt
damage our sustainability. The University takes an agile
and multistrand approach to student recruitment, which
includes the development of new international and UK
partnerships, responsive marketing and broader recruitment
and conversion activities.

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 29

Roehampton University is an exempt charity under the terms
of the Charities Act 2011. In preparing this statement of public
benefit, the Council Members as Directors of the University
have had regard to the Charity Commission's guidance on

the reporting of public benefit and its supplementary public
benefit guidance on the advancement of education and is
confident that it complies with all elements of Charity Law. The
University's purpose is defined in the Articles of Association as:
‘the establishment conduct and development of a University
for the advancement of higher and further education and as an
institution for teaching and research’.

Our Purpose is to:

= Change lives by helping our students to develop the
confidence, knowledge and adaptability they need for a
successful graduate career and fulfilling life.

= Understand and help to improve our world through a spirit of
curiosity and discovery.

= Support, encourage and challenge each other in a friendly
and inclusive community that values people as individuals.

Our Commitment is to provide:

= Acommunity of learning based on partnership that
encourages and supports all of our students and staff to
achieve their aspirations.

Statement of Public Benefit

= Anexcellent education that enables our students to prepare
themselves for a successful and fulfilling career in a rapidly
changing world.

= Acurriculum that meets the needs and expectations of both
students and employers, and that reflects the diversity of
modern society.

= Anexcellent research environment that makes a positive
contribution to our understanding of the world and helps to
improve lives.

= Acommunity that is characterised by friendliness, openness,
inclusion and freedom of thought and expression.

= Awide range of opportunities for our students to develop
interests beyond their course of study, encouraging them to
grow as individuals.

= Anetwork for communities and partners who share our
values to work together in common purpose.

32 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

Committee membership

Members of Council, who are directors of the University for the
purposes of company law, present this report and the financial
statements for the year ended 31 July 2024. The names of the
current members of Council and those who served during the
year in question are listed below. All held office throughout the
year unless otherwise indicated.

Members of Council and Directors

Phil Walker (Chair)

Janet Cooper OBE (Vice-Chair) (until 30 April 2024)
Mark Allen

Dr Aleata Alstad-Calkins

Dr Christine Carpenter (until 20 November 2023)
Dr Priscilla Chadwick

Dr Mari Cruice (from 21 August 2023)

Jennifer Coupland

Lindsey Doud (from 1 November 2023)

Tamsin Eastwood (from 1 July 2024)

Sister Christine Edwards

Professor Jean-Noél Ezingeard

Dennis Hone CBE

Amy Hopkins (RSU President until 30 June 2024)
Revd Tim Macquiban (until 2 July 2024)

Ruth Martin

Professor Sunitha Narendran

Michael Pearson

Imran Shafiqi (RSU President from 1 July 2024)
David Sharkey

Revd Canon Dr Jennifer Smith

Kevin Thomas

As part of September 2024's graduation ceremonies, the
University celebrated Janet Cooper OBE with an Honorary
Fellowship. Janet Cooper was deputy Chair of Council and
worked with the University of Roehampton for 15 years.

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 33

Statement of Corporate Governance

Legal Status

Roehampton University was incorporated as a Company
Limited by Guarantee on 23 June 2004 and commenced trading
on 1 August 2004. The University is an exempt charity for the
purposes of the Charities Act 2011. In 2011, the University
adopted the trading name University of Roehampton. The
University’s legal name remains Roehampton University.

The University is composed of four constituent Colleges:
Froebel, Digby Stuart, Southlands and Whitelands, each of
which has a Providing Body that owns the land on which

the respective College is located. The Colleges are non-
autonomous, and the University has contractual arrangements
with each of their Providing Bodies governing the Colleges’
respective relationships with income and expenditure relating
to the same, and the University’s autonomous conduct of the
business of the University as a whole, including the employment
of all staff.

Office for Students

The University is registered with the Office for Students (OfS)
as an Approved (Fee Cap) provider. Compliance with the OfS
ongoing conditions of registration, terms and conditions of
funding and other relevant matters is monitored on an ongoing
basis and overseen by the University Executive Board, the Audit
Committee and ultimately Council.

Statement of Public Benefit

The members of the Council are responsible for preparing the
strategic report, the annual report and the financial statements, in
accordance with applicable law and regulations. Roehampton is
a University for the advancement of higher and further education
and an institution for teaching and research. This strategic report
marks the final year in which progress is reported against the
Enabling Strategies approved by Council in 2019. In July 2024,
Council approved Strategy 2030, with three strategic goals
focused on Student Education, Research and Engagement, and
Financial Sustainability.

The University Council is ultimately accountable for the
implementation of the Strategy, and for ensuring that University
funds are applied towards the organisation's charitable purpose.


” Company law requires the members of the Council adequate accounting records that are sufficient to

5) to prepare financial statements for each financial show and explain the University’s transactions and

sped year. Under this law, the members of the Council disclose, with reasonable accuracy, at any time the

head have elected to prepare the group and University financial position of the company and enable them
| financial statements in accordance with United to ensure that the financial statements comply with
= Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice the Companies Act 2006, its Articles of Association,
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards and the Accounts Direction as issued by the OfS and the

4 applicable law). Statement of Recommended Practice: Accounting

Statement of the Respons

of the Members of Council

Under company law, the members of the Council
must not approve the financial statements unless
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view
of the state of affairs of the University, and of the
surplus of income over expenditure of the group
and University for that period. In preparing these
financial statements, the members of the Council
are required to:

® Select suitable accounting policies and then apply
them consistently.

= Make judgements and accounting estimates that
are reasonable and prudent.

= State whether applicable UK Accounting
Standards have been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in
the financial statements.

# Prepare the financial statements on a going
concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to
presume that the University will continue in
operation.

The members of the Council are also required

to give a report, which includes the legal and
administrative status of the University. The
members of the Council are responsible for keeping

for Further and Higher Education. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the
University and hence for taking reasonable steps
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other
irregularities.

Members of the Council are responsible for ensuring
that the funds from the OfS, Research England

and the Department of Education are used only in
accordance with the relevant terms and conditions
of funding, and any other conditions that the
relevant body may prescribe from time to time.
Members of the Council must ensure there are
appropriate financial and management controls in
place in order to safeguard public and other funds
and to ensure they are used properly. In addition,
members of the Council are responsible for securing
economical, efficient and effective management

of the University's resources and expenditure, so
that the benefits that should be derived from the
application of public funds by the OfS and Research
England are not put at risk.

Financial statements are published on the
University’s website in accordance with legislation
in the United Kingdom governing the preparation
and dissemination of financial statements, which
may vary from legislation in other jurisdictions. Their
responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity

of the financial statements contained therein.

Disclosure of Information to Auditors:

At the date of making this report, Members of Council confirm that:

= So far as each Member of Council is aware, there is no relevant
information needed by the University’s auditors in connection with
preparing their report of which the University’s auditors are unaware.

= Each Member of Council has taken all the steps that they ought to
have taken as a Member of Council in order to make themselves
aware of any relevant information needed by the University's auditors
in connection with preparing their report and to establish that the
University's auditors are aware of that information.

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 35


Statement on the Structure of

ty’s Corporate Governance

lversli

the Un

For the year ended 31 July 2024 and the period up to the date of approval

The Higher Education Code of Governance was
published by the Committee of University Chairs
(CUC) in 2014 and updated in September 2020.

The HE Code comprises a series of six interrelated
primary elements supported by detailed statements
of indicative behaviours that support each element.
The Code makes clear that the six primary elements
are interrelated and cannot be considered in
isolation. The University is compliant with the

HE Governance Code. tn 2020/21, the University
appointed Pinsent Masons LLP an independent

law firm, to conduct a review of its governance
arrangements. The review was conducted by a
senior partner within the firm who has extensive
experience of higher education governance. The
review concluded that the processes followed by
Council and its sub-committees demonstrate that a
good governance framework is in place.

In addition, in 2020-21 the University’s internal
auditors, KCG, conducted an internal audit of
governance arrangements and gave satisfactory
assurance. The University is in the process of
commissioning an external review of governance in

to be completed in 2024-25 in line with the CUC Code.

The University's governing body is the Council,
which determines the ongoing strategic direction
of the University. It approves major developments
and is provided with regular and timely information
on the overall financial performance of the
University together with other information, such

as performance against funding targets, proposed
capital expenditure, risk management, legal
compliance, quality assurance, and personnel-
related and health and safety matters.

The Council is composed of up to 20 members:

® Up to 15 independent members, one of whom
shall normally have experience of working at
a senior level in higher education, and eight of
whom are nominated by the College Providing
Bodies or equivalent

= A member appointed by Council from amongst
the Academic Staff

= A member appointed by Council from amongst
the Professional Services Staff

= A member appointed by Council from amongst
the members of Senate

= The Vice-Chancellor

= The President of Roehampton Students’ Union

Appointments to Council are a matter for the
Council as a whole to determine. There is a majority

36 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

of independent members on the Council. Members
of Council are appointed for a term of office not
exceeding three years and are eligible to serve up to
three consecutive three-year terms. Exceptionally,
the Chair and Vice-Chair may serve an additional
term or terms up to a maximum of twelve years.

Council normally meets four times each year.

During 2023-24, the following standing committees
met and reported to Council: Audit Committee,
Finance and Resources Committee, Nominations
and Governance Committee and Remuneration
Committee. Council committees are formally
constituted with terms of reference and composition
set out in the University Regulations.

All committees include lay members of Council

and the Audit Committee, Finance and Resources
Committee and Remuneration Committee, and

also include external members with expertise in

the committee's subject area. In addition, the Joint
Honorary Awards Committee is a joint committee
of Council and Senate. Minutes of Council meetings
are published on the University website, subject to
any redactions necessary to preserve commercial
information or protect personal data.

The Audit Committee oversees an ongoing
programme for reviewing the adequacy and
effectiveness of the University's systems of
internal control. It is responsible for meeting with
the internal and external auditors and reviewing
and discussing reports issued by the auditors.
The auditors have access to the Committee for
independent discussion. The Committee also
receives and considers reports to and from

the Office for Students (OfS), as they affect the
University's business, and monitors adherence to
relevant regulatory requirements.

The Finance and Resources Committee oversees
estates strategy and the management and
development of University property, in conjunction
with the Providing Bodies of the constituent
Colleges and on behalf of the University, in
accordance with the University’s Enabling Strategies.
It also recommends to Council the University’s
annual revenue and capital budgets and receives
updated forecasts during the course of the year. It
monitors investment and financing relating to capital
developments and oversees matters relating to
staffing, pensions and technological infrastructure.

The Nominations and Governance Committee
advises Council on the discharge of its
responsibilities in relation to appointments to, and
succession planning for, Council and its standing
committees. It is also responsible for reviewing the
adequacy and effectiveness of governance and for
ensuring an appropriate balance of skills, experience

and knowledge on Council and its Committees. The
Committee has authority to make appointments

to Council committees, but the appointment of
Members of Council and of Chairs of all Council
committees is the responsibility of Council.

The Remuneration Committee determines the
remuneration and benefits of senior postholders
and the Vice-Chancellor, save for the initial terms
and conditions for the Vice-Chancellor, which are
established by Council. The Committee is chaired
by an independent member of Council. The Vice-
Chancellor is not a member of the Committee and
attends by invitation to provide relevant information
to the Committee, except for where discussion
relates to their own performance or remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee is constituted in
accordance with the CUC Senior Staff
Remuneration Code.

The Joint Honorary Awards Committee considers
and recommends candidates for the award of the
Honorary Degrees and Fellowships of the University.
It is a joint committee of Senate and Council.

The University Secretary and Clerk to Council is
responsible to the Council for ensuring that all

applicable procedures and regulations are complied
with and maintains a register of financial and
personal interests of the Members of Council. All
members of Committees of Council are able to take
independent professional advice in furtherance of
their duties at the University’s expense and have
access to the University Secretary. The University's
governance arrangement and committee structure
ensures that the University is compliant with the
relevant regulations and University policies. The
governance structure ensures that the University
meets the highest standards of public conduct,
including robust governance and ensuring
transparency.

The University operates Financial Regulations
which are reviewed by the Finance and Resources
Committee. The purpose of these financial
regulations is to provide control over the totality of
the University’s resources and to ensure that these
resources are being properly applied. All members
of staff are required to follow these regulations. The
operation of these regulations ensures regularity
and propriety in the use of public funding.


Statement of Internal Control

For the year ended 31 July 2024 and the period up to the date of approval

As the governing body of the University, the Council
is ultimately responsible for the University's system
of internal control and for reviewing its adequacy and
effectiveness in the achievement of its policies, aims
and objectives.

The system of internal contro! is designed to manage,
rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve
policies, aims and objectives. The system is risk-
based and can therefore provide reasonable but not
absolute assurance of adequacy and effectiveness.
The system of internal contro! is based on an ongoing
process designed to identify and prioritise the risks
to the achievement of University policies, aims and
objectives, to evaluate the likelihood of those risks
being realised and the impact should they be realised,
and to manage them efficiently, effectively and
economically.

The Council has delegated to the Vice-Chancellor
the day-to-day responsibility for maintaining a

sound system of internal control that supports the
achievement of the University’s policies, aims and
objectives, whilst safeguarding the public funds and
assets for which he is personally responsible, in
accordance with the responsibilities assigned to him
in the terms and conditions issued by the Office for
Students (OfS).

The Vice-Chancellor is also responsible for reporting
to Council any material weaknesses or breakdowns
in internat control. The University has a Risk
Management Policy in place which is kept under
periodic review. The Council's role as defined under
this policy is to:

= Set the tone and influence the culture of risk
management within the University, including
setting the standards and expectations of staff
with respect to conduct and probity.

® Approve major decisions affecting the University's
tisk profile or exposure.

38 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

= Monitor the management of high-level risks.

«= Satisfy itself that the less high-level risks are
being actively managed, with the appropriate
controls in place and working effectively.

# Annually review the University's approach to
tisk management and approve changes or
improvements to key elements of its processes
and procedures.

The system of risk management and internal control
is embedded in ongoing operations and based on

a framework of regular management information

and administrative procedures, including the
segregation of duties, and a system of delegation and
accountability. In particular, it includes:

= Comprehensive budgeting systems with an
annual budget, which is reviewed and agreed by
Council.

» Regular reviews by Council of periodic and
annual financial reports which indicate financial
performance against forecasts.

® Setting targets to measure financial and other
performance.

® Clearly defined investment appraisal guidelines.

= The adoption of formal project management
disciplines where appropriate.

The University has appointed an internal audit
service, oversight of which is monitored by Audit
Committee. The work of the internal audit service

is informed by an analysis of the risks to which the
University is exposed, and annual internal audit plans
are based on this analysis. The analysis of risks is
endorsed by the Council on the recommendation of
the Audit Committee, and Audit Committee agrees
to an appropriate internal audit plan.

Annually, the appointed Internal Auditor, KCG,
provides Council with a report on internal audit
activity in the University. The report includes

KCG's independent opinion on the adequacy and
effectiveness of the University's system of risk
management, controls and governance and value-for-
money processes. The internal audit plan includes

an annual opinion on governance informed by the
programme of work.

Where KCG perform internal audit work on the
management and quality of data, this contributes to
the Audit Committee's annual opinion on this area.

As the Accountable Officer, the Vice-Chancellor
has responsibility for reviewing the adequacy and
effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The Vice-Chancellor’s review of the adequacy and
effectiveness of the system of internal control is
informed by:

= The work of the internal auditors.

= The work of the senior staff within the University
who have responsibility for the development and
maintenance of the internal control framework.

= Comments made by the University's external and
internal auditors and, where relevant, regulators in
their management letters and other reports.

The Senior Management team receives reports
setting out key performance and risk indicators and
considers possible control issues brought to their
attention by early warning mechanisms, which are
embedded within the University's academic and
administrative departments. The Senior Management
team and the Audit Committee also receive

regular reports from internal audits, which include
tecommendations for improvement. The Audit
Committee's role in this area consists of a high-level
review of the arrangements for internal control.

The Council regularly considers risk and control
and receives reports thereon from the Senior
Management team and the Audit Committee. The
emphasis is on obtaining the relevant degree of
assurance and not merely reporting by exception.
At its December 2024 meeting, the Council carried
out the annual assessment of risk for the year
ended 31 July 2024 by considering reports from the
Senior Management team, internal audit and Audit
Committee and taking account of events since 31
July 2024.

The report from internal audit considered the
mechanisms by which the risk management
framework and related processes, internal controls,
assurance and performance management tools
inter-relate with value for money and, together,

combine to provide the Council with the necessary
assurance to enable the University to make the
disclosures required within the statement of internal
control. It concluded that the report from internal
audit considered the mechanisms by which the risk
management framework and related processes,
internal controls, assurance and performance
management tools inter-relate with value for money
and, together, combine to provide the Council with
the necessary assurance to enable the University to
make the disclosures required within the statement
of internal control.

It concluded that the University, overall, has an
appropriate framework for delivering assurance to
the governing body on key aspects of governance,
risk management and internal control. The report
concluded that, with the exception of the income
and debtor management position, as explained
below, assurance can be given of the adequacy

of the control environment and that satisfactory
assurance can be given of the adequacy and
effectiveness of the University's overall assurance
and risk management arrangements. The Council
noted that an internal audit of the process for
income and debtor management had resulted in a
conclusion of limited assurance.

During the year, management identified a worsening
of the aged debt position, which has resulted in the
£10m of bad debt charge reported in the Financial
Review section. A report was commissioned from an
independent consultant which identified a number of
key root causes and made recommendations which
are in the process of being implemented.

Subsequently, an internal audit was performed on
income and debt management which confirmed

that there had been a significant deterioration in

the control environment with routine but essential
financial processes, including follow-up of
outstanding debt, not being performed. The Council
noted that management had increased the provision
for bad and doubtful debts to £18.6m; expanded

and refocused its Accounts Receivable team; and
embarked on a programme of work, with external
support, to improve processes, controls and reporting
within income and debt management, including the
appointment of an external debt collection agency to
address the backlog of aged debt.

There are no other significant control weaknesses to
disclose.

ane

y bol Inthe
Approved by and signed on behalf of the Council.
20 December 2024

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 39

ae
Se
aS

a


Independent
Auditor's Report
to the members
of Roehampton
University

42 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

Opinion on the financial statements
In our opinion, the financial statements:

® give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's and of the
University's affairs as at 31 July 2024 and of the Group's and
the University’s income and expenditure, gains and losses,
changes in reserves and of the Group's cash flows for the
year then ended;

= have been properly prepared in accordance with United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and

a have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of
the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements of Roehampton
University (“the University”) and its subsidiaries (the "Group”)
for the year ended 31 July 2024 which comprise the
Consolidated and University Statement of Comprehensive
income, the Consolidated and University Balance Sheets, the
Consolidated and University Statement of Changes in Reserves
and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and notes to
the financial statements, including a summary of significant
accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has
been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United
Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting
Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable

in the UK and Republic of Ireland (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice).

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International
Standards on Auditing (UK) “ISAs (UK)’) and applicable law. Our
responsibilities under those standards are further described

in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial
statements section of our report. We believe that the audit
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence

We are independent of the Group and the University in
accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the
FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the
Council members’ use of the going concern basis of accounting

in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified
any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that,
individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the
Group and the University's ability to continue as a going concern
for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial
statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the board
members with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The Council is responsible for the other information. The other
information comprises the information included in the annual
report, other than the financial statements and our auditor's
report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does
not cover the other information and, except to the extent
otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in
doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge
obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies

of apparent materiat misstatements, we are required to
determine whether there is a material misstatement in the
financial statements or a material misstatement of the other
information. If, based on the work we have performed, we
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Other Companies Act 2006 reporting

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of
the audit:

= the information given in the strategic report and members
of council report for the financial year for which the financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial
statements; and

= the strategic report and the members of council report
have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group

and the University and its environment obtained in the course of
the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the
strategic report or the members of council report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in
relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report
to you if, in our opinion:

= adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches
not visited by us; or

® the financial statements are not in agreement with the
accounting records and returns; or

= certain disclosures of board members’ remuneration
specified by law are not made; or

= we have not received all the information and explanations we
require for our audit.

Opinion on other matters required by the
Office for Students (“OfS”) and UK Research
and Innovation (including Research England)

In our opinion, in all material respects:

= Funds from whatever source administered by the University
for specific purposes have been properly applied to those
purposes and managed in accordance with relevant
legislation.

« Funds provided by the OfS, UK Research and Innovation
(including Research England), have been applied in
accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.

= The requirements of the OfS's Accounts Direction (OfS
2019.41) have been met.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters
in relation to which the OfS requires us to report to you if, in our
opinion:

= The University's grant and fee income, as disclosed in note 3
to the accounts, has been materially misstated.

= The University’s expenditure on access and participation
activities for the financial year, as has been disclosed in note
9 to the accounts, has been materially misstated.

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 43

Responsibilities of the Council

As explained more fully in the Statement of Responsibilities of
Members of Council, the Council (who are also the directors of
the University for the purposes of company law) are responsible
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being
satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal
control as the Council members determine is necessary to
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the Council are
responsible for assessing the Group and the University's ability
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable,
matters related to going concern and using the going concern
basis of accounting unless the Council either intend to liquidate
the Group or the University or to cease operations, or have no
realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to
issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee
that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will
always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of
users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Extent to which the audit was capable of detecting irregularities,
including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance
with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line

with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material
misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud.

The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting
irregularities, including fraud is detailed below:

Non-compliance with laws and regulations
Based on:

® Our understanding of the Group and the sector in which it
operates;

= Discussion with management and those charged with
governance;

= Obtaining and understanding of the Group’s policies and
procedures regarding compliance with laws and regulations;
and

= Direct representation from the Accountable Officer

we considered the significant laws and regulations to be
Companies Act 2026, compliance with the Accounts Direction
OfS 2019.41 and UK tax legislation.

The Group is also subject to laws and regulations where the
consequence of non-compliance could have a material effect
on the amount or disclosures in the financial statements, for
example through the imposition of fines or litigations. We
identified such laws and regulations to be compliance with the
Office for Students Ongoing Conditions of Registration.

Our procedures in respect of the above included:

= Review of minutes of meeting of those charged with
governance for any instances of non-compliance with laws
and regulations;

= Review of correspondence with regulatory and tax authorities
for any instances of non-compliance with laws and
regulations;

= Review of financial statement disclosures and agreeing to
supporting documentation; and

® Review of legal expenditure accounts to understand the

nature of expenditure incurred.
Fraud

We assessed the susceptibility of the financial statements to
material misstatement, including fraud. Our risk assessment
procedures included:

= Enquiry with management and those charged with
governance, Audit Committee and internal audit regarding
any known or suspected instances of fraud;

= Obtaining an understanding of the Group's policies and
procedures relating to:
- Detecting and responding to the risks of fraud; and
— Internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud.

44 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

= Review of minutes of meeting of those charged with
governance for any known or suspected instances of fraud;

= Discussion amongst the engagement team as to how and
where fraud might occur in the financial statements; and

= Performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or
unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material
misstatement due to fraud.

Based on our risk assessment, we considered the areas most
susceptible to fraud to be posting of manual journals and areas
which involve significant judgments and estimates.

Our procedures in respect of the above included:

® Testing a sample of journal entries throughout the year,
which met a defined risk criteria, by agreeing to supporting
documentation;

= Assessing significant estimates made by management for
bias, including provisions for remediation works in relation to
leases, assessment of bad debt provision, depreciation and
impairment of tangible and intangible assets, valuation of
pension liability; and

= Testing a sample of recorded other income by agreeing to
underlying documentation.

We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations
and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members and
remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance
with faws and regulations throughout the audit.

Our audit procedures were designed to respond to risks of
material misstatement in the financial statements, recognising
that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due

. to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting
from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for
example, forgery, misrepresentations or through collusion. There
are inherent limitations in the audit procedures performed and
the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations
is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial
statements, the less likely we are to become aware of it.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of
the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting
Council's website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities .
This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the members, as a body, in
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act
2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might
state to the University’s Council those matters we are required
to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or
assume responsibility to anyone other than the University and
the Council members as a body, for our audit work, for this
report, or for the opinions we have formed.

DocuSigned by:

Paula. Willock

‘8F75FEDC31D1487...

Paula Willock (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of BDO LLP, Statutory Auditor
Gatwick, UK

Date: 20 December 2024

BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England
and Wales (with registered number 0C305127).

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 45

Financial
Stareme»nts
for the year end

* ini 31 July 2024


Consolidated and University Statement of Comprehensive Income

for the year ended 31 July 2024

Income

Tuition fees and education contracts

Funding body grants

Research grants and contracts

Other income

Investment income

Total income before endowments and donations
Endowments and donations

Total income

Expenditure

Staff costs

Movement in pension provision
Other operating expenses
Depreciation and amortisation
Interest and other finance costs
Total expenditure

(Deficit)/surplus before other gains losses and share of operat-
ing surplus of joint ventures

Gain/(loss) on revaluation investments
(Deficit)/surplus for the year

Actuarial (loss)/gain in respect of pension schemes

Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year

Represented by

Restricted Endowments comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
Unrestricted comprehensive (loss)/income for the year

(Deficit)/surplus for the year attributable to:

University

Total Comprehensive (loss)/income for the year attributable to:
University

2024

University
2024
£'000

7 University
2023
£'000

1 110,109 110,109 115,929 115,929
2 8,420 8,420 9,497 9,497
3 2,662 2,662 2,272 2,272
4 22,211 21,462 19,986 19,949
5 1,200 1,148 804 776
144,602 143,801 148,488 148,423

6 24 24 51 51
144,626 143,825 148,539 148,474

7 65,930 65,520 61,348 61,348
7 (3,394) (3,394) 395 395
9 79,836 79,986 67,749 67,799
10,11,12 7,117 7,117 7,403 7,403
8 3,720 3,720 4,678 4,678
153,209 152,949 141,574 141,623

(8,584) (9,124) 6,965 6,851

19 16 16 (18) (18)
(8,568) (9,109) 6,947 6,833

(891) (891) 20,722 20,722

(9,459) (10,000) 27,669 27,555

19 5 5 (56) (56)
(9,464) (10,005) 27,725 27,611

(9,459) (10,000) 27,669 27,555

(8,568) (9,109) 6,947 6,833

(9,459) (10,000) 27,669 27,555

The notes on pages 52 to 79 form part of the financial statements.
Allitems of income and expenditure relate to continuing activities and is attributed to activity in the UK.

48 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24


Consolidated and University Balance Sheets as at 31 July 2024

Company registration number 5161359 (England and Wales)

Group University Group University
2024 2024 2023 2023

£'000 £'000 £'000

Fixed assets
Goodwill 10 17 7 26 26
Negative goodwill 12 (46,978) (46,978) (48,609) (48,609)
Net amount of goodwill and negative goodwill (46,961) (46,961) (48,583) (48,583)
Fixed assets 11 209,549 210,440 209,340 210,231
Heritage assets 310 310 310 310
Investments 13 347 2,476 347 2,476
163,246 166,266 161,414 164,434
Current assets
Stocks 76 76 100 100
Trade and other receivables 14 28,224 28,946 36,807 37,224
Investments 15 971 971 965 965
Cash at bank and in hand 22,403 18,954 33,465 30,397
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 16 (48,924) (49,036) (58,134) (57,781)
Net current assets/(liabilities) 2,750 (89) 13,203 10,905
Total assets less current liabilities 165,996 166,177 174,617 175,339
Creditors: amounts falting due after more than one year 17 (74,096) (74,096) (76,060) (76,060)
Provisions
Pension provisions 18 (1,519) (1,519) (4,233) (4,233)
Other provisions 18 (5,516) (5,516) - -
Total net assets 84,865 85,046 94,324 95,046
Restricted reserves
Restricted endowments 19 970 970 965 965
Unrestricted reserves
Income and Expenditure Account 83,895 84,076 93,359 94,081
Total reserves 84,865 85,046 94,324 95,046

The notes on pages 52 to 79 form part of the financial statements.
The financiai statements were approved and authorised for issue by Roehampton University Council on 20 December 2024 and signed on
its behalf by:

Real ular — fM SGepeee. Die

Mr Philip Walker Professor Jean-Noél Ezingeard Mr Dennis Hone CBE
Chair of Council Vice-Chancellor Chair of the Finance & Resources Committee

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 49

Consolidated and University Statement of Changes in Reserves .

Year ended 31 July 2024

+ Income and

Group . expenditure

account
Endowment Unrestricted £'000

£'000 £'000

Group

Balance at 1 August 2022" . 1,021 65,634 66,655,
Deficit from the income and expenditure statement (56) « 7,003 6,947
Other comprehensive income . 20,722 20,722
Total comprehensive (loss)/income for the year (56) 27,725 27,669
Balance at 31 July 2023" - 965 93,359 94,324
Balance at 1 August 2023 965 93,359 94,324
Surplus/(deficit) from the income and expenditure statement, 5 (8,573) (8,568)
Other comprehensive loss - (891) (891)
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 5 (9,464) (9,459)
Balance at 31 July 2024 970 83,895 84,865

University

University

Balance at 1 August 2022

Deficit from the income and expenditure statement
Other comprehensive income ,

Total comprehensive (expenditure)/income for the year
Balance at 31 July 2023

Balance at 1 August 2023
Surplus/(deficit) from the income and expenditure statement

Other comprehensive loss

Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
Balance at 31 July 2024

The notes on pages 52 to 79 form part of the financial statements.

50 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

tncome and

expenditure
account

Endowment Unrestricted £'000
£°000 £000

1,021 66,470 67,491

(56) 6,889 6,833

. 20,722 20,722

(56) 27,611 27,555

965 94,081 95,046

965 94,081 95,046

5 (9,114) (9,109)

- (891) (891)

5 (10,005) (10,000)

970 84,076 85,046

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Year ended 31 July 2024

31 July |

Cash flow from operating activities

(Deficit)/surplusfor the year (8,568) 6,947
Adjustment for non-cash items

Depreciation 1 8,736 9,025
Amortisation of goodwill 10 9 9
Benefit of acquisition of Colleges released to income 12 (1,631) (1,631)

747403

Decrease/(increase) in stock 24 (21)
Decrease/(increase} in debtors 14 8,488 (13,171)
Decrease in creditors 16 (5,470) (214)
Difference between net pension expense and cash contribution 18 (3,605) 959
Increase in other provisions 13 5,516 -

Adjustment for investing or financing activities

Investment income 5 (1,104) (804)
(Increase)/decrease in fair value of investments 19 (16) 18
Interest payable 8 3,636 3,953
Amortisation of capital grants 2 (709) (897)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 5,306 4,173

Cash flow from investing activities

Capital grant receipts 1,708 687
Investment income 1,104 804
Payments made to acquire fixed assets (8,944) (6,189)
Net movement in investments 22 (28)
(6,110) (4,726)
Cash flow from financing activities
Interest paid (3,332) (3,775)
Interest element service concession payments (234) (262)
Repayments of amounts borrowed (6,366) (3,349)
Capital element of finance lease (343) (298)
(10,275) (7,684)
Decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the year (11,079) (8,237)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 20 34,117 - 42,354
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 20 23,038 34,117
Comprising:
Cash at bank and in hand 22,403 33,465
Current Investments: Short term deposits 18 635 652
23,038 34,117

The notes on pages 52 to 79 form part of the financial statements.

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 51

Principal Accounting Policies Year ended 31 July 2024

Legal status

Roehampton University was incorporated
in England as a Private Company Limited
by Guarantee on 23 June 2004 and
commenced trading on 1 August 2004.
The University is an exempt charity
established in England and Wales for the
purposes of the Charities Act 2011. The
registered office is disclosed on page 2.

Basis for preparation

These financial statements have

been prepared in accordance with the
accounting policies set out below, the
Statement of Recommended Practice
(SORP): Accounting for Further and
Higher Education (2019 edition) and in
accordance with UK Financial Reporting
Standard 102 (FRS 102). The University
is a public benefit entity and therefore
has applied the relevant public benefit
requirements of FRS 102.

Basis of consolidation

The consolidated financial statements
include the University and all its
subsidiaries, Roehampton Corporate
Initiatives Limited, Roehampton Hosting
Services, Roehampton Education
Services Limited and Roehampton
Construction Services Limited for the
financial year to 31 July 2024. Intra-
group transactions are eliminated on
consolidation.

The consolidated financial statements do
not include the income and expenditure
of Roehampton Students’ Union (RSU) as
the University does not exert control or
dominant influence over policy decisions.

Associated companies and joint

ventures are accounted for using the
equity method. The University accounts
for its share of transactions from joint
operations and jointly controlled assets in
the Statement of Comprehensive income.

Income recognition
Income from the sale of goods or

52 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

services is credited to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income when the goods
or services are supplied to the external
customers, or the terms of the contract
have been satisfied.

Fee income is stated gross of any
expenditure which is not a discount
and credited to the Statement of
Comprehensive

Income over the period in which students
are studying. Where the amount of the
tuition fee is reduced by a discount for
prompt payment, income receivable is
shown net of the discount. Bursaries

and scholarships are accounted for
gross as expenditure and not deducted
from income.

Investment income is credited to the
Statement of Comprehensive Income on
a receivable basis.

Funds the University receives and
disburses as paying agent on behalf of

a funding body are excluded from the
income and expenditure of the University
where the University is exposed to
minimal risk or enjoys minimal economic
benefit related to the transaction.

Grant funding

Government revenue grants including
OfS teaching grant and research
grants are recognised in income ona
systematic basis over the periods in
which the University recognises the
related costs for which the grant is
intended to compensate. Where part
of a government grant is deferred

it is recognised as deferred income
within creditors and allocated between
creditors due within one year and due
after more than one year, as appropriate.

Grants (including research grants) from
non-government sources are recognised
in income when the University is entitled
to the income and performance-related
conditions have been met. Income

received in advance of performance-
related conditions being met is recognised
as deferred income within creditors on the
balance sheet and released to income as
the conditions are met.

Endowments and donations

Non-exchange transactions without
performance-related conditions are
classed as donations and endowments.
Donations and endowments with donor-
imposed restrictions are recognised in
income when the University is entitled to
the funds. Income is retained within the
restricted reserve until such time that

it is utilised in line with the restriction,
at which point the income is released

to general reserves through a reserve
transfer.

Donations with no restrictions are
recognised in income when the
University is entitled to the funds.

Investment income and appreciation
of endowments is recorded in income
in the year in which it arises and as
either restricted or unrestricted income
according to the terms applied to the
individual endowment fund.

There are four main types of donations
and endowments identified within
reserves:

1. Restricted donations: the donor has
specified that the donation must be used
for a particular objective.

2. Unrestricted permanent endowments:
the donor has specified that the fund is
to be permanently invested to generate
an income.

3. Restricted expendable endowments:
the donor has specified a particular
objective other than the purchase or
construction of tangible fixed assets, and
the University has the power to use the
capital and any income streams.

4. Restricted permanent endowments:
the donor has specified that the fund is
to be permanently invested to generate
an income stream to be applied to a
particular objective.

Capital grants

Government capital grants are
recognised in income over the

expected useful life of the asset it was
used to aquire. Other capital grants

are recognised in income when the
University is entitled to the funds subject
to any performance-related conditions
being met.

Going concern

The University’s Council has reviewed

the University's forecasts for the period

to 31 July 2026 and considered how
adverse events could impact on cash flow,
banking covenants and the going concern
assessment made by the University’s
Executive Board.

The going concern assessment has
focused on two principal considerations:
(i) whether the University is likely to be in
breach of its Lloyds bank loan covenants
at the 31 July 2025 assessment point, as
a breach would cause what is currently
long-term debt to fall due within one year,
creating significant current net liabilities;
and (ii) the liquidity position of the
University on a monthly basis over the
forecast period assuming the bank loan
covenants are not breached.

This analysis shows that in the 2024-25
financial year the University is forecast
to have minimal headroom on one of
its Lloyds’ bank loan covenants, with a
risk of breach consequently heightened
(although not currently forecast). The
University has a constructive dialogue
with Lloyds to amend or temporarily
waive any covenants in order to avoid
any such breach.

The analysis of the monthly cash flow
forecast shows that the University

will retain sufficient liquidity to meet

its short-term obligations as they fall
due. A sensitivity analysis has been
performed which considers the impact
of an acceleration of some identified
property costs from 2025-26 into 2024-
25 and a reduction in tuition fee income
in 2025-26. In respect of the 2024-25
tuition fee income position, September
2024 recruitment achieved budget and
reductions in recruitment for the January
and April 2025 intakes have already been
assumed in the base case forecast.

Whilst uncertainties exist in relation to
January and April 2025 recruitment and
non-completion for enrolled students, the
level of discretionary spend, contingencies
in the forecast and actions already

being implemented to generate financial
savings give comfort that the University
will remain a going concern. Council
recognises that, while there is uncertainty,
these matters described above do not
constitute a material uncertainty and
consider that the University has adequate
resources to continue in operational
existence for a period of more than twelve
months from the date of approval of the
financial statements. For this reason, the
University continues to adopt the going
concern basis in preparing the Financial
Statements.

Accounting for retirement
benefits

The three principal defined benefit
pension schemes for the University’s
staff are the Teachers’ Pension Scheme
(TPS) Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS),
which is independently administered by
the Department for Education (DfE), the
London Pension Fund Authority (LPFA),
which is part of the Local Government
Pension Scheme (LGPS), and the
Universities Superannuation

Scheme (USS).

A defined contribution scheme is also
provided, administered by Royal London.

The USS comprises both defined benefit
and defined contribution elements, while
the LPFA is a full defined benefit scheme.
Each fund is valued every three years

by professionally qualified independent
actuaries. The TPS is also a full defined
benefit scheme and is usually subject to
a full valuation every four years.

The USS and TPS are multi-employer
schemes for which it is not possible

to identify the assets attributable to
University members and therefore these
schemes are accounted for as a defined
contribution retirement benefit schemes.
A liability is recorded within creditors

for any contractual commitment to fund
past deficits within the schemes.

Defined contribution plan

A defined contribution plan is a post-
employment benefit plan under which the
University pays fixed contributions into

a separate entity and will have no legal
or constructive obligation to pay further
amounts. Obligations for contributions
to defined contribution pension plans

are recognised as an expense in the

Statement of Comprehensive Income
in the periods during which services are
tendered by employees.

Defined benefit plan

Defined benefit plans are post-
employment benefit plans other than
defined contribution plans. As noted
above, the USS and TPS are defined
benefit plans that are accounted for as
defined contribution retirement benefit
schemes for the reasons given. However,
the LPFA scheme is accounted for as a
defined benefit plan.

Under defined benefit plans, the
University's obligation is to provide the
agreed benefits to current and former
employees, and actuarial risk (that
benefits will cost more or less than
expected) and investment risk (that
returns on assets set aside to fund the
benefits will differ from expectations) are
borne, in substance, by the University. For
the LPFA scheme, the Group recognises
a liability for its obligations under defined
benefit plans net of plan assets. This

net defined benefit liability is measured
as the estimated amount of benefit

that employees have earned in return

for their service in the current and prior
periods, discounted to determine its
present value, less the fair value (at bid
price) of plan assets. The calculation is
performed by a qualified actuary using
the projected unit credit method. Where
the calculation results in a net asset, FRS
102 requires that the recognition of the
asset is limited to the extent to which the
University is able to recover the surplus
either through reduced contributions in
the future or through refunds from the
plan. For the year ended 31 July 2024, the
LPFA scheme is in surplus, however the
FRS 102 recognition criteria for a pension
asset are judged not to have been met
and no asset has been recorded.

Enhanced benefits

The actual cost of any enhanced ongoing
pension to former members of staff

is paid by the University annually. An
estimate of the expected future cost of
any enhancement to the ongoing pensions
of former members of staff is charged

in full to the University's Statement of
Comprehensive Income in the year that
the member of staff retires. In subsequent
years a charge is made to provisions in
the Balance Sheet to reflect the update to
estimated future cost using data provided
by The Office for Students (OfS).

Employment benefits
Short-term employment benefits such as

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 53

salaries and compensated absences are
recognised as an expense in the year in
which the employees render service to
the University. Any unused benefits are
accrued and measured as the additional
amount the University expects to pay as
a result of the unused entitlement.

Foreign currency

Transactions in foreign currencies are
translated to sterling at the foreign
exchange rate ruling at the date of
receipt. Foreign exchange differences
arising on translation are recognised in
surplus or deficit.

Intangible assets and goodwill

Goodwill arises on consolidation and is
based on the difference between the fair
value of the consideration given for the
undertaking acquired and the fair value
of its separable net assets at the date

of acquisition. Goodwill is amortised
over 20 years representing the remaining
estimated economic lives of the long-life
assets to which the goodwill relates.

Intangible assets are amortised over the
remaining estimated economic life of the
assets. Goodwill and intangible assets
are subject to periodic impairment
reviews as appropriate.

Negative goodwill

Negative goodwill arising on acquisitions
is allocated to non-monetary assets,
retained on the Balance Sheet

and released to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income over the service
lives of those assets to which the
goodwill is attributed (40 years from 1
August 2008 in respect of buildings and
125 years from 1 August 2008 in respect
of long-leasehold land). In the event the
assets are disposed of prior to the end of
their useful life any remaining negative
goodwill is released immediately.

The excess of any negative goodwill
above the value of non-monetary

assets is released to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income immediately.

Fixed assets

Fixed assets are stated at cost

less accumulated depreciation and
accumulated impairment losses.

Certain items of fixed assets that had
been revalued to fair value on or prior

to the date of transition to FRS 102, are
measured on the basis of deemed cost,
being the revalued amount at the date of
that revaluation.

Where parts of a fixed asset have

54 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

different useful lives, they are accounted
for as separate items of fixed assets.

Costs incurred in relation to land and
buildings after initial purchase or
construction, and prior to valuation,
are capitalised to the extent that they
increase the expected future benefits
to the University. Freehold land is not
depreciated as it is considered to
have an indefinite useful life. Freehold
buildings are depreciated on a straight
line basis over their expected useful lives
as follows:

= Listed residences — 50 years

= New residences — 40 years

® Leasehold buildings - 40 years

« Leasehold land - 125 years

= Additional floors added/significant
enhancements to existing buildings —
25 years

= New partitioning/alterations and
improvements to existing buildings —
10 years

Leasehold land is depreciated over the
life of the lease up to a maximum of
125 years.

No depreciation is charged on assets in
the course of construction.

Heritage assets

Heritage assets comprise the Carl Hahn
Robert Graves Collection, a catalogue
of the works of the British poet, Robert
Graves, donated by Carl Hahn. It is

the University's intention to preserve
this collection as a specialist cultural
resource. The assets are accounted for
at their fair value on the date of donation
and recognised in income on that date.

Equipment

Equipment, including computers and
software, costing less than £5,000
per individual item is recognised as
expenditure. All other equipment is
capitalised.

Capitalised equipment is stated at cost
and depreciated over its expected useful
life of 3-7 years. Depreciation methods,
useful lives and residual values are
reviewed at the date of preparation of
each Balance Sheet.

Borrowing Costs

Borrowing costs are charged to the
statement of comprehensive income
over the term of the debt using the
effective interest method.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash includes cash in hand, deposits
repayable on demand and overdrafts.
Deposits are repayable on demand if they
are in practice available within 24 hours
without penalty.

Cash equivalents are short term, highly
liquid investments that are readily
convertible to known amounts of cash
with insignificant risk of change in value
and an original maturity of three months
or less.

Financial instruments

Basic financial instruments are held

at amortised cost using the effective
interest rate method or cost and are
subject to an annual impairment review.
All loans, deposits and investments

are classified as basic instruments in
accordance with FRS 102.

Finance leases

Leases in which the University assumes
substantially all the risks and rewards
of ownership of the leased asset are
classified as finance leases. Leased
assets acquired by way of finance lease
and the corresponding lease liabilities
are initially recognised at an amount
equal to the lower of their fair value and
the present value of the minimum lease
payments at inception of the lease.

Minimum lease payments are apportioned
between the finance charge and the
reduction of the outstanding liability. The
finance charge is allocated to each period
during the lease term so as to produce a
constant periodic rate of interest on the
remaining balance of the liability.

Operating leases

Costs in respect of operating leases are
charged on a straight-line basis over
the lease term. Any lease premiums or
incentives are spread over the term of
the lease.

Taxation

The University is an exempt charity within
the meaning of Part 3 of the Charities
Act 2011. It is therefore a charity within
the meaning of Para 1 of schedule 6 to
the Finance Act 2010 and accordingly,
the University is potentially exempt from
taxation in respect of income or capital
gains received within categories covered
by section 478-488 of the Corporation
Tax Act 2010 (CTA 2010) or section 256
of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act
1992, to the extent that such income

or gains are applied to exclusively
charitable purposes.

The University receives no similar
exemption in respect of Value Added
Tax. Irrecoverable VAT on inputs is
included in the costs of such inputs.
Any irrecoverable VAT allocated to fixed
assets is included in their cost.

The University's subsidiaries are liable to
Corporation Tax in the same way as any
other commercial organisation.

Provisions, contingent
liabilities and contingent assets

Provisions are recognised in the financial
statements when:

A. the University has a present obligation
(legal or constructive) as a result of a
past event;

B. it is probable that an outflow of
economic benefits will be required to
settle the obligation; and

C. a reliable estimate can be made of the
amount of the obligation.

The amount recognised as a provision is
determined by discounting the expected
future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that
reflects risks specific to the liability.

A contingent liability arises from a

past event that gives the University a
possible obligation whose existence will
only be confirmed by the occurrence

or otherwise of uncertain future events
not wholly within the control of the
University. Contingent liabilities also
arise in circumstances where a provision
would otherwise be made but either it is
not probable that an outflow of resources
will be required, or the amount of the
obligation cannot be measured reliably.

Acontingent asset arises where an event
has taken place that gives the University
a possible asset whose existence will
only be confirmed by the occurrence or
otherwise of uncertain future events not
wholly within the control of the University.

Contingent assets and liabilities are not
recognised in the Balance Sheet but are
disclosed in the notes.

Reserves

Reserves are classified as restricted

or unrestricted. Restricted endowment
reserves include balances which, through
endowment to the University, are held as

permanently restricted funds which the
University must hold in perpetuity.

Other restricted reserves include
balances where the donor has
determined a specific purpose and
therefore the University is restricted in
the use of these funds.

Significant judgements
and estimates

In preparing these financial statements
Members of Council have made the
following judgements:

= Determine whether leases entered into
by the University either as a lessor
or a lessee are operating or finance
leases. These decisions depend on
an assessment of whether the risks
and rewards of ownership have been
transferred from the lessor to the
lessee on a lease by lease basis.

Determine whether there are
indicators of impairment of

the University’s tangible and
intangible assets. Factors taken

into consideration in reaching such
a decision include the economic
viability and expected future financial
performance of the asset and where
it is a component of a larger cash
generating unit, the viability and
expected future performance of
that unit.

= The judgement for the USS and TPS
that they are multi-employer schemes
(note 23).

= The judgement that no pension asset
should be recognised in respect of the
LPFA scheme given that the asset is
unlikely to be realised through reduced
contributions or a repayment from the
scheme.

= The University holds 50.1% of the
ordinary shares of RPCL, however this
is accounted for as a joint venture
as the group is party to a contractual
relationship that results in joint control
of the entity.

= Determine whether a provision should
be recognised for dilapidations in
relation to property leases. Factors
taken into consideration are the
relevant clauses contained within
the lease agreements that have been
entered into, the proposals for the use
of the buildings at the end of the lease
terms and the ability to determine and
cost any necessary remediation works.

In preparing these financial statements
Members of Council have made the
following estimates:

= The critical underlying estimate
in relation to the estimate of the
pension defined benefit scheme
obligation such as standard rates of
inflation, mortality, discount rate and
anticipated future salary increases.
Variations in these assumptions have
the ability to significantly influence
the value of the liability recorded and
annual defined benefit expense.

® The depreciation charge is calculated
based on estimates on asset useful
economic lives and expected residual
value.

= The estimate for the dilapidation
provision is calculated by reference
to an evaluation of any necessary
remediation work for each building
and the use of Building Cost
Information Service (BCIS) data to
estimate the costs of any such work,
measured at the balance sheet date.

= The bad and doubtful debt provision
is calculated by reference to student
debt over 16 months old and
commercial debt over 24 months old.
Student debtors are analysed between
those students that have left the
university and current students. All
debt over the 16 months is provided
for regardless of this distinction. For
those students who have left the
University, regardless of the age of
any debt outstanding, cash received
subsequent to the year end date is
taken into account and a provision
of 80% of the amounts outstanding
has been recorded. This further
assessment has resulted in an
additional provision of £5.5m being
raised in 2023-24.

This is a change in basis of estimate
from that used in the prior year. In the
prior year the bad and doubtful debt
provision was calculated by reference
to debt that was over 16 months

old only at the year end, but was not
analysed between current students
and those that had left. The provision,
at the end of the previous year, had the
new basis been applied, would have
been £12.8m and the charge for the
year ended 31 July 2023 would have
been increased by £4.7m.

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 55

Notes to the Financial Statements Year ended 31 July 2024

1. Tuition fees and education contracts

University Group University

2024 2023 2023

£'000 £'000 £'000

Full-time home and EU students . 48,008 48,008 52,207 52,207
Full-time international students 58,385 58,385 56,518 . 56,518
Part-time students 3,716 3,716 7,204 7,204
110,109 110,109 115,929 415,929

2. Funding body grants

Group University
2023 2023
£'000

University
2024 2024
£'000

Recurrent grants
Office for Students (OfS) 2,198 2,198 2,670 2,670
Research England 4,867 , 4,867 5,207 5,207
Amortisation of deferred capital grant 709 709 897 897
Specific grants
Higher Education Innovation Fund oo _ 636 636 458 458
* OfS Cost of living support - - 87 87
PRF- Participant research co. - 12 12
ERC Enhancing Research Culture 10 10 100 100
PSF Policy Support Fund - - 70° “70
GCRF 20-21 clawback - - (8) (8)
Other , : oe 4 4

8,420 8,420 9,497 9,497

3. Research grants and contracts

Group University
2023 2023
£'000

University
2024 2024
£000

Research council 944 944 1,249 1,249
Research charities 374 374 584 584
Government (UK and overseas} 956 956 332 332
Industry and commerce 95 95 54 54
Other 293 293 53 53

2,662 2,662 2,272 2,272

Source of grant and fee income

University University

2024 2023

£'000 £'000

Grant income from the OfS : 2,198 2,198 3,461 3,461
Grant income from other bodies 6,222 6,222 6,036 6,036
Fee income for taught awards (exclusive of VAT) 108,208 108,208 115,728 115,728
Fee income for research awards (exclusive of VAT) 1,712 1,712 2,272 2,272
Fee income from non-qualifying courses (exclusive of VAT) 189 189 201 201
118,529 118,529 127,698 127,698

56 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

4. Other income

University Group University
2024 2023 2023
£'000 £'000 © £'000
Residence, catering and conferences . 15,815 15,054 14,082 12,894
Other income-generating activities ‘ ‘ : * 4,039 4,073 5,092 6,227
Other revenue grants . oe 1,095 1,041 759 809
Other income 1,263 1,294 53 19
22,211 21,462 19,986 19,949
5. Investment income
University Group University
2024 2023 2023
£'000 £000 £'000
investment income on endowments 10 10
Interest on defined benefit pension scheme - -
Other investment income 1,103 1,051 794 766
1,200 1,148 804 776
: '
6. Endowments and donations

University Group University
2024 2023 2023

£000 £'000 £'000 |
Donations with restrictions - - 4 41
Unrestricted donations . 24 24 10 10
24 24 * 51 ST

7. Staff costs

2024

Staff costs

Salaries 48,797
Social security costs 5,505
Movement on USS pension provision (2,666)
LPFA pension liability (release)/charge (728)
Other pensions costs 9,761
Severance costs 1,867

62,536

University
2024
£000

48,474 46,478 46,478
5,473 5117 5117
(2,666) (1,530) (1,530)
(728) 1,925 1,925
9,706 8,781 8,781
1,867 972 972
62,126 61,743 61,743

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 57

Vice-Chancellor's Emoluments

The University determines senior pay in accordance with its Senior Managers Remuneration Guidance which is approved by Council. The
University Remuneration Committee also considers and notes the published guidance from the Committee of University Chairs and the Office
for Students. The Vice-Chancellor's salary is set by the Remuneration Committee. The Vice-Chancellor is not a member of the Committee

and attends by invitation to provide relevant information to the Committee except for where discussion relates to his performance or
remuneration. The Committee is chaired by a member of the University Council who is not the Chair of Council. The Remuneration Committee
uses the latest relevant benchmark data for the UK Higher Education sector and considers the specific context and challenges for the
University of Roehampton, as well as the experience and length of service of the incumbent Vice-Chancellor.

The Vice-Chancellor's basic salary was 7.1 times (6.7: 2022/23) the median basic salary of all academic and non-academic staff employed
by the University. The median pay is calculated on a fuiltime equivalent basis for the salaries paid by the University’s staff. Remuneration
inclusive of taxable benefits and pension adjustments was 8.9 (7.2: 2022/23) times the median total remuneration of all academic and non-
academic staff.

During 2023/2024, under the Vice-Chancellor’s leadership, the University has continued to innovate in its portfolio development and
demonstrate excellence in the quality of teaching and in research and knowledge exchange. The university achieved a Teaching Excellence
Framework (TEF) Silver award. Alongside this, the university is experiencing improvements in outcomes and lead indicators of outcomes, and
significant improvements in student satisfaction.

These improvements and achievements are against a backdrop of an ongoing very challenging financial climate for the University and the
Higher Education sector.

Vice- Median pay Multiple
Vice-Chancellor multiple calculations Chancellor £'000

£000
Basic pay
Remuneration inclusive of taxable benefits 361 40.6 8.9

Vice-Chancellor

Salary 283 267
Pension contributions 72 63
Taxable benefits 6 4

; 361 334

The Vice-Chancellor’s pension contributions to The Teachers’ Pension Scheme are paid at the
same rate as all scheme members.

58 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

Remuneration of higher paid staff 2023 . : Hoe
No

£100,000 - £104,999
£105,000 - £109,999

£110,000 - £114,999

£115,000 - £119,999

£120,000 - £124,999 1

£12,000 - £129,999
£190,000 - £134,999

£135,000 - £139,999 ; -,

£140,000 - £144,999 - -

£145,000 - £149,999 1 -

£150,000 - £154,999 . . -

£155,000 - £159,999 . 2

£160,000 - £164,999 tO -

£165,000 - £169,999 1 -

£265,000 - £269,999 - oe wh, Se
£280,000 - £284,999 1 - , : i

-Annnae wa
“> AN NW OH

Remuneration of other higher paid staff, excluding employer's pension contributions and loss of office payments.

The University benchmarks senior staff salaries primarily by using data from the Universities Colleges and Employers Association (UCEA). _
The data from UCEA is published annually. Over 100 + universities participate in UCEA’s annual data gathering exercise to support the
provision of comprehensive benchmarking data to universities. Where appropriate and relevant, additional comparative market information
and insights are sought and considered. .

Group and University Group 2024 University 2024 Group 2023 University 2023
‘Staff numbers by major category (full-time equivalent) No No No No
Academic 394 392 385 . 385
Administrative . 479 474 433 433
Other including technical and manual 53 53 38 38

926 919 856 856

The staff FTE total includes the University's temporary staff.

Key management personnel
Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the
University. The note below shows the total cost for 4 (2023: 4) key management personnel, all of whom also receive pension contributions

from the University.
2024 2023
£'000 £'000

Key management personnel compensation 1,044 976

2024 2023
Compensation for loss of office £'000 £'000
Total amount paid 1,867 972
Number of people whom this was payable to 60 47

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 59

Total emoluments of staff Members of Council

No Member of Council has received any remuneration or waived payment from the University during the year in their capacity as a Member
of Council. Emoluments received by Council Members in their capacity as employees are included in the staff cost disclosures in note 7.
The total expenses paid to or on behalf of 5 (2023:6) Members of Council was £1,167 (2023: £790). These represent travel and subsistence
expenses incurred in attending Council Committee meetings and other events in their official capacity.

2024 | 2023
Access and participation staff costs £7000 £000 i
Access Investment 889 941
Financial Support 139 98
Disability Support (excluding expenditure included in the two 1,585 1,485
categories above)
Research and Evaluation 53 85
2,666 2,609

Further information included in Note 9: Access and Participation table.

8. Interest and other finance costs

University University
2024 2023

£'000 £'000 |
Loan interest 3,403 3,403 3,691 3,691
Finance lease interest 233 233 262 262
Net charge on USS pension scheme 63 63 135 135
Net charge on LGPS pension scheme - : 573 573
Net charge on other pension schemes 21 21 7 17
3,720 3,720 4,678 4,678

60 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

9. Analysis of other operating expenditure by activit

Group —_ University Group University
2024 2024 2023 2023
£'000 £000 £'000 £7000

1,596 1,596 2,541 2,541

Costs of franchise arrangement in teach out

Other academic and related expenses 24,347 24,347 21,970 21,970
Academic and related expenses 25,943 25,943 24,511 24,511
Academic Services 5,525 5,525 4,453 4,453
Increase in provision for doubtful debts 10,000 10,000 4,590 4,590
Other administration and central services costs 16,435 16,905 20,482 20,482
Administration and central services 26,435 26,905 25,072 25,072
Other provisions charge 18 5,580 5,580 : -
Other premises costs 11,591 11,567 9,992 9,992
Premises 17,171 17,147 9,992 9,992
Residences, catering and conferences 3,095 2,797 2,391 2,439
Research grants and contracts 1,669 1,669 1,330 1,330
79,836 79,986 67,749 67,799
Auditors’ remuneration (internal) 72 72 76 76
Audit of the University's annual Financial Statements 143 143 134 134
Audit of subsidiary companies’ Financial Statements 12 - 12 -
Non-audit services ~ TPS and US Fed aid return 12 12 12 10
Tax advisory and other services 7 7 5 4
Operating leases : - 95 95
Other lease obligations (See note 21) 1,067 1,067 1,067 1,067

Access and participation other operating expenses

2023

£'000

Access Investment . 2,352 2,583

Financial Support 624 624

Disability Support (excluding expenditure included in the two 1,946 1,802
categories above)

Research and Evaluation 63 87

4,985 5,096

Access and Participation
£2,666k (2022-23 £2,609k) of these costs are aiready included in the overall staff costs figures included in the financial statements, see note
7. The expenditure above reflects the commitment made by the University in its 2023-24 access agreement.

The agreement can be found at:
https://www.roehampton.ac.uk/globalassets/documents/corporate-information/access-and-participation-plan-2020-21 .pdf

10. Intangible assets

Group and Group and
iiiwavee University 2023
£'000 £'000

Opening balance 26 33
Amortisation charge for the year (10) (7)
Closing balance 16 26

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 61

11. Tangible fixed assets :

Freehold

Leasehold Leasehold . Work in
eanaand land buildings Equipe Progress
Group £000 £00 £'000 £'000

Cost or valuation

At 1 August 2023 21,161 + = 54,204 198,245 33,765 2,849 310,224
Additions : - 2,173 1,890 4,881 8,944
At 31 July 2024 21,161 54,204 200,418 35,655, 7,730 319,168

Depreciation and impairment

At 1 August 2023 3,237 “2,700 63,675 30,529 742 100,883
Charge for year 408 moe 301 5,925 2,102 - 8,736
At 31 July 2024 3,645 3,001 69,600 32,631 742 109,619

Net book values

At 31 July 2024 17,516 * 51,203 130,818 3,024 6,988 209,549
At31 July 2023 17,924 51,504 134,570 3,236 2,107 209,340
University

Cost or valuation

At] August 2023 21,161 $4,204 199,136 33,765 2,849 311,115
Additions : - 2,173 1,890 4,881 8,944
At31 July 2024 21,161 54,204 201,309 35,655 7,730 320,059

Depreciation and impairment

At 1 August 2023 3,237 2,700 63,675 30,529 742 100,883
Charge for year 408 301 5,925 2,102 - 8,736
At 31 July 2024 > 3,645 3,001 69,600 32,631 742 109,619

Net book values
At31 July 2024 17,516 $1,203 131,709 3,024 6,988 210,440
At 31 July 2023 17,924 51,504 - 135,461 3,236 2,107 210,231

Freehold land and buildings and leasehold land were revalued as at 31 July 2014 by Gerald Eve using depreciated replacement costs for
specialist buildings and existing use market value for other non-specialist buildings.

Fixed assets held under finance leases have a net book value of £4,609k.

62 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

12. Negative Goodwill

Group and University . .
Negative goodwill relating to Digby Stuart College, Southlands College, the London and Quadrant Froebel Trust buildings is being amortised
in line with depreciation of the relevant assets.

wee ee we Negative
Goodwill
0
Cost . . let .
At 1 August 2023 , (1,100) .
Additions =
At31 July 2024 (71,100)

Released to income and expenditure account

At] August 2023 . 22,491
Release for year oy 1,637
At31 July 2024 24,122
i
Net book values . t *
At 31 July 2024 . (46,978)
At 1 August 2023 sO - : (48,609)
13. Non-Current Investments : :
University Group and
investments in University Total
subsidiaries investments in £'000
£000 joint ventures
. £'000
At 1 August 2023 2,130 347 2,477
Share of profit in joint venture - . oe - -
At 31 July 2024 - 2,130 347 : 2477 - ’

Details of subsidiary and joint venture undertakings are provided in note 22.

14. Trade and other receivables
Group University Group University
2024 2024 2023 2023
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000

Amount falling due within one year:

Research grants receivables 1,323 1,323 1,555, 1,555

Other trade receivables 22,093 21,942 28,046 27,771

Other receivables 1,695 1,695 1,436 1,356

Prepayments and accrued income - 3,113 3,100 5,770 5,761

Amounts due from subsidiary companies : 886 - 781 f
28,224 28,946 36,807 37,224

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 63

15. Investments

.. University
2023
£000

University ’ Group
2024 2023
£'000 . £000

Short term investment in shares
Short term deposits

16. Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

Group University Group University

2024 2024 2023 2023

£'000 £000 £'000 £'000

Secured loans 2,960 2,960 6,366 6,366
Obligations under finance leases 388 388 . 343 343
Trade payables 10,790 10,790 10,328 10,325
Other creditors 653 647 693 693
Amounts owed to subsidiary companies - 410 - -
Social security and other taxation payable 2,979 2,951 2,902 2,824
Deferred government capital grants 530 530 915 915
Accruals and deferred income 30,624 30,360 36,587 36,315

Group University
2024 2024
£'000 £'000

Group University
2023 2023
£'000 £'000

Deferred income

Donations . 1 1 - -
Research grants received on account 857 857 762 762
Grant income - 743 743 746 746
Other income 25,941 25,941 26,836 26,523

27,542 27,542 28,344 28,031

64 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

17. Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year

Group University Group University
2024 2024 2023 2023
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Deferred government capital grants 7,864 7,864 6,480 6,480
Obligations under finance leases . 3,299 3,299 3,687 3,687
Secured loans . 62,934 62,934 65,893 65,893
74,096 74,096 76,060 76,060

Analysis of secured and unsecured loans: . , :
Due within one year or on demand (note 16) . . 2,960 2,960 6,366 6,366
Due between one and two years . 3,116 3,116 2,960 2,960
Due between two and five years 10,993 10,993. 10,786 10,786
Due in five years or more 48,825 48,825 52,147 * 52,147
Due after more than one year 62,934 62,934 65,893 65,893

65,893 65,893 72,259 72,259

Total secured and unsecured loans

Lender Totaldrawn Balanceas Date drawn Term Interest Borrower
at inception at 31 July down

£'000 2024
. £'000 .
Lloyds 30,000 25,465 April 2016 18 years Fixed University . 7
Lloyds 45,000 38,255 Aug 2014 20 years Fixed University
Lloyds 4,600 - Aug 2006 17 years Fixed University
Lloyds 6,500 - Oct 2004 20 years Fixed University
Salix 664 664 July 2015 6 years Interest-free University
HEFCE Revolving 250 250 Aug 2009 Revolving Fixed University
Green Fund
Amber Green 2,961 1,259 Aug 2018 10 years Fixed ~ University
LEEF 2 LLP

65,893

The borrowing from Lioyds is secured as part of a general charge over the property that is owned by the Providing Body of Digby Stuart
College. Interest has been fixed on all of these loans for the duration of the loan period. The £4.6 million drawn-down loan had interest at
5.146% and the £6.5 million drawn-down loan had interest at 4.520%. These two tranches of loan were fully repaid during the year.

The University signed a term loan facility with Lloyds for £75m on 7 August 2014, in order to fund the construction of two halls of
accommodation and a new library. The first £45m is fixed at a rate of 5.220% drawn on 7 August 2074. The second tranche of £30m is fixed
at a rate of 4.719% drawn on 29 April 2016.

The University was successful in receiving £664,281 in funding from the OfS/Salix Revolving Green Fund in 2015. The Fund is intended to
provide repayable grants for the University to undertake specific projects that will reduce carbon emission. The financial savings made as a
result of these projects are used to replenish the Fund. The loan is a long-term loan and only repayable once reinvestment in relevant carbon
management projects ceases.

The University signed a loan facility with Amber Green LEEF 2 LLP for £2,961,717 on 3 August 2018 to fund an energy efficiency
redevelopment project. The loan has a fixed interest rate of 2.00% per annum.

As all the loans are on a fixed interest basis the group is not exposed to any risk arising from interest rate benchmark reforms in respect of
current borrowing.

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 65

University
2024 2024
£'000

Group University
2023 2023
£'000 £'000

Analysis of obligation under finance lease:
Due within one year or on demand (note 16) : 388 388 343 343

Due between one and two years
Due between two and five years

Due in five years or more

Due after more than one year - 3,299 3,299 3,687 3,687
Total 3,687 3,687 4,030 4,030 °°

18. Provisions for liabilities and charges

Former
Member Total

Defined Kingston
Enhanced Benefit City Group

USS Pension Other Total

Group and University oN 23) Pension Obligations Pension a staff prensions Provisions | Provisions
4 £'000 (note 23) Provision 5 5 £'000 £000
£'000 Provision - £000

£'000 £'000

£'000
At1 August 2023 4,233 : 4,233
Utilised in year (153) (217)
(Reduction)/ addition in year (2,561) 3,019
At 31 July 2024

Other provisions comprise amounts in connection with the costs necessary to remediate a number of leased buildings to an appropriate state
of repair under the repairing covenants provided for in the lease agreements. The provisions have been determined as at 31 July 2024 by
reference to BCIS costs for remediation and management's estimate of the works that will be necessary upon lease expiry.

66 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

Enhanced pension

The University pays enhanced pension entitlements (EP) to staff who took early retirement after 1 April 1989 under the reorganisation
programme which ended in 1993-94. The calculation of the cost of early retirement provisions, charged to the Statement of Comprehensive
Income in the year of retirement, is based on the total capital cost of providing enhanced pensions with allowance for future investment
returns at 4% in excess of price inflation. During 2023-24, actual payments of £129,000 (2023: £197,620) have been charged to the provision.
The provision of £1.0m will be released against the cost of the University’s enhanced pension entitlements.

In addition to the enhanced pensions which are being provided above, the University also provides enhanced pension contributions to

a further 23 former employees. The Department for Education is providing the University with additional funds each year to meet these
contributions. Although the Department for Education does not have a legal obligation to continue making these payments, the University
expects them to do so. As the costs of these payments have been recognised as a liability in the Financial Statements of the Department
for Education (indicating the Department of Education's expectation that they will be meeting these costs in the future) they have not been
recognised as a liability in the University’s Balance Sheet. Were the position to change, the estimated cost to the University of meeting these
pension payments was £0.5m as at 31 July 2024 (2022-23 £0.5m).

USS Pension Obligation

The obligation to fund the past deficit on the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS) arose from the contractual obligation with the USS
to make deficit payments in accordance with the deficit recovery plan agreed as part of the 2020 scheme valuation. As the 2023 scheme
valuation showed that the scheme was in a surplus position, no further deficit payments are required and the provision has been released.

The major assumptions used to calculate the obligation are:

Discount rate nla 5.52%
Salary growth oa 3.0%

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 67

19. Endowment Reserves

Group and University
Restricted net assets relating to endowments are as follows:

Restricted Restricted
permanent expendable
endowments endowments

2024 2023 |
Total ~ Total
£'000 £'000

Capital £000 £000
Balance at 1 August 2023
Capita! 714 = * 163 877 895
Accumulated income "431 (43) 88 126
oF . 845 120 965 1,021
New endowments , : - - -
Investment income . ah] : - 11 10
Expenditure (17) (6) (23) (48)
Increase/(decrease) in market value of investments 16 - 16 (18)
Total endowment comprehensive income/(expenditure) "W “ (6) 5 ~ (56)
for the year .
Balance at 31 July 2024 . 856 114 970 965
Represented by:
Capital 731 120 851 839
Accumulated income 125 (6) 119 126
856 114 970 965
Analysis by type of purpose:
Scholarships and bursaries 775 96 871 863
Prize funds 81 - 81 78
General ; : 18 18 24
856 114 970 965
Analysis by assets
Current and non-current asset investments 335 313
Cash & cash equivalents 635 652
970 965

68 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

20. Capital and other commitments

Provision has not been made for the following capital commitments at 31 July 2024

University

2024 2023 |
£'000 £'000 |

Commitments contracted for

21. Lease obligations

31 July 31 July |
2024 2023 |
Land and Land and |
Total rentals payable under operating leases: Buildings Buildings !
£'000 £'000 |
Payable during the year 1,067

Future minimum leases payments due:.

Within one year 1,067 1,067
Between one and 5 years 1,067 2,134
More than five years - -

Total future minimum lease payments due 2,134 3,201

The amount paid during the year includes £667,000 (2023: £667,000) paid to Whitelands College as part of the licence and management
agreement, and £400,000 (2023: £400,000) for the lease over the Mount Clare property owned by Southlands College.

22. Subsidiary undertakings and joint venture

Roehampton Corporate Initiatives Limited (RCIL) is a UK incorporated company, and is a wholly owned subsidiary of the University. The
results of RCIL have been consolidated into the Financial Statements of the University. Separate audited financial statements have been
prepared for the company to 31 July 2024. The company provides media and consultancy services to external clients. The investment
in RCIL is £29,000. The University owns 100% of the ordinary shares of RCIL. In 2023/24 RCIL made a profit of £645,403 and qualifying
charitable donations of £148,889 were made to the University.

Roehampton Hosting Services Limited (RHSL) is a UK incorporated company, and is a wholly owned subsidiary of the University. The
results of RHSL have been consolidated into the Financial Statements of the University. Separate audited Financial Statements have been
prepared for the company to 31 July 2024. The company provides hosting and support services to external clients. The investment in RHSL
is £100,000. The University owns 100% of the ordinary shares of RHSL. In 2023/24 RHSL made a profit of £6,352, and qualifying charitable
donations of £nil were made to the University.

Roehampton Construction Services Limited (RCSL) is a UK incorporated company, and is a wholly owned subsidiary of the University. The
results of RCSL have been consolidated into the Financial Statements of the University. Separate audited Financial Statements have been
prepared for the company to 31 July 2024. The company provides facility and management to the construction of student accommodation.
The investment in RCSL is £2,000,000. The University owns 100% of the ordinary shares of RCSL. In 2023/24 RCSL made a profit of £29,139,
and qualifying charitable donations of f £nil were made to the university.

Roehampton Education Services Limited (RESL) is a UK incorporated company, and is a wholly owned subsidiary of the University. It
commenced trading in the year ended 31 July 2024. The results of RESL have been consolidated into the Financial Statements of the
University. Separate audited Financial Statements have been prepared for the company to 31 July 2024. The company provides staffing
services to the University. The investment in RESL is £1. The University owns 100% of the ordinary shares of RESL. In 2023/24 RESL had no
profit or loss to report.

Roehampton Pathway Campus Limited (RPCL) was set up in May 2015 in partnership with QAHE(UR) Limited- a UK pathway provider to
provide International Foundation Programmes and Pre-Masters courses. The University holds 50.1% of the ordinary shares of RPCL and
this is accounted for as a joint venture. The company has extended its accounting period to 31 January 2024, and the most recent financial
statements show that surplus was £75,000 for the eighteen months to 31 January 2024. The University’s share of this surplus has not been
recognised in these financial statements.

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 69

23. Pensions

The Group's employees belong to four principal pension schemes, the Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS), the Universities Superannuation
Scheme (USS), the London Pension Fund Authority (LPFA), part of the Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS), and a Defined Contribution
Scheme administered by Royal London. The first three are defined benefit schemes, although the USS has a defined contribution element for
contributions over a certain salary threshold. The total pension cost within staff costs and interest costs for the year ended 31 July 2024 was
£6.3m (2023: £9.9m). The calculation of the cost of early retirement provisions charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the
year of retirement is based on the total capital cost of providing enhanced pensions with allowances for future investment returns of 4% in
excess of price inflation.

Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The TPS is an unfunded statutory contributory public service pension scheme with benefits underwritten by the government. It is a multi-
employer defined benefit scheme, and it is not possible to identify the assets and liabilities of the TPS which are attributable to the University.
As required by FRS 102, the University accounts for the scheme on a defined contribution basis. The TPS is governed by the Teachers’
Pensions Regulations 2010, and the Teachers’ Pension Scheme Regulations 2014. Contributions are credited to the Exchequer on a “pay

as you go” basis under arrangements governed by the Superannuation Act 1972. A notional asset value is ascribed to the scheme for the
purposes of determining contribution rates.

The last valuation of the TPS related to 31 March 2020 and was published in October 2023. The Government Actuary's report for March 2020
revealed that the total liabilities of the scheme (pensions currently in payment and the estimated cost of future benefits) amounted to £262
billion. The value of the assets (estimated future contributions together with the proceeds from the notional investments held at the valuation
date) was £222.2 billion. The next valuation is expected to take effect in 2027.

The employers’ contribution rates for the University's academic staff were increased in April 2024 from a rate of 23.6% to 28.6% in light of the
latest valuation. Employers also pay a charge equivalent to 0.08% of pensionable salary costs to cover administration expenses.

Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS)
The University participates in the USS, which is a hybrid scheme comprising both a defined benefit (the so-called Retirement Income Builder)
element and, for pensionable salary over a set threshold, a defined contribution (the so-called Investment Builder) element.

The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee-administered fund. Because of the mutual nature of the scheme, the assets are

Not attributed to individual institutions and a scheme-wide contribution rate is set. The University is therefore exposed to actuarial risks
associated with other institutions’ employees and is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme ona
consistent and reasonable basis. As required by FRS 102, the University therefore accounts for the scheme as if it were a defined contribution
scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure represents the contributions payable
to the scheme. Since the University had entered into an agreement (the Recovery Plan) that determined how each employer within the
scheme funded the overall deftcit identified in the 2020 scheme valuation, the University recognised a liability for the contributions payable
that arose from the agreement (to the extent that they related to the deficit) with related expenses being recognised through the Statement
of Comprehensive income and Expenditure. The 2023 scheme valuation confirmed that the USS was in surplus, so the liability has been
released in the year.

The total amount credited/charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure is a £2.6m credit (prior year: £1.5m credit).
Total employers’ contributions paid in 2023-24 were £0.6m (£2022-23: £0.7m).

The latest available complete actuarial valuation of the Scheme is as at 31 March 2023 (the valuation date), and was carried out using the
projected unit method. As noted above, the University cannot identify its share of USS Retirement Income Builder (defined benefit) assets and
liabilities, so the following disclosures reflect those relevant for those assets and liabilities as a whole.

The 2023 valuation was the seventh valuation for the scheme under the scheme-specific funding regime introduced by the Pensions Act
2004, which requires schemes to have sufficient and appropriate assets to cover their technical provisions. At the valuation date, the value of
the assets of the scheme was £73.1 billion and the value of the scheme’s technical provisions was £65.7 billion indicating a surplus of £7.4
billion and a funding ratio of 111%.

70 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

The key financial assumptions used in the 2023 valuation are described below. More detail is set out in the Statement of Funding Principles
available on the USS website.

Principal Actuarial 31 March 2023 valuation - technical provisions

Assumptions

Price inflation - Consumer 3.0% p.a. (based on a long-term average expected level of CPI,
Prices Index (CPI) broadly consistent with long-term market expectations)
RPi/CPt gap 1,0% p.a. to 2030, reducing to 0.1% p.a. from 2030

The main demographic assumptions used relate to the mortality assumptions. These assumptions are based on analysis of the scheme’s
experience carried out as part of the 2023 actuarial valuation. The mortality assumptions used in these figures are as follows:

{2023 valuation
Mortality base table 101% of S2PMA “light” for males and 95% of S3PFA for females
Future improvements CMI 2021 with a smoothing parameter of 7.5, an initial addition of 0.4% p.a.,
to mortality 10% w2020 and w2021 parameters and a long-term improvement rate of 1.8%

p.a. for males and 1.6% p.a. for females.

The current life expectancies on retirement at age 65 are:

| 2028 |
Males currently aged 65 years 23.7 24.0
Females currently aged 65 years 25.6 25.6
Males currently aged 45 years 25.4 26.0
Females currently aged 45 years 27.2 : 27.4

A deficit recovery plan was put in place as part of the 2020 valuation, which required payment of 6.2% of salaries over the period 1 April 2022
until 31 March 2024, at which point the rate was scheduled to increase to 6.3%. The 2022 deficit recovery liability reflected this plan. The

31 July 2023 liability was produced using the assumptions below. Following the 2023 valuation, and the surplus position of the scheme, no
deficit recovery plan was in place as at 31 July 2024.

2023 |
Discount rate - 5.52%
Pensionable salary growth : 3.00%

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 71

London Pension Fund Authority

The London Pensions Fund Authority (LPFA) administered Local Government Pension Scheme is a funded defined benefit scheme with

the assets held in separate trustee-administered funds. The scheme is valued every three years by a professionally qualified independent
actuary using the projected unit credit method, the rate of contribution payable being determined by the actuary. The latest completed formal
valuation of the fund was at 31 March 2022. .

In order to assess the employer liabilities at 31 July 2024, the 31 March 2022 funding valuation liabilities have been rolled forward using
financial assumptions that comply with FRS102.

The major assumptions used by the actuary were:

2024 2023 |
% %
Salary increases . 3.90 3.85

Pension increases 2.90 2.85
Discount rate 5.05 5.15

The assumed life expectancies from age 65 were:

Life Expectancy from 65 (years) 2023

Retiring Today

Males 21.4 21.4
Females 24.0 24.0
Retiring in 20 years

Male 21.4 215

Female 25.4 25.4

The estimated asset allocation for Roehampton University as at 31 July 2024 is as follows:

Value at 31 Proportion Value at31 Proportion
July 2024 [a July 2023 %
£000 £'000

Equities 71,297 61% 63,417 59%
Target return portfolio | 19,342 16% 19,240 18%
infrastructure 12,700 11% 13,484 12%
Property 10,581 9% 10,214 9%
Cash 3,810 3% 1,627 2%
Total market value of assets 117,730 100% 107,982 100%

72 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

Analysis of the amount shown in Roehampton University’s
statement of comprehensive income

Service cost

Net interest on the defined (asset)/liability
Administration expenditure

Total

3,125 5,531
(96) 573
32 51
3,061 6,155

The following amounts, at 31 July 2024, were measured in accordance with the requirements of FRS 102:

Analysis of the amount shown in Roehampton University’s

balance sheet
Fair value of Fund assets (bid value)
Application of asset ceiling

Present value of the defined benefit obligation
Present value of unfunded obligations

Net pension deficit

Re-measurement in other comprehensive income
Return on fund assets in excess of interest

Other actuarial gains on assets

Change in financial assumptions

Change in demographic assumptions

Application of asset ceiling

Experience loss on defined benefit obligation

31 July
2023

117,298 107,982

(8,448) (8.381)
(108,850) (99,490)
99 (111)

99 -

31 July
2023

1,510 (540)
- 1,945
(3,083) 33,890
223 4,430
(67) (8.381)
526 (10,695)
(891) 20,649

Reconciliation of opening & closing batances of the present

value of the defined benefit obligation
Opening defined benefit obligation
Movement in the period

Current service cost

Interest cost

Changes in financial assumptions
Changes in demographic assumptions
Experience (gain)/loss on defined benefit obligation
Estimated benefits paid net of transfers in

Past service costs, including curtailments

Contributions by Scheme participants and other employers
Unfunded pensions payments

Closing defined-benefit obligation

31 July

99,601 119,075
3,092 5,522
5,100 4,143
3,083 (33,890)
(223) (4,430)
(526) 10,695

(2,547) (2,793)

33 9
1,352 1,286
(16) (16)
108,949 99,601

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 73

31 July |
Reconciliation of Opening balances of the fair value of 2023

fund assets £000
Opening fair value of employer assets. 99,601 100,975
Movement in the period

Interest on assets 5,196 3,570
Return on assets less interest 1,510 (540)
Other actuarial gains - 1,945
Administration expenses (32) (51)
Contributions by employer including unfunded 3,853 3,606,
Contributions by scheme participants and other employers 1,352 1,286
Estimated benefits paid plus unfunded net of transfers in (2,563) {2,809)
Application of asset ceiling (67) (8,381)
Closing fair value of employer assets 108,850 99,601

Projected Pension Expense for the year to 31 July 2025

Service cost 3,272
Net interest on the defined liability (asset) (79)
Administration expenses 35
Total 3,228
Employer contributions 3,359

24. Related party disclosures

During the financial year 2023/24 Amy Hopkins (until June 2024) and Imran Shafiqi (from July 2024) were members of the University Council
and Presidents of Roehampton Students’ Union. In 2023-24 the University gave Roehampton Students’ Union a block grant and payments for
services totalling £743,000 (2022-23 £710,490).

The University has taken advantage of the exemption available in FRS 102, Related Party Transactions not to disclose transactions with its
wholly owned subsidiaries.

The University made no related party transactions to Roehampton Pathway Campus Limited (2022-23: fnil) a joint venture.

74 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

25. The Department for Education training salaries

2024
£'000

Balance at 1 August 92 22
Total payment received from excluding VAT 1,805 1,260
Disbursed to students 1,844 (1,190)
Balance at 31 July 53 92

The Training Salary Grant is solely for students: The University acts only as paying agent.
The grants and related disbursements are therefore excluded from the Income and Expenditure Account.

26. Net debt reconciliation

Cash at bank and in hand 33,465 (11,062) 22,403
Obligations under finance lease . (4,030) 343 (3,687)
Bank loan (72,259) 6,366 (65,893)
Net debt (42,824) (4,353) (47,177)

There are no restrictions over the use of the cash and cash equivalents balances.

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 75

27. US Department of Education Financial Responsibility Supplemental Schedule

In satisfaction of its obligations to facilitate students’ access to US federal financial aid, Roehampton University is required, by the US
Department of Education, to present the following Supptemental Schedule in a prescribed format.

The amounts presented within the schedules have been:

. prepared under the historical cost convention, subject to the revaluation of certain fixed assets;

+ prepared using United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice, in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 (FRS 102)
and the Statement of Recommended Practice: Accounting for Further and Higher Education (2019 edition);

+ presented in pounds sterling.

The schedules set out how each amount disclosed has been extracted from the financial statements. As set out above, the accounting’
policies used in determining the amounts disclosed are not intended to and do not comply with the requirements of accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America.

Notes | Expendable Net Assets 2023-24
£'000

Statement of Financial Position - Net assets without donor restrictions | Net assets without donor restrictions | (83,990)

Statement of Financial Position - Net assets with donor restrictions Net assets with donor restrictions

Statement of Financial Position - Related party receivable and Related j Secured and Unsecured related party
party note disclosure receivable

Statement of Financial Position - Related party receivable and Related j Unsecured related party receivable
party note disclosure

Statement of Financial Position - Property, Plant and equipment, net . | Property, plant and equipment, net 209,959
(includes Construction in progress)

Note of the Financial Statements - Statement of Financial Position - Property, plant and equipment - (174,018) | (182,654)
Property, plant and equipment - pre-implementation pre-implementation

Note of the Financial Statements - Statement of Financial Position - Property, plant and equipment -
Property, plant and equipment - post-implementation with outstanding { post-implementation with outstanding
debt for original purchase debt for original purchase

Note of the Financial Statements - Statement of Financial Position Property, plant and equipment - (38,496) | (24,147)
- Property, plant and equipment - post-implementation without post-implementation without
outstanding debt for original purchase outstanding debt for original purchase

Note of the Financial Statements - Statement of Financial Position - Construction in progress
Construction in progress

Statement of Financial Position - Lease right-of-use assets, net Lease right-of-use asset, net

Note of the Financial Statements - Statement of Financial Position - Lease right-of-use asset
Lease right-of-use asset pre-implementation pre-implementation

Note of the Financial Statements - Statement of Financial Position - Lease right-of-use asset
Lease right-of-use asset post-implementation post-implementation

76 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

Notes

12

7

7

17

16/17

16/17

19

19

19

19

Expendable Net Assets (cont.)

Statement of Financial Position - Goodwill

Statement of Financial Position - Post-employment and pension
liabilities °

Statement of Financial Position - Note Payable and Line of Credit for
Jong-term purposes (both current and long term) and Line of Credit for
Construction in process

Statement of Financial Position - Note Payable and Line of Credit for
long-term purposes (both current and long term) and Line of Credit for
Construction in process

Statement of Financial Position - Note Payable and Line of Crecit for
long-term purposes (both current and long term) and Line of Credit for
Construction in process

Statement of Financial Position - Note Payable and Line of Credit for
long-term purposes (both current and long term) and Line of Credit for
Construction in process

Statement of Financial Position - Lease right-of-use asset liability

Statement of Financial Position - Lease right-of-use asset liability pre-
implementation

Statement of Financial Position - Lease right-of-use asset liability post-

implementation

Statement of Financial Position - Annuities

Statement of Financial Position - Term endowments

Statement of Financial Position - Life Income Funds

Statement of Financial Position - Perpetual Funds

2023-24
£'000

2022-23
£'000
(46,961)

Intangible assets (48,583)

Post-employment and pension
liabilities

(1,519) (4,233)

Long-term debt - for long term
purposes

65,893 72,259

Long-term debt - for long term (65,893) | (72,259)

purposes pre-implementation

Long-term debt - for long term - -
purposes post-implementation

Line of Credit for Construction in - -
process

Lease right-of-use asset liability 3,687 4,030

Pre-implementation right-of-use
leases

Post-implementation right-of-use
leases

Annuities with donor restrictions - -

Term endowments with donor
restrictions

Life income funds with donor
restrictions

Net assets with donor restrictions: 970

restricted in perpetuity

(965)

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 77

2023-24
£'000

Statement of Activities - Total Operating Expenses (Total from Total expenses without donor (154,209) | (141,574)
Statement of Activities prior to adjustments) restrictions - taken directly from
Statement of Activities

Statement of Activities - Non-Operating (Investment return Non-Operating and Net Investment (21,508)
appropriated for spending), Investments, net of annual spending gain | (loss) -
(loss), Other components of net periodic pension costs, Pension-
telated changes other than net periodic pension, changes other than
net periodic pension, Change in value of split-interest agreements
and Other gains (loss} - (Total from Statement of Activities prior to
adjustments)

Statement of Activities - (Investment return appropriated for spending) | Net investment losses
and Investments, net of annual spending, gain (loss)

Statement of Activities - Pension related changes other than periodic Pension-related changes other than
pension net periodic costs

78 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24

11

16/17

12

24

24

Note | Total Expenses and Losses (Cont.)

Statement of Financial Position - Net assets without donor restrictions

Statement of Financial Position - total Net assets with donor
restrictions

Statement of Financial Position - Goodwill

Statement of Financial Position - Related party receivable and Related
party note disclosure

Statement of Financial Position - Related party receivable and Related
party note disclosure

Modified Assets

Statement of Financial Position - Total Assets

Note of the Financial Statements - Statement of Financial Position -
Lease right-of-use asset pre-implementation

Statement of Financial Position - Lease right- of-use asset liability
pre-implementation

Statement of Financial Position - Goodwill

Statement of Financial Position - Related party receivable and Related
party note disclosure

Statement of Financial Position - Related party receivable and Related
party note disclosure

Net Income Ratio

Statement of Activities - Change in Net Assets Without Donor
Restrictions

Statement of Activities - (Net assets released from restriction), Total
Operating Revenue and Other Additions and Sale of Fixed Assets,
gains (losses)

2023-24 PeuyPeye]

£'000

Net assets without donor restrictions

(83,990) | (93,359)

Net assets with donor restrictions

(46,961)

Intangible assets

Secured and Unsecured related party
receivable

Unsecured related party receivable

Total Assets 217,915 232,751

Lease right-of-use asset pre-
implementation

Pre-implementation right-of-use
leases

(3,687)

Intangible assets (46,961)

Secured and Unsecured related party
receivable

Unsecured related party receivable

Change in Net Assets Without Donor
Restrictions

(143,426)

(147,734)

Total Revenue and Gains

Annual Report and Financial Statements 2023/24 79

