Registered number: 02786492

an a4
i '

RPC Containers Limited
Annual report and financial statements

for the year ended 30 September 2024

*AE3GHJJV*

A0S 27/05/2025 #284
COMPANIES HOUSE

TUESDAY

RPC Containers Limited

Directors and advisers

Directors

M Miles

J Greene (resigned 12 May 2025)
D Clayton (appointed 12 May 2025)

Secretary
D Hamilton

Company Number
02786492

Registered Office

Corby Hub

4 Sallow Road

Weldon North Industrial Estate
Corby

United Kingdom

NN17 5JX

Auditor

RSM UK Audit LLP
103 Colmore Row
Birmingham

West Midlands

B3 3AG

RPC Containers Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 30 September 2024

Principal Activities and future outlook

The Company is a subsidiary of Berry Global Group, Inc, a group at the forefront of polymer
conversion technology in the packaging industry and has developed a good reputation in the market
place for innovative packaging design and concepts.

RPC Containers has eight manufacturing plants in the UK. Its product range comprises all forms of
rigid packaging, namely injection moulded packs, thermoformed packs, sheet and extrusion blow-
moulded packs, as well as injection-blown and injection-stretch-blown packs. Through its design
and development facilities, the Company is able to develop unique packaging solutions to meet the
needs of individual customer demands. Manufacturing sites convert polymer granules into finished
packaging product by a combination of moulding and assembly processes with certain products
undergoing additional value-adding decorating processes such as printing or label application.

Customers range from large multinational companies to local small and medium sized enterprises.
The Company's objective is to give all of its customers good service and quality, and thereby to
retain their custom.

The Company aims to give each plant as much autonomy as possible commensurate with
maintaining overall financial control and effective co-ordination in each market sector; hence most
manufacturing sites have a management team headed up by a general manager. The belief is that
this structure encourages focus on business issues and delivers enhanced performance.

Of the above eight manufacturing plants in the UK, two have ceased production and are expected
to be fully closed within the year to 30 September 2025.

Strategy

The Company's objective is to generate attractive long term returns on the capital employed in the
business through the manufacture and sale of rigid plastic packaging in the United Kingdom, Europe
and beyond.

Financial and operational review

RPC Containers operates in a number of packaging markets, mainly covering the food, non-food,
healthcare and beverage sectors. Food packaging represents the largest portion of the business
with around 67% of revenue attributed to the food packaging market. Overall productivity levels
reduced due to the fact that two plants ceased production during the year, with revenues decreasing
from £195.2m to £168.8m in the current year. The reduction in revenue attributed to the two closed
sites was £25.4m. The remaining manufacturing sites output levels were maintained at consistent
levels to the prior year.

Operating profit from continuing operations decreased from £42.5m to £32.1m. This was largely
due to a reduction in the level of rebate income earned in the current year and an increase in the
level of brand charge received from Berry Global following the acquisition in 2019. The company
has consistently applied its brand licensing arrangements during the year and a charge of £30.1m
(2023: £27.5m) made to other group trading companies which is included in other operating income.
At the end of the year the Company had a strong balance sheet with a strong cash position and net
assets of £253.6m (2023: £301.0m). Given the strong balance sheet position and continued
investment in the sites within the Company the directors believe that the Company is well placed to
continue to thrive and meet customer needs.

Principal Risks and Uncertainties
RPC Containers is subject to a number of risks, both external and internal, some of which could
have a serious impact on the performance of its business.

Each year a wide-embracing review is conducted of these risks. This process helps both identify
the nature and magnitude of a risk and the manner in which it can be mitigated. The risks that are
seen as being particularly important at the current time are:

RPC Containers Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 30 September 2024 (continued)

Principal Risks and Uncertainties (continued)

Polymer price and availability:

Polymer resin, which is the key raw material used in the manufacture of plastic products,
represented 14% of the operating costs of the business in 2024 (2023: 10%). Polymer prices are
subject to volatility and are impacted by changes in global supply and demand, as well as tending
to follow the underlying price of oil. In addition some sources of polymer supply are affected by plant
breakdowns and unscheduled maintenance which can result in shortages, however there was no
significant impact on operations in the year.

The Company is able to pass on the majority of polymer price fluctuations to its customers through
agreed contractual terms, providing an effective hedge against polymer price changes albeit with a
time lag. The Company has also reduced its dependence on individual polymer suppliers by
adapting its manufacturing sites to convert a wider range of polymer grades, to improve supply
competitiveness and mitigate against supply disruption.

Dependency on key customers:

The loss of any key customer could significantly affect the Company's results. There is a high
degree of mutual dependency between RPC and its customers and because of the Company’s size,
product range, geographical reach and the joint investment often required to develop a product,
many customers have difficulty in moving their business to an alternative supplier in the short term.
In addition customer retention is strengthened by the Company remaining responsive to customer
demands, by delivering high quality products, excellent customer service and developing innovative
packaging solutions that can provide new sales opportunities for our customers.

Pricing and competitive pressures:

The market for plastic packaging and the other non-packaging markets in which the Company
operates, have become increasingly competitive, particularly where there has been consolidation
or overcapacity. An increasing focus on pricing by customers and the use of formalised tender
processes puts pressure on margins and may lead to lost business where customers have the
capability to switch to other suppliers.

The Company differentiates itself from its competitors by establishing long-term relationships with
its customers through bespoke product development and through investing in new and innovative
capabilities across a wide range of conversion technologies. In addition the Company has improved
its competitive position in the challenging economic environment of the last few years by focusing
on cost reduction, improving productivity and optimising its manufacturing footprint through its
recent business improvement programmes and business integration process.

Business interruption and the loss of essential services and supplies:

The loss of essential services or products produced by a major supplier could have a significant
impact on the Company's ability to service its customers. As such, the Company maintains
alternative sources of supply wherever possible. In addition all businesses have established
protocols and procedures to ensure business continuity in the event of a major incident.

Safeguarding physical property:

The risk of fire represents the most significant physical risk to the Company and the impact of a
major catastrophe of this type could be considerable. Mitigation of this risk has been achieved with
most sites having sprinkler and/or smoke detection systems in place. in addition, the Company
carries a comprehensive property damage and business interruption insurance policy.

RPC Containers Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 30 September 2024 (continued)

Resources
The Company’s success in generating an adequate return is dependent upon the resources which
are available.

RPC Containers is reliant upon the quality, dedication and commitment of its entire staff. The
Company has enjoyed remarkable staff loyalty, partly because of the ethos of commitment and
participation which is prevalent throughout the Company. The devolved nature of the management
structure strongly contributes to a sense of challenge and fulfilment amongst the management of
the Company, as a result of which, staff turnover at this level continues to be very low.

RPC Containers is dependent upon the capabilities of its manufacturing operations to enable it to
meet its customers’ needs. The Company has consistently invested in plant and equipment, factory
and warehousing space as well as in product and process development, so that it can meet its
customers’ requirements for quality, innovation and service.

- RPC Containers monitors carefully major customer contracts with the objective of limiting its
exposure to risks beyond its control; for other customers the Company applies its general conditions
of sale which are broadly in line with those applied by its peers and in addition has public and
product liability insurance.

Section 172 Statement

Under Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006, there is a general duty on every director to act in a
way that they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company
for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.

The Directors consider that they have performed their duty in good faith to engage under section
172 of the Companies Act 2006, to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of the
members as a whole, while taking into consideration, amongst other matters:

The likely consequences of any decisions in the long term;

The interests of the Company’s employees;

The need to foster the Company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and
others;

The impact of the Company's operations on the community and the environment;
Maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct; and

The need to act fairly between the members of the Company.

Employees

The company’s long-term success is predicated on the commitment of our workforce to our purpose
and its demonstration of our values daily. We engage with our workforce to ensure a safe and
healthy work place for its employees that promotes training, development and equality.

We have invested in Health & Safety and provided appropriate training and personal protective
equipment throughout the year. We also seek to share our vision and longer-term strategy with staff
through our internat communication portal and monthly virtual business reviews.

Customers

We establish good relationships with our customers and have dedicated account management for
larger accounts. We strive to understand what products our customers require and how to improve
our customer service. We work with our customers from the design stage and throughout the supply
chain to deliver innovative, differentiated and environmentally sustainable solutions. We continue
to prioritise customer service and strive for continual improvements.

RPC Containers Limited

Strategic report for the year ended 30 September 2024 (continued)

Section 172 Statement (continued)

Suppliers

Our suppliers are fundamental to the quality of our products and to ensuring that as a business we
meet the high standards of conduct that we set ourselves. We have created a Supplier Code of
Conduct to outline what we expect from our suppliers with respect to labour and employment rights,
environmental health and safety, ethics and social responsibility, and global trade practices.
Suppliers are expected to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct and must operate in full
compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.

Pension trustees

Our relationship with the Trustees of The Berry UK Pension Scheme (into which the RPC Containers
Limited Pension Scheme was merged) is excellent, and we know how important it is to work in
partnership with the Scheme and to make sure that the Trustees are consulted on significant
developments.

Our community/Ahe Environment

As a global leader in packaging and protection solutions, Berry Global have a responsibilty to play
a positive role in the communities and environments in which we operate and serve. A common
value that is demonstrated at each of our facilities is the commitment of our employees to partner
with their local community to create a positive impact.

We are focused on developing and providing new products designed for sustainability. In line with
Group strategy, we are working towards 100% of our fast-moving consumer packaging to be
reusable, recyclable, or compostable by 2025. In response to this goal, we offer widely recyclable
packaging, items with high levels of recycled material, and an abundance of items optimised to be
lightweight.

On behalf of the board

M Miles
Director
23 May 2025

as other employees so far as training, career development and promotion are concerned.

Carbon Reporting

Energy Consumption used to calculate emissions (kWh
Emissions from combustion of Gas (Tonnes CO2e - Scope 1
Emissions of combustion of fuel for transport purposes :
Tonnes CO2e - Scope 1)

Emissions from business travel in rental cars or employee-
owned vehicles where company is responsible for purchasing
the fuel (Tonnes CO2e - Scope 3

Emissions from purchased electricity (Tonnes CO2e - Scope 2,
location-based 8,227 14,688

Total gross emissions (Tonnes CO2e

Intensity Ratio (Tonnes CO2e per Tonne Produced
Methodology

Scope 1 emissions:

Emissions from combustion of on-site gas, calculated by multiplying consumption by
relevant emission factor (Nat Gas or LPG) from DEFRA 2024. Emissions from combustion
of transport fuel calculated by multiplying consumption of Gas Oil, Kerosene, Gasoline and
Diesel by relevant emissions factors from DEFRA 2024.

Scope 2:
Calculated using location based approach, using IEA 2023 emission factors for UK.

Scope 3:

Business travel using employee owned vehicles estimated using average employee-owned
vehicle milage (~250 miles) x emissions factor for average car, DEFRA 2024 x Number of
employees

The reduction in the metrics above is driven by the disposal of the Blow Moulding Specialities
division, with the exception of Emissions from combustion of Gas and Emissions from
purchased efectricity. The former has increased as the use of gas generators has increased in
the current year to generate electricity, which has in turn reduced the latter metric accordingly.

Energy Efficiency Action Taken
The ultimate parent Company, Berry Global Group, Inc. (CPI division), operates a worldwide

energy improvement initiative that has a separate programme for each country in which it
operates. The UK programme includes this legal entity and during the reporting period over 40
UK energy saving projects (including process water system upgrades, compressor
replacement, lighting upgrades to LED and replacing hydraulic injection moulding machines
with fully electric injection moulding machines) were completed and reduced energy
consumption by over 6 million kWh in the year. These actions are prioritised by the senior
management team at Berry CPI as part of the global 200million kWh reduction challenge and
will benefit future years also. The Berry CPI energy team are also engaged with all plants in
developing best practice energy saving solutions across the network in line with the ESOS
recommendations, along with promoting the principles of continuous improvement as part of
the ISO50001 scheme, of which many of the UK sites are already certified.

RPC Containers Limited

Directors’ report for the year ended 30 September 2024 (continued)

Going Concern

The Company made a profit after taxation of £30.3m (2023: £37.0m) and had net current assets
of £19.4m (2023: £118.1m), the directors believe that the Company is able to meet its liabilities
as they fall due and that medium and long-term prospects are excellent.

Strategic Report

The Company has taken advantage of section 414C (11) of the CA 2006 to include disclosures
in the Strategic Report that would otherwise be required to be included in the Directors’ Report
where it is of strategic importance to the Company.

Creditor Payment Policy

The Company endeavours to agree the terms and conditions under which business
transactions with its suppliers are conducted prior to placing business, there being no specific
payment code for the packaging industry. It is the Company’s policy to pay to agreed terms.

Financial risk management :

The Company’s ultimate parent during the year, Berry Global Group, Inc. managed the interest
rate, price and liquidity risks associated with the whole group, as disclosed in the financial
statements of that company, which are publicly available.

Political Donations
The Company's policy is to make no political donations and none were made in the year.

Disclosure of Information to the auditor

The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors’ Report confirm that, so
far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's
auditor is unaware, and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as
a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the
Company's auditor is aware of that information.

Auditor
Pursuant to section 487 of the Companies Act 2006, the auditor will be deemed to be
reappointed and RSM UK Audit LLP will therefore continue in office.

Post balance sheet event
On 19 November 2024 Amcor plc (“Amcor”) and Berry Global Group, Inc. (“Berry”), announced
a definitive merger agreement. Please see note 23 for further details. :

On behalf of the board

M Mile
Director
23 May 2025

RPC Containers Limited

Independent auditors’ report to the members of RPC Containers Limited

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of RPC Containers Limited (the ‘company’) for the
year ended 30 September 2024 which comprise the profit and loss account, statement of
comprehensive income, balance sheet, statement of changes in equity and notes to the
financial statements, including significant accounting policies. The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:
e give a true and fair view of the state of the company's affairs as at 30 September 2024
and of its profit for the year then ended;
¢ have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice;
e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs
(UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in
the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We
are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant
to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We
believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis
for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going
concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate. Based
on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to
events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the
company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from
when the financial statements are authorised for issue. Our responsibilities and the
responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant
sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the
financial statements and our auditor's report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other
information contained within the annual report. Our opinion on the financial statements does
not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report,
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other
information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained
in the course of the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such
material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine
whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If,
based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of
this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

RPC Containers Limited

Independent auditors’ report to the members of RPC Containers Limited

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

e the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial
year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial
statements; and

e the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with
applicable legal requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained
in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report
or the directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies
Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:
« adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit
have not been received from branches not visited by us; or
« the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns;
or
certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or .
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ responsibilities set out on page 6, the
directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied
that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is
necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the directors
are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing,
as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting
unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no
realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an
auditor's report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance,
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

The extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities,
including fraud ,

Irregularities are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. The objectives of our
audit are to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding compliance with laws and
regulations that have a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures
in the financial statements, to perform audit procedures to help identify instances of non-
compliance with other laws and regulations that may have a material effect on the financial
statements, and to respond appropriately to identified or suspected non-compliance with laws
and regulations identified during the audit.

In relation to fraud, the objectives of our audit are to identify and assess the risk of material
misstatement of the financial statements due to fraud, to obtain sufficient appropriate audit
evidence regarding the assessed risks of material misstatement due to fraud through designing
and implementing appropriate responses and to respond appropriately to fraud or suspected
fraud identified during the audit.

10

RPC Containers Limited

Independent auditors’ report to the members of RPC Containers Limited

However, it is the primary responsibility of management, with the oversight of those charged
with governance, to ensure that the entity's operations are conducted in accordance with the
provisions of laws and regulations and for the prevention and detection of fraud.

In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including
fraud, the audit engagement team:

e obtained an understanding of the nature of the industry and sector, including the legal
and regulatory framework that the company operates in and how the company is
complying with the legal and regulatory framework;

e inquired of management, and those charged with governance, about their own
identification and assessment of the risks of irregularities, including any known actual,
suspected or alleged instances of fraud;

« discussed matters about non-compliance with laws and regulations and how fraud
might occur including assessment of how and where the financial statements may be
susceptible to fraud

As a result of these procedures we consider the most significant laws and regulations that have
a direct impact on the financial statements are FRS 101, UK tax legislation and the Companies
act 2006. We performed audit procedures to detect non-compliances which may have a
material impact on the financial statements which included reviewing financial statement
disclosures and the tax computation. The most significant laws and regulations that have an
indirect impact on the financial statements are those in relation to health and safety,
employment law and packaging regulations. We performed audit procedures to inquire of
management whether the company is in compliance with these laws and regulations.

The audit engagement team identified the risk of management override of controls and revenue
recognition as the areas where the financial statements were most susceptible to material
misstatement due to fraud. Audit procedures performed in respect of management override of
controls included but were not limited to testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other
adjustments, assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are
indicative of a potential bias, and evaluating the business rationale of any significant, unusual
transactions that are entered into outside the normal course of business. Audit procedures
performed in respect of revenue recognition included but were not limited to the use of
substantive testing to test assertions over revenue including cut-off.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on
the Financiat Reporting Council’s website at: htto:/Avww.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities This
description forms part of our auditor's report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter
3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might
state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s
report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or
assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

RSM UK Audit LLP

lan Wall (Senior Statutory Auditor)

For and on behalf of RSM UK Audit LLP, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants

103 Colmore Row

Birmingham

West Midlands

B3 3AG

23 May 2025
11

RPC Containers Limited i 5

Profit and loss account for the year ended 30 September 2024

; , 30 30

September September
2024 2023
Note £m _ £m

Continuing operations:
Revenue . 2 168.8 195.2
Operating costs . ” (469.2) (184.4)
Other operating income . 1 32.5 31.7
Operating profit from continuing operations 4 32.1 42.5
Net interest charge 6 (1.7) (0.3)
Other finance charge , 21 (1.2) (0.2)
Loss on sale of investment 10 (4.4) . —_
Dividend income 7 5.9 . ‘:
Profit before taxation from continuing operations : 30.7 , 42.0
Taxation 8 (0.4) (4.4)
Profit after taxation for the year from continuing 303 37.6

operations
Discontinued operations:

Loss after taxation for the year from discontinued 3 : (0 6)
operations - - (0.
Profit after taxation for the year 30.3 37.0

Statement of comprehensive income for the year ended 30 September ,
2024

30 : 30
September ‘September
2024 « 2023
Note £m : £m
Profit after taxation for the year * 30.3 37.0
W ’ .

Actuarial gains (losses) on defined benefit .
pension plans at 72 (24.0)
Deferred tax on actuarial losses (1.8) 5.7
Total other comprehensive income 5.4 (18.3)
Total comprehensive income for the year 35.7 18.7


RPC Containers Limited .

Balance sheet as at 30 September 2024 . oF

30 September 30 September

Note 2024 2023
£m £m
Non-current assets
Goodwill : 9 6.0 6.0
Other intangible assets 9 5.7 3.7
Property, plant and equipment - owned 11 64.3 70.8
Property, plant and equipment - leased 11 6.3 7A
Trade and other receivables 13 56.0 38.0
Deferred tax assets 17 - . 1.0
Investments 10 358.6 86.5
: 496.9 213.1
Current assets
Anventories 12 18.0 19.2
Trade and other receivables 13 84.4 167.2
Cash and cash equivalents 20.2 ; 38.6
j 122.6 " 225.0
Trade and other payables: amounts falling due '
within one year) 9 14 (103.2) (106.9)
Net current assets 19.4 118.1
Total assets less current liabilities 516.3 . 331.2
Trade and other payables: amounts falling due . oS ’
after more than one year 9 , 18 _. (248.0) (6)
Deferred tax liabilities , 17 (3.3) : =
Net pension liabilities 21 + (11.4) (24.6)
Netassets _ ; 253.6 301.0
Equity
Share capital . we 18 10.0 10.0
Share premium account 58.8 58.8
Retained earnings . 184.8 232.2
Total equity 253.6 301.0

The financial statements on pages 12 to 33 were approved by the board of directors on 23 May
2025 and were signed on its behalf by: -

M Mile
Director
Company number: 02786492

13

RPC Containers Limited

Statement of changes in equity for the year ended 30 September 2024

At 1 October 2022

Actuarial losses on defined benefit
pension plans

Deferred tax on actuarial losses
Profit for the year

At 30 September 2023

At 1 October 2023

Actuarial gains on defined benefit
pension plans

Deferred tax on actuarial losses
Dividends

Profit for the year

At 30 September 2024

Share
capital
£m

10.0

Share
premium
£m

58.8

58.8

58.8

Retained Total
earnings equity
£m £m
213.5 282.3
(24.0) (24.0)
5.7 5.7

37.0 37.0
232.2 301.0
232.2 301.0
7.2 7.2

(1.8) (1.8)
(83.1) (83.1)
30.3 30.3
184.8 253.6


RPC Containers Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024

1. Accounting policies

The company is a private company that is limited by shares. It is incorporated in the United Kingdom
and registered and domiciled in England.

Basis of accounting

The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis under the historical cost
convention and accounting policies have been consistently applied except as disclosed in the
accounting policies in this note.

In assessing going concern management assessed the future projections of the Company and the
businesses that the Company holds intercompany positions with for at least 12 months from approval
of the financial statements. Based on the assessment performed and the company’s financial position
the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company will be able to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future, being at least one year from the approval of the financial!
statements. Thus, they have continued to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing
these financial statements.

These financial statements of the company have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting
Standard 101, ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (FRS 101) and the Companies Act 2006 as applicable
to companies using FRS 101 (the Act). FRS 101 sets out a reduced disclosure framework for a
‘qualifying entity’ as defined in the standard which addresses the financial reporting requirements and
disclosure exemptions in the individual financial statements of qualifying entities that otherwise apply
the recognition, measurement and disclosure requirements of International Accounting Standards in
conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. The company is a qualifying entity for
the purposes of FRS 101 as it is a member of a group which prepares publicly available consolidated
financial statements and it is included in the consolidation for that group. Accordingly, the following
exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have been applied in the preparation of these financial
statements in accordance with FRS 101:

a) IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’;

b) Paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2, ‘Share-based payment’ (details of the number
and weighted-average exercise prices of share options, and how the fair value of goods or
services received was determined)

c) IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’ (paragraph 91-99);

d) IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’ (paragraph 38) — comparative information
requirements in respect of:

(i) paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1;
(i) paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16, ‘Property, plant and equipment’;

(iii) paragraph 118(e) of IAS 38, ‘Intangible assets’ — reconciliations between the
carrying amount at the beginning and end of the year

(iv) 10(d), (statement of cash flows);

(v) 111 (cash flow statement information); and

(vi) 134-136 (capital management disclosures);
e) IAS 7, ‘Statement of cash flows’;

f) IAS 8 ‘Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors’ (paragraph 30 and
31) — requirement for the disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS
that has been issued but is not yet effective;

15

RPC Containers Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024
(continued)

1. Accounting policies (continued)

Basis of accounting (continued)
g) The following requirements of IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’:

(i) paragraph 17 — key management compensation; and

(ii) the requirements to disclose related party transactions entered into with two or
more wholly owned members of a group.

New standards, amendments and IFRIC interpretations
There are no amendments to accounting standards, or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the
year ended 30 September 2024 that have had a material impact on the company.

Property, plant and equipment
Items of property, plant and equipment are stated at cost together with any incidental expenses of
acquisition less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.

Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of each part of an item of property, plant and
equipment less any residual value on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of
the assets concerned, as follows:

Freehold buildings 50 years
Long leasehold property 50 years
Plant and equipment 5 to 12 years
Moulds 3 to 5 years
Motor vehicles 4 years

Freehold land is not depreciated.

Trade and other receivables

Trade and other receivables are amounts due from customers for merchandise sold or services
performed in the ordinary course of business. If collection is expected in one year or less (or in the
normal operating cycle of the business, if longer), they are classified as current assets. If not, they are
presented as non-current assets.

Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at
amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. The company applies
the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit tosses which uses a lifetime expected
loss allowance for all trade receivables and contract assets.

To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables and contract assets have been grouped
based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due. The contract assets relate to unbilled
work in progress and have substantially the same risk characteristics as the trade receivables for the
same types of contracts. The company has therefore concluded that the expected loss rates for trade
receivables are a reasonable approximation of the loss rates for the contract assets.

Provisions

A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the Company has a present legal or constructive
obligation as a result of a past event and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be
required to settie the obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are determined by discounting the
expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value
of money and, when appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.

Impairment of tangible and intangible assets

At each balance sheet date, the Company reviews the carrying amount of the Company's assets, other
than inventories, financial assets within the scope of IAS 39 and deferred tax assets to determine
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such
indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of
the impairment loss (if any).

16

RPC Containers Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024
(continued)

1. Accounting policies (continued)

Impairment of tangible and intangible assets (continued)

Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Company
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. Goodwill is
tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be
impaired.

The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing
value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax
discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific
to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.

If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying
amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised as an
expense immediately.

Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses in respect of assets other than goodwill, the carrying
amount of the asset is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the
increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had
no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is
recognised as income immediately.

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. In determining the cost of raw
materials, consumables and goods for resale, the average purchase price is used. For finished goods,
cost is taken as production cost which includes the cost of the raw materials and an appropriate
proportion of overheads. Where necessary, provision is made for obsolete, slow moving and defective
stocks.

Foreign currencies"

Trading transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at the exchange
rate ruling when the transaction was entered into. Monetary assets and liabilities are translated into
sterling at the rate of exchange on the date of the balance sheet. Non-monetary assets and liabilities
that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange
rate at the date of the transaction. All other foreign exchange differences are taken to the profit and
loss account in the year in which they arise.

Revenue

Revenue, which excludes value added tax, other sales taxes and trade discounts, represents the
invoiced value of goods supplied. Revenue is recognised in the profit and loss account when products
and associated equipment are supplied to external customers in line with contractual arrangements. In
these instances, significant risks and rewards of ownership have passed to third parties, the amount of
revenue can be measured reliably and it is probable that the economic benefits associated with the
transaction will flow to the Company.

Other operating income

Other operating income, which excludes value added tax, other sales taxes and trade discounts,
represents the invoiced value for the licensing of brand IP and related intangible assets to group trading
companies. This charge is included within other operating income as it is an ancillary form of income,
unrelated to the principal activity of polymer conversion.

Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the current taxes payable and deferred tax.

The current tax payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as

reported in the profit and loss account because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable
or deductible in other years and it further exciudes items that are never taxable or deductible.

17

RPC Containers Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024
(continued)

1. Accounting policies (continued)

Taxation (continued)
The Company's liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.

Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases
used in the computation of taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax
assets are recognised on deductible temporary differences where they can be offset against taxable
temporary differences or to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against
which they can be utilised.

Deferred tax liabitities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in
subsidiaries, except where the Company is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and
it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the year when the liability is
settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the profit and loss account, except
when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also
dealt with in equity.

Retirement benefit obligations
The Company operates a defined benefit pension scheme and two small defined contribution plans.
The defined benefit scheme is contributory.

Following consultation with affected employees the decision was taken to close the UK pension
scheme both to new entrants and future service accrual with effect from 31 July 2010 and to replace it
with a contract based defined contribution pension plan for future service.

The liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is the
present value of the defined benefit obligation tess the fair value of plan assets at the balance sheet
date. The obligation is calculated by external actuaries using the projected unit method. Actuarial gains
and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or
credited to equity and recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income in the year in which
they occur.

The costs of providing accrued service benefits are charged to operating expenses. Employee benefit
net finance expense is included in net financing costs.

Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the profit and loss account when they fall
due.

Leases
i) Identification of a lease

At inception of a contract the Company assesses whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. A contract
is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a
year of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys the right to contro!
the use of an identified asset the Company assesses whether:

e the contract involves the sole use of a specific identified asset — this may be specified
explicitly or implicitly, and should be physically distinct or represent substantially all of the
capacity of a physically distinct asset. If the supplier has the right to substitute the identified
asset for a similar asset then the asset is not identified;

18

RPC Containers Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024
(continued)

1. Accounting policies (continued)
Leases (continued)

e the Company has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from use of
the asset throughout the year of use; and

e the Company has the right to direct the use of the asset.
ii) As a lessee

The Company recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date.
The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease
liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial
direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to
restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is focated, less any lease incentives received.

The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the
commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of
the lease term. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use assets are determined on the same basis as
those of property and equipment. In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by
impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability. ,

The tease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at
the commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot
be readily determined, the Company's incremental borrowing rate. Lease payments included in the
measurement of the lease liability comprise fixed payments, variable lease payments that depend on
an index or a rate, amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee and the exercise
price under a purchase option that the Company is reasonably certain to exercise. Generally the lease
liability represents the present value of contractual future lease payments including optional renewal
years where the group is reasonably certain to exercise the extension option.

The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured
when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or rate, if there is a
change in the Company’s estimate of the amount expected to be payable under a residual value
guarantee, or if the Company changes its assessment of whether it will exercise a purchase, extension
or termination option. When the lease liability is remeasured in this way, a corresponding adjustment
is made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recorded in profit or loss if the carrying
amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero.

The Company presents right-of-use assets that do not meet the definition of investment property in
‘Property, plant and equipment’ and discloses the corresponding lease liability in the statement of
financial position.

Short-term jeases and leases of low-value assets
The Company has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases

that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets. The Company recognises
the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease
term.

iii) As a lessor

Lease income from lease contracts in which the Company acts as a lessor is £1,500,000 per annum.
The Company leases land and buildings owned by the Company and has classified this lease as an
operating lease because they do not transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to the
ownership of the asset. The lease is a 3 year lease beginning on 1 January 2023.

19

RPC Containers Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024
(continued)

1. Accounting policies (continued)

Research and development expenditure
Research expenditure is written off in the year in which it is incurred.

Where the expenditure relates to the development of a new product or process which is expected to
be technically feasible and commercially viable, development costs are capitalised and amortised over
their useful economic lives, to a maximum of five years. The intangible assets are assessed for
indications of impairment annually and any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account.

Goodwill

Goodwill has been recognised on acquisitions and represents the excess of the fair value of
consideration given over the Company’s interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities
and contingent liabilities at the date of acquisition. The carrying amount is allocated to cash-generating
units and is tested at least annually for impairment. Any impairment is recognised immediately as an
expense and cannot be reversed subsequently.

Other intangible assets

Other intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment
losses. Amortisation is recognised within operating costs and begins when the asset is available for us
and is calculated on a straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset as follows:

- Computer software and other 4-5 years

Investments
Investments are stated at the fair value of the consideration given when initially acquired and
reviewed for impairment if there is an indication that the carrying value may not be recoverable.

Key Estimates and Assumptions

The preparation of the financial statements may require the directors to make judgements, estimates
and assumptions that affect the application of policies and the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
income and expenses. Any estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experiences
and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of
which form the basis of making the judgements about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are
not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The key

‘estimates and judgements used in the financial statements are as follows:

Retirement benefit obligations

The costs and present value of any related pension assets and liabilities depend upon such factors as
life expectancy of the members, wage rate increases of current employees, the returns that the
schemes’ assets generate and the discount rate used to calculate the present value of the pension
liabilities. The Company uses estimates based on past experience and actuarial advice in determining
these future cash flows and in determining the discount rate.

There is judgement applied in determining the Company's portion of the Berry UK Pension Scheme
assets and liabilities. Management have applied judgement and used the participant data in order to
determine this apportionment.

Lease accounting

The application of IFRS 16 requires significant estimation and judgement, particularly around the
calculation of the incremental borrowing rate and determining the lease term when there are options to
extend or terminate early. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the
lease. If that rate-cannot be readily determined, which is generally the case for leases in the company,
the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate is used, being the rate that the individual lessee would have to
pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset of similar value to the right-of-use asset in a
similar economic environment with similar terms, security and conditions.

20

RPC Containers Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024
(continued)

1. Accounting policies (continued)

Key Estimates and Assumptions (continued)
The company used incremental borrowing rates specific to each lease and the rates range between
1.08% - 6.86% translating to an average rate of 3.69%.

In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and circumstances that create an
economic incentive to exercise an extension option, or not exercise a termination option. Extension
options (or years after termination options) are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably
certain to be extended (or not terminated).

For property leases the following factors are normally the most relevant:

e If there are significant penalties to terminate (or not extend), the company is typically
reasonably certain to extend (or not terminate).

« If any leasehold improvements are expected to have a significant remaining value, the
company is typically reasonably certain to extend (or not terminate)

Most extension options in vehicles leases have not been included in the lease liability, because the
company could replace the assets without significant cost or business disruption.

Carrying value of investments and amounts owed by group undertakings

An annual impairment assessment is performed by comparing the value of the investment with the
underlying net assets and the forecast cash flows of the direct and indirect subsidiaries. Forecast cash
flows are discounted to present value using an appropriate discount rate. Key estimates include the
forecast trading performance and cash flows of the direct and indirect subsidiaries. Key assumptions
that are made in this process include the discount rate applied and also the growth rate assumption
outside of the initial forecast period. Based on the forecast profitability generated by underlying trade
and assets of its subsidiaries and fellow group undertakings, the directors consider the carrying value
of the Company's investment in its subsidiaries and amounts owed by group undertakings to be
supportable.

Group financial statements

The financial statements present information about the Company as an individual undertaking and not
about its Group. The Company has not prepared Group financial statements as it is exempt from the
requirement to do so by Section 401 of the Companies Act 2006 as it is a subsidiary undertaking within
a Group headed by Berry Global Group, Inc., a company incorporated in the United States of America,
and is included in the consolidated financial statements of that Company.

2. Revenue

The geographical analysis of revenue by destination and by origin from continuing operations is as
follows:

By destination By origin

Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended

30 September 30September 30September 30 September

2024 2023 2024 2023

£m £m £m £m

United Kingdom 143.0 164.7 168.8 195.2
Mainland Europe 24.1 28.5 - -
Rest of World 1.7 2.0 : -
168.8 196.2 168.8 195.2

21

RPC Containers Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024

(continued)

3. Discontinued operations

Revenue

Operating costs

Operating loss

Net interest charge

Loss before taxation

Taxation

Loss after taxation for the year

30 September

2024
£m

30 September
2023
£m

18.9
(19.7)
(0.8)

(0.8)
0.2
(0.6)

Details of the sale of the of the trade and assets of discontinued operations in the prior year are as

follows:

Sale Proceeds

Assets disposed of:
Property, plant & equipment
Working capital

Gain on disposal

4. Operating profit

Operating profit is stated after charging: .

Continuing operations:
Raw materials and consumables — continuing operations

Staff costs (note 5) — continuing operations
Depreciation of tangible assets
- Owned assets — continuing operations
- Leased assets

Amortisation of other intangible assets

Loss/(Profit) on disposal of property, plant & equipment
Expense relating to leases of low value

Fees payable to the company’s auditor for the audit of the
Company's annual accounts

Discontinued operations:

Raw materials and consumables
Staff costs (note 5)

Depreciation of tangible assets

30 September
2024
‘£m

74.5
53.0

"40.1
1.5

‘0.7
0.4

0.2

£m
18.2

(10.3)
(7.9)

30 September
2023
£m

94.2
53.5

* 10.6
1.6
1.5

(2.8)
0.1

12.8
3.7
0.8

22

RPC Containers Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024
(continued)

5. Directors and employees

The average number of personnel (including executive directors) employed by the company from
continuing operations was:

30 September 30 September

2024 ) 2023

Number Number

Production 776 ; 877
Selling : 36 38
Administration . 163 157
' 975 1,072

Staff costs for the above personnel were:
30 September 30 September

2024 2023

£m £m

Wages and salaries 483 48.8
Social security 3.1 / 3.2

--' Pension costs — Defined contribution schemes 1.6 1.5
53.0 53.5

The directors did not receive any emoluments for the year ended 30 September 2024 (2023: Enil).
Their costs are borne by Berry Global Group, Inc. a fellow group company.

Staff costs from discontinued operations amounted to Enil (2023: £3.7m) with an average headcount
of nil (2023: 422).

. toe

6. Net interest charge

: 30 September 30 September
. 2024 2023
Continuing operations: ; £m ; £m
Lease interest expense (0.2) (0.3)
Intercompany loan interest expense ; , (1.2) -
External interest expense (1.1) (0.8)
Total finance expense . (2.5) (1.1)
External interest income - 0.1
Intercompany loan interest income wo , . 0.8 : 0.7
Total finance income ; 0.8 : 0.8
Net finance charge "a7 | (0.3)

Net finance charge from discontinued operations was Enil (2023: £nil).

23

RPC Containers Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 Septem

(continued)

ber 2024

,

7. Dividend income :
30 September 30 September
20244 2023
‘ £m £m
Dividends receivable from subsidiary undertakings 5.9 -
8. Taxation
30 September 30 September
2024 2023
£m £m
Analysis of tax charge in the year
Current Tax
UK corporation tax at 25% (2023: 22%) - -
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (2.2) 0.3
Total current tax (2.2) 0.3
Deferred tax
Adjustment in respect of prior periods 0.2 0.5
Deferred tax charge current year 0.9 2.0
United Kingdom deferred tax on pension liability 1.5 1.4
Total deferred tax (note 17) 2.6 3.9
Tax on profit 0.4 42
Tax charge on continuing operations 0.4 4.4
Tax credit on discontinued operations : (0.2)
Tax on profit 0.4 4.2

The tax assessed for the year is lower than (2023: lower than) the standard rate of corporation tax in
the United Kingdom of 25% (2023: 22%). The differences are explained below:

Profit on ordinary activities before taxation

Profit on ordinary activities muitiplied by the standard rate in
the United Kingdom of 25% (2023: 22%) -
Effects of: ‘
Permanent differences
Group relief received
Impact of change in rate / other timing differences
Adjustments in respect of prior years

Tota! tax charge for the year

30 September 30 September
2024 2023
£m £m
30.7 42.0
7.7 9.2
(0.2) -

re 3) (6.1)

' . 0.2
(2.0) 0.9
0.4 42

24

RPC Containers Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024
(continued)

8. Taxation (continued)

Factors that may affect future tax charges

UK Finance Bill 2023 was substantively enacted on. 20 June 2023, which set the main rate of UK
corporation tax at 25%, effective 1 April 2023. This will determine the company’s future current tax
charge accordingly. The company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities at 30 September 2024 have been
calculated accordingly, based on the Group’s best estimate of the timing of the unwind of existing
temporary differences.

9. Intangible assets
: Other
intangible
Software assets Total Goodwill
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 October 2023 6.9 8.1 15.0 9.4
Additions 0
At 30 September 2024 9.6 8.1 17.7 9.4
Amortisation
At 1 October 2023 3.3 8.0 11.3 3.4
Charge for the year 0.7 - 0.7 :
At 30 September 2024 4.0 8.0 12.0 3.4
Net book amount
At 30 September 2024 5.6 0.1 5.7 6.0
At 30 September 2023 3.6 0.1 3.7 6.0
10. Investments
£m
Cost and net book amount
At 1 October 2023 86.5
Additions 312.4
Disposals (40.3)
At 30 September 2024 358.6

During the year the company completed the share purchase of British Polythene Industries Limited
and Maynard & Harris Plastics (UK) Limited on 28 August 2024 for £182.1m and £126.0m
respectively. Both transfers were financed by intercompany account utilisation. Further to the above
the Company increased its investment in Berry UK Containers Limited on 23 February 2024 by £4.3m
via cash injection. In addition, the Company disposed of its investments in Fiberweb Geosynthetics
Limited on 20 December 2023 for its carrying value of £17.8m, and Berry UK Containers Limited for
£18.1m on 28 June 2024, recording a loss on disposal of £4.4m as a result. Further to the above the
Company also disposed of its investment in Terram Limited on 20 December 2023 for £1 which
resulted in no gain or loss being recognised.

All of the above acquisitions and disposals were as a result of a group-wide legal entity restructuring
project.

25

RPC Containers Limited .

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024
(continued) a”

10. Investments (continued) ey

Details of undertakings

Details of the investments in which the company holds 20% or more of the nomirial value of any class

of share capital are as follows:
. Proportion of voting

rights and shares held

30 30
September September

Undertaking Principal activity Holding 2024 2023
Massmould Limited Plastic conversion Ordinary 100% 100%
Maynare & Harris Plastics Plastic conversion Ordinary 100% 0%
ro Polythene Industries Plastic conversion Ordinary 100% 0%
RPC Tedeco-Gizeh (UK) Limited Dormant Ordinai 100% 100%
Superfos Tamworth Limited Dormant Ordinary 100% 100%
Promens Packaging . °, 9
Limited Dormant Ordinary 100% 100%
Berry UK Containers Limited Plastic conversion Ordinary 0% 100%
Fiberweb Geosynthetics Manufacturing . 6 °
Limited geosynthetic products Ordinary 0% 100%
Terram Limited Dormant Ordinary 0% - 100%

The registered address for the above investments are Sapphire House, Crown Way, ‘Rushden,
Northamptonshire, NN10 6FB.

An annual impairment assessment is performed by comparing the value of the investment with the
underlying net assets and the forecast cash flows of the direct and indirect subsidiaries. Forecast cash
flows are discounted to present value using an appropriate discount rate. At the balance sheet date
the underlying net assets and forecast cash flows exceeded the carrying value of investment and
therefore no impairment is required.

26

RPC Containers Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024
(continued)

11. Property, plant and equipment : : ‘

Owned assets:

Plant,
Freehold equipment,
landand Long leasehold moulds and
buildings improvements vehicles Total
£m £m £m £m
Cost
At 1 October 2023 : 46.1 1.7 149.5 197.3
Additions 06 - . 65 . 7.1
Disposals - - (6.0) __ (6.0)
At 30 September 2024 46.7 17 150.0 198.4
- Depreciation ' : :
At 30 September 2024 22.7 0.9 102.9 " * 126.5
Charge for the year - 1.9 0.1 8.1 - 10.4
_ Disposals - - (2.5) * (2.5)
At 30 September 2024 24.6 1.0 - 108.5 134.1
‘Net book amount ° soy ;
At 30 September 2024 22.1 0.7 415 64.3
At 30 September 2023 23.4 0.8 46.6 70.8
The value relating to land not depreciated is £3.9m (2023: £3.9m).
Right-of-Use (leased) assets: . , , Plant,
an , : Land and equipment and
: buildings vehicles Total
£m _ £m £m
Cost
At 1 October 2023 3.7 7.8 11.5
Additions - 0.8 0.8
Disposals - 0.4 0.4
At 30 September 2024 3.7 8.2 11.9
Depreciation
At 1 October 2023 1.9 2.5 44
Charge for the year 0.6 0.9 1.5
Disposals - (0.3) (0.3)
At30 September 2024 2.5 3.4 5.6
Net book amount
At 30 September 2024 1.2 5.1 6.3

At 30 September 2023 1.8 §.3 71

27

RPC Containers Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024
(continued)

12. Inventories :
30 September 30 September
2024 2023
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables 11.2 12.0
Finished goods and goods for resale 6.8 7.2
18.0 19.2

Inventories are stated after provision for inventory write downs of £0.4m (2023: £0.6m).

13. Trade and other receivables
30 September 30 September
2024 2023
£m £m
Trade debtors 29.2 32.2
Amounts owed by group undertakings 96.4 147.3
Corporation tax debtor 5.4 26
Other debtors 0.6 1.2
Prepayments and accrued income 8.8 21.9
140.4 205.2

Amounts owed by group undertakings are measured at historic cost and are unsecured, interest
bearing and repayable on demand. Trade debtors are stated after provisions for impairment of £0.6m
(2023: £0.9m). Of the amounts owed by group undertakings, £56.0m (2023: £38.0m) is deemed to be
receivable in greater than one year. :

14. Trade and other payables: amounts falling due within one year

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

£m £m

Trade creditors 25.9 30.8
Amounts owed to group undertakings 38.4 60.4
Lease liabilities 1.3 1.9
Other tax and social security 8.7 8.5
Other creditors 25.3 2.9
Accruals 3.6 2.4
103.2 106.9

Amounts owed to group undertakings are measured at historic cost and are unsecured, interest free
and repayable on demand.

28

RPC Containers Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024
(continued) ‘

15. Trade and other payables: amounts falling due after more than one
year
‘ 30 September 30 September
2024 2023
£m £m
Lease liabilities 4 5.5 : 5.6
Amounts owed to group undertakings 242.5 — -

248.0 . 5.6
Amounts owed to group undertakings are unsecured, interest bearing and repayable in August 2034.

16. Lease Liabilities
30 September 30 September

2024 2023

. £m £m

Current 1.3 1.9
Non-current 5.5" 5.6
6.8 75

Lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of future lease payments, discounted using
the Company's incremental borrowing rate. The total cash outflow for leases in the year was £1.7m
(2023: £1.8m). .

17. Deferred tax — .
: . . i Deferred tax Deferred tax
assets liabilities
£m £m
At 1 October 2023 “ ‘ 8.1 (7.1)
Charge to profit and loss account (1.5) (0.8)
Charge to statement of total recognised gains and losses (1.8) -
Adjustment in respect of prior years - (0.2)
Deferred tax at 30 September 2024 4.8 (8.1)
‘. Amount provided Amount unprovided
30 30 30 30
September September September September
2024 2023 2024 . 2023
£m £m £m , £m

Timing differences:

Accelerated capital allowances (6.8) . (5.6) . - -
Other timing differences 0.6 0.3 - -
Employee benefits 2.8 6.1 - -
Tax losses 1.4 . 1.7 - -
Rolled over gains (1.3) (1.5) - -

(3.3) 1.0 - -

RPC Containers Limited ’

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024
(continued)

17. Deferred tax (continued)

Accelerated

capital Employee Tax Rolled over
allowances benefits losses* capital gains ‘ Total
£m £m - £m £m £m
At 1 October 2023 (5.6) 6.1 2.0 (1.5) 1.0
Charge to profit and loss (0.9) (15) . 0.1 (2.3)
account
Adjustment in respect of prior (0.3) . - 0.1 (0.2)
years

Charge to statement of total

recognised gains and losses - (1.8) . . (1.8)
At 30 September 2024 (6.8) 2.8 2.0 (1.3) (3.3)

* Tax losses also includes other timing differences asset of £0.6m (2023: £0.3m)

18. Share capital
30 September 30 September

024 2023
£ ; £

Allotted and fully paid: ; ,
10,000,102 (2023: 10,000,102) ordinary shares of £1 each 10,000,102 10,000,102

The Company has one class of ordinary £1 shares. The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary
shares and provisions relating to the transfer of ordinary shares are set out in the Company's Articles
of Association and governed by statute. All ordinary shares rank equally regarding dividends, votes
and return of capital.

19. Dividends paid to equity shareholders

30 September 30 September

2024 2023

£m £m

Dividends paid of £8.31 (2023: £nil) per £1 share 83.1 -
20. Contingencies and commitments

5 . 30 September 30 September

Capital expenditure 2024 2023

£m £m

Expenditure contracted for but not provided 1.5 3.5

Bank guarantees
The Company has cross guarantee overdraft and credit facilities with its indirect parent company RPC
Group Limited where the Company is the guarantor.

30

RPC Containers Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024
(continued)

21. Pension and other post-retirement benefits

The Company provides retirement benefits to some of its former employees and current employees
through a defined benefit pension scheme called the Berry UK Pension Scheme. The scheme provides
members with benefits based on a three-year average of final pensionable salary and total pensionable
service. The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee-administered fund to meet long-term
liabilities for past and present employees. The corporate trustee, which is independent from the
Company, has a duty to act in the best interest of the scheme’s beneficiaries. The appointment of
trustee directors is determined by the scheme's corporate and trust documentation and by statute. All
trustee directors are members of the pension scheme and one-third are nominated by current and
pensioner members. Subject to statute, the principal employer, on the advice of the scheme actuary
and in consultation with the trustee, determines the contributions to the scheme. In addition, in the
event that any of the members’ employing companies are unable to pay their contributions, the trustee
may call upon guarantees provided by RPC Group Limited and Berry Global Group, Inc. in respect of
certain present and future liabilities of the members’ employing companies in the UK. This pension
scheme was Closed to new entrants and to existing members for future service accrual on 31 July 2010
and was replaced with a contract based defined contribution pension plan for future service.

Following the acquisition of RPC Group Plc by Berry Global Inc. in June 2019, Berry Global proposed
that the assets and liabilities of the British Polythene Industries Pension Scheme and the RPC
Containers Pension Scheme, be merged. The legal deed to formally merge these schemes was
approved by the Trustee Directors of each of the respective schemes and executed on 18 January
2021. An allocation of the total net liabilities and costs will continue to be reflected in the Company
financial statements. At the point of merger of the schemes, the deficits of the individual schemes
made up 55% and 45% of the total deficit of the merged scheme at that date. These percentages have
been applied to the deficit position at 30 September 2024, with the 45% share of the deficit at that time
being apportioned to the former RPC Containers Pension Scheme and is recorded in the Company's
financial statements as the sponsoring employer.

The last completed triennial valuation performed by an independent actuary for the trustee of the
scheme was carried out as at 31 March 2021. The valuation of the full scheme, for which the company's
section forms a part and which is calculated on an ongoing funding basis and is different from that
prescribed by |AS19, showed a deficit of £26.4m. The company agreed to make contributions to cover
the scheme’s expenses and pay monthly deficit reduction contributions of £6.3m each year increasing
by 3% on 1 April each year (with the first such increase being 1 April 2020) until 31 March 2024, with
the aim of eliminating the deficit by that date. Owing to the net actuarial losses experienced since 2021
the scheme remains in deficit as shown below. The triennial valuation as at 31 March 2024 is underway
but is yet to be finalised.

The financial assumptions used to calculate scheme liabilities were:

30 September 30 September

2024 2023
Discount rate 5.0% 5.5%
Inflation rate 2.6% 2.8%
Increase in benefits in payment 2.8% 3.0%
Salary increases 2.6% 2.8%

The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial
assumptions which, due to the timescale covered, may not necessarily be borne out in practice. The
mortality assumptions used allow for future mortality improvements in valuing the defined benefit
obligation and are based on standard mortality tables used by the actuarial profession adjusted, where
appropriate, to reflect the circumstances of the scheme’s membership. In the UK the mortality
assumptions applied as at 30 September 2024 are specific to the scheme and the allowance made for
mortality improvements is assumed to be in line with the 2023 CMI core projections with a long term
rate of improvement of 1.00%.

31

RPC Containers Limited :

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024
(continued) ‘ ‘

21. Pension and other post-retirement benefits (continued)

The life expectancies from the age of 65 of scheme members assumed at the balance sheet date in

years were as follows:
. 30 September 30 September

2024 2023
Current age: ~
Aged 65:
Male 21.8 20.6
Female 23.1 22.5
Aged 45:
Male : 23.0 . 21.3
Female 25.1 24.9

The Company employs a building block approach in determining the long-term rate of return on pension
plan assets. Historical markets are studied and assets with higher volatility are assumed to generate
higher returns consistent with widely accepted capital market principles. The overall expected rate of
return on assets is derived by aggregating the expected return for each asset class over the actual
asset allocation for the funded plan at 30 September 2024.

The net pension liability was: :
30 September 30 September

2024 2023
£m £m
Market value of assets
Equities 2441 7.3
Bonds 64.1 58.0
Property : 78° 77
Other 11.7 27.1
Total market value of assets 107.7 100.1
Present value of liabilities * (119.1) (124.7)
Deficit (11.4) (24.6)
Related deferred tax asset 2.8 61
Net pension liability (8.6) (18.5)

The fair value of the schemes assets, which are not intended to be realised in the short-term and may
be subject to significant change before they are realised, and the present value of the schemes
liabilities, which are derived from cash flow projections over tong periods, are, therefore, inherently
uncertain.

The analysis of the amount charged/(credited) to the profit and loss account is as follows:

30 September 30 September

2024 2023
. ‘ £m £m
Interest cost 1.2 0.2

32

RPC Containers Limited

Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2024
(continued)

21. Pension and other post-retirement benefits (continued)

The return on the plan assets was:
30 September 30 September

2024 2023
£m £m
Interest income 5.5 6.2
Actuarial gains/(iosses) 1.9 (25.6)
7.4 (19.4)
Reconciliation of scheme assets and liabilities:

Assets Liabilities Total
£m £m £m
At 1 October 2023 100.1 (124.7) (24.6)
Interest income/(expense) 5.5 (6.7) (1.2)
Actuarial gains 1.9 5.3 7.2

Benefits paid : (7.0) 7.0 -
Contributions by employer oo 72 - 7.2
At 30 September 2024 107.7 (119.1) (11.4)

The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in the principal assumptions is:

Increase in defined

benefit obligation

£m

0.1% decrease in discount rate (1.3)
0.1% increase in inflation (0.9)
1 year increase in life expectancy (4.3)

22. Ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party

The immediate parent company in the period to 23 July 2024 was Rigid Plastic Containers Holdings
Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales. From that date the immediate parent company
changed to RPC Group Limited, a company incorporated in England and Wales.

The ultimate parent at 30 September 2024 was Berry Global Group, Inc. a company incorporated in
United States of America. The smallest and largest group for which consolidated financial statements
are prepared and which include the results of the company for the year is Berry Global Group, Inc.
Copies of Berry Globat Group's consolidated financial statements may be obtained from 101 Oakley
Street, Evansville, Indiana, United States, 47710.

23. Post balance sheet event

On 19 November 2024 Amcor plc (“Amcor”) and Berry Global Group, Inc. (“Berry”), announced a
definitive merger agreement, subject to shareholders’ approvals. The transaction, which completed on
30 April 2025, resulted in Amcor becoming the ultimate parent company. At this stage, a detailed
integration plan is yet to be developed, and it is not anticipated to have an immediate significant impact
on the trade or activities of the Company.

33

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

Berry aaeaeae

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K
ag ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the Fiscal Year Ended September 28, 2024
OR
O ‘TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from to

Commission File Number 001-35672

yIN

Berry

BERRY GLOBAL GROUP, INC.

A Delaware corporation 101 Oakley Street, Evansville, Indiana, 47710 IRS employer identification number
(812) 424-2904 20-5234618

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of Each Class Trading Symbol(s) Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share BERY New York Stock Exchange LLC

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes NoO
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes No

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been

subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes XR NoO

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically every Interactive Data File required to be submitted pursuant to
Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was

required to submit such files). Yes KR NoO

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting
company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer,” “smaller reporting company,”
and “emerging growth company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act

>» €6,

Large accelerated filer Accelerated filer 0 Non-accelerated filer O Small reporting company O Emerging growth company 0

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying
with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 0

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has filed a report on and attestation to its management's assessment of the effectiveness of

intemal control over financial reporting under Section 404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)) by the registered public
accounting firm that prepared or issued its audit report.

https://ir-berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 1/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, tnc.
If securities are registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act, indicate by check mark whether the financial statements of the registrant
included in the filing reflect the correction of an error to previously issued financial statements 0

Indicate by check mark whether any of those error corrections are restatements that required a recovery analysis of incentive-based
compensation received by any of the registrant’s executive officers during the relevant recovery period pursuant to §240.10D-1(b). 0

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Yes O
No

The aggregate market value of the common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates was approximately $6.9 billion as of March 29, 2024,
the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter. The aggregate market value was computed using the
closing sale price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange. As of November 26, 2024, there were 115.2 million shares of common stock
outstanding.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of Berry Global Group, Inc.’s Proxy Statement for its 2025 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part
II] of this report.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html . 2/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Information included in or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
(the “SEC”) and the Company’s press releases or other public statements, contains or may contain forward-looking statements. This report
includes “forward-looking” statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations and business and our expectations or
beliefs concerning future events. These statements contain words such as “believes,” “expects,” “may,” “will,” “should,” “would,” “could,”
“seeks,” “approximately,” “intends,” “plans,” “estimates,” “project,” “outlook,” “anticipates,” or “looking forward” or similar expressions that
relate to our strategy, plans, intentions, or expectations. All statements we make relating to our estimated and projected earnings, margins,
costs, expenditures, cash flows, growth rates, and financial results or to our expectations regarding future industry trends are forward-looking
statements. In addition, we, through our senior management, from time to time make forward-looking public statements concerning our
expected future operations and performance and other developments. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties
that may change at any time, and, therefore, our actual results may differ materially from those that we expected. All forward-looking
statements are made only as of the date hereof, and we undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement as a
result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as otherwise required by law.

Additionally, we caution readers that the list of important factors discussed in the section titled “Risk Factors” may not contain all of the

material factors that are important to you. In addition, in light of these risks and uncertainties, the matters referred to in the forward-looking
statements contained in this report may not in fact occur. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on those statements.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/ntml . 3/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
FORM 10-K FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 28, 2024

PARTI
ItemjJ. BUSINESS
Item 1A. RISK FACTORS
em 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
Item iC. CYBERSECURITY
Item2. PROPERTIES
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
PART II
Item5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
Item6, RESERVED
Item7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUS: IN. AL ce) Cc CONDITION AND TS OF
OPERATIONS,
Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEME, E) RY DAT,

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (PCAOB ID 42)

Consolidated Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of fiscal 2024 and 2023

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity for fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WI x0) TS ON ACCOUNTING ANCIAL
DISCLOSURE
Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROC. S
Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION
Item 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS
PART III
Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFF! ‘ORPO) GOVERNANCE

Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATIO!
Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
em 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES
PART IV

Item 15, EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
Item 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/161114/htm!

OOO 0 COW

10
10

10
15
16
16
19
20
21
22
23

42
42
42
42

43
4B

43

rt
43

44

Page

4/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Item 1. BUSINESS
(In millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted)

General

At Berry Global Group, Inc. (“Berry,” “we,” or the “Company”), we create innovative packaging solutions that we believe make life better for
people and the planet. We do this every day by leveraging our unmatched global capabilities, sustainability leadership, and deep innovation
expertise to serve customers of all sizes around the world. Harnessing the strength in our diversity and industry-leading talent of over 34,000
global employees across more than 200 locations, we partner with customers to develop, design, and manufacture innovative products with an
eye toward the circular economy. The challenges we solve and the innovations we pioneer benefit our customers at every stage of their
journey. We sell our products predominantly into stable, consumer-oriented end markets, such as healthcare, personal care, and food and
beverage. Our customers consist of a diverse mix of global, national, regional and loca! specialty businesses. For the fiscal year ended
‘September 28, 2024 (“fiscal 2024”), no single customer represented more than 5% of net sales and our top ten customers represented 14% of
net sales. We believe our manufacturing processes, manufacturing footprint and our ability to leverage our scale to reduce costs, positions us
as a low-cost manufacturer relative to our competitors. ,

Additional financial information about our segments is provided in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” and the “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements” sections of this report.

Segment Overview

The Company’s operations are organized into four reporting segments: Consumer Packaging International, Consumer Packaging North
America, Flexibles, and Health, Hygiene & Specialties. The structure is designed to align us with our customers, provide optimal service,
drive future growth, and to facilitate synergy realization.

Consumer Packaging International

The Consumer Packaging International segment is a manufacturer of rigid products that primarily services non-North American markets.
Product groups within the segment include Closures and Dispensing Systems, Pharmaceutical Devices and Packaging, Bottles and Canisters,
Containers, and Technical Components. In fiscal 2024, Consumer Packaging International accounted for 32% of our consolidated net sales.

Consumer Packaging North America

The Consumer Packaging North America segment is a manufacturer of rigid products that primarily services North American markets.
Product groups within the segment include Containers and Pails, Foodservice, Closures, Bottles and Prescription Vials, and Tubes. In fiscal
2024, Consumer Packaging North America accounted for 24% of our consolidated net sales. .
Flexibles

The Flexibles segment is a manufacturer of flexible products that services primarily North American and European markets. Product groups
within the segment include Stretch and Shrink Films, Converter Films, Institutional Can Liners, Food and Consumer Films, Retail Bags, and
Agriculture Films. In fiscal 2024, Flexibles accounted for 23% of our consolidated net sales.

Health, Hygiene & Specialties

The Health, Hygiene & Specialties segment is a manufacturer of non-woven and related products that services global markets. Product groups
within the segment include Healthcare, Hygiene, Specialties, and Tapes. In fiscal 2024, Health, Hygiene & Specialties accounted for 21% of
our consolidated net sales.

In February 2024, the Company announced plans for a spin-off and merger of our Health, Hygiene and Specialties Nonwovens and Films
business with Glatfelter Corporation. The spin-off occurred on November 4, 2024 and the historical business will be presented as a
Discontinued Operation in future filings.

Marketing, Sales, and Competition

We reach our large and diversified customer base through a direct sales force of dedicated professionals and the strategic use of distributors.
Our scale enables us to dedicate certain sales and marketing efforts to particular products or customers, when applicable, which enables us to
develop expertise that we believe is valued by our customers.

The major markets in which the Company sells its products are highly competitive. Areas of competition include service, innovation, quality,

and price. This competition is significant as to both the size and the number of competing firms. Competitors include but are not limited to
Amcor, Silgan, Aptar, 3M, and Sigma.

hittps://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 5/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Raw Materials

Our primary raw material is polymer resin. In addition, we use other materials such as butyl rubber, adhesives, paper and packaging materials,
linerboard, rayon, polyester fiber, and foil, in various manufacturing processes. While temporary industry-wide shortages of raw materials
have occurred, we have historically been able to manage the supply chain disruption by working closely with our suppliers and customers.
Changes in the price of raw materials are generally passed on to customers through contractual price mechanisms over time, during contract
renewals and other means.

Intellectual Property

While important to our business in the aggregate, the loss of any single patent or license alone would not have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations as a whole or those of our reportable segments.

Environmental and Sustainability

We believe there will always be a leading role for Berry’s product offerings due to our ability to promote customer brands by providing
superior clarity, protection, design versatility, consumer safety, convenience, cost efficiency, barrier properties, and environmental
performance. We collaborate with customers, suppliers, and innovators to create industry-leading solutions which offer lighter weight
products, enable longer shelf-life, and protect products throughout supply chains.

Sustainability is comprehensively embedded across our business, from how we run our manufacturing operations more efficiently to the
investments we are making in sustainable packaging. We believe responsible packaging is the answer to achieving less waste and that
responsible packaging requires four things - innovative design, continued development of renewable and advanced raw materials, waste
management infrastructure, and consumer participation. Berry is committed to responsible packaging and has (1) targeted 100% reusable,
recyclable, or compostable packaging by 2025, (2) significantly increased our use of circular materials in order to meet our targeted 30%
circular content by 2030, and (3) worked to drive greater recycling rates around the world, With our global scale, deep industry experience,
and strong capabilities, we are uniquely positioned to assist our customer in the design and development of more sustainable packaging.

We also work globally on continuous improvement of employee safety, energy usage, water efficiency, waste reduction, recycling and
reducing our Green house Gas (GHG) emissions. Our teams focus on improving the circularity and reducing the carbon footprint of our
products. We anticipate higher demand for products with lower emissions intensity where polymer resin based products are inherently well
positioned since they typically have lower GHG emissions per functional unit compared to heavier alternatives such as paper, metal and glass.
Additionally, there is also significant work being done on the use of recycled and bio-based content, which typically has lower associated
GHG emissions compared to other virgin materials.

Human Capital and Employees

Overview

Berry’s mission of ‘Always Advancing to Protect What’s Important’ has never been more critical as we are proud to work alongside our
customers to supply products that are essential to everyday life. We continue to prioritize the health and well-being of the communities we
serve as well as our employees and their families. We employ approximately 42,000 employees, and approximately 19% of those employees
are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The majority of these agreements are due for renegotiation annually.

Health and Safety

Employee safety is our number one core value. We believe when it comes to employee safety, our best should always be our standard. It is
through the adherence to our global Environment, Health, and Safety principles we have been able to identify and mitigate operational risks
and drive continuous improvement, resulting in an OSHA incident rate below 1.0 which is significantly lower than the industry average.

Talent and Development

We seek to attract, develop and retain talent throughout the company. Our succession management strategy focuses on a structured succession
framework and multiple years of performance. Our holistic approach to developing key managers and identifying future leaders includes
challenging assignments, formal development plans and professional coaching. Resources to support employee development include
operational programs, university partnerships, internal e-learning requirements, tuition reimbursement programs, and apprenticeships.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html . 6/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Employee Engagement

We seek to ensure that everyone is motivated to perform every day. To further that objective, our engagement approach focuses on clear
communication and recognition. We communicate through regular employee meetings, at both the corporate and operating division levels,
with business and market updates and information on production, safety, quality and other operating metrics. We have many recognition-
oriented awards throughout our company and conduct company-wide engagement surveys which have generally indicated high levels of
engagement and trust in Berry’s leadership.

Inclusion and Diversity

We strive to build a safe and inclusive culture where employees feel valued and treated with respect. We believe inclusion helps drive
engagement, innovation and organizational growth. We provide annual training to our diversified global workforce on the importance of
having a culture of inclusion. : : : :

Ethics

Our employees are expected to act with integrity and we maintain a Global Code of Business Ethics which is attested by every Berry
employee and provides the Company's framework for ethical business. We provide targeted annual training across the globe to reinforce our
commitment to ethics and drive adherence to the laws in each jurisdiction in which we operate.

Available Information

We make available, free of charge, our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and
amendments, if any, to those reports through our internet website as soon as reasonably practicable after they have been electronically filed
with the SEC. Our internet address is www.berryglobal.com. The information contained on our website is not being incorporated herein.

Item 1A. RISK FACTORS
Operational Risks
Global economic conditions may negatively impact our business operations and financial results.

Challenging global conditions, including inflation or military conflicts, may negatively impact our business operations and financial results.
When challenging economic conditions exist, our customers may delay, decrease or cancel purchases from us, and may also delay payment or
fail to pay us altogether. Suppliers may have difficulty filling our orders and distributors may have difficulty getting our products to customers,
which may affect our ability to meet customer demands, and result in a loss of business. Weakened global economic conditions may also result
in unfavorable changes in our product prices, product mix and profit margins. Although we take measures to mitigate the impact of inflation,
including through pricing actions and productivity programs, if these actions are not effective our cash flow, financial condition, and results of
operations could be adversely impacted. In addition, there could be a time lag between recognizing the benefit of our mitigating actions versus
when the challenge occurs and there is no assurance that our mitigating measures will be able to fully mitigate the negative impacts.

Political volatility may also contribute to the general economic conditions and regulatory uncertainty in regions in which we operate. Future
unrest and changing policies could result in an adverse impact to our financial condition. Political developments can also disrupt the markets
we serve and the tax jurisdictions in which we operate and may affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

Raw material inflation or shortage of available materials could harm our financial condition and results of operations.

Raw materials are subject to price fluctuations and availability, due to external factors, which are beyond our control. Temporary industry-
wide shortages of raw materials have occurred in the past, which can lead to increased raw material price volatility. Additionally, our suppliers
could experience cost increases to produce raw material due to increases in carbon pricing. Historically we have been able to manage the
impact of higher costs by increasing our selling prices. We have generally been well positioned to capture additional market share as our
primary raw material, polymer resin, is typically a lower cost and more versatile substrate compared to alternatives. However, raw material
shortages or our inability to timely pass-through increased costs to our customers may adversely affect our business, financial condition and
results of operations.

https:/ir.berrygtobal.com/node/16111/html 7/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Weather related events could negatively impact our results of operations.

Weather related events could adversely impact our business and those of our customers, suppliers, and partners. Such events may have a
physical impact on our facilities, inventory, suppliers, and equipment and any unplanned downtime at any of our facilities could result in
unabsorbed costs that could negatively impact our results of operations for the period in which it experienced the downtime. Longer-term
changes in climate patterns could alter future customer demand, impact supply chains and increase operating costs. However, any such
changes are uncertain and we cannot predict the net impact from such events.

We may not be able to compete successfully and our customers may not continue to purchase our products.

We compete with multiple companies in each of our product lines on the basis of a number of considerations, including price, service, quality,
product characteristics and the ability to supply products to customers in a timely manner. Our products also compete with various other
substrates. Some of these competitive products are not subject to the impact of changes in resin prices, which may have a significant and
negative impact on our competitive position versus substitute products. Additionally, consumer views on environmental considerations could
potentially impact demand for our products that utilize fossil fuel based materials in their manufacturing. Our competitors may have financial
and other resources that are substantially greater than ours and may be better able than us to withstand higher costs. Competition and product
preference changes could result in our products losing market share or our having to reduce our prices, either of which could have a material
adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, since we do not have long-term arrangements with
many of our customers, these competitive factors could cause our customers to shift suppliers and/or packaging material quickly.

‘We may pursue and execute acquisitions or divestitures, which could adversely affect our business.

Transactions involve special risks, including the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies as well as difficulties in
integrating acquired businesses or carving-out divested businesses, which may result in substantial costs, delays or other problems that could
adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, we may not realize all of the synergies we expect to
achieve from our current strategic initiatives due to a variety of risks. If we are unable to achieve the benefits that we expect to achieve from
our strategic initiatives, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.

In the event of a catastrophic loss of one of our key manufacturing facilities, our business would be adversely affected.

While we manufacture our products in a large number of diversified facilities and maintain insurance covering our facilities, including
business interruption insurance, a catastrophic loss of the use of all or a portion of one of our key manufacturing facilities due to accident,
labor issues, weather conditions, natural disaster, pandemic or otherwise, whether short or long-term, could result in future losses.

Employee retention, labor cost inflation or the failure to renew collective bargaining agreements could disrupt our business.

Our relations with employees under collective bargaining agreements remain satisfactory and there have been no significant work stoppages or
other labor disputes during the past four years. However, we may not be able to maintain constructive relationships with labor unions or trade
councils and may not be able to successfully negotiate new collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms in the future.

Labor is subject to cost inflation, availability and workforce participation rates, all of which could be impacted by factors beyond our control.
As a result, there can be no assurance we will be able to recruit, train, assimilate, motivate and retain employees in the future. The loss of a
substantial number of these employees or a prolonged labor dispute could disrupt our business and result in future losses.

We depend on information technology systems and infrastructure to operate our business, and increased cybersecurity threats, system
inadequacies, and failures could disrupt our operations, compromise customer, employee, vendor and other data which could
negatively affect our business.

We rely on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of information technology systems and networks. These systems and networks are
vulnerable to increased threats and more sophisticated computer crime, energy interruptions, telecommunications failures, breakdowns, natural
disasters, terrorism, war, computer malware or other malicious intrusions.

We also maintain and have access to data and information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations, and customer controls.
Despite our efforts to protect such information, breaches, misplaced or lost data and programming damages could result in a negative impact
on the business. While we have not had material system interruptions historically associated with these risks, there can be no assurance from
future interruptions that could result in future losses.

https:/ir.berryglobat.com/node/16111/htm! 8/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Financial and Legal Risks
Our substantial indebtedness could affect our ability to meet our obligations and may otherwise restrict our activities.

We have a significant amount of indebtedness, which requires significant interest payments. The amount of interest charges could increase
materially due to rising interest rates as indebtedness is refinanced, interest rate swaps expire, or accounts receivable factoring grows. Our
inability to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our debt obligations, or to refinance our obligations on commercially reasonable terms,
would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, servicing the interest
obligations of our existing indebtedness could limit our ability to respond to business opportunities, including growing our business through
acquisitions or increased levels of capital expenditures.

Goodwill and other intangibles represent a significant amount of our net worth, and a future write-off could result in lower reported
net income and a reduction of our net worth.

We have a substantial amount of goodwill. Future changes in market multiples, cost of capital, expected cash flows, or other external factors,
may adversely affect our business and cause our goodwill to be impaired, resulting in a non-cash charge against results of operations to write
off goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets for the amount of impairment. If a future write-off is required, the charge could result in
significant losses.

Our international operations pose risks to our business that may not be present with our domestic operations.

We are subject to foreign exchange rate risk, both transactional and translational, which may negatively affect our financial performance.
Exchange rates between transactional currencies may change rapidly due to a variety of factors. In particular, our translational exposure may
be impacted by movements in the exchange rate of the euro or the British pound sterling against the U.S. dollar.

Foreign operations are also subject to certain risks that are unique to doing business in foreign countries including supply chain challenges,
disruption of energy, changes in applicable laws, including assessments of income and non-income related taxes, inability to readily repatriate
cash to the U.S. effectively, and regulatory policies and various trade restrictions including potential changes to taxes or duties. We are also
subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws that generally bar bribes or unreasonable gifts to
foreign governments or officials. We have implemented safeguards, training and policies to discourage these practices by our employees and
agents. However, if employees violate our policies, we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. Any of these risks could disrupt our business
and result in significant losses.

Current and future environmental and other governmental requirements could adversely affect our financial condition and our ability
to conduct our business.

While we have not been required historically to make significant capital expenditures in order to comply with applicable environmental laws
and regulations, we cannot predict our future capital expenditure requirements because of continually changing compliance standards and
environmental technology. Furthermore, violations or contaminated sites that we do not know about (including contamination caused by prior
owners and operators of such sites or newly discovered information) could result in additional compliance or remediation costs or other
liabilities. In addition, federal, state, local, and foreign governments could enact laws or regulations concerning environmental matters, such
as greenhouse gas (carbon) emissions, that increase the cost of producing, or otherwise adversely affect the demand for our products.
Additionally, several governmental bodies in jurisdictions where we operate have introduced, or are contemplating introducing, regulatory
change to address the potential impacts of changes in climate and global warming, which may have adverse impacts on our operations or
financial results. We believe that any such laws promulgated to date have not had a material adverse effect on us, as we have historically been
able to manage the impact of higher costs by increasing our selling prices. However, there can be no assurance that future legislation or
regulation would not have a material adverse effect on us.

Changes in tax laws or changes in our geographic mix of earnings could have a material impact on our financial condition and results
‘of operation.

We are subject to income and other taxes in the many jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws and regulations are complex and the
determination of our global provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. We
are subject to routine examinations of our income tax returns, and tax authorities may disagree with our tax positions and assess additional tax.
Our future income taxes could also be negatively impacted by our mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate being different than
anticipated given differences in statutory tax rates in the countries in which we operate. In addition, tax policy efforts to raise global corporate
tax rates could adversely impact our tax rate and subsequent tax expense.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/htm! 9/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

We may not be successful in protecting our intellectual property rights, including our unpatented proprietary know-how and trade
secrets, or in avoiding claims that we infringed on the intellectual property rights of others.

In addition to relying on patent and trademark rights, we rely on unpatented proprietary know-how and trade secrets, and employ various
methods, including confidentiality agreements with employees and consultants, customers and suppliers to protect our know-how and trade
secrets. However, these methods and our patents and trademarks may not afford complete protection and there can be no assurance that others
will not independently develop the know-how and trade secrets or develop better production methods than us. Further, we may not be able to
deter current and former employees, contractors and other parties from breaching agreements and misappropriating proprietary information
and it is possible that third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our information and proprietary technology without authorization or
otherwise infringe on our intellectual property rights. Furthermore, no assurance can be given that we will not be subject to claims asserting
the infringement of the intellectual property rights of third parties seeking damages, the payment of royalties or licensing fees and/or
injunctions against the sale of our products. Any such litigation could be protracted and costly and could result in significant losses.

‘We may be subject to litigation and regulatory investigations and proceedings, including product liability claims, that could adversely
affect our business operations and financial performance.

In the ordinary course of our business, we are involved in legal proceedings, including product liability claims, which may lead to financial or
reputational damages. See Note 5. Commitments, Leases and Contingencies. We may also be subject to inquiries, inspections, investigations
and proceedings by relevant regulatory and other governmental agencies. Given our global footprint, we are exposed to more uncertainty
regarding the regulatory environment. The timing of the final resolutions to lawsuits, regulatory inquiries, and governmental and other legal
proceedings is typically uncertain, and any such proceedings or claims, regardless of merit, could be time consuming and expensive to defend
and could divert management’s attention and resources. The possible outcomes of these proceedings could include adverse judgments,
settlements, injunctions, fines, penalties or other results adverse to us that could harm our business, financial condition, results of operations
and reputation and result in significant losses. Even if we are successful in defending ourselves against these actions, the costs of such defense
may be significant to us.

Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.

Item 1C. CYBERSECURITY

Governance

While our Board of Directors has responsibility for the oversight of risk management on an enterprise-wide basis, it has delegated certain risk
oversight responsibilities to its committees, The Audit & Finance Committee of our Board of Directors is tasked with, among other things,
providing oversight of cybersecurity risk.

The Audit & Finance Committee receives quarterly briefings regarding the Company’s cybersecurity matters from our Chief Information
Security Officer, who has primary management oversight of cybersecurity matters and reports to our Chief Information Officer. The topics
reported by the Chief Information Security Officer include updates on the Company’s cybersecurity threats, the status of projects to strengthen
our information security systems, assessments of the cybersecurity program, and the emerging threat landscape, as well as the results of any
third-party and internal assessments conducted. The full Board of Directors receives briefings on an as-needed basis from the Audit & Finance
Committee or management, as applicable.

The Global IT Team is led by the Chief Information Officer, who has served in various roles in information technology and information
security for over 30 years and has significant experience across information security, infrastructure, operations and compliance. Our Chief
_Information Security Officer reports to the Company’s Chief Information Officer and has served in various roles in information technology
and information security for over 30 years. He leads a team that focuses on the Company’s cybersecurity, including primary responsibility for
leading enterprise-wide information security strategy, processes, as well as assessing, identifying, and managing cybersecurity risks, which is
an integrated aspect of our overall enterprise risk management program.

Members of our Global IT Leadership Team and appropriate members of Senior Management, supervise efforts to identify, assess, manage and

mitigate cybersecurity risks and incidents through various means, including briefings from internal personnel and other information obtained
from governmental, public, or private sources, including external consultants engaged by us.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 10/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents .

Risk Management and Strategy
Risk Assessment

We recognize that global cybersecurity threats and targeted attacks are an evolving risk to our data, infrastructure, and overall operations and
- are committed to addressing cybersecurity risks through a comprehensive, cross-functional approach that reduces security risks, helps ensure
business and stakeholder information is handled securely, and effectively responds to cybersecurity incidents when they occur.

We have also established and maintain a comprehensive Global Incident Response Plan designed to enable compliance with reporting
standards and provide robust response to global cybersecurity events. Incidents are reviewed by the Global IMS Leadership Team and
appropriate members of Senior Management. :

Cybersecurity Assessments

We conduct targeted security assessments and penetration tests throughout the year by internal teams as well as through engagements with
third party service providers, including information security maturity assessments, audits and independent reviews of our information security
control environment and operating effectiveness.

Effects and Impacts of Cybersecurity Risks

As of the date of this report, we have not identified any risks from known cybersecurity threats, including any prior cybersecurity incidents,
that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect us, including our business strategy, results of operations, or financial
condition. For a discussion on the Company’s cybersecurity related risks, see the risk factors titled “We depend on information technology
systems and infrastructure to operate our business, and increased cybersecurity threats, system inadequacies, and failures could disrupt our
operations, compromise customer, employee, vendor and other data which could negatively affect our business" and other risk factors
contained in Part 1, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 2. PROPERTIES

Our primary manufacturing facilities by geographic area are as follows:

Geographic Region Total Facilities Leased Facilities
US and Canada 82 16
Europe 94 21
Rest of world 24 10

Item 3, LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
For information see Note 5. Commitments, Leases and Contingencies
Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES

Not applicable.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 11/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Globat Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

PART II

Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

Our common stock “BERY” is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. As of the date of this filing there were fewer than 550 active record
holders of the common stock, but we estimate the number of beneficial stockholders to be much higher as a number of our shares are held by
brokers or dealers for their customers in street name. During fiscal 2024 the Company declared and paid cash dividends of $0.275 per share
for each quarter, and during fiscal 2023 the Company declared and paid cash dividends of $0.25 per share for each quarter.

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

The following table summarizes the Company's repurchases of its common stock during the Quarterly Period ended September 28, 2024.

Total Number of Shares Dollar Value of Shares that
Total Number of Average Price Purchased as Part of Publicly May Yet be Purchased Under

Fiscal Period Shares Purchased Paid Per Share Announced Programs the Program (in millions) @)
July 53,794 $ 58.51 53,794 $ 321
August _— _ _— 321
September _ _ _— 321

Total 53,794 $ 58.51 53,794 $ 321

(a) All open market purchases during the quarter were made under the fiscal 2023 authorization from our board of directors to purchase up to
$1 billion of shares of common stock. See Note 9. Stockholders' Equity.

Item 6. RESERVED
Item 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Outlook

The Company is affected by general economic and industrial growth, raw material availability, cost inflation, supply chain disruptions, and
general consumption levels. Our business has both geographic and end market diversity, which reduces the effect of any one of these factors
on our overall performance. Our results are affected by our ability to pass through raw material and other cost changes to our customers,
improve manufacturing productivity and adapt to volume changes of our customers. Despite global macro-economic challenges in the short-
term attributed to continued rising inflation and general market softness, we continue to believe our underlying long-term fundamentals in all
divisions remain strong. For fiscal 2025, we project cash flow from operations between $1.125 to $1.225 billion and free cash flow between
$600 to $700 million. Projected fiscal 2025 free cash flow assumes $525 million of capital spending. For the definition of free cash flow and
further information related to free cash flow as a non-GAAP financial measure, see “Liquidity and Capital Resources.”

Discussion of Results of Operations for Fiscal 2024 Compared to Fiscal 2023

The Company's U.S. based results for fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 are based on fifty-two week periods. Business integration expenses consist
of restructuring and impairment charges, divestiture related costs, and other business optimization costs. Tables present dollars in millions. A
discussion and analysis regarding our results of operations for fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022 can be found on Form 10-K,
filed with the SEC in November 2023.

Consolidated Overview Fiscal Year
2024 2023 $ Change % Change
Net sales $ 12,258 $ 12,664 $ (406) (3)%
Cost of goods sold 10,005 10,354 (349) (3)%
Other operating expenses 1,316 1,231 85 7%
Operating income $ 937 $ 1,079 $ (142) (13)%
10

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 12/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Net sales: The net sales decline is primarily attributed to decreased selling prices of $375 million due to the pass-through of lower resin costs,
a 1% volume decline, and fiscal 2024 divestiture sales of $77 million. The declines are partially offset by an $82 million favorable impact
from foreign currency changes and acquisition sales of $42 million.

Cost of goods sold: The cost of goods sold decrease is primarily attributed to raw material price declines, and the fiscal 2024 divestitures. The
declines are partially offset by cost of goods sold from acquired entities, an increase in depreciation expense, and an unfavorable impact from
foreign currency changes.

Other operating expenses: The other operating expenses increase is primarily attributed to a $57 million loss from divestitures and costs
associated with the announced spin-off and merger of our HHNF business with GLT.

Operating Income: The operating income decrease is primarily attributed to a $20 million unfavorable impact from price cost spread, a $14
million unfavorable impact from volume declines, an $88 million unfavorable impact from increased business consolidation costs, and a $39
million increase in depreciation and amortization expense. These declines are partially offset by a $6 million decrease in SG&A expenses.

Consumer Packaging International Fiscal Year
. 2024 2023 $ Change % Change
Net sales $ 3,843 $ 4,031 $ (188) (5)%
Operating income $ 186 $ 273, $ (87) (32)%

Net sales: The net sales decline is primarily attributed to decreased selling prices of $153 million, a 1% volume decline, and fiscal 2024
divestiture sales of $77 million, partially offset by a $61 million favorable impact from foreign currency changes.

Operating Income: The operating income decrease is primarily attributed to a $74 million unfavorable impact from increased business
consolidation costs, fiscal 2024 divestitures of $12 million, and a $12 million unfavorable impact from increased depreciation and
amortization expense. These declines were partially offset by a $10 million favorable impact from foreign currency changes.

Consumer Packaging North America Fiscal Year

2024 2023 $ Change % Change
Net sales $ 3,122 $ 3,122 $ _ 0%
Operating income $ 366 $ 346 $ 20 6%

Net sales: Net sales in the Consumer Packaging North America division were flat year over year primarily due to revenue from acquisitions,
partially offset by decreased selling prices of $29 million and a 1% volume decline.

Operating Income: The operating income increase is primarily attributed to $18 million in earnings from acquisitions, a decline in business
consolidation expenses of $17 million, and a favorable impact from lower selling, general, and administrative expenses. The increases were
partially offset by a $3 million unfavorable impact from price cost spread and a $10 million unfavorable impact from increased depreciation
and amortization expense.

Flexibles Fiscal Year

2024 2023 $ Change % Change
Net sales $ 2,756 $ 2,884 $ (128) @%
Operating income $ 310 $ 333 $ (23) ()%

Net sales: The net sales decline is primarily attributed to decreased selling prices of $109 million and a 1% volume decline, partially offset by
a $12 million favorable impact from foreign currency changes.

Operating Income: The operating income decrease is primarily attributed a $7 million unfavorable impact from the volume decline, an
unfavorable impact from increased depreciation and amortization expense of $11 million, and an unfavorable impact from increased selling,
general, and administrative expenses. The decrease is partially offset by an $8 million favorable impact from price cost spread.

W

https:/ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/htm! 13/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Health, Hygiene & Specialties Fiscal Year
2024 2023 $ Change % Change
Net sales $ 2,537 $ 2,627 $ (90) (3)%
Operating income $ 75 $ 127. $ (52) (41%

Net sales: The net sales decline is primarily attributed to decreased selling prices of $84 million and a 1% volume decline, partially offset by a
$9 million favorable impact from foreign currency changes.

Operating Income: The operating income decrease is primarily attributed to a $22 million unfavorable impact from price cost spread, partially
offset by a $5 million favorable impact from foreign currency changes.

Other expense Fiscal Year
2024 2023 $ Change % Change
Other expense $ 15 $ 31 $ (16) (52)%

The Other expense decrease is primarily attributed to the adverse impact from our hyperinflationary Argentina subsidiary in the prior year.

Interest expense Fiscal Year
2024 2023 $ Change % Change
Interest expense $ 311 $ 306 $ 5 2%

The interest expense increase is primarily the result of higher interest rates from current year debt refinancing, partially offset by debt
repayments.

Comprehensive Income Fiscal Year
2024 2023 $ Change % Change
Comprehensive Income : $ 557 $ 676 §$ (119) (18)%

The decrease in comprehensive income is attributed to a $4 million favorable change in currency translation, partially offset by a $93 million
decrease in net income, a $114 million unfavorable change in the fair value of interest rate hedges, and an $92 million favorable change from
unrealized losses on the Company's pension plans. Currency translation changes are primarily related to non-U.S. subsidiaries with a
functional currency other than the U.S. dollar whereby assets and liabilities are translated from the respective functional currency into U.S.
dollars using period-end exchange rates. The change in currency translation was primarily attributed to locations utilizing the euro and British
pound sterling as their functional currency. As part of the overall risk management, the Company uses derivative instruments to (i) reduce our
exposure to changes in interest rates attributed to the Company’s borrowings and (ii) reduce foreign currency exposure to translation of certain
foreign operations. The Company records changes to the fair value of these instruments in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
The change in fair value of these instruments in fiscal 2024 versus fiscal 2023 is primarily attributed to a change in the forward interest and
foreign exchange curves between measurement dates.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
Senior Secured Credit Facility
We manage our global cash requirements considering (i) available funds among the many subsidiaries through which we conduct our business,
(ii) the geographic location of our liquidity needs, and (iii) the cost to access international cash balances. At the end of fiscal 2024, the
Company had no outstanding balance on its $1.0 billion asset-based revolving line of credit that matures in June 2028. The Company was in

_ compliance with all covenants at the end of fiscal 2024. See Note 3. Long-Term Debt.

Cash Flows from Operating Activities

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $210 million from fiscal 2023 primarily attributed to changes in working capital.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 14/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Cash Flows from Investing Activities

Net cash used in investing activities decreased $204 million from fiscal 2023 primarily attributed to proceeds from business divestitures and a
decline in:capital spend.

Cash Flows from Financing Activities

Net cash used in financing activities decreased $105 million from fiscal 2023 primarily attributed to higher net repayments on long-term
borrowings, partially offset by lower share repurchases.

Dividends
The Company declared and paid cash dividends of $139 million during fiscal 2024.
Share Repurchases

The Company repurchased approximately 2.0 million shares for $120 million and approximately 9.8 million shares for $607 million in fiscal
2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively. See Note 9. Stockholders’ Equity.

Free Cash Flow

We define "free cash flow" as cash flow from operating activities less net additions to property, plant and equipment. Based on our definition,
our consolidated free cash flow is summarized as follows: :

Fiscal years ended
September 28, September 30,

2024 2023
Cash flow from operating activities . $ 1,405 $ 1,615
Additions to property, plant and equipment, net (551) (689)
Free cash flow $ 854 $ 926

We use free cash flow as a supplemental measure of liquidity as it assists us in assessing our ability to fund growth through generation of
cash. Free cash flow may be calculated differently by other companies, including other companies in our industry or peer group, limiting its
usefulness. Free cash flow is not a generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP’) financial measure and should not be considered as an
alternative to any other measure determined in accordance with GAAP.

Liquidity Outlook

At the end of fiscal 2024, our cash balance was $1,095 million, of which approximately 53% was located outside the U.S. We believe our
existing U.S. based cash and cash flow from U.S. operations, together with available borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities, will
be adequate to meet our short-term and !ong-term liquidity needs with the exception of funds needed to cover all long-term debt obligations
which we intend to refinance prior to maturity. The Company has the ability to repatriate the cash located outside the U.S. to the extent not
needed to meet operational and capital needs without significant restrictions. Our unremitted foreign earnings were $1.9 billion at the end of
fiscal 2024. The computation of the deferred tax liability associated with unremitted earnings is not practicable.

https://ir. berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 15/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

Summarized Guarantor Financial Information

Berry Global, Inc. (“Issuer”) has notes outstanding which are fully, jointly, severally, and unconditionally guaranteed by its parent, Berry
Global Group, Inc. (for purposes of this section, “Parent”) and substantially all of Issuer’s domestic subsidiaries. Separate narrative
information or financial statements of the guarantor subsidiaries have not been included because they are 100% owned by Parent and the
guarantor subsidiaries unconditionally guarantee such debt on a joint and several basis. A guarantee of a guarantor subsidiary of the securities
will terminate upon the following customary circumstances: the sale of the capital stock of such guarantor if such sale complies with the
indentures, the designation of such guarantor as an unrestricted subsidiary, the defeasance or discharge of the indenture or in the case of a
restricted subsidiary that is required to guarantee after the relevant issuance date, if such guarantor no longer guarantees certain other
indebtedness of the issuer. The guarantees of the guarantor subsidiaries are also limited as necessary to prevent them from constituting a
fraudulent conveyance under applicable law and any guarantees guaranteeing subordinated debt are subordinated to certain other of the
Company’s debts. Parent also guarantees the Issuer’s term loans and revolving credit facilities. The guarantor subsidiaries guarantee our term
loans and are co-borrowers under our revolving credit facility.

Presented below is summarized financial information for the Parent, Issuer and guarantor subsidiaries on a combined basis, after intercompany
transactions have been eliminated.

Year Ended
September 28, 2024
Net sales $ 6,531
Gross profit 1,621
Earnings from continuing operations 419
Net income ® $ 419

(a) Includes $36 million of income associated with intercompany activity with non-guarantor subsidiaries.

September 28, 2024 September 30, 2023

Assets .

Current assets $ 1,775 $ 1,975
Noncurrent assets §,553 5,997
Liabilities

Current liabilities $ 2,081 $ 1,363
Intercompany payable 1,5 754
Noncurrent liabilities 8,843 10,271

Critical Accounting Estimates

We disclose those accounting policies that we consider to be significant in determining the amounts to be utilized for communicating our
consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows in the first note to our consolidated financial statements included
elsewhere herein. Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based on our consolidated financial
statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with these principles
requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.

Pensions. The accounting for our pension plans requires us to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of the pension plans on our
balance sheet. We believe that the accounting estimates related to our pension plans are critical accounting estimates because they are highly
susceptible to change from period to period based on the performance of plan assets, actuarial valuations, market conditions and contracted
benefit changes. See Note 1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 7. Retirement Plans.

Deferred Taxes and Effective Tax Rates. We estimate the effective tax rate (“ETR”) and associated liabilities or assets for each of our legal
entities in accordance with authoritative guidance. We utilize tax planning to minimize or defer tax liabilities to future periods. In recording
ETRs and related liabilities and assets, we rely upon estimates, which are based upon our interpretation of U.S. and local tax laws as they
apply to our legal entities and our overall tax structure. Audits by local tax jurisdictions, including the U.S. Government, could yield different
interpretations from our own and cause the Company to owe more taxes than originally recorded. See Note 1. Basis of Presentation and
Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 6. Income Taxes.

14

https:/fir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 16/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
Interest Rate Risk

We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates primarily through our senior secured credit facilities and accounts receivable
factoring programs. As of September 28, 2024, our senior secured credit facilities are comprised of (i) $1.5 billion term loans and (ii) a $1.0
billion revolving credit facility with no borrowings outstanding. Borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities bear interest at a rate
equal to an applicable margin plus SOFR. The applicable margin for SOFR rate borrowings under the revolving credit facility ranges from
1.25% to 1.50%, and the margin for the term loans is 1.75% per annum. As of September 28, 2024, the SOFR rate of approximately 4.84%
was applicable to the term loans. A change of 0.25% on these floating interest rate exposures would increase interest expense by
approximately $2 million.

We seek to minimize interest rate volatility risk through regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the
use of derivative financial instruments. These financial instruments are not used for trading or other speculative purposes. See Note 4.
Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements.

Foreign Currency Risk

Asa global company, we face foreign currency risk exposure from fluctuating currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against the
euro, British pound sterling, Chinese renminbi, Canadian dollar and Mexican peso. Significant fluctuations in currency rates can have a
substantial impact, either positive or negative, on our revenue, cost of sales, and operating expenses. Currency translation gains and losses are
primarily related to non-U.S. subsidiaries with a functional currency other than U.S. dollars whereby assets and liabilities are translated from
the respective functional currency into U.S. dollars using period-end exchange rates and impact our Comprehensive income. A 10% decline in
foreign currency exchange rates would have had a $11 million unfavorable impact on fiscal 2024 Net income. See Note 4. Financial
Instruments and Fair Value Measurements.

https:/ir.berrygtobal.com/node/16111/html 17190 ©

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Berry Global Group, Inc.
Opinion on the Financial Statements

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Berry Global Group, Inc. (the Company) as of September 28, 2024 and
September 30, 2023, the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders’ equity and cash flows for
each of the three years in the period ended September 28, 2024, and the related notes (collectively referred to as the “consolidated financial
statements”). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company
at September 28, 2024 and September 30, 2023, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended September 28, 2024, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) PCAOB), the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting as of September 28, 2024, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated
November 26, 2024 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion

These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s
financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with
respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and
Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits
included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and
performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

Critical Audit Matter

The critical audit matter communicated below is a matter arising from the current period audit of the financial statements that was
communicated or required to be communicated to the audit committee and that: (1) relates to accounts or disclosures that are material to the
financial statements and (2) involved our especially challenging, subjective or complex judgments. The communication of the critical audit
matter does not alter in any way our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, taken as a whole, and we are not, by communicating the
critical audit matter below, providing a separate opinion on the critical audit matter or on the account or disclosures to which it relates.

United Kingdom Defined Benefit Pension Obligation

Description of | At September 28, 2024 the aggregate United Kingdom (UK) defined benefit pension obligation was $543 million. As

the Matter disclosed in Notes 1 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements, the obligation for these plans are actuarially determined
and affected by assumptions, including discount rates and mortality rates.
Auditing the UK defined benefit pension obligation is complex and required the involvement of our actuarial specialists due

to the highly judgmental nature of actuarial assumptions (e.g., discount rates and mortality rates) used in the measurement
process. These assumptions have a significant effect on the projected benefit obligation.

https://ir.berrygtobal.com/node/16111/htm! 18/90

28/11/2024, 10:44
Table of Contents

How We
Addressed the
Matter in Our
Audit

SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

We obtained an understanding, evaluated the design and tested the operating effectiveness of controls that address the
measurement and valuation of the UK defined benefit pension obligation. This included management's review of the UK
defined benefit pension obligation calculations and the significant actuarial assumptions used by management.

To test the UK defined benefit pension obligation, we performed audit procedures that included, among others, evaluating
the methodology used and the significant actuarial assumptions described above. We involved our actuarial specialists to
assist with our audit procedures. We compared the actuarial assumptions used by management to historical trends and
assessed the individual impact that changes in the key assumptions (discount rate and mortality rate) at year end has on the
total benefit pension obligation. As part of this evaluation, we compared management’s selected discount rate to an
independently developed range of reasonable discount rates. To evaluate the mortality rate assumption, we assessed
whether the information is consistent with recent publicly available information and trends, and whether a consistent
approach to developing the mortality assumption was applied.

/s/ Emst & Young LLP

We have served as the Company’s auditor since 1991.

Indianapolis, Indiana
November 26, 2024

17

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/ntm!

19/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of Berry Global Group, Inc.
Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

We have audited Berry Global Group, Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of September 28, 2024, based on criteria established in
Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013
framework) (the COSO criteria). In our opinion, Berry Global Group, Inc. (the Company) maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of September 28, 2024, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (PCAOB), the
consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of September 28, 2024 and September 30, 2023, the related consolidated statements of income,
comprehensive income, changes in stockholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 28, 2024,
and the related notes and our report dated November 26, 2024 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Basis for Opinion

The Company’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance
with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.

Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists,
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
records that, in reasonable detai!, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or
that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Indianapolis, Indiana
November 26, 2024

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16 111 /html 20/90

28/11/2024, 10:44
Table of Contents

Net sales

Costs and expenses:
Cost of goods sold
Selling, general and administrative
Amortization of intangibles

Business consolidation and other activities

Operating income

Other expense

Interest expense

Income before income taxes

Income tax expense

Net income

Net income per share (see Note 11):
Basic
Diluted

Net income
Currency translation
Pension and postretirement benefits
Derivative instruments
Other comprehensive (loss) income
Comprehensive income

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/ntm!

SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

Berry Global Group, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Income
(in millions of dollars)

Fiscal years ended

September 28, September 30,
2024 2023

$ 12,258 $ 12,664

10,005 10,354

892 886

234 243

190 102

937 1,079

15 31

311 306

611 742

95 133

$ $16 $ 609

$ 4.48 $ 5.07

$ 438 $ 4.95

Berry Global Group, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
(in millions of dollars)

Fiscal years ended

September 28, September 30,
2024 2023
$ 516 $ 609
il 115
40 (52)
(110) 4
41 67
$ 557 $ 676

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

$

AA

$

October 1,

2022

14,495

12,123
850
257

23

1,242

22
286
934
168
766

5.87
3.77

October 1,
2022
766
(301)
35
159

(107)

$

659

21/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 . SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Berry Global Group, Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(in millions of dotlars)
September 28, September 30,
2024 2023
Assets
Current assets:
Cash and cash equivalents $ 1,095 $ 1,203
Accounts receivable 1,604 1,568
Inventories . . 1,631 1,557
Prepaid expenses and other current assets 244 205
Total current assets 4,574 4,533
Property, plant and equipment 4,575 4,576
Goodwill and intangible assets : 6,624 6,684
Right-of-use assets 651 625
Other assets 189 169
Total assets $ 16,613 $ 16,587

Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity
Current liabilities:

Accounts payable $ 1,766 $ 1,528
Accrued employee costs 267 273
Other current liabilities 829 902
Current portion of long-term debt 810 10
Total current liabilities 3,672 2,713
Long-term debt 7,505 8,970
Deferred income taxes , 475 573
Employee benefit obligations 152 193
Operating lease liabilities 534 525
Other long-term liabilities 667 397
Total liabilities 13,005 13,371
Stockholders’ equity:
Common stock (115.0 and 115.5 shares issued, respectively) 1 1
Additional paid-in capital 1,321 1,231
Retained earnings 2,581 2,320
Accumulated other comprehensive loss (295) (336)
Total stockholders’ equity : 3,608 3,216
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 16,613 $ 16,587

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

20

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 22/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Berry Global Group, Inc.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(in millions of dollars)

Fiscal years ended
September 28, September 30, October 1,

2024 2023 2022
Cash Flows from Operating Activities:
Net income $ 516 $ 609 $ 766
Adjustments to reconcile net cash from operating activities:
Depreciation 623 575 562
Amortization of intangibles 234 - 243 257
Non-cash interest (income) expense (79) (61) 6
Share-based compensation expense : 46 42 39
Deferred income tax (96) (117) (48)
Other non-cash operating activities, net : 22 22 (22)
Loss on divestitures $7 _— _
Settlement of derivatives 26 36 201
Changes in operating assets and liabilities:

* Accounts receivable (18) 294 (86)
Inventories (31) 343 (3)
Prepaid expenses and other assets (18) 1 ll
Accounts payable and other liabilities 123 (372) (120)

Net cash from operating activities 1,405 1,615 1,563
Cash Flows from Investing Activities: : :
Additions to property, plant and equipment, net (551) (689) (687)
Acquisition of businesses (68) (87) _—
Divestiture of businesses 47 _ 128
Settlement of net investment hedges _ _— 76
Net cash from investing activities (572) (776) (483)
Cash Flows from Financing Activities:

Proceeds from long-term borrowings . 3,150 496 _—
Repayment of long-term borrowings (3,884) (869) (22)
Proceeds from issuance of common stock 48 36 27
Repurchase of common stock (120) (601) (709)
Dividends paid (139) (127) —
Debt financing costs (21) (6) _—
Net cash from financing activities (966) (1,071) (704)
Effect of currency translation on cash 25 25 (57)
Net change in cash and cash equivalents (108) (207) 319
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 1,203 1,410 1,091
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 1,095 $ 1,203 $ 1,410

See notes to consolidated financial statements.”

21

https://ir.berrygtobal.com/node/16111/ntml 23/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
Berry Global Group, Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity
(in millions of dollars)
Common Additional Accumulated Other Retained
Stock Paid-in Capital Comprehensive Loss Earnings Total

Balance at October 2, 2021 $ 1 $ 1,134 $ (296) $ 2,341 $ 3,180
Net income _— _— — 766 766
Other comprehensive loss — _— (107) _ (107)
Share-based compensation — 39 _— _ 39
Proceeds from issuance of common stock . _— 27 _— _ .27
Common stock repurchased and retired _ (23) _— (686) (709)
Balance at October 1, 2022 $ 1 $ 1,177 $ (403) $ 2,421 $ 3,196
Net income _ _— _— 609 609
Other comprehensive income _ ad 67 _ 67
Share-based compensation _ 42 _ _— 42
Proceeds from issuance of common stock _ 36 _ _ 36
Common stock repurchased and retired . _— (24) — (583) (607)
Dividends paid _— _— _— (127) (127)
Balance at September 30, 2023 $ 1 $ 1,231 $ (336) $ 2,320 $ 3,216
Net income _ _ _ 516 516
Other comprehensive income _— _ 41 _ 41
Share-based compensation _ 46 _ _ 46
Proceeds from issuance of common stock _ 48 _ _— 48
Common stock repurchased and retired _ (4) _ (116) (120)
Dividends paid _— _ _— (139) (139)
Balance at September 28, 2024 $ 1 $ 1,321 $ (295) $ 2,581 $ 3,608

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

22

https:/fir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 24/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Berry Global Group, Inc.

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
(in millions of dollars, except as otherwise noted)

1. Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Basis of Presentation

Berry Global Group, Inc.’s (“Berry,” “we,” or the “Company”) consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. (“GAAP”) pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange
Commissions. Periods presented in these financial statements include fiscal periods ending September 28, 2024 (“fiscal 2024”), September
30, 2023 (“fiscal 2023”), and October 1, 2022 (“fiscal 2022”). The Company’s U.S. based results for fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 are based on
a fifty-two week period. Fiscal 2022 was based on a fifty-three week period. The Company has evaluated subsequent events through the date
the financial statements were issued.

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Berry and its subsidiaries, all of which includes our wholly owned and majority
owned subsidiaries. The Company has certain foreign subsidiaries that report on a calendar period basis which we consolidate into our
respective fiscal period. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

In February 2024, the Company announced plans for a spin-off and merger of our Health, Hygiene & Specialties Global Nonwovens and
Films business ("HHNF") with Glatfelter Corporation ("GLT"). See Note 12. Subsequent Events.

Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable

Our revenues are primarily derived from the sale of non-woven, flexible and rigid products. Revenue is recognized when performance
obligations are satisfied, in an amount reflecting the consideration to which the Company expects to be entitled. We consider the promise to
transfer products to be our sole performance obligation. If the consideration agreed to in a contract includes a variable amount, we estimate
the amount of consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for transferring the promised goods to the customer using the most likely
amount method. Our main sources of variable consideration are customer rebates. There are no material instances where variable
consideration is constrained and not recorded at the initial time of sale. Generally, our revenue is recognized at a point in time for standard
promised goods at the time of shipment, when title and risk of loss pass to the customer. The accrual for customer rebates was $106 million
and $106 million at September 28, 2024 and September 30, 2023, respectively, and is included in Other current liabilities on the Consolidated
Balance Sheets. The Company disaggregates revenue based on reportable business segment, geography, and significant product line. See
Note 10. Segment and Geographic Data.

Accounts receivable are presented net of allowance for credit losses of $19 million and $19 million at September 28, 2024 and September 30,
2023, respectively. The Company records current expected credit losses based on a variety of factors including historical loss experience and
current customer financial condition. The changes to our current expected credit losses, write-off activity, and recoveries were not material for
any of the periods presented.

The Company has entered into various factoring agreements to sell certain receivables to third-party financial institutions. Agreements which
result in true sales of the transferred receivables, which occur when receivables are transferred without recourse to the Company, are reflected

as a reduction of trade receivables on the consolidated balance sheets and the proceeds are included in the cash flows from operating activities
in the consolidated statements of cash flows.

Research and Development

Research and development costs are expensed when incurred. The Company incurred research and development expenditures of $72 million,
$82 million, and $8! million in fiscal 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. ° ° .

Share-Based Compensation

The Company recognized total share-based compensation expense of $46 million, $42 million, and $39 million for fiscal 2024, 2023, and
2022, respectively. The share-based compensation plan is more fully described in Note 9. Stockholders’ Equity.

23

https:/ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 25/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Foreign Currency

For the non-U.S. subsidiaries that account in a functional currency other than U.S. dollars, assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars
using period-end exchange rates. Sales and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates in effect during the period. Foreign currency
translation gains and losses are included as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss within Stockholders’ equity. Gains and
losses resulting from foreign currency transactions are included in the Consolidated Statements of Income.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

All highly liquid investments purchased with a maturity of three months or less from the time of purchase are considered to be cash
equivalents. : :

Inventories

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value and are valued using the first-in, first-out method. Management periodically
reviews inventory balances, using recent and future expected sales to identify slow-moving and/or obsolete items. The cost of spare parts is
charged to cost of goods sold when purchased. We evaluate our reserve for inventory obsolescence on a quarterly basis and review inventory
on-hand to determine future salability. We base our determinations on the age of the inventory and the experience of our personnel. We
reserve inventory that we deem to be not salable in the quarter in which we make the determination. We believe, based on past history and our
policies and procedures, that our net inventory is salable. Inventory as of fiscal 2024 and 2023 was:

Inventories: 2024 2023
Finished goods . $ 993 $ 933
Raw materials 638 624

$ 1,631 $ 1,557

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is computed primarily by the straight-line method over the estimated useful
lives of the assets ranging from 15 to 40 years for buildings and improvements, 2 to 20 years for machinery, equipment, and tooling, and over
the term of the agreement for capital leases. Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the improvement or
the lease term. Repairs and maintenance costs are charged to expense as incurred. Property, plant and equipment as of fiscal 2024 and 2023
was:

Property, plant and equipment: 2024 2023
Land, buildings and improvements $ 1,738 $ 1,693
Equipment and construction in progress 8,062 7,570

9,800 ~—*9;,263
Less accumulated depreciation (5,225) (4,687)
$ 4,575 $ 4,576
Long-lived Assets

Long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and definite lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment in accordance with
ASC 360, “Property, Plant and Equipment,” whenever facts and circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.
Specifically, this process involves comparing an asset’s carrying value to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows the asset is expected to

_ generate over its remaining life. If this process were to result in the conclusion that the carrying value of a long-lived asset would not be
recoverable, a write-down of the asset to fair value would be recorded through a charge to operations.

24

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 26/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Goodwill

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reportable segment are as follows:

Consumer Consumer Health,
Packaging Packaging Hygiene
International North America Flexibles & Specialties Total

Balance as of fiscal 2022 $ 1,712 $ 1,540 $ 662 $- 918 $ 4,832
Foreign currency translation adjustment 81 1 17 12 1
Acquisitions — 38 _ _ 38
Balance as of fiscal 2023 $ 1,793 $ 1,579 -$ 679 $ 930 $ 4,981
Foreign currency translation adjustment 107 qd) 16 1 123
Acquistions _ 35 _— _ 35
Dispositions (49) _ _— _ (49)
Balance as of fiscal 2024 $ 1,851 $ 1,613 $ 695 § 931 $ 5,090

In fiscal year 2024, the Company completed a qualitative analysis to evaluate impairment of goodwill and concluded that it was more likely
than not that the fair value for each reporting unit exceeded the carrying amount. We reached this conclusion based on the stable valuations
within the packaging industry and operating results of our reporting units. As a result of our annual impairment evaluations the Company
concluded that no impairment existed in fiscal 2024.

Deferred Financing Fees

Deferred financing fees are amortized to interest expense using the effective interest method over the lives of the respective debt agreements.
Pursuant to ASC 835-30, the Company presents $31 million and $34 million as of fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023, respectively, of debt issuance
and deferred financing costs on the balance sheet as a deduction from the carrying amount of the related debt liability, instead of a deferred
charge.

Intangible Assets

The changes in the carrying amount of intangible assets are as follows:

Customer Other Accumulated
Relationships Trademarks Intangibles Amortization Total
Balance as of fiscal 2022 $ 3,157 $ 494 § 127 $ (1,925) $ 1,853
Foreign currency translation adjustment 69 12 1 (27) 55
Amortization expense _ _— _ (243) (243)
Acquisitions 35 3 _— _— 38
Balance as of fiscal 2023 $ 3,261 $ 509 $ 128 $ (2,195) $ 1,703
Foreign currency translation adjustment 69 13 _ (39) 43
Amortization expense _ _ _ (234) (234)
Acquisitions 18 1 3 _— 22
Balance as of fiscal 2024 $ 3,348 $ 523 $ 131 $ (2,468) $ 1,534

Customer relationships are being amortized using an accelerated amortization method which corresponds with the customer attrition rates used
in the initial valuation of the intangibles over the estimated life of the relationships which range from 5 to 17 years. Definite lived trademarks

- are being amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated life of the assets which are not more than [5 years. Other intangibles,
which include technology and licenses, are being amortized using the straight-line method over the estimated life of the assets which range
from 5 to 14 years. The Company has trademarks that total $248 million that are indefinite lived and we test annually for impairment on the
first day of the fourth quarter. We completed the annual impairment test of our indefinite lived trade names utilizing the qualitative method in
each year and noted no impairment.

Future amortization expense for definite lived intangibles as of fiscal 2024 for the next five fiscal years is $225 million, $210 million, $176

million, $153 million, and $133 million each year for fiscal years ending 2025, 2026, 2027, 2028, and 2029, respectively.

25

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/htm! 27190

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Insurable Liabilities

The Company records liabilities for the self-insured portion of workers’ compensation, health, product, general and auto liabilities. The
determination of these liabilities and related expenses is dependent on claims experience. For most of these liabilities, claims incurred but not
yet reported are estimated based upon historical claims experience.

Leases

The Company leases certain manufacturing facilities, warehouses, office space, manufacturing equipment, office equipment, and automobiles.
We recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for leases with original lease terms greater than one year based on the present value of
lease payments over the lease term using our incremental borrowing rate on a collateralized basis. Short-term leases, with original lease terms
of less than one year, are not recognized on the balance sheet. We are party to certain leases, namely for manufacturing facilities, which offer
renewal options to extend the original lease term. Renewal options are included in the right-of-use asset and lease liability based on our
assessment of the probability that the options wil! be exercised. See Note 5. Commitments, Leases and Contingencies.

At September 28, 2024, annual lease commitments were as follows:

Fiscal Year Operating Leases Finance Leases
2025 $ 130 $ 9
2026 116 Ut
2027 103 3
2028 86 2
2029 69 . 1
Thereafter 307 8
Total lease payments 811 34
Less: Interest (143) (5)
Present value of lease liabilities $ 668 .$ 29
Income Taxes

The Company accounts for income taxes under the asset and liability approach, which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and
liabilities for the expected future tax consequence of events that have been recognized in the Company’s financial statements or income tax
retums. Income taxes are recognized during the period in which the underlying transactions are recorded. Deferred taxes, with the exception
of non-deductible goodwill, are provided for temporary differences between amounts of assets and liabilities as recorded for financial
reporting purposes and such amounts as measured by tax laws. If the Company determines that a deferred tax asset arising from temporary
differences is not likely to be utilized, the Company will establish a valuation allowance against that asset to record it at its expected realizable
value. The Company recognizes uncertain tax positions when it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon
examination by relevant taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The amount recognized is measured as the largest
amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. The Company’s effective tax rate is dependent on
many factors including: the impact of enacted tax laws in jurisdictions in which the Company operates; the amount of earnings by
jurisdiction, due to varying tax rates in each country; and the Company’s ability to utilize foreign tax credits related to foreign taxes paid on
foreign earnings that will be remitted to the U.S.

26

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/htmt 28/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Comprehensive Income (Loss)

Comprehensive income (loss) is comprised of net income and other comprehensive income (loss). Other comprehensive income (loss)
includes net unrealized gains or losses resulting from currency translations of foreign subsidiaries, changes in the value of our derivative
instruments and adjustments to the pension liability.

The accumulated balances related to each component of other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax before reclassifications were as
follows: :

Defined Benefit
Currency — Pension and Retiree — Derivative Accumulated Other
Translation Health Benefit Plans Instruments Comprehensive Loss

Balance as of fiscal 2021 $ (154) $ (67) $ (75) $ (296)
Other comprehensive income (loss) (301) 32 158 ql)
Net amount reclassified from accumulated other

comprehensive income (loss) —_ 3 1 4
Balance as of fiscal 2022 $ (455) $ (32) $ 84 $ (403)
Other comprehensive income (loss) 115 (53) 39 101
Net amount reclassified from accumulated other ‘

comprehensive income (loss) _— 1 (35) (34)
Balance as of fiscal 2023 $ (340) $ (84) $ 88 $ (336)
Other comprehensive income (loss) 1 40 (70) 81
Net amount reclassified from accumulated other

comprehensive income (loss) _ _ (40) (40)
Balance as of fiscal 2024 $ (229) $ (44) $ (22) $ (295)
Pension

The accounting for our pension plans requires us to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of the pension plans on our balance sheet.
The selection of assumptions is based on historical trends and known economic and market conditions at the time of valuation, as well as
independent studies of trends performed by our actuaries. Pension benefit costs include assumptions for the discount rate, mortality rate,
retirement age, and expected return on plan assets. Retiree medical plan costs include assumptions for the discount rate, retirement age, and
health-care-cost trend rates. We review annually the discount rate used to calculate the present value of pension plan liabilities. The discount
rate used at each measurement date is set based on a high-quality corporate bond yield curve, derived based on bond universe information
sourced from reputable third-party indices, data providers, and rating agencies. In countries where there is no deep market in corporate bonds,
we have used a government bond approach to set the discount rate. In evaluating other assumptions, the Company considers many factors,
including an evaluation of expected return on plan assets and the health-care-cost trend rates of other companies; historical assumptions
compared with actual results; an analysis of current market conditions and asset allocations; and the views of advisers.

Net Income Per Share

The Company calculates basic net income per share based on the weighted-average number of outstanding common shares. The Company
calculates diluted net income per share based on the weighted-average number of outstanding common shares plus the effect of dilutive
securities.

Use of Estimates

The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
extensive use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and

liabilities and the reported amounts of sales and expenses. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates. Changes in estimates
are recorded in results of operations in the period that the event or circumstances giving rise to such changes occur.

27

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/htm! 29/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements

In November 2023, the FASB issued ASU No. 2023-07 "Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reporting Segment Disclosures."
The ASU was issued to improve reportable segment disclosure requirements, primarily through enhanced disclosures of significant segment
expenses that are regularly provided to the chief operating decision maker and included within segment profit and loss. This guidance is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024, with
early adoption permitted, and applied retrospectively to all prior periods presented in the financial statements. The Company is currently
evaluating the impact of adopting this guidance.

In December 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU No. 2023-09 "Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements
to Income Tax Disclosures." The ASU was issued to improve transparency and disclosure requirements for the rate reconciliation, income
taxes paid and other tax disclosures. The amendments in ASU 2023-09 are effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024, with
early adoption permitted, and may be applied either prospectively or retrospectively. The Company is currently evaluating the impact of
adopting this guidance.

2. Acquisitions and Dispositions
F&S Tool Inc.

In April 2024, the Company acquired F&S Tool Inc. (“F&S”), a leading manufacturer of high output, high efficiency injection molding
applications, for a purchase price of $68 million. The Company used existing liquidity to finance the acquisition, and the business is operated
within the Consumer Packaging North America segment. The F&S acquisition has been accounted for under the purchase method of
accounting, and has not finalized the allocation of the purchase price to the fair value of the assets and liabilities assumed. The preliminary
estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed consisted of working capital of $3 million, property and equipment of $19
million, intangible assets of $22 million, goodwill of $35 million, and net other long-term liabilities of $11 million. The Company has
recognized goodwill on this transaction primarily as a result of expected cost synergies and does not expect goodwill to be deductible for tax
purposes.

Divestitures

During fiscal 2024, the Company completed the sale of its Promens Vehicles and Strata businesses, which were operated in the Consumer
Packaging International segment for net proceeds of $25 million and $22 million, respectively. In fiscal 2023, the Promens Vehicles business
recorded net sales of $111 million and Strata recorded $56 million.

3. Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt consists of the following:

Facility Maturity Date 2024 2023
Term loan July 2029 $ 1538 $ _
Term loan July 2026 — 3,090
Revolving line of credit June 2028 _— —_—
0.95% First Priority Senior Secured Notes February 2024 _— 279
1.00% First Priority Senior Secured Notes ® January 2025 783 741
1.57% First Priority Senior Secured Notes January 2026 1,525 1,525
4.875% First Priority Senior Secured Notes July 2026 750 1,250
1.65% First Priority Senior Secured Notes January 2027 400 400
1.50% First Priority Senior Secured Notes ® ; January 2027 : 419 397 -
5.50% First Priority Senior Secured Notes April 2028 500 500
5.80% First Priority Senior Secured Notes June 2031 800 —_—
5.65% First Priority Senior Secured Notes January 2034 800 _
4.50% Second Priority Senior Secured Notes February 2026 291 291
5.625% Second Priority Senior Secured Notes July 2027 500 500
Debt discounts and deferred fees Gl) (4)
Finance leases and other “Various . 40 4l
Total long-term debt 8,980
Current portion of long-term debt (10)
Long-term debt, less current portion $ $ 8,970

(a) Euro denominated

28

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 30/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

During fiscal 2024, the Company extended the maturity date of $1,550 million of its outstanding term loans to July 2029. In addition, the
Company issued $800 million aggregate principal amount of 5.65% First Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2034, and another $800 million
aggregate principal amount of 5.80% First Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2031. The proceeds from the 5.65% First Priority Notes were
used to prepay the 0.95% First Priority Senior Secured Notes due in February 2024 and a portion of the existing term loan due in July 2026.
The proceeds from the 5.80% First Priority Notes were used to repurchase a portion of the 4.875% First Priority Senior Secured Notes due in
July 2026 and to prepay a portion of the existing term loan due in July 2026

Debt discounts and deferred financing fees are presented net of Long-term debt, less the current portion on the Consolidated Balance Sheets
and are amortized to Interest expense on the Consolidated Statements of Income through maturity.

Berry Global, Inc. Senior Secured Credit Facility

Our wholly owned subsidiary Berry Global, Inc.’s senior secured credit facilities consist of $1.5 billion of term loans and a $1.0 billion asset-
based revolving line of credit. The availability under the revolving line of credit is the lesser of $1.0 billion or based on a defined borrowing
base which is calculated based on available accounts receivable and inventory. At the end of the fiscal year, the Company had unused
borrowing capacity of $802 million under the revolving line of credit.

The term loan facility is payable upon maturity. The Company may voluntarily repay outstanding loans under the senior secured credit
facilities at any time without premium or penalty, other than customary “breakage” costs with respect to eurodollar loans. All obligations
under the senior secured credit facilities are unconditionally guaranteed by the Company and, subject to certain exceptions, each of the
Company’s existing and future direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries. The guarantees of those obligations are secured by substantially all of
the Company’s assets as well as those of each domestic subsidiary guarantor.

Despite not having financial maintenance covenants, our debt agreements contain certain negative covenants. We are in compliance with all
covenants as of September 28, 2024. The failure to comply with these negative covenants could restrict our ability to incur additional

indebtedness, effect acquisitions, enter into certain significant business combinations, make distributions or redeem indebtedness.

- Future maturities of long-term debt as of fiscal year end 2024 are as follows:

Fiscal Year Maturities
2025 $ 810
2026 2,593
2027 1,344
2028 504
2029 1,489

Thereafter 1,606

$ 8,346

Net cash interest was $425 million, $377 million, and $281 million in fiscal 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively.
4. Financial Instruments and Fair Value Measurements

Tn the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to certain risks arising from business operations and economic factors. The
Company may use derivative financial instruments to help manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currencies. These
financial instruments are not used for trading or other speculative purposes. For those derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as
hedging instruments, the Company must designate the hedging instrument, based upon the exposure being hedged, as a fair value hedge, cash
flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation.

To the extent hedging relationships are found to be effective, changes in the fair value of the derivatives are offset by changes in the fair value
of the related hedged item and recorded to Accumulated other comprehensive loss. Changes in the fair value of a derivative not designated as
a hedge, are recorded to the Consolidated Statements of Income.

29

https ://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/htmi 31/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Cross-Currency Swaps

The Company is party to certain cross-currency swaps to hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk. Both the euro (€1,625 million) and the
pound sterling (£700 million) swap agreements mature in June 2026. In addition to cross-currency swaps, we hedge a portion of our foreign
currency risk by designating foreign currency denominated long-term debt as net investment hedges of certain foreign operations. As of
September 28, 2024, we had outstanding long-term debt of €379 million that was designated as a hedge of our net investment in certain euro-
denominated foreign subsidiaries. When valuing cross-currency swaps the Company utilizes Level 2 inputs (substantially observable).

Interest Rate Swaps

The primary purpose of the Company’s interest rate swap activities is to manage interest expense fluctuations associated with our outstanding
variable rate term loan debt. When valuing interest rate swaps the Company utilizes Level 2 inputs (substantially observable).

During fiscal 2024, the Company elected to cash settle existing interest rate swaps and received net proceeds of $26 million. The offset is
included in Accumulated other comprehensive loss and is being amortized to Interest expense through the term of the original swaps.
Following the settlement, the Company entered into interest rate swaps with matching notional amounts with expiration in June 2029.

As of September 28, 2024, the Company effectively had (i) a $450 million interest rate swap transaction that swaps a one-month variable
SOFR contract for a fixed annual rate of 4.553%, (ii) a $400 million interest rate swap transaction that swaps a one-month variable SOFR
contract for a fixed annual rate of 4.008%, (iii) a $500 million interest rate swap transaction that swaps a one-month variable SOFR contract
for a fixed annual rate of 4.648%. The Company's interest rate swap transactions all expire in June 2029.

Balances of our derivative instruments on a gross basis are as follows:

Derivative Instruments Hedge Designation Balance Sheet Location 2024 2023

Cross-currency swaps Designated Other current liabilities _— 66
Cross-currency swaps Designated Other long-term liabilities 271 19
Interest rate swaps Designated Other assets oo 36
Interest rate swaps Not designated Other assets _ . 8
Interest rate swaps Designated Other long-term liabilities 5 _—
Interest rate swaps Not designated Other long-term liabilities 62 104

The effect of the Company’s derivative instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Income is as follows:

Derivative instruments Statements of Income Location 2024 2023 2022
Cross-currency swaps Interest expense $ (32) $ (41) $ (21)
Interest rate swaps Interest expense (77) (59) 40

The amortization related to unrealized losses in Accumulated other comprehensive loss is expected to be $19 million in the next 12 months.
The Company’s financial instruments consist primarily of cash and cash equivalents, long-term debt, interest rate swap agreements, cross-
currency swap agreements and capital lease obligations. The book value of our long-term indebtedness exceeded fair value by $35 million as

* of fiscal 2024 and by $381 million as of fiscal 2023. The Company’s long-term debt fair values were determined using Level 2 inputs as other
significant observable inputs were not available.

Non-recurring Fair Value Measurements
The Company has certain assets that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis when impairment indicators are present or when the
Company completes an acquisition. -The Company adjusts certain long-lived assets to fair value only when the carrying values exceed the fair

values. The categorization of the framework used to value the assets is considered Level 3, due to the subjective nature of the unobservable
inputs used to determine the fair value.

30

https:/ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 32/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

Included in the following tables are the major categories of assets and their current carrying values, along with the impairment loss recognized

on the fair value measurement for the fiscal years then ended:

Levell - Level 2

Indefinite lived trademarks $ — § _
Goodwill — _—
Definite lived intangible assets _— _—
Property, plant and equipment —_ —

Total $ — 3 =

Level 1 Level 2

Impairment

Indefinite lived trademarks $ — $ _
Goodwill _ _
Definite lived intangible assets _— _
Property, plant and equipment = _—

2024
Level 3 Total
$ 248 $ 248
5,090 5,090
1,286 1,286
4,575 4,575
$ 11,199 $ 11,199
2023
Level 3 Total
$ 248 $ 248
4,981 4,981
1,455 1,455
4,576 4,576

Total $ — §$ —

$ —

17

$ 17
Impairment

$ —

8

$ 8

5. Commitments, Leases and Contingencies

The Company has various purchase commitments for raw materials, supplies and property and equipment incidental to the ordinary conduct of

business.

Collective Bargaining Agreements

At the end of fiscal 2024, we employed approximately 42,000 employees, and approximately 19% of those employees were covered by
collective bargaining agreements. The majority of these agreements are due for renegotiation annually.

Leases

Supplemental lease information is as follows:

Leases Classification 2024 2023
Operating leases:

Operating lease right-of-use assets Right-of-use asset $ 61 $ 625

Current operating lease liabilities Other current liabilities 134 116

Noncurrent operating lease liabilities Operating lease liability 534 $25
Finance leases:

Finance lease right-of-use assets Property, plant, and equipment, net $ 33 $ 32

Current finance lease liabilities Current portion of long-term debt 6 9

Noncurrent finance lease liabilities Long-term debt, less current portion 23 19
Lease Type Cash Flow Classification Lease Expense Category 2024 2023
Operating leases Operating cash flows * Lease cost $ 148 $ 141
Finance leases Operating cash flows Interest expense 2 1
Finance leases Financing cash flows = : 7 5
Finance leases — Amortization of right-of-use assets 9 9

2024 2023
Weighted-average remaining lease term - operating leases 9 years 9 years
Weighted-average remaining lease term - finance leases 6 years 2 years
Weighted-average discount rate - operating leases 5.3% 5.0%
Weighted-average discount rate - finance leases 5.8% 4.5%
Right-of-use assets obtained in exchange for new operating lease liabilities were $106 million for fiscal 2024.
31
https ://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 33/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Litigation

The Company is party to various legal proceedings involving routine claims which are incidental to its business. Although the Company’s
legal and financial liability with respect to such proceedings cannot be estimated with certainty, the Company believes that any ultimate
liability would not be material to its financial position, results of operations or cash flows.

6. Income Taxes

The Company is being taxed at the U.S. corporate level as a C-Corporation and has provided U.S. Federal, State and foreign income taxes.
Significant components of income tax expense for the fiscal years ended are as follows:

2024 2023 2022
Current
US. .
Federal $ 84 $ 118 $ 87
State 9 25 20
Non-U.S. 98 107 109
Total current 191 250 216
Deferred:
US.
Federal (2) (26) 4
State (8) (26) (7)
Non-U.S. (86) (65) (45)
Total deferred (96) (117) (48)
Expense for income taxes $ 95 §$ 133 $ 168

U.S. income from continuing operations before income taxes was $363 million, $375 million, and $449 million for fiscal 2024, 2023, and
2022, respectively. Non-U.S. income from continuing operations before income taxes was $248 million, $367 million, and $485 million for
fiscal 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively. The Company paid cash taxes of $274 million, $240 million, and $186 million in fiscal 2024, 2023,
and 2022, respectively.

The reconciliation between U.S. Federal income taxes at the statutory rate and the Company’s benefit for income taxes on continuing
operations for fiscal years ended are as follows:

2024 2023 2022
U.S. Federal income tax expense at the statutory rate $ 128 $ 156 $ 196
Adjustments to reconcile to the income tax provision:
USS. state income tax expense 7 5 20
Federal and state credits (15) (18) (15)
‘Share-based compensation (3) — (3)
Tax law changes — — (17)
Withholding taxes 8 10 6
Changes in foreign valuation allowance 14 7 (5)
Foreign income taxed in the U.S. 8 17 8
Rate differences between U.S. and foreign (28) (22) (8)
Uncertain tax positions, net . qs) (20) (19)
Other (9) (2) 5
Expense for income taxes $ 95 $ 133 $ 168

32

https:/fir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 34/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Deferred income taxes result from temporary differences between the amount of assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting and
tax purposes. The components of the net deferred income tax liability as of fiscal years ended are as follows:

2024 2023
Deferred tax assets: °
Accrued liabilities and reserves $ 90 §$ 72
Inventories . 15 13
Net operating loss carryforward 303 274
Interest expense carryforward . 150 121
Derivatives 32 _
~ Lease liability . : 165 159
Research and development credit carryforward 14 13
Federal and state tax credits 16 ll
Capitalization research and development expenditures . 65 39
Other 38 38
Total deferred tax assets 888 740
Valuation allowance (133) (114)
Total deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance 755 626
Deferred tax liabilities:
Property, plant and equipment 472 471
Intangible assets 404 437
Derivatives _ 22
Leased asset 161 155
Other ‘ 24 22
Total deferred tax liabilities 1,061 1,107
Net deferred tax liability $ (306) $ (481)

The Company had $169 million of net deferred tax assets recorded in Other assets, and $475 million of net deferred tax liabilities recorded in
Deferred income taxes on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

As of September 28, 2024, the Company has recorded deferred tax assets related to federal, state, and foreign net operating losses, interest
expense, and tax credits. These attributes are spread across multiple jurisdictions and generally have expiration periods beginning in 2025
while a portion remains available indefinitely. Each attribute has been assessed for realization and a valuation allowance is recorded against
the deferred tax assets to bring the net amount recorded to the amount more likely than not to be realized. The valuation allowance against
deferred tax assets was $133 million and $114 million as of the fiscal years ended 2024 and 2023, respectively, related to the foreign and U.S.
federal and state operations.

The Company is permanently reinvested except to the extent the foreign earnings are previously taxed or to the extent that we have sufficient
basis in our non-U.S. subsidiaries to repatriate earnings on an income tax free basis.

Uncertain Tax Positions

The following table summarizes the activity related to our gross unrecognized tax benefits for fiscal years ended:

2024 2023
Beginning unrecognized tax benefits $ 107 $ 121
Gross increases — tax positions in prior periods . . 10 17
Gross decreases — tax positions in prior periods (2) (ed)
Gross increases — current period tax positions : 7 12
Gross increases — from acquisition 3 —
Settlements (4) _—
Lapse of statute of limitations (22) (32)
Ending unrecognized tax benefits $ 99 $ 107

As of fiscal year end 2024, the amount of unrecognized tax benefit that, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate was $97 million and
we had $30 million accrued for payment of interest and penalties related to our uncertain tax positions. Our penalties and interest related to
uncertain tax positions are included in income tax expense.

33

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/161114/htm! 35/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

As a result of global operations, we file income tax returns in the U.S. federal, various state and local, and foreign jurisdictions and are
routinely subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world. Excluding potential adjustments to net operating losses, the U.S.
federal and state income tax returns are no longer subject to income tax assessments for years before 2019. With few exceptions, the major
foreign jurisdictions are no longer subject to income tax assessments for year before 2016.

7. Retirement Plans

The Company sponsors defined contribution retirement plans covering substantially all employees. Contributions are based upon a fixed
dollar amount for employees who participate and percentages of employee contributions at specified thresholds. Contribution expense for
these Plans was $40 million, $40 million, and $42 million for fiscal 2024, 2023, and 2022, respectively.

The majority of the North American and UK defined benefit pension plans, which cover certain manufacturing facilities, are closed to future
entrants. The assets of all the plans are held in a separate trustee administered fund to meet long-term liabilities for past and present
employees. The majority, $68 million, of Mainland Europe’s total underfunded status relates to non-contributory pension plans within our
German operations. There is no external funding for these plans although they are secured by insolvency insurance required under German
law. In general, the plans provide a fixed retirement benefit not related to salaries and are closed to new entrants,

The net amount of liability recognized is included in Employee Benefit Obligations on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company uses
fiscal year end as a measurement date for the retirement plans.

2024 2023
Change in Projected North Mainland North Mainland
Benefit Obligations (PBO) America UK Europe Total America UK Europe Total
Beginning of period $ 218 $ 505 $ 131 $ 854 $ 252 $ 480 $ 124 $ 856
Service cost _— _— 4 4 _ — 4 4
Interest cost 11 28 5 44 12 26 5 43
Currency _ 40 7 47 —_— 54 ll 65
Actuarial loss (gain) 12 qa) 5 16 (10) (26) (5) (41) °
Benefit settlements _— _ (3) (3) (20) _— 3) (21)
Benefits paid (15) (29) (7) (1) (16) (29) (7) (52)
End of period $ 226 $ 543 $ 142 $ ou $ 218 $ 505 $ 131 $ 854
2024 2023
Change in Fair North Mainland North Mainland
Value of Plan Assets America UK Europe Total America UK Europe Total
Beginning of period $ 221 $ 414 $ 43 $ 678 $ 228 $ 446 $ 40 $ 74
Currency — 35 3 38 _ 51 2 53
Return on assets 42 39 1 82 29 (73) 1 (43)
Contributions _ 26 9 35 _ 19 8 27
Benefit settlements —_ _ (3) (3) _ (20) _ qd) (21)
Benefits paid (15) (29) (7) (51) (16) (29) (7) (52)
End of period 248 § 485 $ 46 $ 779 $ 221 $ 414 $ 4 $ 678
Underfunded status $ 22 $ (58) $ (96) $ (132) $ 3 $ (91) $ (88) $ (176)

At the end of fiscal 2024, the Company had $59 million of net unrealized losses recorded in Accumulated other comprehensive loss on the
Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Company expects less than $1 million to be realized in fiscal 2025.

34

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16114/html 36/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

The following table presents key weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligation and benefit cost for the fiscal years
ended:

2024
North Mainland
' (Percentages) America UK Europe
Weighted-average assumptions:
Discount rate for benefit obligation 47 5.0 3.3
Discount rate for net benefit cost 5.6 5.0 4.2
Expected return on plan assets for net benefit costs 6.1 6.8 2.7
2023
North Mainland
(Percentages) America UK Europe
Weighted-average assumptions: .
Discount rate for benefit obligation 5.6 5.5 4.1
Discount rate for net benefit cost 5.1 5.2 3.7
Expected return on plan assets for net benefit costs 6.1 5.7 2.6

In evaluating the expected return on plan assets, Berry considered its historical assumptions compared with actual results, an analysis of
current market conditions, asset allocations, and the views of advisors. The retum on plan assets is derived from target allocations and
historical yield by asset type. A one quarter of a percentage point reduction of expected return on pension assets, mortality rate or discount
rate applied to the pension liability would result in an immaterial change to the Company’s pension expense.

In accordance with the guidance from the FASB for employers’ disclosure about postretirement benefit plan assets the table below discloses
fair values of each pension plan asset category and level within the fair value hierarchy in which it falls. There were no material changes or
transfers between level 3 assets and the other levels.

Fiscal 2024 Asset Category Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total

Cash and cash equivalents $ 23 $ — $ — $ 23
U.S. large cap comingled equity funds 72 _ _ 72
U.S. mid cap equity mutual funds 15 _— _— 15
U.S. small cap equity & Corporate bond mutual! funds 5 — _ 5
International equity mutual funds 2 113 _— 5
Real estate equity investment funds _ _ 12 72
Corporate bonds 7 149 82 238
International fixed income funds _ 193 — 193
International insurance policies . _ —_ 46 46
Total $ 124 $ 455 $ 200 7719
Fiscal 2023 Asset Category Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total

Cash and cash equivalents $ 23 $ — $ — $ 23
U.S. large cap comingled equity funds 80 _— _ 80
U.S. mid cap equity mutual funds 33 _ _— 33
USS. small cap equity & Corporate bond mutual funds 2 —_— _ 2
Intemational equity mutual funds 6 33 _ 39
Real estate equity investment funds : : _— 21 105 . 126
Corporate bonds _ 97 70 167
International fixed income funds 6 158 _— 164
International insurance policies —_— _— 44 44
Total : $ 150 $ 309 $ 219 $ 678

35

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/ntm! 37/90

28/11/2024, 10:44
Table of Contents

SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid for the fiscal year end:

North Mainland
America UK Europe Total

2025 $ 17 $ 31 $ 9 $ 57

2026 16 32 8 56

2027 16 33 6 55

2028 17 34 8 59

2029 17 34 sa 62

2030-2034 8 184 50 312

Net pension expense is recorded in Cost of goods sold and included the following components as of fiscal years ended:

2024 2023 2022

Service cost $ 4 $ 4 $ 6

Interest cost 44 43 27

Amortization of net actuarial loss _ 1 3

Expected return on plan assets (42) (46) 61D

Net periodic benefit expense (income) $ 6 $ 2 $ (15)

Our defined benefit pension plan asset allocations as of fiscal years ended are as follows:

Asset Category 2024 2023
Equity securities and equity-like instruments 35% 41%
Debt securities and debt-like 56 49
International insurance policies 6 7
Other . 3 _ 3
Total 100% 100%

The Company’s retirement plan assets are invested with the objective of providing the plans the ability to fund current and future benefit
payment requirements while minimizing annual Company contributions. The retirement plans held $15 million of the Company’s stock at the
end of fiscal 2024. The Company re-addresses the allocation of its investments on a regular basis.

8. Business Consolidation and Other Activities

In fiscal 2023, the Company initiated business consolidation cost savings initiatives including plant rationalization, in all four segments as part
a 2023 cost savings initiative plan. The Company currently expects total business consolidation cash and non-cash expense to be
approximately $250 million, with the operations savings intended to counter general economic softness. The initiatives are expected to be fully
implemented by the end of fiscal 2025. During fiscal 2024, 2023, and 2022 the Company did not shut down any facilities with significant net
sales.

The table below includes the significant components of our business consolidation and other activities recognized for the fiscal years ended,
by reporting segment:

2024 2023 2022
Consumer Packaging International $ 124 $ 50 $ 10
Consumer Packaging North America . . 7 . 23 5
Flexibles 16 7 2
Health, Hygiene & Specialties 43 22 6
Total $ 190 $ 102 23
36
https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 38/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Other activities consist of acquisition, divestiture and other business optimization related costs. The table below sets forth the activity with
respect to the charges and the impact on our accrued reserves:

Business Consolidation @)

Employee Severance Facility Non-cash Other
and Benefits Exit Costs Impairment Charges _ Activities Total

Balance as of fiscal 2022 $ 2 $ 3 $ — $ — $ 5
Charges 39 23 8 32 102
Non-cash items . —_— _ (8) _ (8)
Cash | . (31) (25) = (32) (88)
Balance as of fiscal 2023 $ 10
Charges 51
Non-cash items _—
Cash (25)
Balance as of fiscal 2024 . $ 36

(a) Since 2022, cumulative costs attributed to business consolidation programs total $184 million.

9. Stockholders’ Equity
Share Repurchases

During fiscal 2024, the Company repurchased approximately 2.0 million shares for $120 million, at an average price of $59.39. During fiscal
2023, the Company repurchased approximately 9.8 million shares for $607 million, at an average price of $61.00. During fiscal 2022, the
Company repurchased approximately 12.2 million shares for $709 million, at an average price of $58.30.

All share repurchases were immediately retired. Common stock was reduced by the number of shares retired at $0.01 par value per share.
The Company allocates the excess purchase price over par value between additional paid-in capital and retained earnings. As of fiscal 2024,
authorized repurchases of $321 million remain available to the Company.

Equity Incentive Plans

The Company has shareholder-approved stock plans under which options and restricted stock units have been granted to employees at the
market value of the Company's stock on the date of grant. In fiscal 2021, the Company amended the 2015 Berry Global Group, Inc. Long-
Term Incentive Plan to authorize the issuance of 20.8 million shares, an increase of 8.3 million shares from the previous authorization. The
intrinsic value of options exercised in fiscal 2024 was $34 million.

Information related to the equity incentive plans as of the fiscal years ended are as follows:

2024 2023
Number Weighted Number Weighted
of Shares Average of Shares Average
(in thousands) Exercise Price (in thousands) Exercise Price
Options outstanding, beginning of period 11,836 $ 49.36 11,656 $ 47.33
Options granted 1,086 64.62 1,343 56.93
Options exercised (1,411) 37.78 (1,041) 35.85
- Options forfeited or cancelled (110) 53.63 (122) 53.96
Options outstanding, end of period 11,401 $ $2.21 11,836 $ 49.36
Option price range at end of period $ 21.00-66.47 $ 21.00-66.47
Options exercisable at end of period 7,898 7,349
Weighted average fair value of options granted during period $ 21.25 $ 17.53

37

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 39/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

Generally, options vest annually in equal installments commencing one year from the date of grant and have a vesting term of either four or
five years, depending on the grant date, and an expiration term of 10 years from the date of grant. The fair value for options granted has been
estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes model using the following key assumptions:

2024 2023 2022
Risk-free interest rate 45% 3.8% 1.3%
Dividend yield 1.7% 1.7% 0.0%
Volatility factor 30.6% 31.0% 29.7%
The following table summarizes information about the options outstanding as of fiscal 2024:
Intrinsic Value Weighted Number Intrinsic Value Unrecognized Weighted
of Outstanding Remaining Exercisable of Exercisable Compensation Recognition
(in millions) Contractual Life {in thousands) (in millions) (in millions) Period
$ 119 . 5.4 years 7,898 $ 102 $ 50 1.1 years

The Company's issued restricted stock units generally vest in equal installments over four years. Compensation cost is recorded based upon
the fair value of the shares at the grant date.

2024 2023
Number Weighted Number Weighted
of Shares Average of Shares Average
(in thousands) GrantPrice (in thousands) Grant Price

Awards outstanding, beginning of period 660 §$ 58.82 354 $ 61.99
Awards granted ; 525 61.95 434 56.93
Awards vested (215) 58.74 (105) 61.46
Awards forfeited or cancelled (25) 60.93 (23) 59.75
Awards outstanding, end of period 945 § 60.52 660 $ 58.82

The Company had equity incentive shares available for grant of 2.9 million and 5.0 million as of September 28, 2024 and September 30, 2023,
respectively.

38

https://ir.berryglobal.comY/node/16111/html 40/90

28/11/2024, 10:44
Table of Contents

10. Segment and Geographic Data

SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

Berry’s operations are organized into four reporting segments: Consumer Packaging International, Consumer Packaging North America,
Flexibles, and Health, Hygiene & Specialties. The structure is designed to align us with our customers, provide improved service, and drive

future growth in a cost efficient manner.

Selected information by reportable segment is presented in the following tables:

Net sales
Consumer Packaging International
Consumer Packaging North America
Flexibles
Health, Hygiene & Specialties
Total

Operating income
Consumer Packaging International
Consumer Packaging North America
Flexibles
Health, Hygiene & Specialties
Total

Depreciation and amortization
Consumer Packaging International
Consumer Packaging North America
Flexibles
Health, Hygiene & Specialties

Total

Total assets:
Consumer Packaging International
Consumer Packaging North America
Flexibles
Health, Hygiene & Specialties
Total assets

Selected information by geographical region is presented in the following tables:

Net sales:
United States and Canada
Europe
Rest of world
Total net sales

Long-lived assets:
United States and Canada
Europe
Rest of world
Total long-lived assets

https://ir. berryglobal.com/node/16111/ntml

39

2024

$ 3,843
3,122
2,756
2,537
$ 12,258

$ 186
366

310

15

s__ 937

$ 322
227
125
183
5851

2024

$ 6,781
4,321
1,156
$ 12,258

2023

4,031
3,122
2,884
2,627

12,664

273
346
333
127

1,079

310
217
114
177
818

2024

6,554
4,321
2,262
3,476

16,613

2023

6,893
4,559
1,212

12,664

2024

6,798

3,859 |

1,382

12,039

2022

4,293
3,548
3,488
3,166

14,495

346
338
328
230
1,242

317
214
112
176
819

2023

6,217
4,312
2,476
3,582

16,587

2022

7,907
5,065
1,523

14,495

2023

6,893
3,800
1,361

12,054

41/90

28/11/2024, 10:44
Table of Contents

SEC Filing { Berry Global Group, Inc.

Selected information by product line is presented in the following tables:

(in percentages)
Net sales:
Packaging
Non-packaging
Consumer Packaging International

Containers & Food Service
Closures, Bottles & Specialties

Consumer Packaging North America

Core Films
Retail & Industrial
Flexibles

Health
Hygiene
Specialties
Health, Hygiene & Specialties

11. Net Income per Share

2024

9%
21
100%

66%
34
100%

60%
40
100%

15%

46

39
100%

2023

16%
24
100%

66%
34
100%

60%
40
100%

14%

48

38
100%

2022

76%
24
100%

62%
38
100%

59%
41
100%

14%

|

35
100%

Basic net income or earnings per share ("EPS") is calculated by dividing the net income attributable to common stockholders by the weighted-
average number of common shares outstanding during the period, without consideration for common stock equivalents. Diluted EPS includes

the effects of options and restricted stock units, if dilutive.

The following tables provide a reconciliation of the numerator and denominator of the basic and diluted EPS calculations:

(in millions, except per share amounts)
Numerator

Consolidated net income
Denominator

Weighted average common shares outstanding - basic

Dilutive shares

Weighted average common and common equivalent shares outstanding - diluted

Per common share earnings
Basic
Diluted

2024 2023 2022
$ 516 $ 609 $ 766
115.1 120.1 130.6
2.6 2.9 2.2
117.7 123.0 132.8
$ 448 $ 5.07 $ 5.87
$ 438 $ 495 $ 5.77

2 million, 1 million and 1 million shares were excluded from the fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022 diluted EPS calculation, respectively, as their

effect would be anti-dilutive.

https://ir.berrygtobal.com/node/16111/html

40

42/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

12. Subsequent Events
Closing of Spin-Off

In February 2024, the Company announced plans for a spin-off and merger of our Health, Hygiene & Specialties Global Nonwovens and
Films business (HHNF) with Glatfelter Corporation (GLT). The spin-off occurred on November 4, 2024 and the historical business will be
presented as a Discontinued Operation in future filings.

Tapes

On November 24, 2024, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell its Specialty Tapes business (“Tapes”) for a headline purchase
price of $540 million, which will be subject to a number of closing adjustments. The Tapes business is currently operated within the Flexibles
segment, and had annual revenues of $340 million in fiscal 2024 and $331 million in fiscal 2023. The transaction is expected to be completed
by early 2025, subject to customary closing conditions. The Company anticipates a book gain will be recorded at the time of disposition, but is
not calculable until the closing adjustments have been finalized.

Entry into Merger Agreement

On November 19, 2024, the Company announced that it has entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) with
Amcor ple, a Jersey public company (“Amcor”) and Aurora Spirit, Inc., a Delaware corporation and wholly-owned subsidiary of Amcor
(“Merger Sub”). The Merger Agreement provides for, among other things and subject to the satisfaction or waiver of specified conditions set
forth therein, the merger of Merger Sub with and into Company (the “Merger”), with the Company surviving the Merger as a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Amcor. Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, at the effective time of the Merger (the “Effective
Time”), each share of the Company’s common stock issued and outstanding (excluding shares held by the Company as treasury stock
immediately prior to the Effective Time) will be converted into the right to receive 7.25 fully paid and nonassessable Amcor ordinary shares
(and, if applicable, cash in lieu of fractional shares), less any applicable withholding taxes:

The completion of the Merger is subject to certain conditions, including: (i) the adoption of the Merger Agreement by the Company’s
stockholders, (ii) the approval of the issuance of Amcor ordinary shares in the Merger by Amcor’s shareholders, (iii) the expiration or
termination of any applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, and the absence
of any agreement with either the Federal Trade Commission or Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice not to complete the Merger, (iv)
the receipt of other required regulatory approvals, (v) the absence of any order or law that has the effect of enjoining or otherwise prohibiting
the completion of the Merger, (vi) the approval for listing of the Amcor ordinary shares to be issued in connection with the Merger on the New
York Stock Exchange and the effectiveness of a registration statement on Form S-4 with respect to such ordinary shares, (vii) subject to certain
exceptions, the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the other party, (viii) performance in all material respects by each party of its
respective obligations under the Merger Agreement and (ix) the absence of certain changes that have had, or would reasonably be expected to
have, a material adverse effect with respect to each of the Company and Amcor.

Amcor will be required to pay the Company a termination fee equal to $260 million in specified circumstances, including if Amcor terminates
the Merger Agreement to enter into a superior proposal or if the Company terminates the Merger Agreement following a change of
recommendation by Amcor’s Board of Directors, in each case, subject to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement. The Company
will be required to pay Amcor a termination fee equal to $260 million in specified circumstances, including if the Company terminates the
Merger Agreement to enter into a superior proposal or if Amcor terminates the Merger Agreement following a change of recommendation by
the Company’s Board of Directors, in each case, subject to the terms and conditions of the Merger Agreement.

The foregoing description of the Merger Agreement and the Merger does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference
to the full text of the Merger Agreement, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed by the
Company on November 19, 2024 and which is incorporated herein by reference.

As a result of the Merger, the distribution by the Company of the wholly-owned subsidiary that owned the HHNF business at the time of the
spin-off (“Spinco”) that occurred on November 4, 2024 (the “Distribution”) may be a taxable transaction to the Company for U.S. federal
income tax purposes. If the Distribution were determined to be taxable to the Company, the taxable gain recognized by the Company, if any,
would be immaterial based on the Company’s adjusted tax basis in Spinco immediately prior to the Distribution.

Other

In November 2024, the Company's Board of Directors authorized a quarterly cash dividend of $0.31 per share. The first fiscal quarter
payment will be paid on December 16, 2024 to shareholders of record as of December 2, 2024.

41

https://ir.berryglobal.convnode/16111/ntml 43/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents 7

Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
None.

Item 94. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures

We maintain “disclosure controls and procedures,” as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act, that are designed to
ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Acct is recorded, processed,
summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as:appropriate, to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure.

In connection with the preparation of this Form 10-K, management evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure
controls and procedures as of September 28, 2024. Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have
concluded that the Company’s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of September 28, 2024.

Management’s Report on Internal Controls over Financial Reporting

Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the supervision and with
the participation of our management, the Company conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
using the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on this
evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company’s internal controls over financial
reporting were effective as of September 28, 2024.

The effectiveness of our internal contro! over financial reporting as of September 28, 2024, has been audited by! the Company’s independent
registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report, which is included herein.

Changes in Internal Controls over Financial Reporting

There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended September 28, 2024 that have
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal contro! over financial reporting.

Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION

Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plans

No officers or directors, as defined in Rule 16a-1(f), adopted, modified and/or terminated a "Rule 10b5-1 trading arrangement" or a "“non-Rule
10b5-1 trading arrangement," as defined in Regulation S-K Item 408, during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024.

Item 9C. DISCLOSURE REGARDING FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS THAT PREVENT INSPECTIONS

None.

42

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 44/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Globat Group, Inc.

Table of Contents

PART III
Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Except as set forth below, the information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to our definitive Proxy Statement to be
filed in connection with the 2025 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

We have a Global Code of Business Ethics that applies to all directors and employees, including our Chief Executive Officer and senior
financial officers. We also have adopted a Supplemental Code of Ethics, which is in addition to the standards set by our Global Code of
Business Ethics, in order to establish a higher level of expectation for the most senior leaders of the Company. Our Global Code of Business
Ethics and Supplemental Code of Ethics can be obtained, free of charge, by contacting our corporate headquarters or can be obtained from the
Corporate Governance section of the Investors page on the Company’s internet site. In the event that we make changes in, or provide waivers
from, the provision of the Code of Business Ethics that the SEC requires us to disclose, we will disclose these events in the corporate
govemance section of our website within four business days following the date of such amendment or waiver.

‘We have also adopted an insider trading policy that governs the purchase, sale, and/or other dispositions of the Company’s securities by
directors, officers, and colleagues that we believe is reasonably designed to promote compliance with insider trading laws, rules and
regulations and listing standards applicable to the Company. A copy of the Company’s insider trading policy has been filed as Exhibit 19 to
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed in connection with the
2025 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Item 12, SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED
STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required by this Item, is incorporated herein by reference to our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed in connection with the
2025 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. .

Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed in connection with the
2025 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

Item 14, PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed in connection with the
2025 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.

43

https:/ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/htm! 45/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

PART IV

Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

L.

Financial Statements
The financial statements listed under Item 8 are filed as part of this report.

Financial Statement Schedules

Schedules have been omitted because they are either not applicable or the required information has been disclosed in the
financial statements or notes thereto.

Exhibits

The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index immediately following the signature page of this annual report are filed as part of this
report. :

Item 16. FORM 10-K SUMMARY

None.
Exhibit No Description of Exhibit

21 Rule 2.7 Announcement, dated as of March 8, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on March 14, 2019).

22 Co-Operation Agreement, dated as of March 8, 2019, by and among Berry Global Group, Inc., Berry Global International
Holdings Limited and RPC Group Plc (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form
8-K filed on March 14, 2019). :

23 RMT Transaction Agreement, dated February 6, 2024, by and among Berry Global Group, Inc., Treasure Holdco, Inc.,
Glatfelter Corporation, Treasure Merger Sub I, Inc. and Treasure Merger Sub II, LLC . (incorporated by reference to
Exhibit 2.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on February 12, 2024).

24 Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of November 19, 2024, by and among Berry Global Group, Inc., Amcor plc and
Aurora Spirit, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on
November 19, 2024).

31 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Berry Global Group, Inc., as amended through February 14, 2024
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 9, 2024).

3.2 Amended and Restated Bylaws of Berry Global Group, Inc., as amended and restated effective as of February 14, 2024
{incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 15, 2024).

44 Form of common stock certificate of Berry Plastics Group, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.27 of Amendment
No. 5 to the Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed on September 19, 2012).

42 Indenture, by and between Berry Global Escrow Corporation and U.S. Bank Trust Company National Association (as
successor to U.S. Bank National Association), as Trustee and Collateral Agent, relating to the 4.875% First Priority Senior
Secured Notes due 2026, dated June 5, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on June 6, 2019).

42A Supplemental Indenture, among Berry Global Group, Inc., Berry Global, Inc., Berry Global Escrow Corporation, each of

the parties identified as a Subsidiary Guarantor thereon, and U.S. Bank Trust Company National Association (as successor
to U.S. Bank National Association), as Trustee, relating to the 4.875% First Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2026, dated
July 1, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 2,
2019).

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 46/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

43 Indenture, by and between Berry Global Escrow Corporation and U.S. Bank Trust Company National Association (as
successor to U.S. Bank National Association), as Trustee and Collateral Agent, relating to the 5.625% Second Priority
Senior Secured Notes due 2027, dated June 5, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on June 6, 2019).

434A Supplemental Indenture, among Berry Global Group, Inc., Berry Global, Inc., Berry Global Escrow Corporation, each of

the parties identified as a Subsidiary Guarantor thereon, and U.S. Bank Trust Company National Association (as successor
to U.S. Bank National Association), as Trustee, relating to the 5.625% Second Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2027,
dated July 1, 2019 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 2,
2019).

44 Indenture, among Berry Global, Inc., certain -guarantors party thereto, U.S.-Bank Trust Company National Association (as
successor to U.S. Bank National Association), as Trustee and Collateral Agent, and Elavon Financial Services DAC, as
Paying Agent, Transfer Agent and Registrar, relating to the 1.00% First Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2025 and 1.50%
First Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2027, dated January 2, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 2, 2020).

4.5 Indenture among Berry Global, Inc., certain guarantors party thereto, U.S. Bank Trust Company National Association (as
successor to U.S. Bank National Association), as Trustee and Collateral Agent, relating to the 1.57% First Priority Senior
Secured Notes due 2026, dated December 22, 2020 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on December 23, 2020).

First Supplemental Indenture, among Berry Global, Inc., certain guarantors party thereto, U.S. Bank Trust Company

. National Association (as successor to U.S. Bank National Association), as Trustee and Collateral Agent, relating to the
1.57% First Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2026, dated March 4, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 4, 2021).

46 Indenture, among Berry Global, Inc., certain guarantors party thereto, U.S. Bank Trust Company National Association (as
successor to U.S. Bank National Association), as Trustee and Collateral Agent, relating to the 1.65% First Priority Senior
Secured Notes due 2027, dated June 14, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report
on Form 8-K filed on June 14, 2021).

47 Indenture, among Berry Global, Inc., certain guarantors party thereto, U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association, as
Trustee and Collateral Agent, relating to the 5.50% First Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2028, dated March 30, 2023
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 30, 2023).

48 Indenture, dated January 17, 2024, among Berry Global, Inc., certain guarantors party thereto, U.S. Bank Trust Company,
National Association, as Trustee and Collateral Agent, relating to the 5.650% First Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2034,
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 17, 2024).

49 Indenture, dated May 28, 2024, among Berry Global, Inc., certain guarantors party thereto, U.S. Bank Trust Company,
National Association, as Trustee and Collateral Agent, relating to the 5.800% First Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2031,
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 28, 2024).

ES
lin
[>

4.10 Registration Rights Agreement, by and between Berry Global, Inc., Berry Global Group, Inc., each subsidiary of Berry
Global, Inc. identified therein, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, on behalf of themselves
and as representatives of the initial purchasers, relating to the 1.57% First Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2026
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 23, 2020).

4141 Registration Rights Agreement, dated March 4, 2021, by and between Berry Global, Inc., Berry Global Group, Inc., each

subsidiary of Berry Global, Inc. identified therein, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC and
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, on behalf of themselves and as representatives of the initial purchasers, relating to the 1.57%
First Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2026 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report
on Form 8-K filed on March 5, 2021).

45

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html : 47/90

28/11/2024, 10:44
Table of Contents

™
S

7
wy

i
a
Ss

i

E

wy

Ss
as

E

SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

Registration Rights Agreement, by and between Berry Global, Inc., Berry Global Group, Inc., each subsidiary of Berry
Global, Inc. identified therein, and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Goldman Sachs & Co.
LLC, on behalf of themselves and as representatives of the initial purchasers, relating to the 1.65% First Priority Senior
Secured Notes due 2027 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
June 14, 2021).

Registration Rights Agreement, by and between Berry Global, Inc., Berry Global Group, Inc., each subsidiary of Berry
Global, Inc. identified therein, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities,
LLC, on behalf of themselves and as representatives of the initial purchasers, relating to the 5.50% First Priority Senior
Secured Notes due 2028 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
March 30, 2023).

Registration Rights Agreement, dated January 17, 2024, by and between Berry Global, Inc., Berry Global Group, Inc., each
subsidiary of Berry Global, Inc. identified therein, and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and
Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, on behalf of themselves and as representatives of the initial purchasers, relating to the
5.650% First Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2034 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on January 17, 2024).

Registration Rights Agreement, dated May 28, 2024, by and between Berry Global, Inc., Berry Global Group, Inc., each
subsidiary of Berry Global, Inc. identified therein, and Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC, J.P. Morgan Securities LLC and Wells
Fargo Securities, LLC, on behalf of themselves and as representatives of the initial purchasers, relating to the 5.800% First
Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2031 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on May 28, 2024).

Description of Securities (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.9 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on
November 11, 2019).

$1,000,000,000 Fourth Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of June 22, 2023, by and among
Berry Global, Inc., Berry Global Group, Inc., Berry Plastics Canada Inc., RPC Group Limited, the lenders party thereto,
Bank of America, N.A., as collateral agent and administrative agent, and the financial institutions party thereto
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 9, 2023).
U.S. $1,200,000,000 Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of April 3, 2007, by and among Berry -
Plastics Corporation formerly known as Berry Plastics Holding Corporation, Berry Plastics Group, Inc., Credit Suisse,
Cayman Islands Branch, as collateral and administrative agent, the lenders party thereto from time to time, and the other
financial institutions party thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1(b) to Berry Plastics Corporation’s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed on April 10, 2007).

Second Amended and Restated Intercreditor Agreement, dated as of February 5, 2008, by and among Berry Plastics Group, »
Inc., Berry Plastics Corporation, certain subsidiaries identified as parties thereto, Bank of America, N.A. and Credit Suisse,
Cayman Islands Branch as first lien agents, and U.S. Bank Trust Company National Association, as successor in interest to
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form
10-K filed on November 23, 2015).

U.S. $1,147,500,000 and $814,375,000 Incremental Assumption Agreement, dated as of February 10, 2017 by and among
Berry Plastics Group, Inc., Berry Plastics Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries referenced therein, Credit Suisse AG,
Cayman Islands Branch, as administrative agent for the lenders under the term loan credit agreement referenced therein,
Citibank, N.A., as initial Term K lender and Citibank, N.A., as incremental term L lender therein. (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on November 21, 2017).

U.S. $1,644,750,000 and $498,750,000 Incremental Assumption Agreement, dated as of August 10, 2017, by and among
Berry Plastics Group, Inc., Berry Plastics Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries referenced therein, Credit Suisse AG,
Cayman Islands Branch, as administrative agent for the lenders under the term loan credit agreement referenced therein,
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as initial Term M lender and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as initial
Term N lender therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on
November 21, 2017). . .

U.S. $900,000,000 and $814,375,000 Incremental Assumption Agreement, dated as of November 27, 2017, by and among
Berry Global Group, Inc., Berry Global, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries referenced therein, Credit Suisse AG, Cayman
Islands Branch, as administrative agent for the lenders under the term loan credit agreement referenced therein, Citibank,
N.A., as initial Term O Lender, and Citibank, N.A., as initial Term P Lender therein. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on February 7, 2018).

46

hitps://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 48/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

10.7 USS. $ 1,644,750,000 and $496,250,000 Incremental Assumption Agreement and Amendment, dated as of February 12,

2018, by and among Berry Global Group, Inc., Berry Global, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries referenced therein, Credit

Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch, as administrative agent for the lenders under the term loan credit agreement

referenced therein, Citibank, N.A., as initial Term Q lender, and Citibank, N.A., as initial Term R lender therein

{incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 3, 2018).

U.S. $800,000,000 and $8 14,375,000 Incremental Assumption Agreement, dated as of May 16, 2018, by and among Berry

Global Group, Inc., Berry Global, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries referenced therein, Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands

Branch, as administrative agent for the lenders under the term loan credit agreement referenced therein, Citibank, N.A., as

initial Term S lender, and Citibank, N.A., as initial Term T lender therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the

Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on August 3, 2018).

Cooperation Agreement, dated November 22, 2022, by and among Berry Global Group, Inc., Ancora Catalyst Institutional,

LP, Eminence Capital, L.P. and the other persons and entities listed thereto (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the

Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 23, 2022).

Amended and Restated Cooperation Agreement, dated October 18, 2023, by and among Berry Global Group, Inc., Ancora

Catalyst Institutional, LP, Eminence Capital, L.P. and the other persons and entities listed thereto (incorporated by

reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 20, 2023).

Amendment and Waiver to Equipment Lease Agreement, dated as of January 19, 2011, between Chicopee, Inc., as Lessee

and Gossamer Holdings, LLC, as Lessor (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 to AVINTIV Specialty Materials

Inc.’s Registration Statement Form S-4 filed on October 25, 2011).

Second Amendment to Equipment Lease Agreement, dated as of October 7, 2011, between Chicopee, Inc., as Lessee and

Gossamer Holdings, LLC, as Lessor (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to AVINTIV Specialty Materials Inc.’s

Registration Statement Form S-4 filed on October 25, 2011).

Third Amendment to Equipment Lease Agreement, dated as of February 28, 2012, between Chicopee, Inc., as Lessee and

Gossamer Holdings, LLC, as Lessor (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AVINTIV Specialty Materials Inc.’s

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 15, 2012).

Fourth Amendment to Equipment Lease Agreement, dated as of March 22, 2013, between Chicopee, Inc., as Lessee and

Gossamer Holdings, LLC, as Lessor (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to AVINTIV Specialty Materials Inc.’s

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 9, 2013).

MO.1St Berry Plastics Group, Inc. Executive Bonus Plan, amended and restated December 22, 2015, effective as of September 27,

2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 28,

2015).

t Berry Plastics Group, Inc. 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the Company’s

Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on December 17, 2012).

10.17 f Amendment No. 1 to the Berry Plastics Group, Inc., 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
10.31 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on December 11, 2013).

10.18t Omnibus amendment to awards granted under the Berry Plastics Group, Inc., 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan

10.19

E

5

—
io

E

wm

_
=

(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on December 11, 2013).
0.19T Amendment No. 2 to the Berry Plastics Group, Inc. 2012 Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit

10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 10, 2015).

10.20f Form of 2016 Omnibus Amendment to Awards Granted Under the Berry Plastics Group, Inc. 2012 Long-Term Incentive
Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 22, 2016).

10.21f 2015 Berry Plastics Group, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 10, 2015).

10.22t First Amendment to 2015 Berry Plastics Group, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1
to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 6, 2018).

10.23 t Form of 2016 Omnibus Amendment to Awards Granted Under the Berry Plastics Group, Inc. 2015 Long-Term Incentive
Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on July 22, 2016).

47

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 49/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

10.24f Fourth Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement, by and among Berry Plastics Group, Inc., and the stockholders of
the Corporation listed on schedule A thereto, dated as of January 15, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on January 30, 2015).

10.25¢ Employment Agreement, dated January 1, 2002, between the Berry Plastics Corporation and Curtis Begle (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on January 31, 2014).

10.26f Amendment No. 1 to Employment Agreement, dated as of September 13, 2006, by and between the Berry Plastics
Corporation and Curtis Begle (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
filed on January 31, 2014).

10.277 Amendment No. 2 to Employment Agreement, dated December 31, 2008, by and between the Berry Plastics Corporation
and Curtis Begle (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on
January 31, 2014).

10.28} Amendment No. 3 to Employment Agreement, dated August 1, 2010, by and between the Berry Plastics Corporation and
Curtis L. Begle (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on
January 31, 2014).

410.29 f Amendment No. 4 to Employment Agreement, dated December 16, 2011, by and between the Berry Plastics Corporation
and Curtis L. Begle (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on
January 31, 2014).

10.30f Employment Agreement, dated February 28, 1998, between Berry Plastics Corporation and Mark Miles, together with
amendments dated February 28, 2003, September 13, 2006, December 31, 2008, and December 31, 2011 (incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 10.40 to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on November 30, 2016).

10.31f Form of Amendment to Employment Agreement by and between Berry Plastics Corporation and each of Curtis L Begle,
Mark W. Miles, and Thomas E. Salmon (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on July 22, 2016).

10.32 f Senior Executive Employment Contract dated as of September 30, 2015 by and between PGI Specialty Materials Inc. and
Jean Marc Galvez, together with the International Assignment Letter dated December 18, 2016 from Berry Global, Inc.
(f/k/a Berry Plastics Corporation) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q filed on February 7, 2018).

10.33 f Employment Agreement, dated December 16, 2010, between Berry Plastics Corporation and Jason Greene, together with
amendments dated December 31, 2011 and July 20, 2016 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.43 to the Company’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on November 23, 2020).

10.34f Amended and Restated Berry Global Group, Inc. 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan, effective February 24, 2021
(incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 25, 2021).

10.35f Form of Employee Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 30, 2020).

10.36t Form of Employee Performance-Based Stock Unit Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 30, 2020).

10.37t Form of Director Non-Qualified Stock Option Award Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the
Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 30, 2020).

1038+ Employment Agreement, dated August 11, 2023, among Kevin Kwilinski, Berry Global Group, Inc., and Berry Global,
Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2023).

10.39t Memorandum of Understanding, dated August 11, 2023, among Thomas E. Salmon, Berry Global Group, Inc., and Berry
Global, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 17,
2023).

* 10.40 Berry Global Group, Inc. 2022 Dividend Equivalent Rights Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the

Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on February 2, 2023).

10.41 Form of Notice of Dividend Equivalent Rights Award under the Berry Global Group, Inc. 2022 Dividend Equivalent
Rights Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on February
2, 2023).

10.43 + Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated February 6, 2024, by and among Berry Global Group, Inc., Treasure Holdco,
Inc. and Glatfelter Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K/A
filed on February 12, 2024).

48

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/htmt 50/90

28/11/2024, 1 0:44 SEC Fiting { Berry Global Group, Inc.

Table of Contents
10.44 Tax Matters Agreement, dated February 6, 2024, by and among Berry Global Group, Inc., Treasure Holdco, Inc. and
Glatfelter Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on
February 12, 2024).
10.45 Employee Matters Agreement, dated February 6, 2024, by and among Berry Global Group, Inc., Treasure Holdco, Inc. and
Glatfelter Corporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company’s Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on
February 12, 2024).
10.46* First Amendment to the Employee Matters Agreement, dated July 8, 2024, by and among Berry Global Group, Inc.,
Treasure Holdco, Inc. and Glatfelter Corporation.
10.47* Second Amendment to the Employee Matters Agreement, dated September 25, 2024, by and among Berry Global Group,
Inc., Treasure Holdco, Inc. and Glatfelter Corporation.
10.48 * Third Amendment to the Employee Matters Agreement, dated October 24, 2024, by and among Berry Global Group, Inc.,
Treasure Holdco, Inc. and Glatfelter Corporation.
_ 10.49* Fourth Amendment to the Employee Matters Agreement, dated November 1, 2024, by and among Berry Global Group,
Inc., Treasure Holdco, Inc. and Glatfelter Corporation.
19* Insider Trading Policies and Procedures.
211* Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
22.1* List of Subsidiary Guarantors.
23.1* Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

3L1* Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of the Chief Executive Officer.

31.2* Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of the Chief Financial Officer.

32.1* Section 1350 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer.

32.2* Section 1350 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer.

97.1T* Berry Global Group, Inc. Amended and Restated Compensation Recovery Policy.

101.INS Inline XBRL Instance Document (the instance document does not appear in the Interactive Data File because its XBRL
tags are embedded within the Inline XBRL document).

101.SCH Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document.

101.CAL- Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document.

101.DEF Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document.

101.LAB Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document.

101.PRE Inline XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document.

104 Cover Page Interactive Date File (formatted as Inline XBRL and contained in Exhibit 101).

* Filed or furnished herewith, as applicable.
+ Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

49

https:/fir-berryglobal.com/node/16111/ntml . . 51/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Table of Contents

SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on the 26th day of November, 2024.

BERRY GLOBAL GROUP, INC.

By _/s/Kevin Kwilinski
Kevin Kwilinski
Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:

Signature Title Date
/s/ Stephen E. Sterrett Chairman of the Board and Director ; November 26, 2024

Stephen E. Sterrett

/s/ Kevin Kwilinski Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer) November 26, 2024
Kevin Kwilinski

/s/ Mark W. Miles Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) November 26, 2024
Mark W. Miles

/s/ B. Evan Bayh Director November 26, 2024
B. Evan Bayh

/s/ Jonathan F. Foster Director November 26, 2024
Jonathan F. Foster

/s/ James T. Glerum, Jr. Director November 26, 2024
James T. Glerum, Jr.

/s/ Meredith R. Harper Director November 26, 2024
Meredith R. Harper

/s/ Idalene F. Kesner Director - November 26, 2024
Idalene F. Kesner

/s/ Jill A. Rahman Director November 26, 2024
Jill A. Rahman
/s/ Chaney M. Sheffield, Jr. Director November 26, 2024

Chaney M. Sheffield Jr.

/s/ Robert A. Steele + Director : : November 26, 2024
Robert A. Steele

/s/ Peter T. Thomas Director November 26, 2024
Peter T. Thomas

50

Exhibit 10.46
Execution Version

FIRST AMENDMENT TO
EMPLOYEE MATTERS AGREEMENT

This FIRST AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYEE MATTERS AGREEMENT (this “Amendment”) is made on this 8th day of July, 2024,
by and among BERRY GLOBAL GROUP, INC., a Delaware corporation (“Remainco”), TREASURE HOLDCO, INC., a Delaware
corporation and a wholly owned indirect Subsidiary of Remainco (“Spinco”), and GLATFELTER CORPORATION, a Pennsylvania
corporation (“RMT Partner”).

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 52/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 . SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, inc.
RECITALS

WHEREAS, on February 6, 2024, Remainco, Spinco, and RMT Partner entered into that certain Employee Matters Agreement (the
“EMA”);

WHEREAS, Section 8.2(b) and Section 8.2(c) of the EMA currently provide that, upon or following the Closing, Spinco Employees,
other than certain Spinco Employees identified on Exhibit A thereto, with (i) outstanding Remainco Option Awards will receive a RMT Partner
Option Award denominated in RMT Partner Common Stock as a replacement for the Remainco Option Awards and (ii) unvested Remainco
DER Awards will receive a RMT Partner DER Award denominated in RMT Partner Common Stock as a replacement for the Remainco DER
Awards; *

WHEREAS, Remainco, Spinco and RMT Partner desire to amend the EMA to provide that any unvested Remainco Option Awards
and any unvested Remainco DER Awards held by Spinco Employees will be cancelled and replaced with RMT Partner RSU Awards;

WHEREAS, Remainco, Spinco and RMT Partner desire to amend the EMA to provide that each outstanding vested Remainco
Option Award held by Spinco Employees as of the Closing will continue to be denominated in Remainco Common Stock and, upon the
Closing, shall be treated as if the Spinco Employee terminated employment with the Remainco Group due to “Retirement,” as defined in the
Remainco Option Awards;

WHEREAS, Remainco, Spinco and RMT Partner desire to amend the EMA to update Exhibit A to the EMA; and

WHEREAS, amendment of the EMA is permitted pursuant to Section 13.7 thereof with the written consent of each of Remainco,
Spinco and RMT Partner.

AGREEMENT

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements, provisions and covenants contained in this
Amendment, the Parties, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:

1, The definition of “Remainco DER Award” in Section 1.1 of the EMA is hereby deleted in its entirety, and inserted in lieu
thereof is the following:

https://ir.berryglobat.corvnode/16111/html 53/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

““Remainco DER Award’ means a unit representing a general unsecured promise by Remainco to deliver a cash payment,
upon satisfaction of a vesting requirement with respect to a Remainco Option Award and/or a Remainco RSU Award.”

2. The definition of “RMT Partner DER Award” in Section 1.1 of the EMA is hereby deleted in its entirety and all references to
“RMT Partner DER Award” in the EMA are hereby removed.

3. Section 8.2(b) of the EMA is hereby deleted in its entirety, and inserted in lieu thereof is the following:

“{b)  Remainco Stock Option Awards Held By Spinco Employees as of Signing.

(i) Vested Options. Upon or following the Closing, each vested Remainco Option Award, or vested
portion of a Remainco Option Award, as applicable, held by a Spinco Employee that was granted prior to the date of this
Agreement and is outstanding as of the Closing shall remain outstanding and shall not be converted or exchanged for RMT
Partner Option Awards or, any other form of RMT Partner Equity Compensation and shall be treated as if the Spinco
Employee terminated employment with the Remainco Group due to “retirement” (as defined in the applicable Remainco
Option Award agreement). Each vested Remainco Option Award, or vested portion of a Remainco Option Award, as
applicable, shall otherwise be subject to the same terms and conditions as the terms and conditions applicable to the
Remainco Option Award immediately prior to the Closing.

(ii) - Unvested Options. Upon or following the Closing, each unvested Remainco Option Award, or
unvested portion of a Remainco Option Award, as applicable, held by a Spinco Employee, other than certain Spinco
employees identified on Exhibit A to this Agreement, that was granted prior to the date of this Agreement and is outstanding
as of the Closing shall be cancelled and RMT Partner shall issue to each such Spinco Employee a RMT Partner RSU Award.
The number of shares of RMT Partner Common Stock to which such RMT Partner RSU Award relates shall be equal to the
quotient, rounded up to the nearest whole number of shares, obtained by dividing (1) the economic value of the unvested
Remainco Option Awards, determined using a stock option pricing model which takes into account the unvested Remainco
DER Awards relating to such unvested Remainco Option Awards, immediately prior to the Closing by (2) the value of a
share of RMT Partner Common Stock on the Closing Date. In all events the issuance of the RMT Partner RSU Award shall
provide the same economic benefit to such Spinco Employee as the economic benefit that would have been provided under
each unvested Remainco Option Award held by the Spinco Employee immediately before Closing. Any RMT Partner RSU
Award issued in accordance with this Section shall be subject to the same vesting schedule that applied to the cancelled
Remainco Option Award and shall be credited with vesting service accumulated under such Remainco Option Award for
purposes of calculating vesting on the RMT Partner RSU Award.”

https:/fir.berryglobat.com/node/16111/html 54/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
4. Section 8.2(c) of the EMA is hereby deleted in its entirety, and inserted in lieu thereof is the following:

“(c) | Remainco DER Awards Held By Spinco Employees as of Signing. Upon or following the Closing, each unvested
Remainco DER Award, or unvested portion of a Remainco DER Award, as applicable, held by a Spinco Employee, other than an
unvested Remainco DER Award held by Spinco Employees identified on Exhibit A to this Agreement, that was granted prior to the
date hereof and is outstanding as of the Closing shall be cancelled as of the Closing. Each unvested Remainco DER Award, or
unvested portion of a Remainco DER Award, as applicable, relating to an unvested Remainco RSU Award shall be replaced with a
RMT Partner RSU Award granted to the Spinco Employee by RMT Partner immediately following the Closing. The number of shares
of RMT Partner Common Stock to which such RMT Partner RSU Award relates shall be equal to the quotient, rounded up to the
nearest whole number of shares, obtained by dividing (1) the cash value of the unvested Remainco DER Award, immediately prior to
Closing by (2) the value of a share of RMT Partner Common Stock on the Closing Date, and the RMT Partner RSU Award shall
otherwise be subject to the same terms and conditions as the terms and conditions applicable to the corresponding unvested Remainco
DER Award immediately prior to the Closing. Remainco shall pay to any applicable Spinco Employee any unpaid but vested portion
of any Remainco DER Award in cash at Closing and shall be responsible for ensuring the satisfaction of all applicable Tax payment
and withholding requirements in respect thereof, including all associated payroll and employment Taxes, and for ensuring the
collection and remittance of applicable Taxes to the applicable Governmental Entity.”

5. Exhibit A to the EMA is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with Exhibit A in the form attached to this Amendment.
6. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Amendment shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the EMA.
7. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each such counterpart being deemed to be an original

instrument, and all such counterparts shall together constitute the same agreement. A signed copy of this Amendment delivered by facsimile,
email or other means of electronic transmission shall be deemed to have the same legal effect as delivery of an original signed copy of this
Amendment.

8. Including as amended hereby, the EMA remains in full force and effect, is valid and binding on, and otherwise ratified by, the
parties.

9. This Amendment, and the application or interpretation hereof, shall be governed exclusively by its terms and the Laws of the

State of Delaware without regard to conflict of laws principles thereof (or any other jurisdiction) to the extent that such principles would direct
a matter to another jurisdiction.

https:/ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 55/90

28/11/2024, 10:44

SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Remainco, Spinco, and RMT Partner have caused this First Amendment to Employee Matters

Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.

BERRY GLOBAL GROUP, INC.

By
Name:
Title:

TREASURE HOLDCO, INC.

By
Name:
Title:

GLATFELTER CORPORATION

By
Name:
Title:

[Signature Page to First Amendment to Employee Matters Agreement]

https://ir.berrygtobal.com/node/16111/html

56/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Exhibit A

CURTIS

Last Name
GARRISON
BOGGS
GUNN
WADE
DIJKSTERHUIS
CHIRICO
GIORDANO
COFFEY
WAGONER
ELSNER
BURGESS
LANDRETH
CRISTANTE
HARDEE
BATTEN
GREGORY
ECKERT
MERRILL
OROPEZA
WARD
BURGER
TEEGARDEN
BALTZINGER
ELLIS
CLARK
MCVEY
KUNDOVIC
THOMAS
BISHOP
PHILLIPS
TAFOYA
CUNLIFFE "
MARTIN
HENDERSON
TINDALL
GUENTHER
GOLDTHORPE
MANSOURI
YORGANSON
STREET

Q

'HRISTOPHER

w
al2
ols

JOSEPH

MARIA DE JESUS
FRANK
MICHAEL
THOMAS
LAURENT
MICHELE
MICHAEL
DENIS
RONALD
FRANCISCO
STEPHANE
VINCENZO
OBERT

ILLIAM
REGORY

lr] E22) Bes!
SRE
5/2] FS

We

¥
S
>

Zlslclalo
BelZ1E

m
Shel al
> a

5
s
5

an

CURTIS.
ACHIM
JOSEPH
|MARIADE JESUS
[FRANK
[MICHAEL
[THOMAS
PLAURENT
MICHELE
[MICHAEL
PDENIS
PRONALD
[FRANCISCO
[STEPHANE
PVINCENZO
TACK

Qs

BIS
|

AMES

ROBERT

OGBOMO
MANROA—

[Exhibit A to Employee Matters Agreement]

S12

Exhibit 10.47
Execution Version

SECOND AMENDMENT TO
EMPLOYEE MATTERS AGREEMENT

This SECOND AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYEE MATTERS AGREEMENT (this “Amendment”) is made on this 25th day of
September, 2024, by and among BERRY GLOBAL GROUP, INC., a Delaware corporation (“Remainco”), TREASURE HOLDCO, INC., a
Delaware corporation and a wholly owned indirect Subsidiary of Remainco (“Spinco”), and GLATFELTER CORPORATION, a Pennsylvania
corporation (“RMT Partner”).

RECITALS

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/htmt , 57/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

WHEREAS, Remainco, Spinco, and RMT Partner are parties to that certain Employee Matters Agreement dated February 6, 2024,
as amended July 8, 2024 (as amended, the “EMA”);

WHEREAS, Remainco, Spinco and RMT Partner desire to amend the EMA to update Exhibit A to the EMA; and

WHEREAS, amendment of the EMA is permitted pursuant to Section 13.7 thereof with the written consent of each of Remainco,
Spinco and RMT Partner.

AGREEMENT

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements, provisions and covenants contained in this
Amendment, the Parties, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows: ,

1, Exhibit A to the EMA is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with Exhibit A in the form attached to this Amendment.

2. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Amendment shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the EMA.

3. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each such counterpart being deemed to be an original
instrument, and all such counterparts shall together constitute the same agreement. A signed copy of this Amendment delivered by facsimile,

email or other means of electronic transmission shall be deemed to have the same legal effect as delivery of an original signed copy of this
Amendment.

4. Including as amended hereby, the EMA remains in full force and effect, is valid and binding on, and otherwise ratified by, the
parties.

5. This Amendment, and the application or interpretation hereof, shall be governed exclusively by its terms and the Laws of the
State of Delaware without regard to conflict of laws principles thereof (or any other jurisdiction) to the extent that such principles would direct
a matter to another jurisdiction.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 58/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 : SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Remainco, Spinco, and RMT Partner have caused this Second Amendment to Employee Matters
Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.

BERRY GLOBAL GROUP, INC.
By

Name:
Title:

TREASURE HOLDCO, INC.

By
Name:
Title:

GLATFELTER CORPORATION

By
Name:
Title:

[Signature Page to Second Amendment to Employee Matters Agreement]

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/ntmi 59/90

28/11/2024, 10:44

PGiorDaNO_______|E
PDERVAES |

DAVID

DERVAES

STEVE
WEILMINSTER ROBERT ;

SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Exhibit A

[Exhibit A to Employee Matters Agreement]

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/htmt

60/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

[DYER
[MANSOURL
(OMAS
PCHIRICO | WILLIAM
[GOLDTHORPE | LLISE

[MANN | GREGORY.

[OGBOMO_ | CLEMENT

DE JESUS
PIAFOYA
[GRIFFON DENIS
|MOREEL | LAURENT
TEPHANE
[|HUNSINGER
OLANDE
PEBBERS
[NIGHTINGALE
WORMALD

INCENZO
PCUr
SEPH
NALD
PKUNDOVIC
PMERRILL
PYOUNG
[THOMAS

AlSIS/SIEla|2
SIZIZI- 12/5 ]8
=o}

9

OREEN

S556
i
>

RE

vj
5
&
B

:

zz}
best
ia
Q
°

Pisi< 1
>
Hee
Ae13
a
g

:

al
2

alals
S

:

sd ES > Bs

[Exhibit A to Employee Matters Agreement]

hittps://ir.berryglobat.com/node/16111/html , 61/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
WOLSTENHOLME MICHAEL ~*
BOGGS
BUZZARD
FLAUGHER

ESCHENBACHER RANK
GUENTHER HRISTIAN
LOPEZ

[Exhibit A to Employee Matters Agreement]

Exhibit 10.48
Execution Version

THIRD AMENDMENT TO
EMPLOYEE MATTERS AGREEMENT

This THIRD AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYEE MATTERS AGREEMENT (this “Amendment”) is made on this 24 day of October,
2024, by and among BERRY GLOBAL GROUP, INC., a Delaware corporation (“Remainco”), TREASURE HOLDCO, INC., a Delaware
corporation and a wholly owned indirect Subsidiary of Remainco (“Spinco”), and GLATFELTER CORPORATION, a Pennsylvania
corporation (“RMT Partner”).

RECITALS

WHEREAS, Remainco, Spinco, and RMT Partner are parties to that certain Employee Matters Agreement dated February 6, 2024,
as amended July 8, 2024, and September 25, 2024 (the “EMA”); :

WHEREAS, Section 7.1(b) of the EMA currently provides that disability benefit coverage for Inactive Employees who are receiving
disability benefits under a Remainco Health & Welfare Plan shall be continued until such individual retums to work and commences
employment with the Spinco Group;

WHEREAS, Remainco, Spinco and RMT Partner desire to amend the EMA to clarify that Inactive Employees who are receiving
disability benefits under a Remainco Health & Welfare Plan and are based in the U.S. will remain employees of Remainco while inactive
while Inactive Employees who are receiving disability benefits under a Remainco Health & Welfare Plan and are based outside of the U.S.
will be employed by an entity in the Spinco Group while inactive with the cost of such disability benefit coverage to be reimbursed by
Remainco; and

WHEREAS, amendment of the EMA is permitted pursuant to Section 13.7 thereof with the written consent of each of Remainco,
Spinco and RMT Partner.

AGREEMENT

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements, provisions and covenants contained in this
Amendment, the Parties, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:

1. Section 7.1(b) of the EMA is hereby deleted in its entirety, and inserted in lieu thereof .is the following:
“(b) Disability. The Parties agree to cooperate in good faith to take all actions reasonably necessary or appropriate to

ensure continuity in disability benefit coverage for each Inactive Employee who is receiving disability benefits under a Remainco
Health & Welfare Plan immediately prior to the Spinco Distribution Date until such Inactive Employee returns to work.

hitps:/fir.berrygiobal.com/node/16111 /ntml 62/90

28/11/2024, 10:44

2.

3.

SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

(i) U.S.-based Inactive Employees. With respect to each Inactive Employee who is receiving disability
benefits under a Remainco Health & Welfare Plan immediately prior to the Spinco Distribution Date and who is based in the
U.S., the Parties agree that such Inactive Employee will be employed by Remainco or one of its Affiliates from the Spinco
Distribution Date until such Inactive Employee returns to work and commences employment with the Spinco Group, which
may include, but is not limited to, providing a continuation of coverage under the applicable Remainco Health & Welfare
Plan during such period.

(ii) Non-U.S.-based Inactive Employees. With respect to each Inactive Employee who is receiving disability
benefits under a Remainco Health & Welfare Plan immediately prior to the Spinco Distribution Date and who is based
outside of the U.S., the Parties agree that such Inactive Employee will be employed by the Spinco Group as of the Spinco
Distribution Date and the Spinco Group will ensure continuity in such disability benefit coverage for each Inactive
Employee until such Inactive Employee returns to work, which may include, but is not limited to, providing coverage under
the applicable Spinco Health & Welfare Plan during such period; provided, however, that the employer’s portion of the cost
of such disability benefit coverage and any other costs incurred by the Spinco Group in connection with the Inactive
Employee shall be invoiced to and reimbursed by Remainco within 60 days of Remainco’s receipt of any such invoice. In
the event any Inactive Employee does not return to work and his/her employment needs to be terminated by the relevant
member of the Spinco Group, Remainco will reimburse the Spinco Group for all termination payments, both statutory and
non-statutory (e.g., pay in lieu of notice, statutory and contractual severance, any ex gratia payment in exchange for a
mutual termination agreement, etc.), which the relevant member of the Spinco Group must pay to the Inactive Employee.”

Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Amendment shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the EMA.

This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each such counterpart being deemed to be an original

instrument, and all such counterparts shall together constitute the same agreement. A signed copy of this Amendment delivered by facsimile,
email or other means of electronic transmission shall be deemed to have the same legal effect as delivery of an original signed copy of this

Amendment.

4.
the parties.

5.

Including as amended hereby, the EMA remains in full force and effect, is valid and binding on, and otherwise ratified by,

This Amendment, and the application or interpretation hereof, shall be governed exclusively by its terms and the Laws of the

State of Delaware without regard to conflict of laws principles thereof (or any other jurisdiction) to the extent that such principles would direct
a matter to another jurisdiction. .

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 63/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Remainco, Spinco, and RMT Partner have caused this Third Amendment to Employee Matters
Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.

BERRY GLOBAL GROUP, INC.

By
Name: Jason Greene
Title: Executive Vice President

TREASURE HOLDCO, INC.

By
Name: Jason Greene
Title: Executive Vice President

GLATFELTER CORPORATION

By
Name: Jill L. Urey
Title: VP, General Counsel & Compliance

[Signature Page to Third Amendment to Employee Matters Agreement]

Exhibit 10.49

FOURTH AMENDMENT TO
EMPLOYEE MATTERS AGREEMENT

This FOURTH AMENDMENT TO EMPLOYEE MATTERS AGREEMENT (this “Amendment”) is made on this [¢] day of
November, 2024, by and among BERRY GLOBAL GROUP, INC., a Delaware corporation (“Remainco”), TREASURE HOLDCO, INC., a
Delaware corporation and a wholly owned indirect Subsidiary of Remainco (“Spinco”), and GLATFELTER CORPORATION, a Pennsylvania
corporation (“RMT Partner”).

RECITALS

WHEREAS, Remainco, Spinco, and RMT Partner are parties to that certain Employee Matters Agreement dated February 6, 2024,
as amended July 8, 2024 (as amended, the “EMA”);

WHEREAS, Remainco, Spinco and RMT Partner desire to amend the EMA to update Exhibit A to the EMA; and

WHEREAS, amendment of the EMA is permitted pursuant to Section 13.7 thereof with the written consent of each of Remainco,
Spinco and RMT Partner.

AGREEMENT

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements, provisions and covenants contained in this
Amendment, the Parties, intending to be legally bound hereby, agree as follows:

1. Exhibit A to the EMA is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with Exhibit A in the form attached to this Amendment.
2. Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Amendment shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the EMA.
3. This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each such counterpart being deemed to be an original

instrument, and all such counterparts shall together constitute the same agreement. A signed copy of this Amendment delivered by facsimile,
email or other means of electronic transmission shall be deemed to have the same legal effect as delivery of an original signed copy of this
Amendment.

4. Including as amended hereby, the EMA remains in full force and effect, is valid and binding on, and otherwise ratified by, the
parties.

5. This Amendment, and the application or interpretation hereof, shall be governed exclusively by its terms and the Laws of the

State of Delaware without regard to conflict of laws principles thereof (or any other jurisdiction) to the extent that such principles would direct
a matter to another jurisdiction.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/htm! 64/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Remainco, Spinco, and RMT Partner have caused this Fourth Amendment to Employee Matters
Agreement to be duly executed as of the date first above written.

BERRY GLOBAL GROUP, INC.
By

Name:
Title:

TREASURE HOLDCO, INC.

By
Name:
Title:

GLATFELTER CORPORATION

By
Name:
Title:

[Signature Page to Second Amendment to Employee Matters Agreement]

https://ir. berrygtobal.com/nade/16114/html 65/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
ExhibitA

Last Name

CLARK CAROLYN
CUNLIFFE

ELLIS
GARDINER
GONDHALEKAR
GUERRERO
HARDEE
HARMON

MAY'
MCVEY
OROPEZA
PARKS
RABON
REEVES
STREET
TINDALL
WANG

°

WEILMINSTER
YORGANSON
YORK
GREGORY
MARTIN
MILLER
BENDER
CHESSER
COFFEY

PcLARK_____ | CAROLYN __|
[CUNLIFFE | MATTHEW___|
PEcLIs Sd DIANNE __|
[GARDINER [JOHN ___|
[GONDHALEKAR | ARCHANA

[GUERRERO [DANIEL___|
PHARDEE | DIANNA____|
PHARMON [Pat]
PMAYO | JERRY_____|
PMCVEY | ELIZABETA___|
[OROPEZA_[PAMELA____|
A
PRABON” | ROBERT____]
PREEVES [HOPE |
EL
PrINDALL | RUSSELL____|
TWANG —SOS—~ Cd
WEILMINSTER | ROBERT]
[YORGANSON | GLENDA___]

4

aEEER
o>

[Exhibit A to Employee Matters Agreement]

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html : 66/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, inc.

MERRILL

MICHAEL

[Exhibit A to Employee Matters Agreement]

https://ir.beryglobal.com/node/16111/htmil 67/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

PauzzaRD [MARK
TAMES

[Exhibit A to Employee Matters Agreement]

:

Exhibit 19

As Adopted August 4, 2014
BERRY GLOBAL GROUP, INC.
AMENDED AND RESTATED
POLICY STATEMENT
SECURITIES TRADING BY COMPANY PERSONNEL

The common stock and debt securities of Berry Global Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, the “Company”)
trade in the public market. Federal and state securities laws and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) prohibit the
purchase or sale of securities on the basis of material “inside” or nonpublic information.

The Company has adopted this Policy Statement to limit the possibility that persons employed by or associated with the Company
violate these laws. This Policy Statement does not simply restate legal principles or regulatory rules; rather, in certain areas, the Company has
adopted policies and procedures that may impose requirements beyond those mandated by applicable laws or regulations.

This Policy Statement is divided into three parts. Part I applies to all employees, officers, and members of the Board of Directors of
the Company, as well as their parents, spouses and minor children and other persons living in their households, and to investment partnerships
and other entities (such as trusts and corporations) over which such employees, officers or directors have or share voting or investment control
(each, a “Covered Person”). Part II describes special additional! trading restrictions applicable to certain designated personnel, their family
members and related entities. Part III sets forth certain exceptions and permitted transactions.

This Policy Statement is for the sole and exclusive benefit of the Company and does not constitute or otherwise create any
employment or other legal right, privilege, assurance, or contract of any kind or nature in favor of any Company personnel. This Policy
Statement is not intended to be, and may not be, relied upon by any other party. Conduct in violation of this Policy Statement is outside the
scope of a Covered Person’s job responsibilities and authority and will subject such Covered Person to disciplinary action, as described more
fully below.

1. GENERAL POLICY APPLICABLE TO ALL COVERED PERSONS

A. Reasons for the Policy

The consequences of a violation of the securities laws are severe:

Individuals who trade on inside information (or tip information to others) can be liable for:

*  Acivil fine of up to three times the profit gained or loss avoided;

*  Acriminal fine of up to $5 million; and

+ — Ajail term of up to 20 years.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/htmt 68/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

Companies that fail to take appropriate steps to prevent illegal insider trading may be liable under the securities laws as a “controlling
person” and face:

+  Acivil fine of up to the greater of $1 million or three times the profit gained or loss avoided as a result of the employee’s
violation; and

+ Acriminal fine of up to $2.5 million.

Any violation of this Policy Statement would be grounds for the Company to take appropriate action against a Covered Person,
including fining, suspending without pay or terminating the employment of such Covered Person. Furthermore, the Company’s policy is
intended to be broader than the law and, therefore, the Company reserves the right to determine, in its own discretion and on the basis of the
information available to it, whether its policy has been violated and to take disciplinary action, without waiting for the resolution of any civil
or criminal action against an alleged violator. Needless to say, any of the consequences of a violation, even an SEC investigation that does not
result in a criminal prosecution or civil enforcement proceeding, can irreparably damage an individual’s career and tarnish the Company’s
reputation.

B. No Trading While in Possession of Material! Nonpublic Information

If a Covered Person is aware of any material nonpublic information relating to the Company or its securities, then that
person may not buy or sell Company securities or engage in any other action to take advantage of that information. Covered Persons
are also prohibited from recommending, “tipping” or suggesting that anyone else buy or sell stock or other securities of the Company
on the basis of material nonpublic information.

Material information is any information that a reasonable investor would consider important in a decision to buy, hold or sell the
Company’s securities. In short, any information, whether positive or negative, that would reasonably be expected to affect the price of
Company securities should be considered material.

Common examples of information frequently regarded as material are: financial condition, results of operations or cash flows, or
projections or forecasts, or any information that indicates a company’s financial results may exceed or fall short of forecasts or expectations;
pending or contemplated mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, tender offers or joint ventures; proposed purchases or sales of significant assets or
subsidiaries; the introduction of significant new products and/or services; the potential gain or loss of a major customer or contract; public or
private securities offerings; litigation and actual or threatened governmental investigations; changes in auditors or auditor notification that the
Company may no longer rely on the auditor’s report; and changes in senior management. As a general matter, if a Covered Person is
considering purchasing or selling securities of the Company (or some other company) because of some piece of information concerning a
potential or pending, but unannounced, event or development, he or she should consider that information to be material.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 69/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

Nonpublic information is information that is not generally available to the investing public. If a Covered Person is aware of material
nonpublic information, he or she must not trade until the information has been widely disclosed to the public and the market has had sufficient
time to absorb the information.

Common examples of the type of dissemination that makes nonpublic information “public” include disclosure in (i) news wire
services, (ii) radio, television or print media and (iii) public filings with the SEC. If information is only available to a small group, such as
analysts or institutional investors, it should be considered nonpublic. Information generally will not be considered public under this Policy
Statement until twenty-four (24) hours following the Company’s public release of the information (or such longer period until one full trading
day on the New York Stock Exchange occurs). Note that information that is widely known within the Company may still be nonpublic if it
has not been generally released to the investing public. Covered Persons may not attempt to make information public so that they can trade in
the Company’s, securities.

When a Covered Person is prohibited from trading securities of the Company because he or she possesses material nonpublic
information or there is a Blackout Period applicable to such Covered Person (discussed below), he or she may not have any other person
purchase or sell securities on his or her behalf or disclose (or “tip”) the information to any such person. Any purchases or sales made by
another person on behalf of a Covered Person will be attributed to such Covered Person.

Transactions that may be necessary or justifiable for independent reasons (such as the need to raise money for an emergency
expenditure) are no exception. The securities laws do not recognize such mitigating circumstances.

Because restrictions on insider trading apply to members of employees’ families and persons living in employees’ households, as well
as certain types of entities in which employees have interests, employees are responsible for the compliance of such persons.

Regardless of whether information is proprietary information about the Company or information that could have an impact on the
price of the Company’s securities, Covered Persons must not “tip” or pass the information on to others. The penalties explained can apply,
whether or not a Covered Person derives any benefit from another’s actions, and both the Covered Person and the recipient of the tipped
information may be held liable.

Cc. Temporary Blackout Periods

You are not generally subject to the blackout and pre-clearance policy in Part II below unless you have been notified that you are a
‘Designated Restricted Person.” However, the Chief Legal Officer may issue instructions from time to time advising some or all personnel
that they may not buy or sell our securities for certain periods, or that our securities may not be traded without prior approval during certain
periods (a “Temporary Blackout Period”). Due to the confidential nature of the events that may trigger these sorts of Temporary Blackout
Periods, the Chief Legal Officer may find it necessary to inform affected individuals of a Temporary Blackout Period without disclosing the
reason. If you are made aware of such a Temporary Blackout Period, do not disclose its existence to anyone.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html . 70/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
D. No Trading While in Possession of Material Nonpublic Information of Other Companies
If a Covered Person has materia! nonpublic information regarding any other company that he or she obtained as a result of his or her

employment or relationship with the Company, such Covered Person must not trade or advise anyone else to trade in the securities of that
other company until such information has been publicly disclosed.

E. Transactions Following an Employee’s Termination

The prohibitions on trading continue to apply to transactions in the Company’s securities even after a director or employee has
terminated, respectively, his or her term on the board of directors or employment. If such director or employee is in possession of material
nonpublic information at the time of such termination, he or she may not trade in Company securities until that information has become public
or is no longer material.

FE Unauthorized Disclosure of Information

Covered Persons are prohibited from disclosing to anyone any nonpublic information obtained at or through the Company, except if
such disclosure is part of their regular duties and is needed to enable the Company to carry out its business properly and effectively. Because
the Company is subject to laws that govern certain disclosures of information to outside persons, only certain designated employees may
discuss the Company with the news media, securities analysts and investors, and any inquiries made from outsiders to other employees should
be forwarded to Investor Relations. With respect to other inside persons, you should not share material nonpublic information obtained at or
through the Company, whether about the Company or about another company, with others at the Company if their jobs do not require them to
have such information.

To protect the confidentiality of Company information, you should avoid discussions of confidential matters in places where such
discussions might be overheard; mark sensitive documents “confidential” and use sealed envelopes marked “confidential”, secure confidential
documents and restrict the copying of sensitive documents; use code names for sensitive projects; use passwords to restrict computer access;
and not post any unauthorized messages regarding the Company or its business, financial condition, employees, clients or other matters related
to it on third-party internet sources available to the public.

G. ‘Company Assistance and Reporting of Violations

Any Covered Person who has any questions about a specific transaction in Company securities may obtain additional guidance from
the Chief Legal Officer of the Company. However, the ultimate responsibility for adhering to this Policy Statement and avoiding improper
transactions rests with each Covered Person.

Furthermore, any employee, officer or director who violates this Policy Statement or any federal or state laws governing insider

trading or tipping, or knows of any such violation by any other employee, officer or director, must report the violation immediately to the
Chief Legal Officer of the Company or anonymously by calling the Company’s Global Compliance Hotline.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 71/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
I. ADDITIONAL RESTRICTIONS ON DESIGNATED RESTRICTED PERSONS

A. Who is Generally Subject to Blackout Period and Pre-Clearance Requirements?

To help prevent inadvertent violations of the securities laws and to avoid even the appearance of trading on inside information, the
Chief Legal Officer will maintain a list of “Designated Restricted Persons,” who are subject to the blackout, pre-clearance and other
restrictions described in this Part. The list of Designated Restricted Persons shall include (i) the Company’s directors and executive officers,
(ii) employees of the Company reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer, (iii) the Controller of the Company, (iv) members of the
Company’s legal and investor relations departments, (v) such other personnel as the Chief Legal Officer specifically designates in writing, and
(vi) with respect to each of the foregoing, their parents, spouses, minor children and other persons living in their households, and to investment
partnerships or other entities (such as trusts and corporations over which such Designated Restricted Person has or shares voting or investment
control. It is anticipated that the Chief Legal Officer, in consultation with the Chief Financial Officer, will designate as Designated Restricted
Persons personnel who are significantly involved in the preparation of the Company’s financial results, have knowledge of Company forecasts
or are otherwise regularly aware of material nonpublic information.

B. Blackout Period

In addition to the general prohibition on trading of securities while in possession of material nonpublic information as described in
Part I, Designated Restricted Persons are also prohibited as a matter of Company policy from trading in Company securities during the
following period (the “Blackout Period”):

No Designated Restricted Person shall engage in any transactions in Company securities during the period beginning on the
first Wednesday of the third month of each fiscal quarter until twenty-four (24) hours after public announcement of earnings (whether
by press release or in a Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Annual Report on Form 10-K), or such other period as the Chief Legal
Officer has designated and of which the Designated Restricted Person has been notified.

The Blackout Period restriction does not apply to the permitted transactions described in Part ITI. To the extent consistent with
applicable law, the Board of Directors of the Company and/or the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company may approve a
temporary deviation from the Blackout Period and permit a Designated Restricted Person to trade during a Blackout Period, but no Designated
Restricted Person may trade unless he or she receives prior written approval.

Cc. Pre-clearance of Transactions
To prevent inadvertent violations (which could result, for example, where a Designated Restricted Person engages in a trade outside

the Blackout Period when a major corporate development is pending), this Policy Statement also includes the following procedural
requirement for all Designated Restricted Persons:

https://ir.berryglobal.conynode/16111/htm! 72/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

All transactions (acquisitions, dispositions, transfers, etc.) in Company securities by Designated Restricted Persons must be
pre-cleared by the Chief Legal Officer of the Company, except for the permitted transactions described in Part III below.

Unless revoked, a grant of permission will normally remain valid until the close of trading three (3) business days following the day
on which it was granted. If the transaction does not occur during such three-day period, pre-clearance of the transaction must be re-requested.

D. Restrictions on Derivatives, Short Sales and Pledges

Designated Restricted Persons are also prohibited from (i) trading in puts and calls (publicly traded options to buy or sell stock) or
other derivative securities with respect to Company securities, (ii) engaging in short sales of Company securities, (iii) holding Company
securities in a margin account or (iv) pledging Company securities as collateral for a loan.

In limited circumstances, the Company may consider the appropriateness of granting a limited exception to the restrictions in this —
Section II-D., which may include specific conditions. Decisions as to whether an exception will be granted, and, if so, the conditions that may
be required for grant of the exception, rest with the sole discretion of the Audit Committee or the Board of Directors and will depend on the
Company’s assessment of all of the relevant facts and circumstances of a particular situation. The Company expects that such exceptions will
be rare and not become the rule.

Ill. EXCEPTIONS AND PERMITTED TRANSACTIONS

A. Rule 10b5-1 Plans

SEC Rule 10b5-1 provides a defense from insider trading liability. In order to be eligible to rely on this defense for trading in the
Company’s securities, a person must enter into a Rule 10b5-1 plan that meets certain conditions specified in the Rule. If the plan meets the
requirements of Rule 10b5-1, securities may be purchased or sold without regard to certain insider trading restrictions such as blackout
periods. By implementing a pre-established Rule 10b5-1 Plan, Designated Restricted Persons may arrange for sales or purchases of securities
in the future regardless of future developments that could lead to a blackout period on trading at such time. To comply with this Policy
Statement, a Rule 10b5-1 Plan must be approved by the Chief Legal Officer and meet the requirements of Rule 10b5-1. In general, a Rule
10b5-1 Plan must be entered into at a time when the person entering into the plan is not aware of material nonpublic information and not
during a Blackout Period. Once the plan is adopted, the person must not exercise any influence over the amount of securities to be traded, the
price at which they are to be traded or the date of the trade. The plan must either specify the amount, pricing and timing of transactions in
advance or delegate discretion on these matters to an independent third party.

Any proposed Rule 10b5-1 Plan must be submitted to the Chief Legal Officer for approval at least five (5) business days prior to the
entry into the Rule 10b5-1 Plan. If the proposed Rule 10b5-1 Plan is approved by the Chief Legal Officer, transactions in accordance with the
Plan as previously approved are not subject to Blackout Periods or the pre-clearance procedures otherwise applicable to Designated Restricted
Persons.

hittps:/ir.berrygiobal.com/node/16111/html 73/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
B. Othe itted Tr: ctions

The following transactions are not subject to this Policy Statement:

° Bona fide gifts, unless the person making the gift has reason to believe that the recipient intends to sell the Company securities
while the officer, employee or director is aware of material nonpublic information, or the person making the gift is a Designated
Restricted Person and the Designated Restricted Person has reason to believe that the recipient intends to sell the Company
securities during a Blackout Period.

+ The exercise of stock options granted by the Company, but this does not include broker-assisted cashless exercises or market
sales of the purchased shares.

* Transactions in mutual funds investing in securities of the Company.

However, directors and executive officers are urged to notify the Chief Legal Officer in advance of gift and option transactions to
facilitate the Company’s ability to prepare any Form 4 filing required under Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Pe as

If you have any questions regarding this Policy Statement, contact the Company’s Chief Legal Officer.

Exhibit 21.1

BERRY GLOBAL GROUP, INC.
LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

Ace Classic Medical Components (Shanghai) Company Limited
Ace Corporation Holdings Limited

Ace Industrial Technologies Limited

Ace Medical Components Co Limited

Ace Mold (HeFei} Company Limited

Ace Mold (Shanghai) Company Limited

Ace Mold (Zhuhai) Company Limited

Ace Mold Company Limited

Ace Mold Industrial (Shanghai) Company Limited
Ace Mold Industrial (Shenzhen) Company Limited
Ace Plastics (Shenzhen) Company Limited

Ace Plastics (Zhuhai) Company Limited

Ace Plastics Company Limited

Ace Plastics Technologies Limited

AeroCon, LLC

Aspen Industrial S.A. de C.V.

Astra Plastique SAS

Astrapak Manufacturing Holdings Proprietary Limited
Astrapak Property Holdings Proprietary Limited
AT Films Inc .
AVINTIV Inc.

AVINTIV Acquisition LLC

AVINTIV Specialty Materials LLC

Bender GmbH

Berry ACE Automation (Shenzhen) Company Limited
Berry Ace Packaging (Jiaxing) Company Limited
Berry Acquisition Company do Brasil Ltda.

Berry Aschersleben GmbH

Berry Beauté Marolles SAS

Berry Bramlage Kolding A/S

Berry do Brasil Ltda.

Berry Dombuhl GmbH

Berry EKE NV

Berry Europe GmbH

Berry Film Products Acquisition Company, Inc.
Berry Film Products Company, Inc.

Berry Gent NV

Berry Global Films, LLC

Berry Global France Holdings SAS

Berry Global German Holdings GmbH

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 74/190

28/11/2024, 10:44

Berry Global Group, Inc.

Berry Global India Private Limited

Berry Global International Financing Limited
Berry Global International Holdings Limited
Berry Global Malta Holdings Company Limited
Berry Global UK Holding Limited

Berry Global, Inc.

Berry Holding Company do Brasil Ltda.
Berry Holding Denmark A/S

Berry Norway Containers AS

Berry Packaging Norway AS

Berry PET Power France SASU

Berry Plastics Acquisition Corporation V
Berry Plastics Acquisition Corporation XIV, LLC
Berry Plastics Acquisition LLC X

Berry Plastics Asia Pacific Limited

Berry Plastics Asia Pte. Ltd.

Berry Plastics Canada, Inc.

Berry Plastics de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.”
Berry Plastics Design, LLC

Berry Plastics Escrow, LLC

Berry Plastics Filmco, Inc.

Berry Plastics GmbH

Berry Plastics Holding GmbH & Co. KG
Berry Plastics Hong Kong Limited

Berry Plastics IK, LLC

Berry Plastics International B.V.

Berry Plastics International GmbH

Berry Plastics Opco, Inc.

Berry Plastics Qingdao Limited

Berry Plastics SP, Inc.

Berry Plastics Technical Services, Inc.

Berry Slovakia SRO

Berry Specialty Tapes, LLC

Berry Superfos Balkan doo

Berry Superfos Besancon SAS

Berry Superfos Bouxwiller SAS

Berry Superfos Bremervirde Management GmbH
Berry Superfos Bremervirde Packaging GmbH
Berry Superfos Bremervérde Print GmbH
Berry Superfos Deventer BV

Berry Superfos Italy SRL

Berry Superfos La Genete SAS

Berry Superfos Lidképing AB

Berry Superfos Lubieh Sp zoo

Berry Superfos Mullsjé AB

Berry Superfos Opfenbach GmbH .
Berry Superfos Packaging Solutions Kaltenkirchen GmbH
Berry Superfos Pamplona SA

Berry Superfos Pori Oy

Berry Superfos Poznari Sp. z 0 0

Berry Superfos Randers A/S

Berry Superfos Stilling A/S

Berry Superfos Wetteren NV

Berry Tapes Holding Company, Inc.

Berry UK Containers Limited

Berry UK Holdings Limited

Berry UK Pension Trustees Limited
Bonlam, S.A. DE C.V.

BMS International Holdings B.V.

BPI 2007 Limited

BPI-2010 Limited

BPI Formipac France SARL

BPI General Partner Limited

BPI International (No 2) Limited

BPI International Limited

BPI Limited

BPI Limited Partner Limited

BPI Pension Funding Limited Partnership
BPRex Closure Systems, LLC

BPRex Closures Kentucky Inc.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16114/html

SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

75/90

28/11/2024, 10:44

BPRex Closures, LLC

BPRex de Mexico S.A. de R.L. de CV
BPRex Delta Inc.

BPRex Healthcare Brookville Inc.

BPRex Healthcare Offranville SAS
BPRex Healthcare Packaging, Inc.

BPRex Partipacoes Ltda

BPRex Pharma Packaging India Private Limited
BPRex Plastic Packaging (India) Private Limited
BPRex Plastic Packaging de Mexico S.A. de C.V.
BPRex Plastic Packaging, Inc.

BPRex Plasticos Do Brasil Ltda

BPRex Product Design & Engineering Inc.
BPRex Specialty Products Puerto Rico Inc.
Brithene Films Limited

British Polythene Industries Limited
British Polythene Limited

Caplas LLC

Caplas Neptune, LLC

Captive Plastics, LLC

Cardinal Packaging, Inc.

Chicopee Asia, Limited

Chicopee Holdings B.V.

Chicopee Holdings C.V.

Chicopee LLC

Chocksett Road Limited Partnership
Chocksett Road Realty Trust

Zedcor Limited

Combipac BV

Companhai Providencia Industria e Comercio
Covalence Specialty Adhesives LLC
Consumer Packaging Int'l Holdings, LLC
CPI Holding Corporation

Delta Polythene Limited

Dominion Textile (USA), L.L.C.
Dongguan First Packaging Co. Limited
Dongguan United Packaging Co., Limited
Dounor SAS

Dumpling Rock, LLC

ESE BV

ESE France SAS

ESE GmbH

ESE Holding SASU

ESE Holdings Limited

ESE Kft

ESE NV

ESE Sp. z 0.0.

ESE Sweden Holding AB

ESE World BV

ESE World Limited

Estero Porch, LLC

Fabrene, Inc.

Fabrene, L.L.C.

Fiberweb (Tianjin) Specialty Nonwovens Company Limited
Fiberweb Berlin GmbH

Fiberweb France SAS

Fiberweb Geosynthetics Limited
Fiberweb Holdings Limited

Fiberweb Italia SRL

Fiberweb Limited

Fiberweb, LLC

Fiberweb Terno D'Isola SRL

Financiere Daunou 1 SA

Flexfilm Limited

Fortune Best Trading Limited

F & S Export Inc.

F & S Precision Holdings Inc.

F & S Tool Inc.

Galion Distribution SARL

Galion International SA

Galion SA

https:/ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html

SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

76/90

28/11/2024, 10:44

Galion Senegal SA

GCS Holdco Finance II SARL

GDMH SA

Genius World Holding Ltd

Global Closure Systems America 1, Inc.
Global Closure Systems France 1 SAS
Global Closure Systems Germany GmbH
Global Closure Systems Spain SLU
Global Closure Systems UK Limited
Grafco Industries Limited Partnership
Grupo de Servicios Berpla, S. de R.L. de C.V.
HHS France Holdings SAS

HHS German Holdings GmbH

Irish Polythene Industries Limited
JPPlastSRO

JP Plast Slovakia spol SRO

Jacinto Mexico, S.A. de C.V.
Jagtenberg Beheer BV

Jiangmen United Packaging Co., Limited
Jordan Plastics Limited

Kerr Group, LLC

Knight Plastics, LLC

Laddawn, Inc.

Lamb's Grove, LLC

Letica Corporation

Letica Resources, Inc.

LLC ESE South America S.R.L.
Lunifera Investments Proprietary Limited
M & H Plastics LLC

Marcom Plastics Proprietary Limited
Massmould Limited

Maynard & Harris Group Limited
Maynard & Harris Plastics

Maynard & Harris Plastics (UK) Limited
Millham, LLC

Multicom SRL

Nanhai Nanxin Non Woven Co. Ltd
Nordfolien GmbH

Nordfolien Polska Sp. z 0.0.

Obrist (Thailand) Co Limited

Obrist Closures Switzerland GmbH
Obrist Eastern Europe SRL

Obrist Iberia SLU

Obrist Italia Srl

Old Hickory Steamworks, LLC
Packerware, LLC

PET Power BV

PET Power Handels GmbH

Pfizer Investment Ltd

PGI Acquisition Limited

PGI Argentina S.A.

PGI Colombia LTDA

PGI Europe LLC

PGI France SAS

PGI Holdings B.V.

PGI Netherlands Holdings (No. 2) B.V.
PGI Non-Woven (China) Company Limited
PGI Nonwovens (Mauritius)

PGI Nonwovens B.V.

PGI Polymer LLC

PGI Spain S.L. U

Plasgran Limited

Plastiape S.p.A.

Pliant de Mexico S.A. de C.V.

Pliant International, LLC

Pliant, LLC

Polymer Group Holdings C.V.
Poly-Seal, LLC

Promens Asia Limited

Promens Do Brasil Servicos Ltda
Promens Firenze SRL

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html

SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

77/90

28/11/2024, 10:44

Promens Italy SRL

Promens Monastir SARL

Promens Munchen GmbH

Promens OY

Promens Packaging GmbH

Promens Packaging Limited

Promens Packaging SAU

Promens Personal Healthcare GmbH
Promens SA

Promens SARL

Providencia USA, Inc.

PWS Danmark A/S

PWS Finland OY

PWS Nordic AB

Rafypak, S.A. de C.V.

Rigid Plastic Containers Holdings Limited
Rollpak Corporation

Romfilms Limited

RPC 2017 Holding Company Limited
RPC Ace Company Limited

RPC ACE Plastics (Hefei) Co Limited
RPC Africa Holdings Pty Limited

RPC Asia Pacific Holdings Limited

RPC Astrapak Proprietary Limited

RPC Bramlage Dinklage GmbH & Co KG
RPC Bramlage Division GmbH & Co KG
RPC Bramlage Food GmbH

RPC Bramlage GmbH

RPC Bramlage Inc.

RPC Bramlage Warszawa Sp.z.0.0.

RPC Bramlage Werkzeugbau GmbH & Co KG
RPC Bramlage Yekaterinburg LLC

RPC Containers Limited

RPC Containers Pension Trustees Limited
RPC Emballages Moirans SAS

RPC Emballages Montpont SAS

RPC Emballages SAS

RPC Envases SA

RPC Folio Holdings GmbH

RPC Formatec GmbH

RPC Group Limited

RPC Leopard Holdings, Inc.

RPC Packaging Brasil Industria e Comércio de Embalagens Ltda
RPC Packaging Holdings (Deutschland) BV & Co KG
RPC Packaging Holdings (US) Inc

RPC Packaging Holdings Brazil BV

RPC Packaging Holdings Limited

RPC Pisces Holdings Limited

RPC Promens Group BV

RPC Promens Industrial Crailsheim GmbH
RPC Superfos US, Inc.

RPC Tedeco-Gizeh (UK) Limited

RPC Verpackungen Kutenholz GmbH
RPC Verwaltungsgesellschaft BV

RPC Wiko Verwaltungsgellschaft GmbH
RPC Zeller Plastik Libertyville, Inc.
Saffron Acquisition, LLC

Megafilm Limited

SC Romfilms SRL

SCI Vertuquet

Scott & Robertson Limited

Setco, LLC

SPA Galion Algerie

Spec Molders Proprietary Limited

Spec Tool and Die and General Engineering Proprietary Limite:
Sugden, LLC .
Sun Coast Industries, LLC

Superfos Tamworth Limited

Terram Defencell Limited

Terram Limited

Treasure Holdco, Inc.

https:/ir.berrygiobal.com/node/16111/html

SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

78/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

Tyco Acquisition Alpha. LLC
UAB ESE Baltija

Uniplast Holdings, LLC

Uniplast U.S., Inc.

Venture Packaging, Inc.

Venture Packaging Midwest, Inc.
Weener Plastop Proprietary Limited
Zeller Engineering GmbH

Zeller Plastik Deutschland GmbH
Zeller Plastik Espana SLU

Zeller Plastik France SAS

Zeller Plastik Italia Srl

Zeller Plastik Mexico SA de CV
Zeller Plastik Philippines Inc
Zeller Plastik Poland Sp. z 0.0.
Zeller Plastik Shanghai Limited

EXHIBIT 22.1
Guaranteed Securities

The following securities (collectively, the “Berry Global Senior Secured Notes”) issued by Berry Global, Inc., a Delaware corporation and
wholly-owned subsidiary of Berry Global Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the “Company”), were outstanding as of September 28, 2024.

Description of Notes

.50% First Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2027
65% First Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2027
50% First Priority Senior Secured Notes due 2028 :

Obligors

As of September 28, 2024, the obligors under the Berry Global Scnior Secured Notes consisted of the Company, as a guarantor, and its
subsidiaries listed in the following table:

Name Jurisdiction Obligor Type
BPRex Closures, LLC

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111 tml 79/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 . SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
BPRex Delta Inc. Delaware Guarantor

BPRex Healthcare Brookville Inc. Delaware
BPRex Healthcare Packaging, Inc. Delaware
BPRex Plastic Packaging, Inc. Delaware
BPRex Product Design and Engineering Inc. Minnesota
BPRex Specialty Products Puerto Rico Inc. New Jersey
aplas LLC Delaware
‘aplas Neptune, LLC Delaware
‘aptive Plastics, LLC Delaware
‘ardinal Packaging, Inc. Delaware
hicopee LLC Delaware
\Chocksett Road Limited Partnership Massachusetts
\Chocksett Road Realty Trust Massachusetts
\Covalence Specialty Adhesives LLC Delaware
‘onsumer Packaging Int'l Holdings, LLC Delaware
PI Holding Corporation Delaware
TLe Delaware

Massachusetts
Delaware
Pennsylvania
Delaware
Delaware
Delaware
Delaware
lobal Closure Systems America 1, Inc. Delaware
Grafco Industries Limited Partnership Maryland
err Group, LLC _~ Delaware
night Plastics, LLC Delaware
addawn, Inc. Massachusetts
[Lamb’s Grove, LLC Delaware
etica Corporation Michigan
etica Resources, Inc. Michigan
(&H Plastics, LLC Virginia
illham, LLC Delaware
Id Hickory Steamworks, LLC Delaware
Packerware, LLC Delaware
PGI Europe LLC Delaware
PGI Polymer LLC Delaware
Pliant International, LLC Delaware
Pliant, LLC Delaware
Poly-Seal, LLC Delaware
Providencia USA, Inc. North Carolina
Rollpak Corporation Delaware
RPC Bramlage, Inc. Pennsylvania
RPC Leopard Holdings, Inc. Delaware
RPC Packaging Holdings (US), Inc. Delaware
RPC Superfos US, Inc. Delaware
RPC Zeller Plastik Libertyville, Inc. Delaware
affron Acquisition, LLC Delaware
etco, LLC Delaware
ugden, LLC Delaware
un Coast Industries, LLC Delaware
reasure Holdco, Inc. Delaware
'yco Acquisition Alpha LLC Nevada
niplast Holdings, LLC Delaware
niplast U.S., Inc. Delaware
enture Packaging Midwest, Inc. Delaware
enture Packaging, Inc. Delaware

Dumpling Rock, LLC
‘stero Porch, LLC
& § Precision Holdings Inc.
& S Tool Inc.
& S Export Inc.
abrene, L.L.C. .
‘iberweb, LLC

ice) Bee) Ree) fee! fee! Is) wr]
S$
3
2.
Ss
3
ge
3
o
fe
a
>
reg

https://ir.berrygtobal.com/node/16111/html : 80/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Pledged Security Collateral

As of September 28, 2024, the obligations under the Berry Global Senior Secured Notes were secured by pledges of the capital stock of the
following affiliates of the Company:

Percentage of

Outstanding Shares/
Membership/ Interests
Name Country |StatqeOwned by Partnership Interests Pledged
. Corporation International . :
Aspen Industrial S.A. de C.V. Mexico (1 share) 100.00% 65%
Berry Film Products Acquisition Company, Inc. USA _ | DE |Company, Inc. 100.00% 100%
Berry Film Products Company, Ine. USA
Berry Global Films, LLC Berry Global, Inc.
| Germany [| [Berry Global, Inc. | 100.00%
Berry Global Malta Holdings Company Limited Malta Holdings, LLC 100.00% 65%
Berry Global, Inc.
[ [Berry Global, Inc]
Berry Plastics de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico Corporation V 100.00% 65%
Berry Plastics International BV. [Netherlands| [Berry Global, Inc.
Plastics Acquisition LLC X
IBPRex de Mexico S.A. de R.L. de CV Mexico . (1 share) . 100.00% . 65%
prnectiatnerenoviteiec ——_|_usa_|pe sonore | ss |
BPRex Healthcare Brookville Inc. USA DE IInc. 100.00% 100%
FS a ee
IBPRex Healthcare Packaging, Inc. USA Inc. 100.00% 100%
=
prRexPasicrataingdeMexcoSA.deCV| Mexin | fuctspingtne | soamme |
IBPRex Plastic Packaging de Mexico S.A. de C.V] Mexico Packaging, Inc. 50.00%
IBPRex Healthcare :
IBPRex Specialty Products Puerto Rico Inc. USA NJ [Inc. 100.00% 100%
[DE|Captive PlasticsLLC_ | 10.00%
USA_|DE [Captive Plastics LLC
Cardinal Packaging, Inc. USA CPI Holding Corporation
Chicopee Asia, Limited [Hong Kong] [Chicopee LLC
hicopee Holdings B.V. [Netherlands] |

https:/fir.beryglobal.convnede/16114/html 81/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

hicopee LLC USA ___| DE |PGI Polymer LLC 100.00% 100%
198% Limited Partnership Interests]
Chocksett Road Limited Partnership USA _[MA\JBerry Global, Inc. 2% General Partnership Interests] 100%

Chocksett Road Realty Trust USA _— |MA/|Partnership Sole Beneficiary 100%
. Berry Film Products ra
Berry Holding Company do Brasil Ltda. Company, Inc. 99.99% 65%2

IRPC Packaging Holdings
IRPC Leopard Holdings, Inc. USA _ [DE (US), Inc 100.00% 100%

RPC Packaging Holdings (US), Inc. AVINTIV Inc. 100.00% 100%

| usa [ocho |

usa_|pe lus. ine 1oncor toon
usa [oe Global Closure Systems

usa_[pefaeses tne 10.00% too

Berry Holding Company do Brasil Ltda. | Brazil | [Berry Global,Inc. [0.01%
Pabrene, Inc Canada | JAVINTIVInc TE 100.00% 85% _
Fiberweb Holdings Ltd UK PGT EuropeLLC_ | 100.00% 85% _
Global Closure Systems America 1, Inc. USA DE {(US), Inc. 100.00% 100%

Grafco Industries Limited Partnership | = USA_|MDJCaplasLLC 99.00% 100% |
Grafco Industries Limited Partnership | = USA__JMDJ|CaplasNeptune, LLC] 1.00% 100% |
onpo deSevsosResdeRt.decy | mevico | [opinion | ssome |__|
Grupo de Servicios Berpla, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico Corporation V : 65.00% 65%

inpodeSevicietenin sienidecv. | exo | [eapomimaav™ | asm | ese
Grupo de Servicios Berpla, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico Corporation XIV 35.00% 65%

PGI Acquisition Limited | UK] PGT EuropeLLC_ | 10.00% | 65%
PGIEuropeLLC_ USA DE IChicopeeLLC_ 00.00% 100% _
PGINonwovens (Mauritius) | Mauritius] |PGIPolymerLLC_ 00.00% 65% _
porroymeric | usa forte | sooo | |
PGI Polymer LLC USA _|DE|LLC 100.00% 100%

PGISpainSLU Spain PGT EuropeLiC 00.00% 05%
Pliant de Mexico S.A.deC.V. | Mexico | JPliant LLC 36.03% 65% _|
RRolipak Corporation | USA | DE [Berry Global, Ino
IRPC Bramlage, Inc. USA PA {(US), Inc. 100.00% 100%

c
a
a

>
>

100%
USA

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 82/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

reasure Holdco, Inc. Berry Global, Inc. 100.00%
niplast Holdings, LLC Pliant, LLC 100.00% 100%

cic
>>

niplast U.S., Inc. niplast Holdings, Inc. 100.00% 100%
enture Packaging Midwest, Inc. enture Packaging, Inc. 100,00% 100%
enture Packaging, Inc. USA _| DE [Berry Global, Inc. 100.00% 100%

Cc
>

1 65% of the aggregate stock of BPRex Plastic Packaging de Mexico S.A. de C.V. is pledged.
2 65% of the aggregate stock of Berry Holding Company do Brasil Ltda. is pledged.

Exhibit 23.1

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:
(1) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-203173) pertaining to the Berry Plastics Group, Inc. 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan,

(2) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-224252) pertaining to the Berry Global Group, Inc. 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan (f/k/a
Berry Plastics Group, Inc. 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan),

(3) Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-255783) pertaining to the Amended and Restated Berry Global Group, Inc. 2015 Long-
Term Incentive Plan (f/k/a Berry Plastics Group, Inc. 2015 Long-Term Incentive Plan), and

(4) Registration Statement (Form S-4 No. 333-259272) pertaining to the Berry Global Group, Inc. S-4 Registration Statement;

of our reports dated November 26, 2024, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Berry Global Group, Inc. and the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Berry Global Group, Inc. included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Berry
Global Group, Inc. for the year ended September 28, 2024.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Indianapolis, Indiana
November 26, 2024

EXHIBIT 31.1
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CERTIFICATION
I, Kevin Kwilinski, Chief Executive Officer of Berry Global Group, Inc., certify that:
1. Ihave reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Berry Global Group, Inc. (the "Registrant");

2. -Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The Registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under
our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about
the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and

hlps:/ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 83/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

5.

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the Registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant's
most recent fiscal quarter (the Registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

The Registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the Registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the Registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the Registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the Registrant's
internal control over financial reporting.

By: /s/ Kevin Kwilinski

Date: November 26, 2024 Kevin Kwilinski

Chief Executive Officer

EXHIBIT 31.2

CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CERTIFICATION

I, Mark W. Miles, Chief Financial Officer of Berry Global Group, Inc., certify that:

1.

2.

Ihave reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Berry Global Group, Inc. (the "Registrant");

Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
period covered by this report;

Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

The Registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the Registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our
supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the Registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under
our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about
the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the Registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Registrant's
most recent fiscal quarter (the Registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the Registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and

The Registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial
reporting, to the Registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the Registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are
reasonably likely to adversely affect the Registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the Registrant's
internal control over financial reporting.

By: /s/ Mark W. Miles

Date: November 26, 2024 Mark W. Miles

Chief Financial Officer

https:/ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 84/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Fiting | Berry Global Group, Inc.
EXHIBIT 32.1

CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C, SECTION 1350,
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the annual report of Berry Global Group, Inc. (the "Registrant") on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
September 28, 2024, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Kevin Kwilinski, Chief
Executive Officer of the Registrant, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002, that, to my knowledge:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Registrant.

/s/ Kevin Kwilinski
Kevin Kwilinski
Chief Executive Officer

Date: November 26, 2024

EXHIBIT 32.2

CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

In connection with the annual report of Berry Global Group, Inc. (the "Registrant”) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
September 28, 2024, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), 1, Mark W. Miles, the Chief

Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Registrant, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:

(1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and

(2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Registrant.

/s/ Mark W. Miles
Mark W. Miles
Chief Financial Officer

Date: November 26, 2024

Exhibit 97.1
AMENDED AND RESTATED
COMPENSATION RECOVERY POLICY
Adopted November 1, 2023

Purpose
The Compensation & Talent Development Committee (the “Committee”) of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of Berry Global Group,
Inc. (the “Company”) believes that it is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to create and maintain a culture that
emphasizes integrity and accountability, and that reinforces the Company's pay-for-performance compensation philosophy. The Committee has
therefore adopted this Amended and Restated Compensation Recovery Policy (the “Policy”) which provides for the recovery of certain
executive compensation in accordance with the New York Stock Exchange listing standards effective October 2, 2023 (the “Listing
Standard”).
Definitions
For purposes of this Policy, the following terms shall have the following meaning:

“Covered Executives” means the Company's current and former executive officers as determined by the Committee in accordance

with Section 10D of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”) and the Listing Standard, and such other senior
executives and employees who may from time to time be deemed subject to this Policy by the Committee.

https://ir.berrygtobal.com/node/16111/html . 85/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

“Effective Date” means the date this Policy is adopted by the Committee.

“Incentive Compensation” means any cash or equity-based compensation that is Received by a Covered Executive after the
effective date of the Listing Standard upon the attainment of a performance goal based on one or more of the following measures: (i)
any financial reporting measures that are based on accounting principles using the Company’s financial statements and any measures
derived, wholly or in part, from these financial reporting measures, including GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures; (ii)
Company stock price; or (iii) Company total shareholder return (“TSR”) (each measure referred to as a “Financial Goal”). For the
avoidance of doubt, a Financial Goal need not be presented in the Company’s financial statements or included in a filing with the
SEC. The Covered Executive’s cash or equity-based compensation that is based purely on non-financial reporting measures (such as
the Covered Executive’s salary, discretionary cash bonuses, and time-based vesting stock options and restricted stock) is not Incentive
Compensation subject to this Policy.

Incentive Compensation is deemed “Received” in the fiscal period during which the Financial Goal is attained. If an award is subject

to multiple vesting conditions, it is deemed “Received” by the Covered Executive during the fiscal period that the Financial Goal is
attained, even if payment, vesting or grant of the Incentive Compensation occurs after the end of that fiscal period.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html 86/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

“Restatement” means an event that (i) requires the Company to (A) prepare an accounting restatement due to the material
noncompliance of the Company with any financial reporting requirement under the federal securities laws, including any required
accounting restatement to correct an error in previously issued financial statements that is material to the previously issued financial
statements and (B) file an Item 4.02 Form 8-K, or (ii) would result in a material misstatement if the error in previously issued
financial statements was corrected in the current period or left uncorrected in the current period.

Triggering Events

This Policy will be triggered on (the “Triggering Event”) the earlier of:

i. The date the Committee or the Company’s Chief Financial Officer concludes, or reasonably should have concluded, that the
Company is required to prepare a Restatement, or

ii, The date a court, regulator or other legally authorized body directs the Company to prepare a Restatement.
Recovery of Compensation

Upon the occurrence of a Triggering Event, the Company shall recover Incentive Compensation that is Received by a person (i) after
beginning service as a Covered Executive, (ii) who served as a Covered Executive an any time during the performance period for the
applicable Incentive Compensation and (iii) during the three completed fiscal years that immediately precede the date the Company is required
to prepare a Restatement and any transition period (that results from a change in the Company’s fiscal year) of less than nine months within or
immediately following those three completed fiscal years. In the event recovery is required by this Policy, the Committee will, in its sole
discretion, determine the method for recovering Incentive Compensation for the relevant period, which methods may include, without
limitation, one or more of the following:

* — requiring reimbursement of cash Incentive Compensation previously paid;
* — offsetting the recovered amount from any compensation otherwise owed by the Company to the Covered Executive;

* — seeking recovery of any gain realized on the vesting, exercise, settlement, sale, transfer, or other disposition of any equity-based
awards;

* cancelling the payment, grant or vesting of any pending Incentive Compensation award;

+ cancelling outstanding vested or unvested equity awards; and/or

+ reverting to unvested any equity-based Incentive Compensation that vested as a result of a Financial Goal being attained.
For the avoidance of doubt, except as set forth under “Interpretation and Limitations” below, in no event will the Company accept an amount
that is less than the amount of erroneously awarded Incentive Compensation in satisfaction of a Covered Executive’s obligations hereunder.
The amount of erroneously awarded Incentive Compensation that is subject to recovery is the amount the Covered Executive Received in
excess of the amount that would have been Received based on the financial statements following the Restatement. Any erroneously awarded

compensation is computed on a pre-tax basis.

For erroneously awarded Incentive Compensation: based on TSR or stock price, the recovered amount must be based on a reasonable and
documented estimate of the effect of the Restatement on the applicable financial measure.

https:/fir.berryglobal.com/node/1611 1/htmt 87/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.

For cash awards, the erroneously awarded Incentive Compensation is the difference between the amount of the cash award (whether payable
as a lump sum or over time) that was Received and the amount that should have been Received applying the restated financial reporting
measure. For cash awards paid from bonus pools, the erroneously awarded Incentive Compensation is the pro rata portion of any deficiency
that results from the aggregate bonus pool that is reduced based on applying the restated financial reporting measure.

For equity awards, if the shares or equity awards are still held at the time of recovery, the erroneously awarded Incentive Compensation is the
number of such securities Received in excess of the number that should have been Received applying the restated financial reporting measure
(or the value of that excess number). If shares have been issued upon exercise or settlement of the equity awards, but the underlying shares
have not been sold, the erroneously awarded compensation is the number of shares underlying the excess equity awards (or the value thereof).

The Committee reserves the right, which it shall exercise in its sole discretion, to take any other remedial and recovery action permitted by law
for recovery purposes.

Administration

This Policy shall be administered by the Committee. Any determinations made by the Committee shall be final and binding on all affected
individuals. In the event of a Restatement, the Committee shall take reasonably prompt action after the date of the Restatement to determine
the amount of any erroneously awarded Incentive Compensation for each Covered Executive in connection with such Restatement and,
thereafter, shall promptly provide each Covered Executive with a written notice containing the amount of erroneously awarded Incentive
Compensation and a demand for repayment or return, as applicable.

Interpretation and Limitations

The Committee is authorized to interpret this Policy and to make all determinations necessary, appropriate or advisable for the administration
of this Policy. The Committee shall consider, among other things, when deciding whether to require recovery of compensation under this
policy, whether: (i) recovery would violate foreign home country laws;! (ii) recovery would be impracticable (e.g., expenses paid to a third
party to assist in enforcing this Policy against a Covered Executive would exceed the amount to be recovered);2 or (iii) recovery would be
from a tax-qualified plan.

Notwithstanding the terms of any of the Company’s organizational documents, any corporate policy or any contract, the Company shall not
indemnify any current or Covered Executive against the risk of enforcement under this Policy (including the loss of any erroneously awarded
Compensation itself), nor shall it provide any insurance protection against the same.

Amendment; Termination
The Committee may amend this Policy from time to time in its discretion and shall amend this Policy as it deems necessary to reflect
regulations that may be adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission under Section 10D of the Exchange Act and to comply with any

rules or standards adopted by a national securities exchange on which the Company's shares are listed. The Committee may terminate this
Policy at any time.

| Before determining that recovery would be a violation of any home country law, the Company will obtain an opinion of home country
counsel and provide a copy of the opinion in a form acceptable to the NYSE.

2 Before determining that recovery would be impracticable, the Company will make a reasonable attempt to recover, document such attempts,
and provided such documentation to the NYSE.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html . 88/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Other Recovery Rights

The Committee intends that this Policy will be applied to the fullest extent of the law. The Committee may require that any employment
agreement, equity award agreement or similar agreement entered into on or after the Effective Date shall, as a condition to the grant of any
benefit thereunder, require a Covered Executive to agree to abide by the terms of this Policy, including pursuant to the written
acknowledgement in the form set forth on Exhibit A; provided that, failure to provide notice of the Policy or obtain such an agreement or
acknowledgement shall have no impact on the applicability or enforceability of this Policy. Any right of recovery under this Policy is in
addition to, and not in lieu of, any other remedies or rights of recovery that may be available to the Company pursuant to the terms of any
similar policy in any employment agreement, equity award agreement or similar agreement and any other legal remedies available to the
Company.

Successors

This Policy shall be binding and enforceable against all Covered Executives and their beneficiaries, heirs, executors, administrators or other |
legal representatives.

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/htm! 89/90

28/11/2024, 10:44 SEC Filing | Berry Global Group, Inc.
Exhibit A

BERRY GLOBAL GROUP, INC. (the “Company”)
AMENDED & RESTATED COMPENSATION RECOVERY POLICY
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT FORM
By signing below, the undersigned (i) acknowledges and confirms that the undersigned has received and reviewed a copy of the Company’s
Amended & Restated Compensation Recovery Policy (the “Policy”) and (ii) acknowledges and agrees that the undersigned is and will
continue to be subject to the Policy and that the Policy will apply both during and after the undersigned’s employment with the Company,
including with respect to any employment agreement, equity award agreement or similar agreement with the undersigned. Further, by signing

below, the undersigned agrees to abide by the terms of the Policy, including, without limitation, by returning any erroneously awarded
Incentive Compensation (as defined in the Policy) to the Company to the extent required by, and in a manner permitted by, the Policy.

Signature
Print Name:

Date:

https://ir.berryglobal.com/node/16111/html : . 90/90

