DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-SCABE949B538

Screwfix Direct Limited
Annual report and financial statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024
Registered number: 03006378

SATURDAY

nnn

21/09/2024 #
COMPANIES HOUSE

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538

Screwfix Direct Limited

Contents Page
Officers and Professional Advisers 1
Strategic Report 2
Directors' Report 9
Independent Auditor’s Report 12
Profit and Loss Account 16
Statement of Other Comprehensive Income 17
Balance Sheet 18
Statement of Changes in Equity 20

Notes to the Financial Statements 21

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-SCABE949B538

Screwfix Direct Limited

Officers and Professional Advisers

Directors

J Mewett
M Britten
C Barry

Registered Office

Trade House

Mead Avenue

Houndstone Business Park
Yeovil

Somerset

BA22 8RT

Bankers

HSBC

60 Queen Victoria Street
London -
EC4N 4TR

Auditor

Deloitte LLP
Statutory Auditor
London

Kingfisher PLC Registered Office (Ultimate Company)

1 Paddington Square
London
W2 1GG


DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE9498538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Strategic Report

The Directors present their strategic report on Screwfix Direct Limited (the 'Company') for the year ended 31
January 2024.

In preparing this strategic report, the Directors have complied with s414C of the Companies Act 2006.

Principal Activity

The principal activity of the Company continued to be that of the retail of trade and DIY products to both
tradespeople and the general public, primarily through the Company's Trade Counter (outlets) network and website.

Review of the business and future developments

Screwfix Direct Limited total sales (from continuing operations) grew by 3.2% to £2,419.8m (2022/23: £2,345.4m),
driven by resilient demand from trade customers.

The overail increase was achieved through the combined impact of the ongoing store opening programme and by
growing sales in existing stores. The increase in like-for-like sales (2023/24 1.4% compared to 2022/23: -3.4%).
was a result of higher average selling prices, driven by increases to the product costs and to cover increased
operational costs, including staffing and energy.

The Company continued to broaden the range of products available to customers and now offer over 59,000 SKUs
(stock keeping unit) (2022/23 46,000) either through stores, via the fulfilment centre or directly from suppliers.

During the year, new CRM capabilities were deployed, enabling improved management of customer relationships
through specific promotions and personalised offers sent by email, SMS and in-app notifications.

The Screwfix Sprint service (offering delivery direct to home or site within one hour) has continued to expand and
is now available in 334 stores, covering around 45% of UK postcodes. During the year, the proposition was
advertised widely through television, radio, press, website and in-store campaigns, resulting in a significant
increase in customer awareness and take up of the service.

‘
Significant productivity improvements were realised through new automated processes at the flagship logistics site
in Trentham.

The macroeconomic climate has improved during the year and the annual CPI inflation has fallen from 10.1% in
January 2023 to 4.0% in January 2024. However, interest rates remain at the highest rate since 2007, which is
affecting consumer confidence, resulting in a decline in the overall volume of products sold. As part of the Kingfisher
plc group of companies (the “Group”), the Company is confident that it will effectively manage through the current
period of higher interest rates and the associated cost of living challenges in the UK. This includes being focussed
on delivering value to our customers at a time when they need it most, teveraging the scale of Kingfisher to manage
cost price inflation, ensuring competitive price index against competitors, as well as offering a leading range of own
brands to provide customers with value options. The Company is also able to take advantage of the Group's ability
to support effective foreign exchange hedging. This provides protection against the volatility that has been seen in
the currency markets, particularly with the US dollar due to a material amount of stock purchases made in USD.

The Company has a plan to continue to open new stores over the coming years, to significantly increase product
lines available to customers and to make further investments in digital and distribution capabilities.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5SCABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Strategic Report (continued)

Key performance indicators

The Company is a subsidiary of Kingfisher plc. Further information on the Group's analysis using financial key
performance indicators can be found in the 2023/24 Kingfisher plc Annual Report (“Kingfisher Annual Report’):
‘Financial Review' on pages 48 to 50.

Screwfix Direct Limited had an increase in like-for-like sales of 1.4% (2022/23: -3.4%). Total sales (from continuing
operations) grew by 3.2% to £2,419.8m (2022/23: £2,345.4m). FY24 saw a net increase of 45 new stores opened
in the UK, bringing the total number of UK outlets as at 31 January 2024 to 883 (2022/23: 838).

Operating profit decreased by 6.4% from £236.3m in 2022/23 to £220.4m in 2023/24,

The increase in operating costs was driven by cost inflation, including year on year increases in staff and energy
costs, higher costs associated with the new store openings, and higher technology spend. Cost increases were
partially offset through structural savings achieved by a cost reduction programme, in achieving Logistics
efficiencies.

The Company's profit before taxation amounted to £241.0m (2022/23: £243.5m). The reduction in operating profit
was largely offset by an increase in finance income because of higher interest rates, hence profit before tax
remained level with the prior year. Profit after taxation was £181.7m (2022/23: £198.3m).

The above performance indicators are used to measure growth and profitability of the continuing operations, and
to demonstrate that growth comes from both the Company's efforts to increase the efficiency of its sales channels
as well as the growing number of Trade Counters. The source for the financial performance indicators are the
financial statements and are reviewed monthly by the management board ("the Board”). As part of its ongoing
performance management the Company tightly manages its investment in working capital, balancing the need to
ensure stock availability levels are sufficient to meet customer demand across the range while not over investing
in working capital. The Company continues to focus on improving stock availability, ensuring that the right stock is
in the right locations to meet customer demands.

Principal risks and uncertainties

Two of the key business risks and uncertainties affecting the Company are the level of product demand and
securing properties to meet the Trade Counter opening programme. The level of product demand is impacted by
macro-economic conditions and competition. Product demand is monitored through monthly rolling forecasts which
factor the latest trends into supply chain planning procedures. The Trade Counter opening programme is monitored
within weekly meetings which include executive board members. This close monitoring is due to its importance in
delivering the overall strategy of the Company, however the risk to the year end result reduces as new stores are
successfully opened.

Other key risks and uncertainties include ongoing market conditions, competition and UK consumer confidence
given the increase in interest rates and inflation. We are committed to continuing to manage our gross margin
effectively in an inflationary environment, as we did in FY 2023/24. The focus of the Company on leading on price
competitiveness, for which it benefits from its Own Exclusive Brands and buying power, stands it in good stead in
the face of a challenging marketplace, with cost price inflation and Jower consumer confidence.

The oversight for certain risks such as climate change, human rights, anti-corruption and anti-bribery matters are
undertaken at a Group level and consideration and required disclosures including the associated mitigation of
these risks is disclosed on pages 59 to 64 of the Kingfisher Annual Report. Activities to manage and monitor
these risks are also performed at a Company level in line with the standards set at Group.

Financial risk management objectives and policies

The Company's activities expose it to several financial risks including credit risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate
risk and liquidity risk. The use of financial derivatives is governed by the Company's policies, which provide written
principles on their use to manage these risks. These principles are adopted from Group policies and any exceptions
are approved by the board of directors.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Strategic Report (continued)

As part of the Group, the Company's interest rate, liquidity and foreign exchange risks are managed centrally by
the Group Treasury department who monitor and manage levels of debt finance and related finance costs.

A full description of these financial risk management policies is on pages 160 to 162 of the Kingfisher plc 2023/24
Annual Report.

Economic risk

The biggest economic risks facing the Company are weaker GDP growth in the UK, political uncertainty and social
unrest, higher wage inflation (e.g., UK National Living Wage increasing by c.9.7% pa), and significant cost inflation
(across raw materials, utilities and third-party labour). All these factors are considered regularly as part of the
executive board's decision-making process. tn order to mitigate these factors, input costs are actively managed
and when they cannot be mitigated or absorbed, higher average selling prices also mitigate these risks.

Foreign Exchange Risk

The Company's activities expose it primarily to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The Company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge these exposures in accordance with the Group's
policy.

Cash Flow Risk

The Company's operating activities expose it to cash flow risk. The main risk is that of ordering stock in large
quantities to maximise margin which then occupies working capital for extended periods of time until the stock is
sold. This risk to working capital is higher for stock that is imported from overseas as the transit time lengthens the
working capital cycle. The duration of the working capital cycle is mitigated by negotiating payment terms with
suppliers, active stock governance and active management of aged debt on customer trade credit accounts.

Credit risk

The Company's principal financial assets are bank balances and cash, trade and other receivables and related
party receivables.

The biggest credit risk is attributable to the other members of the Group, since cash is regularly passed to the
Group Treasury department and is offset infrequently by dividend declaration (last dividend declared and paid was
£1bn on 27" July 2023).

The Company's credit risk (excluding credit extended to other members of the Group) is primarily attributable to its
trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are net of allowances for doubtful receivables. An
allowance for impairment is made where there is an identified loss event which, based on previous experience, is
evidence of a reduction in the recoverability of the cash flows. The Company has no significant concentration of
credit risk, with exposure spread over many customers.

Liquidity risk

Liquidity risk is the risk that cash may not be available to pay obligations when they fall due. The Company, along
with Kingfisher pic, regularly reviews the level of cash and debt facilities required to fund its activities. This involves
preparing a prudent cash flow forecast on a 13-week basis which is submitted to Group Treasury. Group Treasury
then manage the cash-pool for the entire Group determining the levet of debt required to fund the Group plan for
repayment of debt at its maturity whilst also identifying headroom to provide a reserve against unexpected outflows.
The Directors are satisfied that the Company is not subject to significant liquidity risk.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5SCABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Strategic Report (continued)

Corporate Governance

The Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Kingfisher pic. Kingfisher plc is subject to the Financial Reporting
Council UK Corporate Governance Code (the “Code”) and page 69 of the 2023/24 Kingfisher plc Annual Report
and Accounts sets out how it has applied the Code throughout the year ended 31 January 2024. Kingfisher’s
commitment extends to ensuring that a robust and effective governance framework is in place to support and
promote the success of all tegal entities within the Group. This includes a Group Subsidiary Governance Framework
{the “Framework”) which applies to the Company and all legal entities within the Kingfisher Group and
encompasses seven overarching principles (the “Principles”) that each Group entity is expected to apply in pursuit
of consistent and appropriate levels of governance. The Principles the Company is expected to uphold,
encompass:

= Company Purpose and Leadership

= Board Composition

* Director Duties and Responsibilities

* Opportunity and Risk

* Remuneration

« Stakeholder Relationships and Engagement

= Legal, Regulatory and Company Administration
= Group Structure

In pursuit of these governance arrangements, the Company operates a two-tier management structure comprising
a legal board and a management board. The Company also has in place an Audit Committee, Ethics and
Compiiance Committee, Responsible Business Committee, Health and Safety Committee and People Forum to
support the management board in the performance of its duties. Their respective responsibilities are clearly defined
within the matters reserved to the legal board and the terms of reference of the management board and its
committees. The management board's responsibilities include all operational matters and day-to-day running and
management of the Company. The legal board is responsible for ensuring compliance with all applicable statutory
and regulatory obligations, as well as matters of corporate governance and financing arrangements. The legal
board and management board are expected to follow the Principles set out in the Framework and have due regard
for the views of its stakeholders, risk in its approach to taking decisions, business needs, the interests of the
Company and may in exercising their independent judgement take into account the success of other Group
companies as well as the success of the Company, as codified in the Company's articles of association. The
Company is expected to comply with the Group Code of Conduct as well as a suite of other Group-wide policies
and to a standard commensurate with the status of Kingfisher pic as a listed entity.

The Company confirms it has complied with all Principles set out in the Framework in respect of the 2023/24
financial year.

Section 172(1) and stakeholder engagement statement

The Directors are fully aware of their responsibilities to promote the success of the Company in accordance with
Section 172 (s172) of the Companies Act 2006 (the Act). When making decisions, Directors have regard to the
matters in s172, including the interests of stakeholders relevant to the Company, the impact of the Company's
operations on the community and environment, and the Company's desire to maintain a reputation for high
standards of business conduct as well as its long-term success. Actions and behaviours are governed by the robust
governance framework of the Group, which includes, but is not limited, to Group policies and the Kingfisher Code
of Conduct. The Directors acknowledge that every decision they make will not necessarily result in a positive
outcome for all of the Company's stakeholders; however, by considering the Company's purpose, vision and
values, together with its strategic priorities, and by having a process in place for decision-making, they aim to
ensure that their decisions are consistent and that stakeholder interests are considered fairly.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Strategic Report (continued)

As is normal for companies that are part of a wider Group of entities, day-to-day management of the Company is
delegated to executives who, in turn, engage management in setting, approving, and overseeing execution of the
business strategy and related policies. The Directors review financial and operational performance and legal and
regulatory compliance pertinent to any decision they are taking. During the year, this information was distributed in
a range of different formats including in reports and presentations on our financial and operational performance,
non-financial KPIs, risk, ESG matters and the outcomes of specific pieces of engagement (for example, the results
of customer and supplier surveys and focus groups). This information helps the Directors to understand the
interests and views of the Company's key stakeholders as well as to have regard to s172 matters when making
decisions.

The purpose of the Company is to act as a retailer of home improvement products and related home improvement
services within the Group. As well as its affiliates in the Group in which it operates, the Company's key stakeholders
include its customers, colleagues, suppliers, communities & non-governmental organisations (NGO's), regulators
& Government, national and international external regulators of product safety. While there are cases where the
Board judges that it should engage directly with certain stakeholder groups or on certain issues, the size and spread
of both stakeholders and the Group, means that generally stakeholder engagement best takes place at an
operational or Group level. As well as being a more efficient and effective approach, this also helps the Company
achieve a greater positive impact on environmental, social, and other issues than by engaging as an individual
Company. Please see pages 17 to 23 of the Kingfisher Annual Report for details of stakeholder engagement with
the Company's stakeholders at a Group level.

Set out below are some specific examples of how the Board and management have had regard to $172 matters,
their approach to stakeholder engagement and the effect of certain decisions taken by them during the year.

Key Decisions Taken in the Financial Year

There have been no significant decisions made during the financial year as the Company continues with its organic
growth strategy in line with Kingfisher plc's overarching strategic plan “Powered by Kingfisher” (refer to pages 6-7
of the Kingfisher FY23/24 annual report).

Customer engagement

Customer safety and satisfaction are pivotal to the success of our business. The needs, behaviours and feedback
of our customers are collected, assessed, and used to develop our long-term strategy.

The Board receives regular updates on customer opinions from the business areas that interact with them. These
updates include direct feedback, reports on customer behaviour, analysis of the Net Promotor Score and Customer
Insight Reports. These are used to inform future investment decisions and identify key revenue drivers.

Customer feedback is of particular value when testing new and improved digital customer journeys both online and
in store, as well as understanding the inflationary environment and economic challenges our customers face.

Supplier engagement

The Board recognises that building and maintaining trusted partnerships with the Company's suppliers is
fundamental to the long-term success of the business. It does not regularly engage directly with suppliers but
receives frequent reporting from the business areas which interact directly with them. The Board considers the
impact to suppliers when making key strategic decisions relating to product ranges or supply and logistics.

The Company engages with suppliers, to improve outcomes for them and the Company (business as usual) and
to minimise supply chain impacts caused by changes to the trading environment post-pandemic. As a result of the
conflict in Ukraine, the Company (alongside the rest of Kingfisher) decided early on to stop selling the limited
number of products directly sourced from Russian and Belarussian suppliers.

DocuSign Envelope 1D: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-SCABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Strategic Report (continued)

Employee engagement

The Directors recognise that the implementation of an effective people strategy and strong culture underpin the
effective delivery of the Company's strategy and ultimately its performance. The Directors acknowledge the
importance of retaining talent and consider the views of colleagues when making decisions and assessing the
impact of those decisions on our colleagues.

Colleague feedback is received in several ways including from established Colleague Forums, Works’ Councils
and feedback chains to the Board to regular colleague engagement surveys. The Screwfix Connect intranet has
regular articles and opportunities for employee feedback. Business announcements are also emailed to employees
and a committee is in place to discuss and respond to employee feedback.

All employees are informed on matters of concern to them during the Quarterly Business Updates that they are
invited. These are led by the relevant functional executive director. These updates include financial and economic
factors that affect the performance of the Company.

The Company consults with its employees through colleague forums and through employee engagement surveys.

Employees have the option of participating in the Group's ‘Share Build’ Scheme that allows them to benefit from
the Group's performance and align their long term interests with that of the Company.

Kingfisher is committed to the well-being of employees and the plans for people and culture can be found on pages
14 to 16 of the Kingfisher Annual Report.

The impact of the Company’s operations on the community and the environment

As part of the Group, the Company aims to help customers have greener, healthier homes. The Company sells
many energy, water and heat efficient products like lighting, taps and insulation to support this aspiration. An
initiative implemented this year has been the introduction of “Green Star” where products in the online catalogue
that have sustainable credentials are marked green star emblem so that customers can make a more
environmentally based decision when shopping.

The Group is committed to specific environment-based targets, including using sustainable wood and paper
products, becoming forest positive and reducing carbon emissions over the next three years. The specifics of
these goals (and commentary on progress toward full achievement of these) can be found on pages 24 to 27 of
the Kingfisher Annual Report. .

The desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct

Being a responsible business encompasses all aspects of the way we work, from the way we treat our colleagues,
to our supply chain and our impact on the environment. We have clear policies to ensure we take a consistent best
practice approach and keep improving.

All Company colleagues abide by the Kingfisher Code of Conduct, which sets out personal and shared
responsibilities for meeting high ethical standards, helping to promote a culture where transparency, honesty and
fairness are the norm. The Code forms part of the contractual terms and conditions for all new colleagues and is
communicated through a compulsory e-learning module for all colleagues as well as face-to-face training sessions
for colleagues in higher risk roles.

To ensure consistency across the Group, these policies and targets are set and monitored at a Group level. The
Company also monitors its own actions, maintaining our accountability to meet the Group’s standards.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Strategic Report (continued)

The need to act fairly between members of the Company

The Directors remain confident about the future prospects for the business. The business will continue to expand
to reach more customers through the Trade Counter opening programme. The business model continues to
evolve, enhancing its multi-channel convenience credentials.

Current global demand for product has driven challenges and additional costs within the supply of product for both
domestic and imported stock. We continue to utilise the Group’s size and scale to meet our customers’ needs.

The Company has maintained its investment in a subsidiary Company (Screwfix Direct (Ireland) Limited), which
started operating a Trade Counter network and website in the Republic of Ireland in 2018, with continued Trade
Counter driven growth during 2023/24 and further planned for 2024/25.

Approved by the Board on 18" September 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

Signed by:

May Brite

1OFAATBASDDB4EA...
M Britten

Director

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Directors’ Report

The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Company, together with the financial statements and
auditor's report, for the year ended 31 January 2024. The following disclosures are a requirement of the Directors’
report but have been elevated to the strategic report:

- Financial risk management objectives and policies
- Employee engagement
- Corporate governance arrangements

- Engagement with suppliers, customers and others

Directors

The Directors, who served throughout the year and subsequently, were as follows:

M Britten
J Mewett

C Barry

Going Concern

Net assets at the balance sheet date are £608.2m (2022/23: £1,427.5m) and net current assets are £379m
(2022/23: £1,205.8m) and the Company is forecasting to be profitable going forward. Based on the Company's
liquidity position and cash flow projections at both the balance sheet date and the approvat date for the financial
statements, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future and they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting
in preparing the annual financial statements.

The Group’s business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and
position are set out in the Strategic report, including the principal risks of the Group set out on pages 59 to 64 of
the Kingfisher Annual Report.

The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the
Financial Review on pages 48 to 54 of the Kingfisher Annual Report. In addition, note 25 of the Group financial
statements (page 160 to 163) includes the Group's financial risk management objectives and exposures to liquidity
and other financial risks.

As a result of this review, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and consider it appropriate for the Group to continue
to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements. Further details in
relation to the use of the going concern assumption can be found on page 67 of the Kingfisher Annual Report.

The Company has been both profitable and cash generative up to the financial statements signing date. Company
cash is held by the Kingfisher Group's Treasury department, the Group has made several statements in the 2022/23
financial year and to date in 2023/24 year in relation to the strength of Cash reserves and profit projections.

Considering the above enquiries, the Directors of Screwfix Direct Limited consider that adequate resources exist
for the Company to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, for the twelve months following
the approval of these financial statements) and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of
accounting in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2024.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Directors’ Report (continued)
Future Developments

The future developments of the business are discussed in the Strategic Report section of this report (please refer
to page 2 of this report). There is no intention to change the principal activity of the Company in the near future.

Post balance sheet events

The Company acquired Screwfix Spares Limited (SSL) from Kingfisher Marketplaces Limited on 30" May 2024 as
part of internal restructure within the Kingfisher Group. The consideration for the acquisition was £457,500. This
value of £457,500 represents the 457,500 Ordinary Shares valued at GBP 1 each, resulting in SSL being wholly
owned by the Company.

Subsequently to acquiring SSL on 30" May, the Company made an equity injection of £3,042,500 into SSL on 15!
July 2024 in order to ensure that SSL remains well capitalised and able to finance its ongoing activities. This equity
injection increases the total share capital of SSL to £3,500,000 Ordinary shares at a £1 nominal value.

Otherwise there are no significant events since the balance sheet date per note 26.
Dividends

The Directors recommended that a dividend payment of £1bn (£215.43 per share) be made in 2023/24 to the
Company's sole shareholder Kingfisher International Holdings Limited (KIHL), from profits generated by the
company since 4'" August 2009 to 318 January 2023. This dividend was paid on 27" July 2023 and was treated
as a non-adjusting event in the annual report for 2022/23. There are no intentions to recommend any further
dividend payments at the time of signing this report.

Disabled employees

Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the abilities of the
applicant concerned. In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their
employment with the Company continues and that appropriate training is arranged. It is the poticy of the Company
that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to
that of other employees.

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting

The Company is included in the Group reporting of the ultimate parent company, Kingfisher pic which has provided
its consolidated CO2 emission and energy consumption on page 28 - 46 of the Kingfisher Annual Report.

Auditor

Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that:

- so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditor is
unaware; and

- the Director has taken all the steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make
himselffherself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditor is aware
of that information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies
Act 2006. Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor and appropriate
arrangements have been put in place for them to be deemed reappointed as auditor in the absence of an Annual
General Meeting.

Auditor's remuneration for other services

There was no remuneration receivable including benefits in kind by the Company's auditor; or any person who was
(at any time during the period to which the accounts relate) an associate of the Company's auditor for the supply
of other services by each type of service specified in the Regulations to the Company or its associates.

10

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Directors' Report (continued)

Directors‘ responsibilities statement

The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), including FRS 101 “Reduced
Disclosure Framework". Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the
Company for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:

- select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
- make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

- State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

- prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that
the Company will continue in business.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company
and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included
on the Company's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Approved by the Board on 18" September 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

Signed by:

10FAA7BASDDB46A...
M Britten
Director

11

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of Screwfix Direct
Limited

Report on the audit of the financial statements

Opinion
In our opinion the financial statements of Screwfix Direct Limited (the ‘company’):

e give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 January 2024 and of its profit for the
year then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,
including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework"; and

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements which comprise:

the profit and loss account;

the statement of other comprehensive income;
the balance sheet;

the statement of changes in equity; and

the related notes 1 to 26.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United
Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”
(United Kingdom Generaily Accepted Accounting Practice).

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor's responsibilities for the audit
of the financial statements section of our report.

We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of
the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council's (the 'FRC’s’) Ethical Standard, and
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concem basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis
of accounting included:

assessing the key assumptions used in the forecasts;
evaluating the integrity of the model used to prepare the forecasts, which includes testing of clerical
accuracy of those forecasts and our assessment of the historical accuracy of forecasts prepared by
management; and

e assessing whether the disclosures in relation to going concern are appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a
going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

12

DocuSign Envelope 1D: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of Screwfix Direct
Limited (continued)

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements
and our auditor's report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the
annual report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the
extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial
statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such
internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or
have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC's
website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures
in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities,
including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is
detailed below.

We considered the nature of the company’s industry and its control environment, and reviewed the company’s
documentation of their policies and procedures relating to fraud and compliance with laws and regulations. We
also enquired of management, internal audit, in-house legal counsel and the directors about their own
identification and assessment of the risks of irregularities, including those that are specific to the company’s
business sector.

We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that the company operates in, and
identified the key laws and regulations that:

¢ had a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
These included UK Companies Act, pensions legislation, tax legislation, UK Health and Safety Act, UK
Employment Rights Act and UK GDPR; and

e do not have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental to the
company's ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty. These included UK Trading Standards, UK
Marketing and Promotions Regulations and UK Advertising Standards Authority.

13

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-SCABE949B538

Screwfix Direct Limited

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of Screwfix Direct
Limited (continued)

We discussed among the audit engagement team and relevant internal specialists including IT specialists
regarding the opportunities and incentives that may exist within the organisation for fraud and how and where
fraud might occur in the financial statements.

As a result of performing the above, we considered the opportunities and incentives that may exist within entity
for fraud and identified the greatest potential for fraud in inventory provisioning and our procedures performed to
address it are described below:

obtaining an understanding of relevant controls relating to inventory provisioning:
assessing the inventory provisioning policy, with specific consideration of its ongoing appropriateness in light
of changes in the business and the macroeconomic environment and the risk profile within inventory;

e challenging and evaluating any manual adjustments, exclusions or deviations from the group's provisioning
policy; and

* —recomputing the provisions recorded to verify that they are in line with group’s policy and IAS 2. We also
engaged internal analytics specialists to re-perform the calculations of Screwfix's slow-moving inventory
provision using analytical tools.

In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also required to perform specific procedures to respond to the
risk of management override. In addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, we tested
the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments; assessed whether the judgements made in making
accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and evaluated the business rationale of any significant
transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business.

In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to the risks identified included the following:

¢ reviewing financial statement disclosures by testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with
provisions of relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct effect on the financial statements;

«¢ performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks
of material misstatement due to fraud;

¢ — enquiring of management, internal audit, in-house legal counsel and the directors concerning actual and
potential litigation and claims, and instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations; and

« reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and
reviewing correspondence with HMRC.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

« the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

e the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the
audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report in respect of the following matters if, in our opinion:

« adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or
the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
e we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

14

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

‘DocuSigned by:
la
Leo Uuurle
, 2DEADSDEBS7AAFB...

Leo Thurtle ACA (Senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Statutory Auditor

London, United Kingdom

18 September 2024

15

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Profit and Loss Account

for the year ended 31 January 2024

Restated

Notes 2023/24 2022/23

£'m £'m

Revenue 3 2,419.8 2,345.4
Cost of sales (1,572.8) (1,559.3)
Gross profit 847.0 786.1
Selling and Distribution Expenses (452.2) (410.1)
Other income 1.7 0.5
Administration Expenses (176.1) (140.2)
Operating profit 220.4 236.3
Other exceptional expenses (3.3) 0.0
Finance income 4 35.0 16.9
Finance expense 4 (11.1) (9.7)
Profit before taxation 5 241.0 243.5,
Tax 7 (59.3) (45.2)
Profit after taxation 181.7 198.3

Retained Profit 181.7 198.3

As a result of alignment of accounting policies with the ultimate parent company, Kingfisher Plc, there have been
presentation and classification changes during the year. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the amended
presentation and classification. Refer to note 1(q) on page 30 for details.

These restated changes have not resulted in any changes to either the Operating Profit or Net Assets of the
Company reported in FY22/23

16

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Statement of Other Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 January 2024

Notes 2023/24 2022/23

£'m £m

Profit for the financial year 181.7 198.3

Actuarial loss on post-employment benefits 42 (1.4) (11.3)

Exchange differences on translation of discontinued operations 44 0.0

Tax credit on items that will not be reclassified 20 0.5 3.9

Total items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss 0.2 (7.4)

Currency translation (Losses) (0.5) (3.4)

Cash flow hedges

Fair value (losses)/gains 15 (6.8) 28.5

Gains/ (losses) transferred to inventories 15 5.6 (35.3)

Tax on items that may be reclassified 20 0.3 1.4
“Total other comprehensive items forthe yearthatmaybereclassified 44, aay

subsequently to (loss) or profit (1.4) (8.8)

Other comprehensive (expense) for the year net of tax (1.2) (16.2)
“Total comprehensive income for the year attributable tothe owners ofthe = agg agp

Company

17

DocuSign Envelope 1D: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538

Screwfix Direct Limited

Balance Sheet

as at 31 January 2024

Notes 2023/24 2022/23
£'m £'m

Non-current assets
Intangible assets 0.0 0.1
Property, plant and equipment 9 186.2 183.2
Investments in subsidiaries 10 6.0 6.0
Right of use assets "1 301.6 276.6
Post-employment benefits 12 9.0 10.1
Total Non-Current Assets 502.8 476.0
Current assets
Inventories 13 496.7 451.2
Trade and other receivables 14 409.2. 1,227.9
Derivative financial instruments 15 0.2 3.9
Cash and bank balances 16 13.2 12.7
Total Current Assets 919.3 1,695.7
Total assets 1,422.1 2,171.7
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 17 (464.5) (416.3)
Provisions 18 (5.9) (5.5)
Lease liabilities 19 (53.5) (46.2)
Derivative financiat instruments 15 (3.9) (6.3)
Current tax liabilities (12.5) (15.6)
Total Current Liabilities {540.3) (490.0)
Net current assets 379.0 1,205.8
Total assets less current liabilities 881.8 1,681.7
Non-current liabilities
Lease liabilities 19 (263.7) (245.9)
Deferred tax liabilities 20 (9.9) (8.3)
Total Non-Current Liabilities (273.6) (254.2)
Total liabilities (813.9) (744.2)
Net assets 608.2) 1,427.5

18

DocuSign Envelope 1D: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Balance Sheet (continued)

Notes 2023/24 = 2022/23
em £m

Equity
Share capital 21 0.1 0.1
Capital redemption reserve 0.1 0.1
Retained earnings 611.8 1,429.7
Transiation reserve (1.0) (0.5)
Cash flow hedge reserve (2.8) (1.9)

“Equity attributable to owners ofthe gg

Company

The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors and authorised for issue on 18'" September
2024 and signed on its behalf by:

‘Signed by:
Max Britten
10FAA7BASDDB4EA....

M Britten
Director
Company number 03006378

19

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-SCABE949B538

Screwfix Direct Limited

Statement of Changes in Equity

for the year ended 31 January 2024

Attributable to equity shareholders of the Company

Balance at 1 February 2022 0.1 0.1 1,238.3. 2.9 3.5 1,244.9
Profit for the year - - 198.3 - - 198.3
Other comprehensive expense for the year : : (7.4) (3.4) (6.4) (16.2)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 0.0 0.0 190.9 (3.4) (5.4) 182.1
Share-based compensation 22 - - 0.5 : - 0.5
Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions ; r 0.0 - - 0.0
Balance at 31 January 2023 0.1 0.1 1,429.7 (0.5) (1.9) 1,427.5
Profit for the year - - 181.7 7 - 181.7
Other comprehensive income/(expense) for the year : - 0.2 (0.5) (0.9) (1.2)
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for the year 0.0 0.0 181.9 (0.5) (0.9) 180.5
Share-based compensation 22 - - 0.2 - - 0.2
Deferred tax on share-based payment transactions - - 0.0 - - 0.0
Dividends Paid 5 - (1,000.0) - - (1,000.0)
Balance at 31 January 2024 0.1 0.1 611.8 (1.0) (2.8) 608.2

20

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-S5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

1. Principal accounting policies

a. Basis of preparation

Screwfix Direct Limited (the Company) supplies trade and DIY products throughout a network of Trade Counters
and other channels, primarily within the UK. The Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom under the
Companies Act 2006. The Company is a private company limited by shares and is registered in England and
Wales. The address of the Company's registered office is shown on page 1.

These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling which is the currency of the primary economic
environment in which the Company operates.

These financial statements are separate financial statements. The Company is exempt under section 400 of
the Companies Act 2006 from the preparation of consolidated financial statements as it is included in the Group
financial statements of its ultimate parent, Kingfisher plc. The Group accounts of Kingfisher plc are available to
the public and can be obtained as set out in note 24.

During the year the Company continued to operate and grow a wholly owned subsidiary company, Screwfix
Direct (Ireland) Limited is incorporated in the Republic of Ireland and makes sales to both tradespeople and the
general public in the Republic of Ireland through its website and Trade Counter network. The financial
statements in this report for Screwfix Direct Limited do not include the results of Screwfix Direct (Iretand)
Limited.

b. Basis of accounting

The financial statements of Screwfix Direct Limited (‘the Company’) are for the year ended 31 January 2024
(‘the year’ or ‘2023/24') and were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 18 September 2024. The
comparative financial year is the financial year ended 31 January 2023 (‘the prior year’ or '2022/23').

The Directors of the Company consider that adequate resources exist for the Company to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future (and in particular, for the twelve months following the approval
of these financial statements) and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of
accounting in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2024.

The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under Financial Reporting Standard 100 ‘Application of
Financial Reporting Requirements’ issued by the FRC and as such these financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (‘FRS 101’)
and the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. The financial statements have been prepared under the
historical cost convention, as modified by the use of valuations for certain financial instruments, share-based
payments, post-employment benefits and IFRS 16 leases as explained in the accounting policies below.

The Company has taken advantage of disclosure exemptions under FRS 101 relating to Share-Based
Payments, Financial Instruments: Disclosure, Fair Value Measurement, Presentation of Financial Statements,
Statement of Cash Flows and Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, Related Party
Disclosures, Impairment of Assets, Presentation of comparatives, certain disclosures relating to Revenue from
Contracts with Customers and IFRS's issued but not effective.

Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements of Kingfisher plc.

The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

As a result of alignment of accounting policies with the ultimate parent company, Kingfisher Plc, there have
been presentation and classification changes during the year. Comparatives have been restated, where
required, to reflect the amended presentation and classification. Refer to note 1(q) on page 30 for details.

21

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538

1.

Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

Principal accounting policies (continued)

b. Basis of accounting (continued)
Going Concern

Net assets at the balance sheet date were £608.2m (2022/23: £1,427.5m) and net current assets were £379M
(2022/23: £1,205.8m) and the Company is forecasting to be profitable for the foreseeable future. Based on the
Company's liquidity position and cash flow projections at both the balance sheet date and the approval date for
the financial statements, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate

resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and they continue to adopt the going
concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements

he Group's business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and
position are set out in the Strategic report, including the principal risks of the Group set out on pages 59 to 64
of the Kingfisher Annual Report.

The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the
Financial Review on pages 48 to 54 of the Kingfisher Annual Report. In addition, note 25 of the Group financial
statements (page 160 to 163) includes the Group's financial risk management objectives and exposures to
liquidity and other financial risks.

As a result of this review, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and consider it appropriate for the
Group to continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Further details in relation to the use of the going concern assumption can be found on page 67 of the Kingfisher
Annual Report.

The Company has been both profitable and cash generative up to the financial statements signing date.
Company cash is held by the Kingfisher Group's Treasury department, the Group has made several statements
in the 2022/23 financial year and to date in 2023/24 year in relation to the strength of Cash reserves and profit
projections.

Considering the above enquiries, the Directors of Screwfix Direct Limited consider that adequate resources
exist for the Company to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, for the twelve months
following the approval of these financial statements) and that, therefore, it is appropriate to adopt the going
concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2024. :

Impact of initial application of other amendments to IFRS Standards and Interpretations
The following new or amended accounting standards are in issue and effective for the current reporting period:

IFRS 17 (including the June 2020 Amendments to IFRS 17) — Insurance Contracts

Amendments to IAS 1 and IFRS Practice Statement 2 — Disclosure of Accounting Policies

Amendments to IAS 12 — Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction
Amendments to IAS 8 — Definition of Accounting Estimates

The above new or amended accounting standards did not have a material impact on the financial statements

22

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-SCABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

1. Principal accounting policies (continued)

c., Revenue recognition

Sales represent the supply of tools, fixings and equipment excluding Value Added Tax and are net of returns,
trade and staff discounts.

Revenue is recognised when control of the goods has transferred, being at the point the customer purchases
the goods at a Trade Counter or the goods are delivered to the customer. Revenue is recognised at an amount
that reflects the considerations to which the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those costs.
Payment of the transaction price is due immediately at the point the customer purchases the goods.

Under the Company's standard contract terms, customers have a right of return within 30 days. At the point of
sale, a refund liability and a corresponding adjustment to revenue is recognised for those products expected to
be returned. At the same time, the Company has a right to recover the product when customers exercise their
right of return so consequently recognises a right to returned goods asset and a corresponding adjustment to
cost of sales. The Company uses its accumulated historical experience to estimate the number of returns on a
portfolio fevel using the expected value method. it is considered highly probable that a significant reversal in
the cumulative revenue recognised will not occur given the consistent level of returns over previous years.

d. Rebates

Rebates received from suppliers mainly comprise of volume-related rebates on the purchase of inventories.
Contractual volume-related rebates are accrued as units are purchased, based on the percentage rebate
applicable to total forecast purchases over the rebate year, where it is probable the rebates will be received
and the amounts can be estimated reliably. Where a rebate agreement is yet to be signed for the calendar year,
prior year rebate % is used. Discretionary rebates are not anticipated and are recognised at the earlier of being
received or being agreed and invoiced to the supplier. Rebates relating to inventories purchased but still held
at the balance sheet date are deducted from the carrying value so that the cost of inventories is recorded net
of applicable rebates. Such rebates are credited to the cost of sales line in the profit and loss account when the
goods are sold.

e. Foreign currencies

Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency at the exchange
rates prevailing on the date of the transaction, or, for practical reasons, at average monthly rates where
exchange rates do not fluctuate significantly.

Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into Sterling at the rates of
exchange at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences on monetary items are taken to the profit and loss
account. Exceptions to this are where the monetary items form part of the net investment in a foreign operation
or are designated and effective net investment or cash flow hedges. Such exchange differences are initially
deferred in equity.

Non-monetary items carried at fair value that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates
prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined. Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of
historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated.

23

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538

Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

1.

Principal accounting policies (continued)

f. Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment held for use in the business are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation
and any provisions for impairment. Assets are reviewed for impairment in each financial year (see g).

Depreciation is provided to reflect a straight-line reduction from cost to estimated residual value over the
estimated useful life of the asset as follows:

Fixtures, fittings and equipment: 10 - 50% straight-line
Assets in the course of construction are not depreciated.

The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting
period, with the effect of any changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.

An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits
are expected to arise from the continued use of the asset. The gain or loss arising on the disposal or scrappage
of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset
and is recognised in profit or loss.

g. Impairment of property, plant and equipment

At each reporting date, the Company reviews the carrying amounts of its property, plant and equipment to
determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such
indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated to determine the extent of the impairment
loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the
Company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs. When a
reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual
cash-generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the smallest group of cash-generating units for which
a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified. Cash-generating units for the business have
been identified as individual stores.

Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. In assessing value in
use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that
reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the
estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.

{f the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than it's carrying amount,
the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment
loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in
which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation decrease and to the extent that the impairment loss
is greater than the related revaluation surplus, the excess impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss.

Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is
increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does
not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for
the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately
in profit or loss to the extent that it eliminates the impairment loss which has been recognised for the asset in
prior years. Any increase in excess of this amount is treated as a revaluation increase.

24

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

1. Principal accounting policies (continued)
h. Leased assets (lessee accounting)

The Company assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease at inception of the contract. Typically, lease
contracts relate to properties such as stores and distribution centres, and equipment leases such as mechanical
handling equipment and vehicles. For leases in which the Company is a lessee, the Company recognises a
right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability, except for short-term leases (defined as leases with a
lease term of 12 months or less) and leases of low value assets (such as personal computers, small items of
office furniture and telephones). For these leases, the Company recognises the lease payments as an operating
expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless another systematic basis is more
representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased assets are consumed.

The lease liability is initially measured as the present value of the lease payments not yet paid at the
commencement date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. Where the implicit rate in the lease is
not readily determinable, an incremental borrowing rate is calculated and applied. The calculation methodology
is based upon applying a financing spread to a risk-free rate, with the resulting rate including the effect of the
credit worthiness of the operating company in which the lease is contracted, as well as the underlying term,
currency and start date of the lease agreement.

Lease payments used in the measurement of the lease liability principally comprise fixed lease payments
(subject to indexation/rent reviews) less any incentives. The lease liability is subsequently measured by
increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease liability (using an effective interest method) and
by reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made. The lease term comprises the non-
cancellable lease term, in addition to optional periods when the Company is reasonably certain to exercise an
option to extend (or not to terminate) a lease.

The lease liability is presented as a separate line in the balance sheet.

The Company remeasures the lease liability (and makes a corresponding adjustment to the related right-of-use
asset) whenever an event occurs that changes the term or payment profile of a lease, such as the renewal of
an existing lease, the exercise of lease term options, market rent reviews and indexation.

The right-of-use assets are initially measured at the amount equal to the corresponding lease liability, adjusted
by any upfront lease payments or incentives and any initial direct costs incurred. Subsequently, the assets are
measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Right-of-use assets are depreciated
on a straight-line basis over the shorter period of lease term and useful life of the underlying asset, The
depreciation starts at the commencement date of the lease.

The right-of-use assets are presented as a separate line in the balance sheet.

Whenever the Company incurs an obligation for costs to dismantle and remove a leased asset, restore the site
on which it is located or restore the underlying asset to the condition required by the terms and conditions of
the lease, a provision is recognised and measured under IAS 37. To the extent that the costs relate to a right-
of-use asset, the costs are included in the related right-of-use asset, unless those costs are incurred to produce
inventories.

The Company applies IAS 36 to determine whether a right-of-use asset is impaired and accounts for any
identified impairment loss as described in the ‘Impairment of Property, Plant and Equipment’ policy.

i. Investments in subsidiaries

Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for at cost less, where appropriate, provisions for impairment.

25

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538

Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

1.

Principal accounting policies (continued)

j._ Inventories

Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The value of inventories is determined using
a weighted average method and including an attributable proportion of overheads. Provisions are made, where
necessary, for slow-moving, obsolete or defective stock.

k. Employee benefits
i. Post-employment benefits

The Company participates in the Kingfisher Group defined benefit and defined contribution pension schemes
for its employees. A defined benefit scheme is a pension scheme which defines an amount of pension benefit
which an employee will receive on retirement. A defined contribution scheme is a pension scheme under which
the Company usually pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. In all cases a separate fund is being
accumulated to meet the accruing liabilities. The assets of each of these funds are held under trusts and are
entirely separate from the Company's assets.

The asset or liability recognised in the balance sheet in respect of defined benefit pension schemes is the fair
value of scheme assets less the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date. The
defined benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit credit
method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined by discounting the estimated future
cash outflows using interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds which are denominated in the currency in
which the benefits will be paid and which have terms to maturity approximating to the terms of the related
pension liability.

Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments and changes in actuarial assumptions are
credited or charged to the statement of other comprehensive income as they arise.

For defined contribution schemes, the Company has no further payment obligations once the contributions have
been paid. The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit expense when they are due.

ii. Share-based compensation

The Company participates in several equity-settled, share-based compensation schemes. The rights for each
of the instruments are granted by the ultimate parent company, Kingfisher plc, and settled by shares in
Kingfisher plc. These schemes are treated, for accounting purposes, as equity-settled arrangements in the
Kingfisher plc financial statements. As a result, an expense is charged to the profit and loss account with the
corresponding entry to equity in the Screwfix Direct Limited financial statements. On vesting of the individual
arrangements, the employee obligation is settled by Kingfisher plc and the Company is recharged the fair value
of the award. Further details are available on page 178 of the Kingfisher Annual Report.

The fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of options or deferred shares is
recognised as an expense and is calculated primarily using Black-Scholes and stochastic models. The value
of the charge is adjusted to reflect expected and actual levels of options vesting. The total amount to be
expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options or deferred shares
granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions. Non-market vesting conditions are
included in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to become exercisable.

At each balance sheet date, the Company revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to

become exercisable. It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any, in profit and toss, with
a corresponding adjustment to equity over the remaining vesting period.

26

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-SCABE949B538

Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

1.

Principal accounting policies (continued)

k. Employee benefits (continued)

iii. Employee Share Ownership Plan trust (‘ESOP trust’)

The ESOP trust is a separately administered discretionary trust. Liabilities of the ESOP trust are guaranteed by
Kingfisher plc and the assets of the ESOP trust mainly comprise shares in Kingfisher plc. For further details,
refer to page 178 of the Kingfisher Annual Report.

|. Taxation
The tax currently payable or receivable is based on taxable profit or loss for the year.

Taxable profit differs from profit before taxation as reported in the profit and loss account because it excludes
items of income or expense which are taxable or deductible in other years, or which are never taxable or
deductible.

A provision is recognised for those matters for which the tax determination is uncertain but it is considered
probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a tax authority. The provisions are measured at the best
estimate of the amount expected to become payable. The assessment is based on the judgement of tax
professionals within the Company supported by previous experience in respect of such activities and in certain
cases based on specialist independent tax advice.

Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of
taxable profit and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.

Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences. Deferred tax assets are
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible
temporary differences or unused tax losses can be utilised. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not generally
recognised if the temporary difference arises from the initia! recognition of other assets and liabilities in a
transaction which affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent
that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be
recovered.

Current and deferred tax are calculated using tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted by
the balance sheet date and are expected to apply in the year when the liability is settled or the asset is realised.

Current and deferred tax are charged or credited to the profit and loss account, except when they relate to items
charged or credited directly to equity, in which case the current or deferred tax is also recognised directly in
equity.

The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would foltow from the
manner in which the Company expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying
amount of its assets and liabilities.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets
against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and
the Company intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.

27

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538

Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

1.

Principal accounting policies (continued)
m. Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past
events, it is more likely than not that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and the
amount can be reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses.

The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present
obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.

If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are determined by discounting the expected future
cash flows at a pre-tax rate which reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and, where
appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.

n. Financial instruments

Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Company's balance sheet when the Company
becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets and financial liabilities are
measured initially at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of
financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through
profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as
appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or
financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.

Financial assets are derecognised when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the financial asset expire
or the Company has substantially transferred the risks and rewards of ownership. Financial liabilities (or a part
of a financial liability) are derecognised when the obligation specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled
or expires.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset only when the Group has a currently enforceable legal right to set-off
the respective recognised amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle
the fiability simultaneously.

i. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand and deposits held on call with banks.
ii. Trade receivables

Trade receivables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost less
any provision for bad and doubtful debts.

iii. Trade payables
Trade payables are initially recognised at fair value and are subsequently measured at amortised cost.
iv. Derivatives and hedge accounting

Where hedge accounting is not applied, or to the extent to which it is not effective, changes in the fair value of
derivatives are recognised in the profit and loss account as they arise.

Derivatives are initially recorded at fair value on the date a derivative contract is entered into and are
subsequently carried at fair value. The accounting treatment of derivatives and other financial instruments
classified as hedges depends on their designation, which occurs at the start of the hedge relationship. The
Company designates certain derivatives as a hedge of the fair value of an asset or liability (‘fair value hedge’).

28


DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86F B-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

1. Principal accounting policies (continued)
0. Financial instruments (continued)
iv. Derivatives and hedge accounting(continued)

Changes in the effective portion of the fair value of derivatives that are designated as hedges of future cash
flows are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, with any ineffective portion being recognised
immediately in the statement of total comprehensive income where relevant. If the cash flow hedge of a firm
commitment or forecast transaction results in the recognition of a non-financial asset or liability, then, at the
time it is recognised, the associated gains or losses on the derivative that had previously been deferred in equity
are included in the initial measurement of the non-financial asset or liability. For hedges that result in the
recognition of a financial asset or liabitity, amounts deferred in equity are recognised in the statement of total
comprehensive income in the same period in which the hedged item affects net profit or loss.

The Group’s policy requires the Company to have derivatives in place based on forecast future purchases of
import stock. When forecast purchases become actual committed orders the derivates in place are reviewed
for effectiveness and any exposures are mitigated by Group Treasury on the Company’s behalf.

For an effective hedge of an exposure to changes in fair value, the hedged item is adjusted for changes in fair
value attributable to the risk being hedged with the corresponding entry being recorded in the Statement of
Other Comprehensive Income. Gains or losses from remeasuring the corresponding hedging instrument are
recognised in the same line of the profit and loss account.

In order to qualify for hedge accounting, the Company documents in advance the relationship between the item
being hedged and the hedging instrument. The Company also documents and demonstrates an assessment
of the relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument, which shows that the hedge has been
and will be highly effective on an ongoing basis. The effectiveness testing is re-performed at each year end to
ensure that the hedge remains highly effective.

Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no
longer qualifies for hedge accounting.

A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair
value is recognised as a financial liability. A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or non-current liability
if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled
within 12 months. Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current liabilities.

v. Impairment of financial assets

The Company recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses on investments in debt instruments that
are measured at amortised cost, trade debtors and contract assets. The amount of expected credit losses is
updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition of the respective financial
instrument.

The Company always recognises lifetime expected credit losses (ECL) for trade debtors and contract assets.
The expected credit losses on these financial assets are estimated using a provision matrix based on the
Company's historical credit loss experience, adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors, general
economic conditions and an assessment of both the current as well as the forecast direction of conditions at
the reporting date, including time value of money where appropriate.

For all other financial instruments, the Company recognises lifetime ECL when there has been a significant
increase in credit risk since initial recognition.

Lifetime ECL represents the expected credit losses that will result from all possible default events over the
expected life of a financial instrument. In contrast, 12-month ECL represents the portion of lifetime ECL that is
expected to result from default events on a financial instrument that are possible within 12 months after the
reporting date.

29

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538

Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

1.

Principal accounting policies (continued)

p. Operating Profit
Operating profit is the profit before tax, finance income and exceptional expenses, from continuing operations.

q. Impact of Presentation Changes

For the year ended 31 January 2023, the presentation of the “profit and loss account” has been amended in
order to align with the statutory accounting policy of Kingfisher PLC (parent company). The prior year
comparators have been restated to reflect this alignment. The purpose of the restatement is to make the
financial information more relevant for the user of the financial statement by aligning their presentation to that
of Kingfisher PLC. The changes made to the prior year comparators include amendments to the classifications
of expenses and income within the “profit and toss account” and the change of caption names of financial
statement line items. These changes are accounting policy choices and management have elected to restate
for all such policy choices, despite the relative immateriality of certain items, considering the totality of the
alignment exercise undertaken. The details of each change are described below:

During the year caption names of financial statement line items have been changed from, ‘Selling and
Administration expenses’ and ‘Distribution expenses’ to ‘Selling and Distribution Expenses’ and ‘Administration
Expenses’. The restatement of related balances have been described below.

For the year ended 31 January 2023, distribution and home fulfilment costs amounting to £34.9m were included
within ‘Distribution expenses’. For the year ended 31 January 2024, these costs have been restated to ‘Cost of
Sales’. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the amended presentation.

For the year ended 31 January 2023, ‘Selling and Administration expenses’ were reported of £714.6m. During
the year, to align the classification of subcategories of expenses, the amount of £141.5 has been restated to
‘Administration Expenses’, £396.7m restated to ‘Selling and Distribution Expenses’ and £176.4m to ‘Costs of
Sales’. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the amended presentation.

For the year ended 31 January 2023, credit card charges and bad debt expenses amounting to £13.7m were
included within ‘Cost of sales’. For the year ended 31 January 2024, these costs have been restated to ‘Selling
and Distribution Expenses’. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the amended presentation.

For the year ended 31 January 2023, Head Office credit card charges amounting to £0.1m were included within
‘Cost of sales’. For the year ended 31 January 2024, these costs have been reclassified to ‘Administration

* Expenses’. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the amended presentation.

For the year ended 31 January 2023, transfer pricing and administrative expenses recharges amounting to
£4.5m were included within ‘Other Income’. For the year ended 31 January 2024, to align with parent policy to
present the recharge income and related costs in same financial statement line item, recharges amounting to
£1.4m have been reclassified to ‘Administration Expenses’, £0.3m to ‘Selling and Distribution Expenses’ and
£3.3m to ‘Costs of Sales’. Comparatives have been restated to reflect the amended presentation.

These restated changes have not resulted in any changes to either the Operating Profit or Net Assets of the
Company reported in FY22/23.

30

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

2. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the Company's accounting policies, which are described in note 1, the Directors are required
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not
readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience
and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates
are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year, or in the year of the
revision and future years if the revision affects both current and future years.

The key sources of estimation uncertainty and critical accounting judgements considered by the Company:

Inventories

The carrying amount of inventories recognised on the balance sheet, which are carried at the lower of cost and net
realisable value, are subject to estimates around rates of provision applied to certain inventory items. The level of
provisions recorded are subject to estimation uncertainty in determining the eventual sales price of goods to
customers in the future, as well as assessing which items may be slow-moving or obsolete. This is impacted by
factors such as stock turn, range or delisted status, shrinkage, damage, obsolescence and range review activity.

Range reviews and resulting clearance activity adds additional complexity to assessing the level of inventory that
may become obsolete and the expected net realisable value of inventory which will be sold.

The carrying amount of inventories subject to estimation uncertainty is £496.7m (2022/23: £451.2m). An increase
of 1% in the provision as a percentage of gross inventory (before provisions and a deduction for rebates), which
based on management's judgement represents a reasonable possible change, would result in a £5.3m decrease
in the carrying amount of inventories (2022/23: £4.8m). The quantity, age and condition of inventories are regularly
measured and assessed as part of range reviews and inventory counts undertaken throughout the year and across
the Group.

Post-employment Benefits

The present value of the defined benefit liabilities recognised on the balance sheet is dependent on a number of
market rates and assumptions including interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds, inflation and mortality rates.
The net interest expense or income is dependent on the interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds and the net
deficit or surplus position. The market rates and assumptions are based on the conditions at the time and changes
in these can lead to significant movements in the estimated obligations. Refer to Note 12 for further information on
post-employment benefits.

Other than the judgements described above there are no other critical accounting judgements taken by
management.

3. Revenue

An analysis of the Company's revenue by geographical market is set out below.

em 2023/24 =. 2022/23
UK BA 2,840.7
Rest of Europe 0.0 47
Total revenue . 2,419.8 2,345.4

Revenue is attributable to one class of business and relates to the sale of goods.

31

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements

for the year ended 31 January 2024

4. Finance income and expense

£m 2023/24 = 2022/23
Finance income

Net interest income on defined benefit pension schemes 0.5 0.6
Interest receivable from Subsidiaries 34.5 16.3
Total finance income 35.0 16.9
Finance expense

(Interest on lease tiabilities (11.1) (9.7)
Total finance expense {11.1) (9.7)

5. Profit before taxation

The following items of expense/(income) have been charged/{credited) in arriving at profit before taxation:

£'m

Operating lease rentals

- Lease payments — Equipment

Depreciation of property and plant and equipment “)
Depreciation of right-of-use assets

Inventories: write-down to net realisable value

Staff costs (note 6)

Net foreign exchange losses/(gains)

Cost of inventory recognised as an expense

Fees payable to the Company’s auditor for the audit of the Company’s financial
statements (2)

“ The depreciation of property and plant and equipment charge of £32.1m (2022/23:

is included in selling and administration expenses.

) There are no non-audit fees paid/payable to the auditors.

32

2023/24

15
32.4
54.7
20.2

307.4

5.6

1324.1

0.2

£28.1m)

2022/23

09
28.1
47.0
19.4

268.4
(1.8)
1337.8

0.2

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

6. Employees and Directors

£'m 2023/24 2022/23
Wages and salaries 272.7 236.9
Social security costs 18.5 17.1
Post-employment benefits

- Defined contribution 13.4 12.0

- Defined benefit (service cost only) 0.1 0.1
Share-based compensation 2.7 2.3
Employee benefit expenses 307.4 268.4
Number 2023/24 2022/23
Stores 11,491 11,544 ©
Administration 1,244 1,243
Average monthly number of persons employed (including executive 42,735 12,787

Directors

Directors' remuneration

£m 2023/24 2022/23
Short-term employee benefits 0.8 14
Pension benefits 0.1 0.1
Share-based compensation 0.5 0.5
Directors’ remuneration 1.4 1.7

The number of directors who:
2023/24 = 2022/23

Exercised options over shares in the parent Company:

The number of Directors whom retirement benefits are accruing in respect of defined 2 2
benefit schemes:

Remuneration of the highest paid Director
£'000 2023/24 2022/23

Total amount of emoluments and amounts (excluding shares) receivable under 467 701
long-term incentive schemes

Total amount accrued from pension benefits in the year 42 48

There were no contributions made to a money purchase scheme.

During the year 2 Directors exercised share options, including the highest paid director, of which all share awards
are long term incentive schemes, typically requiring 3 years of service. (2022/23: the highest paid Director exercised
share options, of which all share awards are long term incentive schemes, typically requiring 3 years of service).

33

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

7. Tax
£m 2023/24 2022/23
UK corporation tax
Current tax on profits for the year 57.1 41.2
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.1) 0.2
57.0 414
Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 25 6.0
Effect of change in tax rate (credit) (0.1) (0.3)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.1) (1.9)
2.3 3.8

Tax expense 59.3 45.2
Factors affecting tax charge for the year

The tax charge for the year differs from the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 24.03% (2022/23: 19%).
The differences are explained below:

£'m . 2023/24 2022/23
Profit before taxation 242.3 243.5
Profit multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 24.03% (2022/23: 58.2 46.3
19%) \. ;

Net income/ expenses not taxable/deductible for tax purposes 1.3 (0.4)
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.2) (1.7)
Adjustments in respect of changes in tax rates 0.0 1.0
Tax expense 59.3 45.2

The Company's profits for this accounting period are taxed at a rate of 24.03% (2022/23: 19%).

Following the UK Autumn Statement announcement on 22 November 2023, the authorised surplus payments
charge for pension schemes has decreased from 35% to 25%. As this rate change had not been substantially
enacted by the balance sheet date, the impact is not included in these financial statements. Had the 25% rate been
substantially enacted, the effect would be to reduce the net deferred tax liability of £9.9m by £0.9k.

In July 2023 Finance (No.2) Act 2023 was enacted in the UK which implemented the global minimum tax rutes,
commonly referred to as Pillar Two. The rules imptement a domestic top-up tax and a multinational top-up tax in
the UK which will be effective for the Company (as part of the Kingfisher Group) with effect from 1 February 2024.
The rules will require the Kingfisher Group to pay top-up taxes in the UK in respect of any operations in territories
where the minimum taxation level of 15% has not been met. Where overseas jurisdictions in which the Group
operates have implemented qualified domestic minimum top-up tax rules, any top-up tax due may be payable in
that jurisdiction in part or in full. The implementation of Pillar Two will have no impact on the Company.

34

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

8. Dividends

The Directors recommended that a dividend payment of £1bn (£215.43 per share) be made in 2023/24 to the
Company's sole shareholder Kingfisher International Holdings Limited (KIHL), from profits generated by the
company since 4" August 2009 to 34t January 2023. This dividend was paid on 27" July 2023. There are no
intentions to recommend any further dividend payments at the time of signing this report.

9. Property, plant and equipment

Cost

At 1 February 2023 427.0 20.6 447.6
Additions 0.0 — 36.9 36.9
Disposals . (0.5) 0.0 (0.5)
Impairment (1.3) 0.0 (1.3)
Transfers 48.8 (48.8) (0.0)
At 31 January 2024 474.0 8.7 482.7
Depreciation

At 1 February 2023 (264.4) 0.0 (264.4)
Charge for the year (32.1) 0.0 (32.1)

At 31 January 2024 (296.5) 0.0 (296.5)

Net carrying amount
At 31 January 2024 177.5 8.7 - 186.2

At 31 January 2023 162.6 20.6 183.2

During the year, net impairment of £3.4m (£1.3m owned assets and £2.1m ROU assets) was recognised as an
exceptional item on a small number of underperforming stores. The impairment was based on a forecast future
cash flows by store, aligning with the Company's official long term plan before being discounted at the company’s
weighted average cost of capital (‘“WACC’) rate of 8.8%. E-commerce sales (along with associated costs) that are
not fulfilled through the Company's network of stores were excluded from the FY23/24 impairment calculation.

35

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

10. Investments in subsidiaries

Investments in

Em subsidiaries
Cost and NBV
At 1 February 2023 and 31 January 2024 6.0

UK investments

At 31 January 2024 the Company held investments in each of the following subsidiaries that were all incorporated
in the United Kingdom and are dormant. In all subsidiaries, 100% of the Ordinary shares of that entity are held
directly.

SFD Limited (100 ordinary shares of £1.00 each)
Geared Up Limited (1 ordinary share of £1.00 each)

The registered office address of all of the above subsidiaries is: Trade House, Mead Avenue, Houndstone Business
Park, Yeovil, Somerset, BA22 8RT.

The aggregate value at which the above UK investments are held is £nil (2022/23: Enil).

Overseas investments

At 31 January 2024 the Company held an investment in Screwfix Direct (Ireland) Limited ("the Entity"), a company
incorporated in the Republic of Ireland. 100% of the Ordinary shares of the Entity are held by the Company. In the
financial period ending 31 January 2024, the entity incurred a loss of €2.0m (compared to a loss of €2.4m in
2022/23). As of the balance sheet date, the entity's net assets amount to £6.5m after adjusting for the £8.8m
payable to SDL. The ultimate parent company has confirmed its commitment to support the settlement of this
intercompany balance for the foreseeable future.

The registered office for the above subsidiary is: 6th Floor, 2 Grand Canal Square, Dublin 2, D02 A342, Republic
of Ireland, and the principal place of business is Unit 4a, Feltrim Business Park, Swords, North Co. Dublin.

36

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

11. Right of use assets

£m Property Equipment Total
Cost

At 31 January 2023 420.9 27.5 448.4
Additions 69.2 12.6 81.8
Impairment (2.1) - (2.1)
At 31 January 2024 488.0 40.1 528.1

Depreciation

At 31 January 2023 (156.2) (15.6) (171.8)
Charge for the year (48.7) (6.0) (54.7)
At 31 January 2024 (204.9) (21.6) (226.5)
Net carrying amount

At 31 January 2024 : 283.1 18.5 301.6
At 31 January 2023 264.7 11.9 276.6

Following an impairment review, it was deemed that value-in-use was lower than the book value of some assets,
therefore an impairment charge of £3.4m has been recognised (£1.3m owned assets and £2.1m ROU assets).

The Company leases several assets including buildings and fleet. The Company's usual lease term for property is
10 years - the main exception is the Head Office lease, which has a term of 25 years. The majority of equipment
leases are for 3 or 5 years.

Amounts recognised in profit and loss

fm : 2023/24 2022/23
Depreciation on right-of-use assets 54.7 47.0
Interest expense on lease liabilities 11.1 97
Impairment 2.1 -

The Company does not have any leases with variable payments. Most Trade Counter leases have tenant break
clauses at the five-year mark to reduce the Company's exposure if a Trade Counter location were to become
unviable. The total amount paid on fixed leases within the year was £69.9m (2022/23: £55.6m).

The weighted average incremental borrowing rate used is updated every six months for the recognition of new
leases.

There were no leases that met the short-term definition under IFRS 16. The value of lease payments within the
year relating to rolling short term contracts was £1.1m (2022/23: £0.9m).

A number of agreements to lease had been entered into by the balance sheet date. These agreements are
contingent upon certain events, such as the leased building being completed. These agreements have long stop
dates within two years of the balance sheet date. All non-contingent leases are recognised on the balance sheet.

37

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

12. Post-employment benefits
The Company participates in both a funded defined benefit scheme and a funded defined contribution scheme.
Defined contribution schemes

Pension costs for the defined contribution scheme, at rates specified in the scheme’s rules, are as follows:

£m 2023/24 2022/23
Charge to operating profit 13.4 12.0

From July 2012 an enhanced defined contribution scheme has been offered to all Company employees. Eligible
Company employees have been automatically enrolled into the defined contribution scheme since 31 March 2013.

As at 31 January 2024, contributions of £2m (2022/23 £1.8m) due in respect of the current reporting period had
not been paid over to the schemes and are included in other payables.

Defined benefit scheme

The Company is one of a number of Group companies that participate in the Kingfisher Pension Scheme, and
therefore the Company has accounted for its share of the scheme assets and liabilities. The Group's policy is for
each entity to recognise its share of assets and liabilities based on the proportion of the scheme contributions
payable by that entity. The valuation of the scheme has been based on the most recent actuarial valuation as at
31 March 2023. Following this valuation and in accordance with the scheme's Statement of Funding Principles, the
Trustee and Kingfisher have agreed to cease annual employer contributions during the period from August 2022
to July 2025. See note 28 to the consolidated financial statements for further detail on the Kingfisher Pension
Scheme.

The final salary pension scheme was closed to future benefit accrual with effect from July 2012.

The scheme operates under trust law and is managed and administered by the Trustee on behalf of members in
accordance with the terms of the Trust Deed and Rules and relevant legislation. The Trustee Board consists of ten
Trustee Directors, made up of five employer appointed Directors, one independent Director and four member-
nominated Directors. The Trustee Board delegates day-to-day administration of the scheme to the Group pensions
department of Kingfisher plc.

The Trust Deed provides Kingfisher with an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets assuming the full
settlement of plan liabilities in the event of a plan wind-up. Furthermore, in the ordinary course of business the
Trustee has no rights to unilaterally wind up, or otherwise augment the benefits due to members of, the scheme.
Based on these rights, any net surplus in the UK scheme is recognised in full.

In 2010/11 and 2011/12 Kingfisher plc entered into two phases of a property partnership arrangement with the
scheme Trustee to address an element of the scheme deficit. Further details on this arrangement are given in note
28 of the consolidated financial statements of Kingfisher Plc, the Company's ultimate parent. The reported pension
position reflects the Company's share of the resulting scheme asset.

Risks to which the plan exposes the entity to are disclosed on page 165 of the Kingfisher Annual Report.

Actuarial assumptions are available on page 165 of the Kingfisher Annual Report, which include the discount rate,
price inflation and rate of pension increases.

38

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited —

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

12. Post-employment benefits (continued)
Defined benefit scheme (continued)

Profit and Loss Account

£im 2023/24 2022/23
Operating cost 0.2 0.2
Net interest income : (0.5) (0.6)
Total credited to profit and loss account (0.3) (0.4)

Balance sheet
Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value of scheme assets are as

follows:
£m porn eaten Scheme assets Total
At 1 February 2023 (59.7) 69.7 10.1
Current service cost (0.1) 0.0 (0.1)
Administration costs 0.0 (0.1) (0.1)
Interest (expense)/income (2.6) ; 3.1 0.5
Actuarial gains/{losses) 47 (6.1) (1.4)
Contributions paid by employer 0.0 0.0 0.0
Benefits paid 2.6 (2.6) 0.0
At 31 January 2024 (55.1) 64.0 9.0
At 1 February 2022 (88.7) 109.4 20.8
Current service cost (0.1) - (0.1)
Administration costs - (0.1) (0.1)
Interest (expense)/income (1.8) 2.4 0.6
Actuarial gains/(losses) 27.3 (38.6) (11.3)
Contributions paid by employer - 0.2 0.2
Benefits paid 3.6 (3.6) -

At 31 January 2023 (59.7) 69.7 10.1

() Representing the total amounts recognised in other comprehensive income for the year.
The fair value of scheme assets is analysed as follows:

£'m 2023/24 2022/23

Equities 1.0 14
Government and corporate bonds 31.5 32.4
Cash and other 31.5 36.1

Total fair value of scheme assets 64.0 69.9

The following sensitivity analysis for the scheme shows the estimated impact on the obligation resulting from changes
to key actuarial assumptions, whilst holding all other assumptions constant.

39

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

12. Post-employment benefits (continued)

Defined benefit scheme (continued)

Impact on defined benefit obligation

Discount rate Increase/decrease by 0.5%

Assumption Change in assumption
Price inflation Increase/decrease by 0.5%

Rate of pension

9
increases Increase/decrease by 0.5%

Decrease/increase by £4m

Increase/decrease by £4m

Increase/decrease by £3m

Mortality Increase in life expectancy by one year

13. Inventories

£m

Finished goods for resale

Increase by £2m

2023/24 2022/23
496.7 451.2

The cost of inventories recognised as an expense and included in cost of sales for the year ended 31 January 2024
is £1,344.3 (2022/23: £1,337.8m). Inventories written-down to net realisable value during the year amounted to

£20.2m (2022/23: £19.4m).

14. Trade and other receivables

£m

2023/24 2022/23

Current

Trade receivables

Allowance for expected credit losses
Net trade receivables

Amounts owed by parent company
Amounts owed by fellow subsidiaries
Prepayments and accrued income
Other receivables

58.8 51.0
(2.1) (1.5)
56.7 49.5

161.5 1,049.8

166.3 96.5
17.6 18.8

7.4 13.2

409.2 1,227.9

Trade and other receivables

Amounts owed by the parent company and fellow subsidiaries are unsecured, interest-free, have no fixed date of
repayment and are repayable on demand. Bank interest is received through some subsidiaries who hold funds

for SDL.

For the year ended 31 January 2023, receivable from one of fellow subsidiaries of £88.5m was included within
‘Amounts owed by parent company’, this has been amended during the year through reclassification of this
amount from ‘Amounts owed by parent company’ to ‘Amounts owed by fellow subsidiaries’. Comparatives have

been restated.

40

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-SCABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

15. Derivative financial instruments

£im 2023/24 2022/23
Foreign exchange contracts 0.2 3.9
Derivative assets 0.2 3.9
£'m 2023/24 2022/23
Foreign exchange contracts (3.9) (6.3)

Derivative liabilities . (3.9) (6.3)

The fair values are calculated by discounting future cash flows arising from the instruments and adjusting for credit
tisk. These fair value measurements are all made using observable market rates of interest, foreign exchange and
credit risk.

Forward foreign exchange contracts hedge currency exposures of forecast inventory and fuel purchases. At 31
January 2024 the GBP equivalent of USD contracts is £204.2m (2022/23: £253.0m). The associated fair value
gains and losses will be transferred to inventories when the purchases occur during the next 12 months. Gains of
£5.6m (2022/23: £35.3m loss) have been transferred to inventories for contracts which matured during the year.
Fair value losses of £6.8m (2022/23: £28.5m gain) have been deferred in equity during the year.

All of the Company's derivative contracts unwind within one year of the balance sheet date and are designed to
hedge against price fluctuations in regard to specific transactions. Any movement in the value of these contracts
should be counterbalanced by movements in the value of the balance sheet item they hedge against.

16. Cash and bank balances

£'m 2023/24 2022/23
Cash and bank balances 13.2 12.7

The Company had two facilities other than bank accounts as at the year ended 31°! January 2024;

A Foreign Bills Negotiation Facility of GBP 21 million: This was still in place upon the date of signing and serves the
purpose of allowing the Company to negotiate foreign bills and cheques.

A Guarantee in favour of HM Revenue & Customs for GBP 20 million: This facility is renewed each year in March,
its purpose remains to provide a facility to cover customs debt. The bank letter confirms the group composite facility
comprising of Foreign Bills of Negotiation facility and/or Class Guarantee facility of GBP 30 million.

41

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

17. Trade and other payables

£m
Current
Trade payables
Amounts owed to fellow subsidiaries
Other taxation and social security
- Accruals
Other payables
Trade and other payables

2023/24

198.6
19.2
47.4

171.1
28.2

464.5

2022/23

193.5
16.5
40.2

144.6
21.6

416.4

Amounts owed to fellow subsidiaries and the ultimate parent company are unsecured, interest-free, have no fixed

date of repayment and are repayable on demand.

18. Provisions

£m

Dilapidations provision

Current provisions

Dilapidations provision

£'m

At 31 January 2023
Unwind of discount
At 31 January 2024

2023/24
5.9
5.9

5.9
5.9

Dilapidations
5.5
04
5.9

2022/23
5.5
5.5

5.5
5.5

Total
5.5
0.4
5.9

The dilapidation provision represents management's best estimate of the Company's liability on the expiry of its
current property leases. The existence of the leases means there is a potential liability, which would be payable on
the exit of the leases. The timing of the potential liability is unknown and although not necessarily contracted to exit
within the next 12 months, if the Company did choose to, then the liability would fall due and hence shown as

current.

42

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

19. Lease liabilities

£'m . 2023/24 2022/23
Lease liabilities 317.2 292.1
£'m 2023/24 2022/23
Amounts due for settlement:
Between one and five years 162.9 153.1
After five years 100.8 92.8
263.7 245.9
On demand or within one year 53.5 46.2
317.2 292.1

There were a number of leases that meet the short-term definition under IFRS 16. The value of lease payments
within the year relating to these leases was £1.1m (2022/23: £0.9m). Since the leases in effect at the balance sheet
date are on rolling short-term contracts the undiscounted minimum rental payables for these leases was Enil
(2022/23: Enil).

20. Deferred tax liabilities

£m 2023/24 2022/23
Deferred tax assets 47 4.8
Deferred tax liabilities (14.6) (13.1)

(9.9) (8.3)

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Company has a legally enforceable right to do so.

Accelerated Post-
£'m tax Provisions employment IFRS 16 Other Total
depreciation benefits
At 31 January 2023 (9.6) 1.5 (3.5) 27 0.6 (8.3)
(Charge)/credit to profit and loss (1.8) (0.1) 0.0 (0.4) 0.0 (2.3)
Credit to other comprehensive income 0.0 0.0 0.4 0.0 0.3 0.7
At 31 January 2024 (11.4) 1.4 (3.1) 2.3 0.9 (9.9)

The UK corporation tax rate increased from 19% to 25% on 1 April 2023. As a result, deferred tax balances have
been measured at 25%, with the exception of post employment benefits which has been measured at 35%, as
this was the authorised surplus payments charge for pension schemes in force at the balance sheet date.

Following the UK Autumn Statement announcement on 22 November 2023, the authorised surplus payments
charge for pension schemes has decreased from 35% to 25%. As this rate change had not been substantially
enacted by the balance sheet date, the impact is not included in these financial statements. Had the 25% rate been
substantially enacted, the effect would be to reduce the net deferred tax liability of £9.9m by £0.9k.

43

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538

Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

21. Equity

There are 4,083 ordinary 'A' shares of £1 each, 45,917 ordinary ‘C' shares of £1 each and 4,591,700 ordinary 'D'

shares of £0.0001 each.

Each ‘A’ share, 'C' share and 'D' share shall confer on the holder of it the right to one vote per share at any general

meeting of the Company and carry no right to fixed income.

At 1 February 2023 and 31 January 2024

Number of shares
allotted and fully

paid

‘000

Ordinary ‘A’ shares 4
Ordinary 'C’ shares 46
Ordinary 'D’ shares 4,592
4,642

Value of shares
allotted and fully

Number of shares
allotted but not

fully paid paid
‘000 £ ‘000

- 4

- 46

- 1

- 51

There are no limits on the amounts of authorised share capital for any share class.

The capital redemption reserve is a non-distributable reserve, that arose from a reduction in share capital in

1998/99.

Retained earnings comprises the accumulated profits and losses that the Company has made since incorporation,

less any dividends awarded in that time.

Exchange differences relating to the translation of the Company's assets in relation to European operations from

Euros into Sterling are recognised directly in the translation reserve.

The cash flow hedge reserve contains the gains/(losses) on hedging transactions that remain open at the year-

end.

44

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86FB-9853-46C8-B870-5CABE949B538
Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

22. Share-based payments

The Company operates a number of share incentive plans including the Performance Share Plan (‘PSP’),
Kingfisher Alignment Share and Transformation Incentive Plan (‘KASTIP’), Kingfisher Incentive Share Plan
(‘KISP’), Sharesave plans in the UK and Ireland, and the ‘1+1’ all-colleague share plan across each of our
territories.

Options have been exercised on a regular basis throughout the year. On that basis, the weighted average share
price during the year, rather than at the date of exercise, is £2.41 (2022/23: £2.53). The options outstanding at the
end of the year have exercise prices ranging from nil to £2.75 and a weighted average remaining contractual life
of 5.7 years (2022/23: 5.7 years).

In the current year the Company recognised a total expense of £2.7m (2022/23: £2.3m) relating to equity-settled
share-based payment transactions.

PSP awards are based on service and performance conditions over a three-year period. The KASTIP was granted
based on a three-year service condition. Under the KISP, share awards are deferred for three years. The awards
are granted as nil cost options. Vesting dates may vary according to individual grants.

Under the UK Sharesave scheme, eligibte UK employees have been invited to enter into HMRC-approved savings
contracts for a period of three or five years, whereby shares may be acquired with savings under the contract. The
option price is the average market price over three days shortly before the invitation to subscribe, discounted by
20%. Options are exercisable within a six-month period from the conclusion of a three- or five-year period.

The 1+1 share plan provided all our colleagues with the opportunity to purchase shares up to a specified maximum
total contribution. Following a holding period of one year, Kingfisher matches each participant's investment
(awarding one free share for every share bought) up to the specified maximum. ,

The rules of all schemes include provision for the early exercise of options in certain circumstances.

The rights for each of the instruments is granted by the ultimate parent company, Kingfisher plc, and settled by
shares in Kingfisher plc. On vesting of the individual arrangements, the employee obligation is settled by Kingfisher
plc and the company is recharged the fair value of the award.

23. Capital commitments

Capital commitments contracted but not provided for by the Company amount to £1.4m (2022/23: £0.7m). Once
provided these will form part of liabilities before being paid for.

24. Ultimate controlling party

The immediate parent company is Kingfisher International Holdings Limited, a company registered in England and
Wales. The registered address of Kingfisher International Holdings Limited is: 1 Paddington Square, London,
England, W2 1GG.

The Company's ultimate parent company and controlling party is Kingfisher plc, a company registered in England
and Wales. Kingfisher plc is the parent of the largest and smallest group containing the Company for which
consolidated financial statements are prepared. A copy of the Annual Report and Financial Statements for
Kingfisher pic can be obtained from www.kingfisher.com.

45

DocuSign Envelope ID: 728E86F8-9853-46C8-8870-SCABE949B538

Screwfix Direct Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements
for the year ended 31 January 2024

25. Related party transactions

As 100% of the Company's voting rights are controlled within the Group headed by Kingfisher pic, the Company is
exempt from the requirement of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions with other
members of the Group that are 100% owned.

26. Post balance sheet events

The Company acquired Screwfix Spares Limited (SSL) from Kingfisher Marketplaces Limited on 30 May 2024 as
part of internal restructure within the Kingfisher Group. The consideration for the acquisition was £457,500. This
value of £457,500 represents the 457,500 Ordinary Shares valued at GBP 1 each, resulting in SSL being wholly
owned by the Company.

Subsequently to acquiring SSL on 30" May, the Company made an equity injection of £3,042,500 into SSL on 1*

July 2024 in order to ensure that SSL remains well capitalised and able to finance its ongoing activities. This equity
injection increases the total share capital of SSL to £3,500,000 Ordinary shares at a £1 nominal value.

46


