Registered number: 02291188

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

—— 1
*ADHSRYHT* =‘

A21 12/12/2024 _ HES
COMPANIES HOUSE

THURSDAY

po

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

Directors

Company secretary

Registered number

Registered office

Independent auditors

COMPANY INFORMATION

John Baumback

Peter Cooper

David Reynolds ;

Lesley Barry (resigned 21 March 2024)
lan Porée (resigned 31 August 2023)
Stephen Otter (resigned 1 March 2024) °

Melissa Joslin
02291188

75/77 Main Road
Hockley

Essex

SS5 4RG

MHA

Statutory Auditor
910 The Crescent
Colchester

Essex

C04 8YQ

ve

y

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

CONTENTS
Page
Group Strategic Report : : 1-6
Directors’ Report 7-11
Independent Auditors’ Report 12-15
; Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 16
Consolidated Balance Sheet . 17
Company Balance Sheet _ : ; 18-19
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 20
Company Statement of Changes in Equity . 21
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows - . 22-23
Consolidated Analysis of Net Debt 24

Notes to the Financial Statements : 25 - 54

wo

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Introduction

The Seetec Group is a majority employee-owned organisation whose purpose is to help people, businesses
and communities in the UK and Ireland to achieve sustained and purposeful growth. The Company is one of
the largest employee-owned public service providers in the UK and Ireland. The employee-owned structure
aligns the interests of the Company's employees with the success of the people and places the Company
supports.

Business review

The group currently splits its trading activities into the following business areas. These were rebranded after”

the year end to better align with the strategic direction of the business:

« Employment: supporting the long term unemployed in the UK including: the Restart Scheme as prime and
subcontractor; Work and Health Programme prime contractor and subcontractor.

« Business and Training: Apprenticeships funded by employers through their Apprenticeship Levy and
through non-Levy allocations and classroom-based training using the Adult Education Budget. These
services are delivered through our own brand, Seetec Skills specialising in Leadership and Management,
Professional Services and Logistics programmes and with plans in place to develop digital capability.

¢ Rehabilitation: delivering the services of an Approved Premises, on behalf of Your Ambition (Seetec’s
investor charity) for newly released prison leavers and a number of innovative interventions contracts with
the Police and Crime Commissioners.

* Communities and Education: delivering rehabilitative interventions and social care through contracts under
the Dynamic Framework.by the Ministry of Justice, CFO Activity hubs, which are ESF funded, and National
Careers Service with the Department for Education. This division also includes our bed manufacturing
operation providing skilled jobs and training for disabled people in Barnstaple and-Plymouth, along with a
number of local authority contracts funded by the European Social Fund (ESF) in the South West.

. Ireland: the organisation continued to deliver JobPath for the Department of Social Protection (DSP) along
with the National Employment Service and the Local Area Employment Service contracts through its
subsidiary, Seetec Employment and Skills Ireland DAC. ,

¢ Group Functions: Our group functions continued to support the various operating businesses with a range
of corporate support including finance, payroll, HR, communications and marketing, business development,
IT infrastructure, estates, software development, business intelligence, claims, commercial, risk and
assurance.

The year ended 31 March 2024 was a period of notable stabilization for the group. The full year effects of the
realignment of the cost base in response to forecast revenue contraction were realized. The planned ‘cessation
of some significant contracts meant the group focused on potential acquisitions, replacement opportunities and
strategic planning ahead of the anticipated general election.

The Group also embarked on developing a new five-year strategy to commercialise existing capabilities,
focusing on growing our core areas and creating greater coherency and efficiency across the group. The
Group's impact in the places it serves is significant, supporting over 76,000 people move towards employment
and 27,000 peaple supported to reintegrate into their local community, but the Group also recognises there are
opportunities to bolster this impact particularly in supporting businesses to achieve their growth potential.

The new strategy will address how to best organise the Group to achieve its goals and how to strengthen and

’ refine the organisation's products and services offered to market. This process will complete in time for the

Group's 40th anniversary in October 2024 and will lay the foundations for future growth.

Page 1

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

During the financial year ending March 2024, the Company continued delivery of the South West Restart prime
contract and four associated subcontracts; North West, Central, East and London regions. The contract was
formally extended for 2 years just after the year end with the Department for Work and Pensions pledging
better referral numbers than those outlined in the renegotiated contract in 2023. The JETS contract came to an
end in July 2023, the contract was efficiently exited.

The company successfully managed the Education, Training & Employment contracts for the Ministry of Justice
until March 2023, these contracts were not renewed due to funding being routed to adjacent contracts
delivered by Seetec. The payment by results style JobPath contract in Ireland also had a very successful
financial year. The award of a new EmployAbility contract in Ireland was a welcome addition to group.

Strategic Priorities, External Environment and Future Developments

The Group’s vision is to be a trusted provider of innovative solutions that foster sustained and inclusive
economic growth. The Group's strategic priorities are: :

Impact: to deepen and broaden our regional presence to maximise our impact both globally and within
communities. We aim to grow our impact in communities through a place-based approach. °
Quality: to increase satisfaction among all customer groups. .

Stability: to increase stability and business efficiency through effective resource planning, staff engagement
and systemisation.

Growth: to grow our business and improve financial performance.

Influence: to use our position to influence the direction of policy so that we can effect lasting change for the
communities that we serve and secure our future.

The year ended March 2024 concluded with the increasing likelinood of a general election in the UK and a
Labour Government was subsequently elected in July 2024. The results of the election are set to change the
shape and direction of the business. The importance of devolved commissioning is likely to increase, we
expect statutory Local Growth Plans to cover towns and cities with local leaders empowered to work with
employers, universities and industry bodies to produce long-term plans that identify growth sectors and put in
place the programmes needed to make sure they thrive. With such public services policy reform, comes
significant new market opportunities and an opportunity for Seetec to influence the market.

Our new strategy will enable the Group to build on these firm foundations serving people, communities and
governments and diversify our revenues using our existing in-house capabilities to build and grow a business
to business, and business to customer base.

Seetec continues to ensure that infrastructure (both people and premises) is maintained in the group to allow
us to respond immediately to this opportunity and change. This infrastructure is built to allow the business to
flex its cost base in accordance with changes in commissioner requirements and referral volumes.

We maintain healthy cash balances to respond to these opportunities. The results for the year and financial
position of the Company and Group are as shown in the annexed financial statements.

Principat risks and uncertainties

The Group is subject to the strategic, operational, financial and commercial risks that arise in the ordinary
course of business. These risks and controls are reviewed by the Board of Directors through its Corporate
Governance and risk management framework. A comprehensive Group Risk Framework is in place which
enables the Board and the senior teadership team to set and manage risk appetite, identify, analyse, quantify
and embrace risk, leading to enhanced performance and the ability to maximise opportunities and mitigate risk
levels where appropriate.

Page 2

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

The key business risks are:

The Group’s reliance upon income from Government funded contracts in an external environment where recent
high-profile competitor company and contract failure could impact on the type of public and business services
that are outsourced and the perception and reputation of organisations operating in.the market, along with the
vagaries of public policy and political change. There is also, a significant risk associated with variances in
numbers of participants being referred to programmes, compared to the numbers indicated at the time of
contract implementation. :

Changes in public policy, included the decision to return probation services to the public sector. This is
mitigated through ensuring we have an in-house capability to communicate the impact of our services to
stakeholders. We also strive to maintain a diversified portfolio of contracts and a strategy of diversifying
revenue streams out of Government to business arrangements, into more business-to-business relationships.

The Board has a policy to maintain sufficient cash reserves to support payment by results contracts and the
associated working capital requirements, diversification into new markets, to support time lags experienced
from the impact of policy changes and to fund investments in transformation programmes through a mixture of
retained reserves and borrowings.

Financial key performance indicators

The Group uses the following key performance indicators to monitor the performance of the business:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Turnover . 108,161 130,025
Profit/(Loss) before taxation ; . . 2,038 240
EBITDA 4,372 4,855

Other key. performance indicators

External benchmarking and accreditation remain critical to our ethos of transparency, delivering quality
services and maintaining high standards. We have been an Investors in People Gold and Investors in People
Health and Wellbeing accredited organisation since 2000, achieving gold status in 2016, and again
successfully maintaining this level in September 2021 for the third consecutive time. We are also proudly
certified as a Great Place to Work in Ireland. We also hold the following accreditations Ban the Box, Real Living
Wage, Time to Change, Mindful Employer and Disability Confident Leader. During 2020/2021 we signed up to
the Race at Work Charter, are a gold award holder of the Armed Forces Covenant and became a silver
member of the British Dyslexia Association and a committed member of Inclusive Employers.

We use feedback from a range of stakeholders including employees, delivery partners, commissioner and
service users gathered directly, through third parties and external assessment processes to feed into the
continual improvement cycle.

Employee engagement and wellbeing is a key social indicator for the business. Employee engagement surveys
undertaken in 2022 indicated improved stability in Group employee engagement and wellbeing scores, whilst
those for 2023 show the impact of workforce resizing. The majority of our employees indicated they are
committed to the organisation's goals and feel inspired to do their best.

Page 3

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Delivering Social Value - As an employee-owned for-profit, for social purpose business operating in the public
and business services markets, the organisation takes measures to embed and demonstrate ethical leadership
and governance, and to deliver social and economic value in the communities in which we operate. The
organisation was reaccredited as a certified B Corporation® in 2020, underpinning the Board’s commitment ta
corporate social responsibility, transparency, scrutiny, and accountability in both the services delivered and the
way the organisation is run.

Certified B Corporations are leaders of a global movement of people using business as a force for good™.
They meet the highest standards of overall social and environmental performance, transparency and
accountability and aspire to use the power of business to solve social and environmental problems.

We have launched several initiatives to support our corporate social responsibility strategy and the emphasis
we place on driving social value. We have expanded our supported volunteering scheme, where all employees
are entitled to up to two day's paid leave to carry out volunteering duties. Seetec’s Community Investment Fund
is a voluntary group of employees, who coordinate the Company's charitable giving fund by supporting the
individual fund-raising efforts of our employees across the group. Our Community, Environment and Social
Value governance and Employee Council has met regularly, to articulate, discuss and work out ways to deliver
and evaluate the pledges the business wish to make to further its social contribution to people, communities
and environment. :

We continuously seek to reduce the impact of our operating activities on the environment through a range of
initiatives to reduce waste and increase recycling. We consistently exceed our targets of 80% waste recycling
across our service delivery outlets.

Directors’ statement of compliance with duty to promote the success of the Group
Section 172 (1) statement
General confirmation of directors’ duties

The Company's Board has a clear framework for determining the matters within its authority and has approved
Terms of Reference for the matters delegated to its Committees and Supervisory Boards. Some strategic
matters and financial authorities have been determined to require Board scrutiny and approval.

The Directors meet regularly to review business objectives and evaluate the allocation of resources to achieve
its strategic growth ambitions. This is to ensure likely consequences of any decisions are known and discussed
in advance, the interests of Seetec’s employee owners are reviewed and the highest level of transparency is
maintained across the business.

$172(1) (A) The likely consequences of any decision in the long-term

The Directors understand fully the importance and long-term impact of their decisions on those individuals who
access services in the communities that Seetec serves. All long-term decision making is channelled through
existing strategies and processes that follow a prescribed route to assess the impact of new and potential
business workstreams. The business has appropriate management controls that are regularly reviewed to
maintain the integrity of Directors’ long-term decision making.

S$172(1) (B) The interests of the Company's employees

The Directors recognise that Seetec’s employee owners are a fundamental part of the business, by
empowering them to shape the direction of the services delivered and strategic objectives pursued; this
enhanced collaborative approach helps to cultivate a more engaged workforce. Since December 2019 the
Company is now indirectly employee-owned following the purchase by the Seetec Employee Ownership
Trustee Limited of a controlling interest in the group. Success in the future and converting the benefits of
employee ownership into reality will depend on attracting, retaining and empowering employees to deliver
those benefits for themselves.

Page 4

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Seetec is a Living Wage Employer, publishes a gender pay gap, and now an ethnicity pay gap report to monitor
the parity of incomes, conducts annual employee engagement surveys, promotes mental health awareness,
and includes employee owners on all Supervisory and Executive Boards. There is a determination at Director
level that employee owners are involved in decision making, including areas that directly impact the wider
workforce.

During the financial year, the Employee Council has met bi-monthly. It feeds back following those meetings
both to Senior Management and to colleagues through a variety of media. Members of the council attend
governance boards at all levels of the organisation including the Group Executive Board, where they have an
equal voice with other members. A number of Councillors came to the end of their terms of office during the
period and the group went through an election: process to replace them. Seetec is an active member of the
Employee Owners Association. The Directors have continued to support the Council in contributing to both
strategic plans and social value initiatives.

The Directors are working to put employees at the heart of building a sustainable business, encouraging
greater productivity and more robust governance to establish an organisation that meets the shift in priorities
across modern society to give workers a greater say. The collective talent and determination of Seetec’s
employee owners is establishing a lasting legacy not just for the business, but for all those in the communities it
serves.

$172(1) (C) The need to foster the Company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers, and others

In order to deliver the overall business strategy, the Group needs strong mutually beneficial agreements with all
its partners, including commissioners, customers and suppliers. Seetec has developed a supply chain
framework that recognises the part played by partners in the achievement of its strategic objectives. The
Directors recognise and take responsibility for ensuring that processes and procedures, especially financial
arrangements, are tailored to support and foster long lasting productive relationships. Building the resilience of
local supply chains is important, Seetec helps small and medium-sized enterprises to flourish, creates jobs
through its social enterprises and supports people to set up their own businesses.

$172 (1) (D) The impact of the Company's operations on the community and the environment

The Group has a well-established set of social values that form the backbone of key decisions made by the
business. Seetec continually assesses how it can reduce the environmental impact of its services. Directors
encourage employee owners to support community groups and other organisations to maintain and improve
local environments. Through the Group's employment, communities & education and training services; it works
with a range of vulnerable and disadvantaged people. Seetec supports community projects to improve rural
and urban environments, is a Disability Confident supporter and works closely with people to achieve their work
and life ambitions. Seetec’s volunteering scheme promotes the importance of grassroots engagement. The
Group has held B Corp ® accreditation for a number of years, which is externally assessed and recognised.

$172(1) (E) The desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct

The Directors regularly review all risks faced by the business. This includes the risk of the loss of reputation
and the steps taken to mitigate it. The Group subscribes to the Seven Principles of Public Life, which are built
‘into all governance frameworks. Following a review of business functions, the Directors have established policy
communications and public affairs directorate to help manage the Group's external reputation.

Through the Employee Ownership Association, the Institute of Employability Professionals, and the
Confederation of British Industry, Seetec works with its colleagues outside the business to further the interests
of the sectors it operates in to develop partnerships and gain insights about future business opportunities.

Seetec’s employee-ownership structure is enhancing its high standards of business conduct. The business is
delivering true social value, particularly in the disadvantaged communities it serves. it is using the collective
knowledge and talent of its employee owners in smart and innovative ways to help transform more lives as part
of the social inclusion agenda.

Page 5

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

GROUP STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

172(1) (F) The need to act fairly as between members of the Company

Seetec's Directors fully recognise that the long-term success of the group depends on the successful
engagement of a number of stakeholders including its members. Since the establishment of the Employee
Share Ownership Trust and Seetec’s move to employee-owned status, all groups of shareholders have been
fully sighted on decision making in the Group. Our corporate governance structure and its attendant committee
and executive meetings include in their membership employee representatives and non-executive directors
who inform and challenge the Board and whose views are contributory to strategic decision making, taking into
consideration the rights of the members. We believe that in this way the Directors act fairly as between the
Company's members. .

This report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf.

John Baumbac
Director

Date:

IS/W i244

Page 6

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

DIRECTORS' REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

. The directors present their report and the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024.

Directors’ responsibilities statement

The directors are responsible for preparing the Group Strategic Report, the Directors’ Report and the
consolidated financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including Financial
Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland’.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the
Group for that period.

In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:

. select suitable accounting policies for the Group's financial statements and then apply them consistently;
. make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent,
° state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material

departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

. prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that
the Group will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the
Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group
and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Results and dividends

The loss for the year, after taxation, amounted to £808 thousand (2023 - profit £2,443 thousand).
During the year no dividends were declared or paid (2023: £Nil).

Directors

The directors who served during the year were:

John Baumback

Peter Cooper

David Reynolds

Lesley Barry (resigned 21 March 2024)
lan Porée (resigned 31 August 2023)

., Stephen Otter (resigned 1 March 2024)

Political contributions

Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries make. any political donations or incurred any political
expenditure during the year.

Page 7

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Environmental matters

The Group will seek to minimise adverse impacts on the environment from its activities, whilst continuing to
address health, safety and economic issues. The Group has complied with all applicable legistation and
regulations.

In accordance with the government's Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (SECR) policy, the directors
are committed to conducting business: in an environmentally responsible manner, preventing pollution and to
continual improvement in the running of its Environmental Management System. The ‘Seetec group holds the
1SO14001 EMS certification and complies with all applicable legal, contractual and other requirements relative
to its operations. Seetec has also published a Carbon Reduction Plan (CRP) which is compliant with the
Crown Commercial Service Procurement Policy Note (PPN) 06/21 requirements.

We have set, reviewed and maintained appropriate environmental objectives (noted below) and management ~
targets and continue to set appropriate performance targets;

Ensuring Sustainability of Resources
Reducing our Environmental Impact
Maximising our Recycling Opportunities
Promoting Ecological Awareness

The Health, Safety and Environment team provide subject matter expertise and assurance support for the
Environmental Management System. This includes responsibility to ensure the Environmental Management
System is implemented and maintained, and that performance, together with any recommendations for
improvement, are reported to Senior Management. This team will also monitor our progress against the CRP.
and report this back to our board of diréctors on an annual basis with any recommendations for additional
actions to enable the CRP to be met.

Future developments

Likely future developments have been disclosed in the strategic report under strategic priorities, external
environment and future developments.

Engagement with employees

As co-owners of the business our employees are fully informed and influence decision making at all levels in
the organisation. There are a considerable number of employee ‘Champions’ drawn from all divisions of the
group who meet regularly and feedback to their colleagues on all matters. Financial information is disseminated
to all colleagues on a quarterly basis. The Chief Executive holds all-staff calls for open questioning each
quarter to both inform and receive suggestions and queries on a more informal basis than through the
governance processes. A number of working groups have been established, including those to focus on
environmental matters, volunteering and day to day cost of living impacts.

The group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees in the business and keeps them
informed of matters affecting them and on various factors affecting the performance of the business units. This
is achieved principally through formal and informal meetings, the Group’s employee engagement strategy and
the intranet site. Through the Employee forums that run in each business unit, employee representatives are
consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.

The group is committed to employment policies which follow best practice based on. equal opportunities for all
employees regardless of age, religion, sex, race, colour, disability, sexuality or marital status. The group gives
full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled people having regard to their aptitudes
and abilities as outlined below.

Page 8

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Engagement with suppliers, customers and others

In order to deliver the overall business strategy, the Group needs strong mutually beneficial agreements with all
its partners, including commissioners, customers and suppliers. Seetec has developed a supply chain
framework that recognises the part played by partners in the achievement of its strategic objectives. The
Directors recognise and take responsibility for ensuring that processes and procedures, especially financial
arrangements, are tailored to support and foster long lasting productive relationships. Building the resilience of
local supply chains is important, Seetec helps small and medium-sized enterprises to flourish, creates jobs
through its social enterprises and supports entrepreneurial initiatives.

Disabled employees and pay equality

We see persistent poorer life chances and inequality of opportunity in some of the communities we serve. As

an organisation whose purpose is to create opportunities and improve lives in the communities where we have

a presence, we must also do everything we can to undo any damage which has been caused over many years.

This is a key priority for our employee-owners and over the coming year we will continue to engage with
- colleagues to see how we can improve outcomes for those we support and their communities.

Seetec is a Disability Confident Leader employer and is committed to a policy of Equal Opportunities with
regards to its employment practices and procedures. The Group has a ‘Diversity Policy’ which includes its clear
obligations towards employees or prospective employees to ensure that people with disabilities are afforded
equal employment and development opportunities. Appropriate arrangements are made for the continued
employment and training, career development and promotion of disabled persons employed by the group.

Seetec is committed to the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment for all employees. As required
under the Equality Act 2010 (Gender Pay Gap Information) Regulations 2017 we have calculated our gender
pay gap using the required analysis in order to show the difference between the average earnings of men and
women across our business.

Gender Pay Gap reporting is not to be confused with Equal Pay; as an organisation Seetec has always been
committed to ensuring they do not pay men and women differently for doing the same or equivalent work. The:
Gender Pay Gap is as a result of the roles which men and women are employed in and the salaries these roles
attract.

Our 2023 snapshot report illustrates a mean gender pay gap of 11.42% and a median gap of 2.49%. These
figures are representative of an employee base where 35.70% are mate and 64.30% are female. Our figures
are in line with the national average.

Qualifying third party indemnity provisions

There are no third-party or pension scheme indemnity provisions in place for any of the directors.

Branches outside the United Kingdom

The Group does not have branches outside the UK. However, the Group has a subsidiary in Ireland, Seetec
Employment and Skills Ireland DAC (registration number 551677).

Page 9

any

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Greenhouse gas emissions, energy consumption and energy efficiency action

The Group's greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption are as follows:

2024 2023

Emissions resulting from activities for which the Group is responsible involving the
combustion of gas or consumption of fuel for the purposes of transport (in tonnes
of CO2 equivalent) 139 172

Emissions resulting from the purchase of the electricity by the Group for its own
use, including the purposes of transport (in tonnes of CO2 equivatent) 656 685

Energy consumed from activities for which the Group is responsible involving the

combustion of gas, or the consumption of fuel for the purposes of transport, and

the annual quantity of energy consumed resulting from the purchase of electricity

by the Group for its own use, including for the purposes of transport, in kWh 3,608,197 3,871,614

We have followed 2019 HM Government environmental reporting guidelines and the above numbers have
been compiled in accordance with the 2020 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Reporting Protocol to ensure compliance
with the SECR requirements. The DEFRA issued “Greenhouse gas reporting: conversion factors 2023”
conversion figures for CO2e were used along with the fuel property figures to determine the kWh content for
Fleet.

The group are reporting upon all the required fuel sources as per SECR requirements, however for electricity &
gas data, CIBSE TM46 kWh/m2 has been used to estimate consumption data.

The group continues to strive for energy and carbon reduction arising from their activities. However, no

. principal energy efficiency action was undertaken during this reporting period.

The Group's intensity ratio, calculated as total CO2e over £m of turnover, is 7.4 for the year (2023: 6.6).
Statement of corporate governance arrangements

The business of the group is dealt with by the Group Executive Board (GEB) which consists of the main Board
along with the Directors heading up the Corporate Services Departments, including HR, IT, Marketing and
Strategy and Growth, plus the Executive Directors of each business area and the.Employee Trust Director. The
GEB meets monthly. Supervisory or Strategy and Performance Boards for each business unit report directly
into the GEB. Scrutiny of the Executive is provided through two committees, the Audit, Risk and Assurance
Committee, and the Finance, Pay and Remuneration Committee. Each Committee meeting is held quarterly
and is chaired by a Non-Executive Director.

Disclosure of information to auditors
Each of the persons who are directors at the time when this Directors’ Report is approved has confirmed that:

° so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company and the
Group's auditors are unaware, and .

. the director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a director in order to be aware of
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company and the Group's auditors are aware of
that information.

Page 10

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

DIRECTORS' REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
Post balance sheet events
In July 2024 the group repaid the outstanding balance on the Barclays bank loan in full.
In September 2024, in line with the strategic priorities and growth plans for the group, Seetec Employment and
Skills Ireland. DAC completed on the acquisition of a Skills business which will allow them to diversify their
revenue. :

Auditors

The auditors, MHA, will be proposed for reappointment in accordance with section 485 of the Companies Act
2006. .

This report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf.
John Baumback
Director

Date:

Is/inj24

Page 11

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY
CENTRE LIMITED .

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED (the
‘parent Company’) and its.subsidiaries (the 'Group') for the year ended 31 March 2024, which comprise the
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Company Balance
Sheet, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, the
Company Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes, including a summary of significant accounting
policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and
United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of ‘Ireland’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice).

In our opinion the financial statements:

. give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's and of the parent Company's affairs as at 31 March
2024 and of the Group's profit for the year then ended;

. have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and :

. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities
for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance
with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the United Kingdom,
including the Financial Reporting Council's Ethical Standard and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group's or the parent Company's
ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements
are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Page 12

ww)

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY
CENTRE LIMITED (CONTINUED)

re
Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report other than the financial
statements and our Auditors’ Report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained
within the Annual Report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and,
except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance
conclusion thereon. Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the
other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the
course of the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies
or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material
misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude
that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

. the information given in the Group Strategic Report and the Directors' Report for the financial year for
which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

° the Group Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable
legal requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the parent Company and its environment
obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Group Strategic Report
or the Directors’ Report. .

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006
requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

. adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our”
audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or

° the parent Company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns,
or ,

* certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

. we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Page 13

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY
_CENTRE LIMITED (CONTINUED)

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the Directors’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 7, the directors are
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair
view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group's and the parent
Company's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the
parent Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors' Report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these Group financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of
irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities,
including fraud is detailed below:

« Enquiry of management around actual and potential litigation and claims;

e = Performing audit work over the risk of management override of controls, including testing of journal entries
and other adjustments for appropriateness, evaluation the business rationale of significant transactions -
outside the normal course of business and reviewing accounting estimates for bias;

« Reviewing minutes of meetings of those charged with governance; and

e Reviewing financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance
with applicable laws and regulations. :

Because of the inherent limitations of an audit, there is a risk that we will not detect all irregularities, including
those leading to. a material misstatement in the financial statements or non-compliance with regulation. This
risk increases the more that compliance with a law or regulation is removed from the events and transactions
reflected in the financial statements, as we will be less likely to become aware of instances of non-compliance.
The risk is also greater regarding irregularities occurring due.to fraud rather than error, as fraud involves
intentional concealment, forgery, collusion, omission or misrepresentation.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial
Reporting Council's website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our
Auditors’ Report. .

Page 14

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY
CENTRE LIMITED (CONTINUED)

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of
the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's
members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors’ Report and for no other purpose. To
the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
Company and the Company's members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we
have formed.

Cara Miller ACCA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behaif of MHA

Statutory Auditor
Colchester, United Kingdom

Date: 05 December 2024

MHA is the trading name of Macintyre Hudson LLP, a limited liability partnership in England and Wales
(registered number 0C312313)

Page 15

i


SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Note
Turnover 4
Cost of sales ,
Gross profit
Administrative expenses
Other operating income 5
Operating profit 6
Interest receivable and similar income 10
Interest payable and similar expenses 41
Profit before tax
Tax on profit : 12

(Loss)/profit for the financial year

Other comprehensive income for the year

Currency translation differences
Other comprehensive income for thé year

Total comprehensive income for the year

Profit for the year attributable to:

Owners of the parent company

The notes on pages 25 to 54 form part of these financial statements.

2024
£000

108,161
(68,578)

39,583
(37,160)

2,423

(385)

2,038
(2,846)

(808)

(90)
(90)

(898)

(808)

2023
£000

130,025
(91,002)

39,023

(37,192)
340

2,171

3
(1,934)

240
2,203

2,443

42°
42

2,485

2,443

Page 16

No

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

REGISTERED NUMBER: 02291188

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

AS AT 31 MARCH 2024 |

Note
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 13
Tangible assets 14
Current assets.
Stocks 16
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year = 17
Cash at bank and in hand . 18
Creditors: amounts falling due within one oo
year 19

Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due after more
than one year . 20

Provisions for liabilities

Other provisions 25

Net assets

Capital and reserves —

Called up share capital 26
Capital redemption reserve - 27
Profit and loss account . 27

324
17,826
14,779

32,929

(25,936)

(2,088)

2024
£000

222
2,414

2,636

427
28,867
13,045

42,339
(23,624)
. 6,993
9,629

(5,088)

(1,503)
(2,088)

2,453

666
~ 10
1,777

2,453

2023
£000

408
3,312

3,720

18,715

22,435

(17,581)

(1,503)

3,357

666
10
2,675

3,351

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the board and were signed on its

behalf by:

John Baumback
Director

Date: 13/uf24

The notes on pages 25 to 54 form part of these financial statements.

Page 17

Ww

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED
REGISTERED NUMBER: 02291188

COMPANY BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 MARCH 2024

2024 2023
Note £000 £000
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 13 222 408
Tangible assets 14 182 399
404 807
Current assets
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year 17 8,377 13,647
Cash at bank and in hand , 18 5,333: _ 3,230
13,710 16,877
Creditors: amounts falling due within one
year - 19 (17,184) (13,375)
Net current (liabilities)/assets (3,474) 3,502
- Total assets less current liabilities (3,070) 4,309
Creditors: amounts falling due after more
than one year 20 (1,739) (3,471)
Provisions for liabilities
Other provisions 25 (637) (323)
(637) (323)
Net (liabitities)/assets (5,446) 515
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 26 666 666
Capital redemption reserve ~ 27 10 10
Profit and loss account brought forward (161) 7,568
Loss for the year . - (5,961) (7,729)
Profit and loss account carried forward (6,122) (161)
(5,446) 515

Page 18

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED
REGISTERED NUMBER: 02291188

COMPANY BALANCE SHEET (CONTINUED)
AS AT 31 MARCH 2024

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the board and were signed on its
behalf by:

John Baumbac
Director
Date:

ISIWf24E

_ The notes on pages 25 to 54 form part of these financial statements.

Page 19 ;

ie

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Called up
share capital ,
£000
At 1 April 2022 (as previously stated) 666
Prior year adjustment :
At 1 April 2022 (as restated) 666
Comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the year -
Currency translation differences -
At 1 April 2023 666
Comprehensive income for the year
Loss for the year :
Currency translation differences -
At 31 March 2024 666

Capital
redemption
reserve

‘£000

10

The notes on pages 25 to 54 form part of these financial statements.

Profit and
loss account

£000

6,772
(6,582)

190

2,443
42

2,675

(808)
(30)

1,777

Total equity
£000

- 7,448
(6,582)

866

2,443
42

3,351

(808)
(90)

2,453

Page 20

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

COMPANY STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Called up

share capital

£000

At 1 April 2022 (as previously stated) 666
Prior year adjustment -

At 1 April 2022 (as restated) 666

Comprehensive income for the year

Loss for the year :

At 1 Aprif 2023 666

Comprehensive income for the year :
Loss for the year . -

At 31 March 2024 ; 666

The notes on pages 25 to 54 form part of these financial statements.

Capital
redemption
reserve

£000
10

Profit and
loss account

£000

7,312
256

7,568

* (7,729)

(161)

(5,961)

(6,122)

Total equity
£000

7,988
256

8,244

(7,729)

$15

(5,961)

(5,446)

Page 21

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

2024 2023

£000 £000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit for the financial year : (808) 2,443
Adjustments for:
Amortisation of intangible assets ~ 186 666
Depreciation of tangible assets : 1,763 2,018 ©
Loss on disposal of tangible assets . : 48 202
Interest paid . . 385 1,934
Interest received - (3)
Taxation charge ° 2,846 (2,203)
Decrease/{increase) in stocks 103 (129)
Decrease in debtors 2,450 1,047
Decrease in amounts owed by associates 272 -
(Decrease) in creditors (8,480) (9,807)
Increase/(decrease) in provisions 585 (1,231)
Corporation tax received/(paid) 5,473 (1,568)
Foreign exchange . : (82) 24
Net cash generated from operating activities 4,741 (6,613)
Cash flows from investing activities :
Purchase of tangible fixed assets . (940) (761)
Sale of tangible fixed assets 19 -
Interest received - 3
Net cash from investing activities . (921) (758)
Cash flows from financing activities
Repayment of loans . (1,734) (1,300)
Repayment of/new finance lease 33 (96)
Interest paid , (374) (1,921)
HP interest paid (11) (13)
Net cash used in financing activities (2,086) (3,330)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,734 (10,701)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 13,045 23,746
Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year . 14,779 13,045 ©

Page 22

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (CONTINUED)
: FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

, . 2024

£000

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year comprise:
Cash at bank and in hand 14,779
14,779

The notes on pages 25 to 54 form part of these financial statements.

2023
£000

13,045

13,045

Page 23

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

CONSOLIDATED ANALYSIS OF NET DEBT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Att) Ata
April Cash March
2023 flows 2024
£000 £000 £000
Cash at bank and in hand : 13,045 1,734 14,779
Debt due after 1 year (3,467) 1,734 (1,733)
Debt due within 1 year (1,733) - (1,733)
Finance leases (173) (33) (206)

7,672 3,435 - 11,107

The notes on pages 25 to 54 form part of these financial statements.

Page 24

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

General information

Seetec Business Technology Centre Limited (the “Company’) is a private company limited by shares
and incorporated and domiciled in the UK. Its registered head office is located at 75/77 Main Road,
Hockley, Essex, SS5 4RG.

‘Accounting policies

“241

2.2

2.3

Basis of preparation of financial statements

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention unless otherwise
specified within these accounting policies and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard
102, the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and the Republic of Ireland and the
Companies Act 2006. oe

All amounts in the financial statements have been rounded to the nearest £1,000.

The preparation of financial statements in compliance with FRS 102 requires the use of certain
critical accounting estimates. It also requires Group management to exercise judgment in applying
the Group's accounting policies (see note 3).

The Company has taken advantage of the exemption allowed under section 408 of the Companies
Act 2006 and has not presented its own Statement of Comprehensive Income in these financial
statements. .

The following principal accounting policies have been applied:
Basis of consolidation

The consolidated financial statements present the results of the Company and its own subsidiaries
(‘the Group") as if they form a single entity. Intercompany transactions and balances between group
companies are therefore eliminated in full.

The consolidated financial statements incorporate the results of business combinations using the
purchase method. In the Balance Sheet, the acquiree's identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent
liabilities are initially recognised at their fair values at the acquisition date. The results of acquired
operations are included in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income from the date on
which control is obtained. They are deconsolidated from the date control ceases.

In accordance with the transitional exemption available in FRS 102, the Group has chosen not to
retrospectively apply the standard to business. combinations that occurred before the date of
transition to FRS 102, being 31 March 2016.

Going concern

The Group’s forecasts and projections for the period to 31 March 2025 and beyond, taking account
of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show that the Group will be able to operate
within the level of its facilities. After applying sensitivity analysis to cash flow forecasts, the directors
have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational
existence for the foreseeable future. This fully supports management's approach to preparing the
financial statements on a going concern basis.

Page 25

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

2.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

2.4 Foreign currency translation

Functional and presentation currency

The Company's functional and presentational currency is GBP.
Transactions and balances ©

Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the spot exchange
tates at the dates of the transactions.

At each period end foreign currency monetary items are translated using the closing rate. Non-
monetary items measured at historical cost are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the
transaction and non-monetary items measured at fair value are measured using the exchange rate
when fair value was determined. :

Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of transactions and from the
translation at period-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign
currencies are recognised in profit or loss except when deferred in other comprehensive income as
qualifying cash flow hedges.

On consolidation, the results of overseas operations are translated into Sterling at rates
approximating to those ruling when the transactions took place. All assets and liabilities of overseas
operations are translated at the rate ruling at the reporting date. Exchange differences arising on
translating the opening net assets at opening rate ard the results of overseas operations at actual
rate are recognised in other comprehensive income.

Page 26

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

2.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

2.5

2.6

2.7

Revenue

Turnover is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the
Group and the turnover can be reliably measured. Turnover is measured as the fair value of the
consideration received or receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, value added tax and other sales
taxes. The following criteria must also be met before turnover is recognised:

Sale of goods

Turnover from the sale of goods is recognised when all of the following conditions are satisfied:
° the Group has transferred the ‘significant risks and rewards of ownership to the buyer;

s the Group retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually
associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold;

. the amount of turnover can be measured reliably;

. it is probable that the Group will receive the consideration due under the transaction; and

. the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be measured reliably.

Rendering of services

Turnover from a contract to provide services is recognised in the period in which the services are
provided in accordance with the stage of completion of the contract when all of the following
conditions are satisfied:

° the amount of turnover can be measured reliably;

. it is probable that the Group will receive the consideration due under the contract;

° the stage of completion of the contract at the end of the reporting period can be measured
reliably; and

°. the costs incurred and the costs to complete the contract can be measured reliably.

Operating leases: the Group as lessee

Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the
lease term.

Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are recognised on a
straight-line basis over the lease term, unless another systematic basis is representative of the time
pattern of the lessee's benefit from the use of the leased asset.

Leased assets: the Group as lessee

Assets obtained under hire purchase contracts and finance leases are capitalised as tangible fixed
assets. Assets acquired by finance lease are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and
their useful lives. Assets acquired by hire purchase are depreciated over their useful lives. Finance.
leases are those where substantially all of the benefits and risks of ownership are assumed by the
company. Obligations under such agreements are included in creditors net of the finance charge
allocated to future periods. The finance element of the rental payment is charged to profit or loss so
as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge on the net obligation outstanding in each period.

Page 27

’ SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

2.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

2.8

2.9

Government grants

Grants are accounted under the accruals model as permitted by FRS 102. Grants relating to
expenditure on tangible fixed assets are credited to profit or loss at the same rate as the
depreciation on the assets to which the grant relates. The deferred element of grants is included in
creditors as deferred income.

Grants of a revenue nature are recognised in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive
Income in the same period as the related expenditure.

Interest income

Interest income is recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.

2.10 Finance costs

Finance costs are charged to profit or loss over the term of the debt using the effective interest
method so that the amount charged is at a constant rate on the carrying amount. Issue costs are
initially recognised as a reduction in the proceeds of the associated capital instrument.

2.11 Borrowing costs

All borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the year in which they are incurred.

, 2.12 Pensions

Defined contribution pension plan

The Group operates a defined contribution plan for its employees. A defined contribution plan is a
pension plan under which the Group pays fixed-contributions into a separate entity. Once the
contributions have been paid the Group has no further payment obligations.

The contributions are recognised as an expense in profit or loss when they fall due. Amounts not
paid are shown in accruals as a liability in the Balance Sheet. The assets of the plan are held
separately from the Group in independently administered funds.

Defined benefit pension plan
A defined benefit pension plan for a small group of employees who joined Seetec under TUPE
arrangements under a defined benefit pension scheme where the scheme funding levels are

contractually capped by the Ministry of Justice. This scheme is accounted for as a defined
contribution scheme in these financial statements (see note 3).

Page 28

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

2.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

2.13 Current and deferred taxation

The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in profit or loss
except that a charge attributable to an item of income and expense recognised as other
comprehensive income or to an item recognised directly in equity is also recognised in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.

* The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax rates and laws that have been

enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date in the countries where the Company
and the Group operate and generate income.

Deferred tax balances are recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not
reversed by the balance sheet date, except that:

. The recognition of deferred tax assets is limited to the extent that it is probable that they will
be recovered against the reversal of deferred tax liabilities or other future taxable profits;

. Any deferred tax balances are reversed if and when all conditions for retaining associated tax
allowances have been met; and

° Where they relate to timing differences in respect of interests in subsidiaries, associates,
branches and joint ventures and the Group can control the reversal of the timing differences
and such reversal is not considered probable in the foreseeable future.

Deferred tax balances are not recognised in respect of permanent differences except in respect of
business combinations, when deferred tax is recognised on the differences between the fair values
of assets acquired and the future tax deductions available for them and the differences between the
fair values of liabilities acquired and the amount that will be assessed for tax. Deferred tax is
determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
balance sheet date.

Page 29

SEETEC BUSINESS. TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

2.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

2.14 Intangible assets

Goodwill

Goodwill represents the difference between amounts paid on the cost of a business combination
and the acquirer's interest in the fair value of the Group's share of its identifiable assets and
liabilities of the acquiree at the date of acquisition. Subsequent to initial recognition, goodwill is
measured at cost less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is
amortised on a straight-line basis to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income over its
useful economic life.

Other intangible assets
Intangible assets are initially recognised at cost. After recognition, under the cost model, intangible

assets are measured at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment
losses. .

' Ateach reporting date the company assesses whether there is any indication of impairment. If such

indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is determined which is the higher of its fair
value less costs to sell and its value in use. An impairment loss is recognised where the carrying
amount exceeds the recoverable amount.

- All intangible assets are considered to have a finite useful life. If a reliable estimate of the useful life

cannot be made, the useful life shall not exceed ten years.

The estimated useful lives range as follows:

Computer Software - over 4 to 10 years
Goodwill - over 2 to 5 years
Customer contracts - over 2 years

2.15 Tangible fixed assets

Tangible fixed assets under the cost model are stated at historical cost less accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment tosses. Historical cost includes expenditure that is
directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable
of operating in the manner intended by management.

At each reporting date the Group assesses whether there is any indication of impairment. If such
indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is determined which is the higher of its fair
value less costs to sell and its value in use. An impairment loss is recognised where the carrying
amount exceeds the recoverable amount.

Page 30

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

2.15 Tangible fixed assets (continued)

Depreciation is charged so as to. allocate the ‘cost of assets less their residual value over their
estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method.

The estimated useful lives range as follows:

Short-term leasehold property - over the duration of the lease ©

Plant and machinery - over 3 to 4 years
Motor vehicles - over 4 years
- Fixtures and fittings - over 6 years

The assets’ residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted
prospectively if appropriate, or if there is an indication of a significant change since the last reporting
date. :

Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount
and are recognised in profit or loss.

2.16 Valuation of investments
Investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost less accumulated impairment.

2.17 Stocks
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, being the estimated selling price less
costs to complete and sell. Cost is based on the cost of purchase on a first in, first out basis. Work
in progress and finished goods include labour and attributable overheads.
At each balance sheet date, stocks are assessed for impairment. If stock is impaired, the carrying
amount is reduced to its selling price less costs to complete and sell. The impairment loss is
recognised immediately in profit or loss.

2.18 Debtors

Short-term debtors are measured at.transaction price, less any impairment. Loans receivable are
measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are measured subsequently at
amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.

2.19 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash is represented by cash in hand and deposits with financial institutions repayable without
penalty on notice of not more than 24 hours. Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments that
mature inno more than three months from the date of acquisition and that are readily convertible to
known amounts of cash with insignificant risk of change in value.
In the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, cash and cash equivalents are shown net of bank

overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group's cash
management. : :

Page 31

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

2.20 Creditors

Short-term creditors are measured at the transaction price. Other financial liabilities, including bank
loans, are measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are measured subsequently
at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

2.21 Provisions for liabilities

Provisions are recognised when an event has taken place that gives rise to a legal or constructive
obligation, a transfer of economic benefits is probable and a reliable estimate can be made.

Provisions are measured as the best estimate of the amount required to settle the obligation, taking
into account the related risks and uncertainties.

Increases in provisions are generally charged as an expense to profit or loss.
2.22 Financial instruments

The Group has elected to apply the provisions of Section 11 “Basic Financial Instruments” of FRS
102 to all of its financial instruments.

The Group has elected to apply the recognition and measurement provisions of IFRS 9 Financial
Instruments (as adopted by the UK Endorsement Board) with the disclosure requirements of
Sections 11 and 12 and the other presentation requirements of FRS 102.

Financial instruments are recognised in the Group's Balance Sheet when the Group becomes party
to the contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset, with the net amounts presented in the financial
statements, when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is
an intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

Basic financial assets

Basic financial assets, which include trade and other receivables, cash and bank balances, are
initially measured at their transaction price including transaction costs and are subsequently carried
at their amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any provision for impairment, unless
the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the transaction is measured at the
present value of the future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest.

Discounting is omitted where the effect of discounting is immaterial. The Group's cash and cash
equivalents, trade and most other receivables due with the operating cycle fall into this category of
financial instruments.

Impairment of financial assets

Financial assets are assessed for indicators of impairment at each reporting date.

Financial assets are impaired when events, subsequent to their initial recognition, indicate the
estimated future cash flows derived from the financial asset(s) have been adversely impacted. The

impairment loss will be the difference between the current carrying amount and the present value of
the future cash flows at the asset(s) original effective interest rate.

Page 32

“

2.

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Accounting policies (continued)

2.22 Financial instruments (continued)

If there is a favourable change in relation to the events surrounding the impairment loss then the
impairment can be reviewed for possible reversal. The reversal will not cause the current carrying
amount to exceed the original carrying amount had the impairment not been recognised. The
impairment reversal is recognised in the profit or loss.

Financial liabilities

Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the
contractual arrangements entered into. An equity instruments any contract that evidences a residual
interest in the assets of the Group after the deduction of all its liabilities.

Basic financial liabilities, which include trade and other payables, bank loans, other loans and loans
due to feliow group companies are initially measured at their transaction price after transaction
costs. When this constitutes a financing transaction, whereby the debt instrument is measured at
the present value of the future receipts discounted at a market rate of interest. Discounting is
omitted where the effect of discounting is immaterial.

Debt instruments are subsequently carried at their amortised cost using the effective interest rate,
method.

Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods and services that have been acquired in the
ordinary course of business from suppliers. Trade payables are classified as current liabilities if the
payment is due within one year. If not, they represent non-current liabilities. Trade payables are
initially recognised at their transaction price and subsequently are measured at amortised cost
using the effective interest method. Discounting is omitted where the effect of discounting is
immaterial. :

Derecognition of financial instruments

Derecognition of financial assets

Financial assets are derecognised when their contractual right to future cash flow expire, or are
settled, or when the Group transfers the asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of
ownership to another party. If significant risks and rewards of ownership are retained after the
transfer to another party, then the Group will continue to recognise the value of the portion of the
risks and rewards retained.

Derecognition of financial liabilities

Financial liabilities are derecognised when the Group's contractual obligations expire or are
discharged or cancelled.

Page 33

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty

Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other
factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances.

The directors make estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting
estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related’actual results. The estimates and assumptions that
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
within the next financial year are addressed below.

Provisions against income

Government contracts form a significant part of the Group's income. Due to extrapolation clauses
included in the majority of the Group's contracts, the directors have recognised provisions in respect of
the known clawbacks of income claims due to any number of possible factors, some of which are
beyond the Group's control.

Dilapidations

The Group accrues a dilapidations provision against reinstatement costs to be incurred when it exits a
property and Hands it back to the landlord. This estimate is only accrued on properties where a
dilapidations clause is included in the terms of the lease or equivalent document. The provision is
calculated on a property by property basis and is an amount equal to 6 month's rent payable on the
property. This level of provision has been set based on an average of historic amounts paid. Where the
property has beeh exited and the dilapidations amount is in negotiation the provision will be set at the
value of the landlords claim. Where an amount is agreed the provision will be set at the agreed amount
until it is settled. Once a dilapidations figure has been paid on a property or it is agreed that no amount is
payable any residual provision is released to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income.

Seetec Employee Ownership Trustee Limited (SEOTL)

In December 2019, the SEOTL was set up to acquire a controlling interest in the ordinary shares of
Seetec Business Technology Centre Limited. The purpose of the SEOTL is to represent the interest of
all Seetec employees as indirect owners of the business. It is governed by an independent board of
Trustees which includes the Employee Trustee Director.

The Trust is the registered holder of the Trust's 51% of the shares in issue in Seetec Business
Technology Centre Limited. There is no prohibition on the exercise of the voting rights attaching to the
shares held for the benefit of the Trust

The Trust from time to time could exercise its rights under section 168 to remove (or appoint) directors to
the board of SBTC acting in its capacity as a majority shareholder.

Decisions of the board of SEOTL (Trustee Board) as the Trustee are determined by a majority decision
of the directors of SEOTL.

There are no payments made by the Trust to any of the employees.
The Trust has a 51% shareholding, is entitled to dividends per the Trust deed (which have so far been

waived) and has the same rights as all other shareholders. The Trust was set up in a way to facilitate
employee ownership as opposed to serve the purposes of Seetec.

Page 34

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Judgments in applying accounting policies (continued)

Consideration loan notes of £14.345 million in the form of the Vendor Loan Notes were issued by the ©
SEOTL to the Vendor in part payment. Seetec Business Technology Centre Limited have provided a
guarantee of the loan notes in the event that the trustee defaults on the repayment obligations in the
future. It is the directors’ judgement that the possibility of the Company being called upon to meet this
guarantee is improbable and therefore this has not been shown as a liability on the Balance Sheet (see
note 28).

Goodwill/Intangible assets

Goodwill and intangible assets are written down over their estimated useful life. Goodwill arising on the
acquisition is attributed to the estimated value of discounted future cashflows generated by existing
contracts and written down over their revenue generating life. Software development costs are valued at
cost and written down over the estimated period for which they will be in use.”

Goodwill impairment assessment

In respect of the goodwill attributable to the acquisition of the Pluss Group an impairment review was
carried out at the year end whereby future predicted cashflows for the contracts that existed at the
transfer date were calculated. These future cashflows were discounted at a rate of 7.5% and the
resulting total was compared with the carrying value in the financial statements. {t was the directors’
judgement that no impairment was required.

Intercompany impairment assessment

The group operates intercompany accounts between the parent company and its subsidiaries. These are
reviewed annually to assess the likelihood of recovery of the balances outstanding at the year end.
Where the likelihood of recovery is judged to make it necessary, impairment of the balances is provided
for. .

Defined Benefit Pension Scheme

The Company entered into an agreement with the Ministry of Justice, as part of the overall contracts let
through the Dynamic Framework for Intervention Rehabilitation services, to contribute 16% of
pensionable salary in respect of eligible employees to a defined benefit pension scheme held in the
Greater Manchester Local Government Pension Fund. The agreement is underwritten by the MoJ who
are also contracted to reimburse any liability, resulting in a Enil surplus or deficit at the year-end.

In the current year, this multi-employers defined benefit scheme has been accounted for as a defined
contribution scheme per FRS 102.28.11 with no liability recognised as there is insufficient information to
enable an accurate and reliable estimation of the liability. The Company is not liable to the plan for other
entities’ obligations. ©

Page 35

a

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Turnover

An analysis of turnover by class of business is as follows:

2024
£000
‘Contract income © 102,666
Grant income 2,411
Manufacturing income 2,528
Service income 556
108,161

Analysis of turnover by country of destination:
2024
£000
. United Kingdom 91,737
Rest of Europe 16,424
108,161

Grant income above includes, amongst others, funding received from the following:
¢ Cornwall Council, the Council of the Isles of Scilly, the Ministry of Housing, Communities. and Local
Government (formerly the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities) and CSW

Group. .

2023
£000
118,486
8,389
2,837
313

130,025

2023
£000

114,078
15,947

130,025

« Cornwall Council, Department for Education, and the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local
Government (formerly the Department for Levelling Up, Housing and Communities).

« The Sussex Police and Crime Commissioner to deliver a domestic abuse perpetrator programme.

« The Police & Crime Commissioner for Thames Valley Police (applying funds ‘for the purpose from

the Home Office) to deliver a COBI Stalking Perpetrator programme.

Other operating income

Other operating income
Government support

2024
£000

2023
£000

280
60

340

Page 36

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
- FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Operating profit

The operating profit is stated after charging:

2024

£000
Amortisation of intangible assets . 186
Depreciation of owned assets : 1,673
Depreciation of assets held under finance lease 90
Exchange differences : 198
Other operating lease rentals 4,584

Auditors’ remuneration

2023
£000

666
1,947
71
(170)
5,036

During the year, the Group obtained the following services from the Company's auditors and their

associates:
2024
£000
Fees payable to the Group's auditors for the audit of the consolidated and
parent Company's financial statements 134

Fees payable to the Group's auditors in respect of:
. The auditing of accounts of subsidiaries of the Company , 91
Fees payable to the Group's auditors and its associates in respect of:

Taxation compliance services 37

2023
£000
128

88

38

Page 37

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

a

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Employees

Staff costs, including directors’ remuneration, were as follows:

Group Group Company Company

2024 — 2023 2024 2023

£000 £000 £000 £000

Wages and salaries . 50,687 58,915 43,259 43,631
Social security costs 4,757 5,706 4,031 4,226

Cost of defined contribution scheme 1,871 2,133 1,710 1,660

57,315 66,754 49,000 49,517

The average monthly number of employees, including the directors, during the year was as follows:

Group Group Company . Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
No. No. No. . No.
Operational staff ae 1,042 1,341 834 945
' Administration and management 459 541 . 408 403
1,501 1,882 1,242 1,348

Directors’ remuneration
2024 2023
£000 £000
Directors' emoluments , 782 763
Group contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 56° 48

838 811

During the year retirement benefits were accruing to 4 directors (2023 - 4) in respect of defined
contribution pension schemes.

The highest paid director received remuneration of £244 thousand (2023 - £254 thousand).

The value of the Group's contributions paid to a defined contribution pension scheme in respect of the
highest paid director amounted to £21 thousand (2023 - £18 thousand).

Page 38

10.

11.

12,

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Interest receivable

Other interest receivable

Interest payable and similar expenses:

Bank interest payable
Other loan interest payable
Finance leases and hire purchase contracts

Taxation

Corporation tax

Adjustments in respect of previous period:
Foreign tax :

Foreign tax on income for the year

Total current tax
Deferred tax

Origination and reversal of timing differences
Adjustments in respect of prior periods

Total deferred tax

Taxation on profit/(loss) on ordinary activities

2024
£000

2024
£000

372

11

385

2024
£000

(1)

508

507

2,539
(200)

2,339

2,846

2023
£000

2023
£000

261
1,660
13°

1,934

2023
£000

(1)

282

281

(2,402)
(82)
(2,484)

(2,203)

Page 39

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

12.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Taxation (continued)

Factors affecting tax charge for the year

The tax assessed for the year is higher than (2023 - lower than) the standard rate of corporation tax in _

the UK of 25% (2023- 19%). The differences are explained below:

Profit on ordinary activities before tax

Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in
the UK of 25% (2023 - 19%)

Effects of:

Expenses not deductible for tax purposes, other than goodwill amortisation
and impairment

Capital allowances for year in excess of depreciation
Utilisation of tax losses

Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior periods
Other timing differences

Non-taxable income _

Movement in deferred tax

Overseas tax asset not recognised

Unrelieved tax losses carried forward

Other permanent differences

Total tax charge for the year

2024
£000

2,038

510

109
302

(201)

(33)

(560)
2,719

2,846

2023
£000

240

46

94
241
(1,299)

(21)
(11)
(1,096)
(112)

(46)

(2,203) .

Page 40

13.

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Intangible assets

Group

Cost
At 1 April 2023

At 31 March 2024
Amortisation

At 1 April 2023 .
Charge for the year on owned assets

At 31 March 2024

Net book value

At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

Customer
Contracts
£000

1,109

1,109

1,109

1,109

Computer
software
£000

3,910

3,910

3,502
186

3,688

222

408

Goodwill
£000

2,049

2,049

2,049

2,049

Total
£000

7,068

7,068

6,660
186

6,846

222

408

Page 41

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

13.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Intangible assets (continued)

Company

Cost
At 1 April 2023

At 31 March 2024
Amortisation

At 1 April 2023
Charge for the year

At 31 March 2024

Net book value .

At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

Computer
software
£000

3,910

3,910

3,502
186

3,688

222

408

Page 42

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Tangible fixed assets ,

Group
* Short-term
leasehold Plant and Fixtures Motor
property machinery and fittings vehicles Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000

Cost or valuation
At 1 April 2023 5,486 2,972 384 109 8,951
Additions 573 235 4 128 940
Disposals (652) (966) (453) : (2,071)
Transfers between classes 111 . (317) 206 - -
Exchange adjustments (38) {21) {6) - (65)
At 31 March 2024 5,480 1,903 135 237 7,755
Depreciation .
At 1 April 2023 3,177 2,115 238 109 5,639
Charge for the year on
owned assets _ 1,214 422 . 37 - 1,673
Charge for the year on .
financed assets . - 76 C - 14 90
Disposals (602) (950) (452) - (2,004)
Transfers between classes 49 (264) 215 -. -
Exchange adjustments (31) (20) (6) - (57)
At 31 March 2024 3,807 1,379 32 123 5,341
Net book value
At 31 March 2024 1,673 524 103 114 2,414
At 31 March 2023 2,309 857 146 - 3,312

Finance leases

" The net book value of the assets held under finance lease amounted to £1 96,000 (2023: £159,000).

Page 43

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

14,

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Tangible fixed assets (continued)

Company

Cost or valuation
At 1 April 2023 .
Additions
Disposals

At 31 March 2024

Depreciation
At 1 April 2023

Charge for the year on
owned assets

Charge for the year on
financed assets

Disposals

At 31 March 2024

Net book value

At 31 March 2024

‘At 31 March 2023

Finance leases

Motor
vehicles
£000

109

Fixtures and
fittings
£000

Total
£000

Short-term

leasehold Plant and
property machinery
£000 £000

922 523

- 71
- (93)

922 501

673 373

208 80

: 15
. (92)

881 376

41 125

249 150

The net book value of the assets held under finance leases amounted to £16,000 (2023: £19,000).

Page 44

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Fixed asset investments

Company

Cost or valuation
At 1 April 2023

At 31 March 2024

Impairment
At 1 April 2023

At 31 March 2024

Net book value

At 31 March 2024

At 31 March 2023

Investments
in subsidiary
companies
£000

1,387

1,387

1,387

1,387

Page 45

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

15.

16.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024
Fixed asset investments (continued)

Subsidiary undertakings

The following were subsidiary undertakings of the Company:

Registered Class of
Name office shares Holding
The Kent Surrey and Sussex Community Rehabilitation
Company Limited See below Ordinary 100%
Seetec Employment and Skills Ireland DAC. See below Ordinary 100%
Outsource Education’Group Limited See below Ordinary 100%
Outsource Vocational Learning Limited . See below Ordinary 100%
Nexsphere Business Solutions Limited (formerly Outsource .
Training and Development Ltd) See below Ordinary 100%
Seetec Pluss Limited See below Ordinary . 100%
The Pluss Organisation CIC See below Ordinary 100%
Seetec Outsource Training and Skills Limited . See below Ordinary 100%
Seetec Justice Limited See below Ordinary 100%

The registered office of the subsidiary undertakings is 75/77 Main Road, Hockley, Essex, SS5 4RG,
other than Seetec Employment and Skills Ireland DAC whose registered office is 1 Stokes Place, St
Stephens Green, Dublin.

The Company has given a guarantee under section 479A of the Companies Act 2006 for the financial
period ending 31st March 2024 in respect of Seetec Outsource Training and Skills Limited (registration
number 12077291) a 100% subsidiary. As such, for the period ending 31 March 2024 this Company was
entitled to exemption from audit under section 479A of the Companies Act 2006 relating to subsidiary
companies.

Stocks
Group Group
2024 2023
£000 £000
Raw materials and consumables . 240 220
Work in progress 84 207

324 427

The difference between purchase price or production cost of stocks and their replacement cost is not
material.

Page 46

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

17.

18.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Debtors

Trade debtors

Amounts owed by group undertakings
Amounts owed by related parties
Other debtors ;
Prepayments and accrued income
Tax recoverable

Deferred taxation

Grants receivable

Cash and cash equivalents

Bank and cash accounts
Restricted funds

Group
2024
£000

7,508

784
9,307
28
199

17,826

Group
2024
£000

14,779

14,779

Group
2023
£000

5,159
272.
745

14,015

6,008

2,538
130

28,867

Group
2023
£000

12,291
754

13,045

Company .-

2024
£000

3,025
3,278

230
1,723

121

8,377

“ Company

2024
£000

§,333

5,333

Company
2023
£000

2,236
6,448
272
106
2,749

1,836

13,647

Company
2023
£000

3,230

3,230

The restricted funds in the prior year represented cash held in respect of Big Lottery Fund and ESF

Building Better-Opportunities Grants.

Page 47

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year

Group
2024
£000
Bank loans 4,733
Trade creditors 3,596
Amounts owed to group undertakings -
Corporation tax . 281 |
Other taxation and social security . 3,280
Obligations under finance lease and hire
purchase contracts 85
Other creditors 392
Accruals and deferred income 16,569
25,936

The bank loans above are secured against assets of the Group.

Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year

Group

2024

£000

Bank loans 1,733
Net obligations under finance leases and hire

. purchase contracts 121

Accruals and deferred income 3,234

5,088

Group
2023
£000

"4,733

4,405

281
3,597

72
327
13,209

* 23,624

: Outstanding finance leases are secured against the corresponding assets.

Group

2023
£000

3,467

101
14,013

17,581

Outstanding finance leases are secured against the corresponding assets.

The bank loans above are secured against assets of the Group.

Company
2024
£000

1,733
1,298
7,974

281
1,988

7
350
3,553

17,184

Company
2024
£000

1,733

6

1,739

There are no amounts repayable more than five years after the balance sheet date.

~ Company

2023
£000

1,733
1,203
6,581

281
1,732

244
1,586

13,375

Company
2023
£000

3,467

a

3,471

Page 48

ro

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Loans

The Group has one loan with Barclays Bank totalling £3.46m (2023: £5.2m).

The loan that was for £6,500,000 repayable over 15 quarterly installments, commencing 6th July 2022.

The interest rate on the loan is 5.0% margin rate + underlying fixed interest rate.

The bank loans are secured against assets of the Group.

Analysis of the maturity of loans is given below: |

Group
2024
: £000

Amounts falling due within one year
Bank loans 1,733"

Amounts falling due 1-2 years

Bank loans 1,733
3,466

Hire purchase and finance leases

Minimum lease payments under hire purchase fall due as follows:

Within one year
Between 1-5 years

Group
2023
£000

1,733

3,467

5,200

Company
2024
£000

1,733

1,733

3,466

2024
£000

121

206

Company
2023
£000

1,733

3,467

5,200

2023
£000

101

173

Page 49

”

oa

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

23. Financial instruments

Financial assets
Financial assets measured at fair value
Financial assets measured at amortised cost

Financial liabilities

Financial liabilities measured at amortised
cost

Group Group Company
2024 2023 2024
£000 £000 £000

14,779 13,045 5,333
12,581 14,025 5,714

27,360 27,070 11,047

(24,551) (33,098) (12,771)

Company
2023
£000

3,230
9,304

12,534

(12,713)

Financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss comprise.cash and cash equivalents.

Financial assets measured at amortised cost comprise investments, trade debtors, amounts owed by
group undertakings, amounts owed by related undertakings, other debtors, grants receivable and

accrued income. .

Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost comprise bank loans, hire purchase, trade creditors,
amounts owed to group undertakings, amounts owed to related undertakings, other creditors and

accruals.

24. Deferred taxation

Group

At beginning of year
Charged to profit or loss

At end of year

2024
£000

2,538
(2,339)

199

2023
£000

52
2,486

2,538

Page 50

\*

24,

25.

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Deferred taxation (continued)

Company

At beginning of year
Charged to profit or loss

Atend of year

Accelerated capital allowances
Tax losses carried forward

Provisions

Group

At 1 April 2023
Charged to profit or loss

At 31 March 2024

Property dilapidations

Group
2024
£000

199

199

Property
dilapidation
provision
£000

1,478
149

1,627

Group
2023
£000

270
2,268

2,538

Income
provision
£000
440

440

2024
£000

1,836
(1,715)

121

Company
2024
£000

121

121

Legal fee
provision
£000

25
(4)

21

2023
£000-

77
1,759

1,836

Company
2023
£000

158
1,678

1,836

Total
£000

1,503
585

2,088

The Group accrues a dilapidations provision against reinstatement costs to be incurred when it exits a

property and hands it back to the landlord.

The dilapidation provision is expected to be utilised between 2025 to 2030.

Income provision relates to sources of funding that ended in the current financial year. The provision
relates to potential repayments of income received and is expected to be utilised between 2025 to 2035.

Page 51

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

25.

26.

27.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Provisions (continued)

Company
Property
dilapidation income .
provision provision Total
£000 £000 £000
At 1 April 2023 323 - 323
Charged to profit or loss . 34 280 314
At 31 March 2024 357 280 637

The Company accrues a dilapidations provision against reinstatement costs to be incurred when it exits
a property and hands it back to the landlord.

The dilapidation provision is expected to be utilised between 2025 to 2027.

Income provision relates to a source of funding that ended in the current financial year. The provision is

‘ expected to be utilised between 2025 to 2031. _

Share capital

2024 2023
£000 £000
Allotted, called up and fully paid
6,660,000 (2023 - 6,660,000) Ordinary share shares of £0.10 each 666 666

The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared and are entitled to one vote
per share at meetings of the Company.

Reserves

Capital redemption reserve

This reserve records the nominal value of shares repurchased by the Company.
Profit and loss account

This reserve represents all current and prior periods retained profits and losses.

Page 52

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED

28.

29.

30.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Contingent liabilities

In December 2019, Seetec Employee Ownership Trustee Limited (SEOTL) was set up to acquire a
controlling interest in the ordinary shares of SBTC Limited.

Consideration loan notes of £14.345 million in the form of the Vendor Loan Notes were issued by SEOTL
to the Vendor of shares in part payment of the purchase price. Seetec Business Technology Centre
Limited has provided a guarantee of the loan notes in the event that the trustee defaults on the
repayment obligations in the future.

Since the year end, the joan note agreement was renegotiated by SEOTL on more favourable terms and
the directors plan to make a distribution to SEOTL after date which will ensure they have sufficient funds
to meet their new commitments under this agreement.

The directors consider the possibility of the Company being called upon to meet this guarantee is
improbable and therefore this has not been shown as a liability on the Balance Sheet.

‘Pension commitments

The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme. The assets of the scheme are held
separately from those of the Group in an independently administered fund. The pension cost charge
represents contributions payable by the Group to the fund and amounted to £1.9m (2023: £2.1m).
Contributions totalling £81k (2023: £76k) were payable to the fund at the Balance Sheet date and are
included in creditors.

The Company entered into an agreement with the Ministry of Justice, as part of the overall contracts let
through the Dynamic Framework for Intervention Rehabilitation services, to contribute 16% of
pensionable salary in respect of eligible employees to a defined benefit pension scheme held in the
Greater Manchester Local Government Pension Fund. The agreement is underwritten by the MoJ who
are also contracted to reimburse any liability, resulting in a £nil surplus or deficit at the year-end.

In the current year, this multi-employers defined benefit scheme has been accounted for as a defined
contribution scheme per FRS 102.28.11 with no liability recognised as there is insufficient information to
enable an accurate and reliable estimation of the liability. The Company is not liable to the plan for other
entities’ obligations.

Commitments under operating leases

At 31 March 2024 the Group and the Company had future minimum lease payments due under non-
cancellable operating leases for each of the following periods:

Group Group Company -Company

2024 2023 2024 2023

£000 £000 £000 £000

Not later than 1 year . 2,492 3,384 348 469

Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 4,050 _ 4,544 122 322
Later than 5 years - 2,089 839 - -

8,631 8,767 470 791.

Page 53

SEETEC BUSINESS TECHNOLOGY CENTRE LIMITED.

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2024

Related party transactions

Group

Seetec Employee Benefit Trust, an organisation with a director of the Company as a Trustee, owed the
Group ENil (2023: £272,185) at the Balance Sheet date.

Your Ambition, an organisation with a director of the Company as a Director, paid the company
£1,162,847 (2023: £1,031,945) for services provided in the delivery of a commercial contract and owed
the Group £200,358 (2023: £114,028) at the Balance Sheet date.

Seetec Properties Limited, a company controlled by a director, charged the Group market rent and
insurance totalling £71,999 (2023: £87,593). At the Balance Sheet date the Group owed Seetec
Properties Limited Enil (2023: ENil).

One of the directors was owed £672 (2023: £672) by the group at the Balance sheet date.

Total compensation of key management personnel (including the directors) in the year amounted to
£2,217,322 (2023: £2,750,239).

Please see note 28 with reference to the guarantee in support of the SEOTL.
Company

Seetec Employee Benefit Trust, an organisation with a director of the Company as a Trustee, owed the
Company E£Nil (2023: £272,185) at the Balance Sheet date.

Your Ambition, an organisation with a director of the Company as a Director, paid the company
£1,162,847 (2023: £1,031,945) for services provided in the delivery of a commercial contract and owed
the Company £200,358 (2023: £114,028) at the Balance Sheet date.

Seetec Properties Limited, a company controlled by a director, charged the Company market rent and
insurance totalling £71,999 (2023: £87,593). At the Balance Sheet date the Company owed Seetec
Properties Limited £nil (2023: ENil).

One of the directors was owed £672 (2023: £672) by the Company at the Balance sheet date.

Transactions with fellow 100% group companies have not been disclosed as the Company has taken
advantage of the exemption under FRS 102.

Please see note 28 with reference to the guarantee in support of the SEOTL.
Controlling party

At the Balance Sheet date, Seetec Employee Ownership Trust is the ultimate controlling party by virtue
of its 51% shareholding in Seetec Business Technology Centre Limited.

Page 54

