DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited

Annual Report and Financial Statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

SATURDAY

A16

Registration number: 00242246

*AD6RSNGA*

06/07/2024 #24
COMPANIES HOUSE

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87100A3456

Serco Limited

Table of Contents

Company Information
Strategic Report

Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the Strategic Report, the Directors'

Report and the Financial Statements
Independent auditor's report
Income Statement

Statement of Comprehensive Income
Balance Sheet

Statement of Changes in Equity
Notes to the Financial Statements

Page 1

10
13
14
15
16
17

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87100A3456

Serco Limited

Company Information

Directors AA Kirby
N Girnary
H Shaw

Company Secretary N Graham-Burrell
Registered Number 00242246

Registered Office Serco House
16 Bartley Wood Business Park
Bartley Way
Hook
Hampshire
United Kingdom
RG27 9UY

Auditor KPMG LLP
15 Canada Square
London
United Kingdom
E14 5GL

Page 1

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited

Strategic Report

The Directors present their Strategic Report for the year ended 31 December 2023.
Principal activity

The principal activity of Serco Limited (the Company) is to deliver essential services, mainly in the public sector, by
effectively managing people, processes, technology and assets. Serco Limited supports governments, agencies and
companies by offering operational, management and consulting expertise in the most important areas of public
service, including transport & community services; defence; health; justice & immigration; and citizens services.

The Company's immediate parent is Serco Holdings Limited. The ultimate parent and controlling party is Serco
Group ple, a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales. Serco Group plc
along with its subsidiaries is referred to in this document as the Group or Serco.

Business review

Overview

Company revenue for the year was up 10.1% from £1,897.7m to £2,089.9m. The increase was due primarily to strong
growth for our immigration services as well as good growth from our defence and justice businesses. This more than
offset the £78.8m reduction in Covid-related work which concluded in the first half of 2022.

The Company generated an operating profit, before net exceptional items, for the year of £47.7m (2022: £13.3m).
The increase in operating profit is due to strong demand for immigration services, the ramp up of contracts signed in
prior years and improved performance across a range of existing contracts which more than offset the drag from
Covid-related work.

During the year the Company reported net exceptional income of £9.9m (2022: net exceptional costs of £9.9m) from
compensation on the early termination of a contract. After exceptional items the operating profit of the Company for
the financial year was £57.6m (2022: £3.4m).

Significant agreements signed in year included a £350m five-year contract to deliver functional health assessments in
the south-west of England for the Department of Work and Pensions to determine disability benefits, a contract to
deliver electronic monitoring services in England and Wales that is expected to be worth £200m over its initial six-
year term, and a contract with the UK Home Office to run the Derwentside Immigration Removal Centre. The new
contract has an estimated value of around £80m over the initial nine-year term. Also in the Justice & Immigration
sector, increases in the numbers of service users led to us securing additional immigration accommodation work that
is expected to generate around £300m of revenue in 2024.

Despite the continued volatility in the pensions market, the Company's pension schemes remain in a strong funding
position and have an accounting surplus, before tax, of £37.3m (2022: £57.0m). The decrease in the net retirement
benefit asset of £19.7m is primarily due to the Company's largest scheme, Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme
(SPLAS). Further details are in note 20 of the financial statements.

The Key Performance Indicators of Serco Group ple, shared by the Company, are outlined in its Annual Report and
accounts on Page 1.

The Company operates geographically across the UK & Europe and in the Middle East.

UK & Europe

The majority of Serco Group plc's UK & Europe division trades through the Company, and the operations support
public service delivery and outcomes across all five of the Group's chosen sectors: our Justice & Immigration business
provides a wide range of services to support safeguarding society and reducing re-offending, from secure
accommodation management through to housing and welfare services for asylum seekers; in Defence, we are trusted
to deliver critical support services and operate sensitive facilities; our Transport and Community Services business
provides environmental, transport, and leisure services; our Health business provides primarily non-clinical support
services to hospitals; and the Citizens Services business provides a wide range of front, middle and back-office
services to support public sector customers in the UK or European institutions.

Revenue for 2023 was £2,062.3m (2022: £1,867.6m), an increase of 10.4% which makes up the majority of the
revenue increase for the Company.

Page 2

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited

Middle East
Revenue for the year was £27.6m (2022: £30.1m), with the region holding contracts relating to transport.

Risk management process

The Serco Group ple Board oversees the Group’s risk management and internal control processes within an
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework, discharging its oversight responsibilities through the Risk Committee,
supported by the Corporate Responsibility Committee (CRC), and the Group Audit Committee. The Group Board has
monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems through these
Committees and the processes outlined below. These processes are applicable to the Company as it forms one of the
largest trading entities of the Group.

The Group's ERM approach endeavours to identify, understand, mitigate and manage risks that might disrupt the ability
to execute the Group's strategy or deliver against our customer and contractual commitments, whilst recognising that
we cannot capture and mitigate every potential risk scenario. The risk policy, including the risk management life
cycle, is mandated throughout the Group to seek a consistent approach to identification, analysis, monitoring and
reporting of risks and to provide further assurance that the risk mitigation in place is sufficiently effective and
appropriate.

Risk management operates throughout the year and in all levels of the business with a ‘bottom up/top down’
approach emanating from risks identified at contract level and functions upwards through the Business Units and
Divisions. Risks are formally reported from Divisions into Group on a quarterly basis focusing on the top 10 Divisional
tisks, associated controls and mitigation updates. These reports help inform updates to our principal risks.

The Group's principal risks, detailed on page 34 of the Group accounts, are those risks that are determined to be the
most material when considered against the Group's strategic ambition (as outlined on page 38 of the Group accounts)
and that can materiaily affect the performance, prospects or reputation of our business.

Summary of principal risks and uncertainties

The principal risks, together with the relevant strategic business objectives including: key risk drivers; the Group-wide
material controls which have been put in place to mitigate principal risks; and the mitigation priorities to improve the
effectiveness of the controls are set out on pages 32 to 46 of the Group accounts.

The Group's strategic objectives (outlined on page 38 of the Group accounts) consider the risks and opportunities
associated with its existing market and services and did not highlight a need for a material shift in approach.

As outlined in the strategic review, we are reporting strong financial performance and despite the macroeconomic
volatility of the last 12 months we have not observed any material manifestation of risk that has caused significant
operational or performance disruption. The Group's principal risks therefore remain valid with their definition and scope
remaining largely unchanged. These risks continue to underpin the Group's business model and mitigation of these
risks links directly to its strategic priorities as described on pages 22 and 23 of the Group accounts.

Principal risks are considered over the same three-year timeframe as the Group Viability Statement set out on page 47 of
the Group accounts, which takes account of the principal risks in its assessment.

In addition to the principal risks and uncertainties already identified, there may be other risks, either unknown, or
currently believed to be immaterial, which could evolve to be material. These risks, whether they materialise
individually or simultaneously, could significantly affect the Group’s business and financial results.

Corporate Governance Arrangements

As required under the Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018, this section of the Strategic Report
describes the corporate governance arrangements of the Company during the year.

The Directors confirm that the Company has applied all of the Principles set out in the Wates Corporate Governance
Principles for Large Private Companies 2018, a copy of which is available at www.frc.org.uk.

1. Purpose and Leadership

The Board of the Company is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the Company and ensuring that its
values, strategy and culture align with its purpose. The purpose of the Company is set out on page 2 of these
accounts, and the values, strategy and culture of the Company are aligned with those of the Company's ultimate
parent company, Serco Group plc. Further information concerning the values, strategy and culture of the Group are
provided in the 2023 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts.

Page 3

DoguSign Enyelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited

2. Board Composition

The Board of the Company's ultimate parent company, Serco Group ple, has delegated responsibility to the Group
Executive Committee of Serco Group ple to ensure the effective direction and control of the business. The Group
Executive Committee has approved internal guidelines for the constitution of subsidiary boards which take into
consideration the value and strategic importance of the contracts which operate through each subsidiary and the
level of oversight required. This ensures that the Board of the Company is of an appropriate size and structure, and
has an appropriate combination of skills, experience and knowledge to promote accountability and to provide
constructive challenge to achieve effective decision making, and that the level of understanding is relevant to the
Company's business needs and stakeholder interests.

The Board of Serco Group plc is committed to improving gender and ethnic diversity on the Serco Group ple Board
and in the senior management population within the Group from which appointments to the Board of the Company
are selected. Further details of how the Serco Group ple Board Diversity Policy is reviewed and assessed can be
found on page 105 of the 2023 Serco Group ple Annual Report and Accounts. Details of how diversity and-inclusion is
promoted across the Group can be found in the People Report 2023, which is available on the Serco Group plc
website, www.serco.com.

Details of how the members of the Board of the Company are supported in continued investment in personal and
professional development are provided on page 105 of the 2023 Serco Group plc Annual Report and Accounts.

3. Director Responsibilities
The internal affairs of the Company are governed by the SMS. The SMS ensures clear levels of accountability
and governance through policies, standards and procedures concerning:
- Business Conduct and Ethics
- Business Continuity and Crisis Management
- Business Development
- Environment and Climate Change
- Finance
- Governance
- Health and Safety
- Information Integrity
- Information Technology
- Operations
- People
- Procurement and Supply Chain
- Quality
- Risk Management
- Security
The policy statements can be found on the Serco Group plc website, www.serco.com.

4. Opportunity and Risk

The SMS includes polices, standards and procedures to identity future opportunities for innovation and
entrepreneurship, and to ensure that business development is managed through organisational structures with
clearly defined responsibilities and decision points. A specific procedure describes reserved powers and delegated
powers of authority that apply within the Serco Group and its subsidiaries, including processes for approval of
business opportunities of a certain value.

The Company leverages the risk management processes of its ultimate parent company, Serco Group plc, see pages
34 to 46 of the Group Annual Report for further details.

5. Remuneration

The Company is a subsidiary of Serco Group ple. The remuneration of its Directors, and the approach to
remuneration for all colleagues within Serco Limited, follows the principles and philosophy of remuneration at Serco
as set out in the Serco Group plc Directors' Remuneration Policy. The Remuneration Policy is set by the Remuneration
Committee of Serco Group ple taking into consideration the pay and conditions of the wider workforce, and general
practice in the external market. Full details of our approach to remuneration, and the framework applied throughout
the Group, can be found in our 2023 Directors' Remuneration Report. The approach to remuneration is compliant
with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.

6. Stakeholder Relationships and Engagement

The Company leverages the Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) agenda of its ultimate parent company,
Serco Group ple, which is driven by the ESG Framework of the Group. Serco Group publishes an annual ESG report
which details its commitment, strategy and performance which is available on the Serco Group plc website,
www.serco.com.

Page 4

DoguSign Enyelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited

The SMS includes workforce policies and procedures for reporting concerns regarding violations of Group values,
policies or the Group Code of Conduct.

The Board of the Company is responsible for overseeing meaningful engagement with stakeholders, including the
workforce, and must have regard to their views when taking decisions. The ways in which interests of stakeholders
have been considered and the manner in which engagement is achieved is set out on pages 18 to 20 of the Annual
Report.

Section 172 (1) Statement

The Company is part of the Serco Group ple group of companies, and the Board of Directors of its ultimate parent
company, Serco Group ple, (the Serco Group ple Board) delegates day-to-day decision-making

to the Executive Directors of Serco Group plc and, within defined levels of costs and impact, the Group Divisional
leadership teams which includes the Directors of the Company, through a governance framework which, in
addition to financial authorities, also covers areas such as risk, ethics, and new sector or country approaches.

The Group's governance framework is designed to drive high standards of business conduct across the Group
and covers the values and behaviours expected of our employees, the standards to which they must adhere,
how we engage with stakeholders and how the Board of Serco Group ple looks to ensure that we have a robust
system of control and assurance processes.

The Directors of the Company consider that by adopting and adhering to the Group's governance framework
they ensure that they give due care and consideration to discharging their duties under the Companies Act 2006,
including their duty to act in the way they consider, in good faith, would most likely promote the success of the
Company for the benefit of its members as a whole, taking into account the factors listed in section 172(1){a) to
(f) of the Companies Act 2006. This disclosure describes how the Board has had regard to those matters and
forms the Directors’ statement required under section 414CZA of the Companies Act 2006.

Further details of the Group's governance framework are provided in the Serco Group plc 2023 Annual Report on
pages 101-104.

The Company's principal activity is to deliver essential services, mainly in the public sector, by effectively
managing people, processes, technology and assets. Serco Limited supports governments, agencies and
companies by offering operational, management and consulting expertise in the most important areas of public
service, including transport, defence, health, justice, immigration, and citizens services on behalf of the Group,
and therefore the Directors consider the needs of the Group in its decision-making as its direct stakeholders and
looks to the activities undertaken by the Board of Directors of Serco Group ple (the ‘Serco Group plc Board’), the
Company’s ultimate parent company, in engaging with the Group's wider stakeholders.

The Group’s ESG Framework, of which the Company forms part, is structured around our key stakeholders and
focuses on how our approach to and progress in delivering our ESG commitments has continued. The Group's
progress and performance is summarised in the ESG section of the Serco Group plc 2023 Annual Report on pages 49
to 69, or in the Group’s complete 2023 ESG Databook available on www.serco.com/our-impact.

Further information on how the Serco Group ple Board had regard to the matters set out in section 172 of the
Companies Act 2006 can be found on pages 188 to 192 of the Serco Group ple 2023 Annual Report.

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting

Serco Limited is going to play its part to address climate change and further details on the goals set by the ©

Directors along with emissions related information can be found in the Serco Group ple 2023 Annual Report and
Accounts on pages 49 to 75.

Approved by the Board on 27 June 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

DocuSigned by:

ogre Demos

+N BECBSEDTFRGBARZ i: sees ess tees
N Girnary
Director

Page 5

DoguSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87100A3456

Serco Limited

Directors’ Report

The Directors present their report and the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023.

Directors of the Company
The Directors, who held office throughout the year, and subsequently to the date of this report, unless otherwise
stated, were as follows:

AA Kirby
N Girnary
M W Irwin (resigned on 1 January 2023)
H Shaw (appointed on 1 January 2023)

Going Concern

The Company has net current assets of £359.4m as at 31 December 2023 (2022: £166.5m) including a £542.7m
intercompany receivable (2022: £385.8m) and a profit for the year then ended of £53.9m (2022: £2.9m). The
Company's financial forecasts for the period of going concern indicate that the Company has sufficient financial
resources to meet its financial obligations as they fall due during the period of assessment, considered to be at least
twelve months from the signing date of these financial statements.

The Company is dependent on the availability of the intercompany financing facility that it uses to meet its day to day
working capital requirements, and therefore has obtained a letter of support from the Group's ultimate parent, Serco
Group plc. Serco Group ple has indicated its intention to continue to make available such funds as are needed by the
Company for the period of this assessment. The Directors of the Company have been made aware of the going
concern assessment which has been performed in respect of the Group for the period ended 31 December 2023.

At 31 December 2023, the Group’s principal debt facilities comprised a £350.0m revolving credit facility maturing in
November 2027 (of which £nil was drawn) and £208.8m of US private placement notes, giving £558.8m of committed
credit facilities and committed headroom of £444.4m, being the undrawn credit facility plus cash of £94.4m. The
principal financial covenant ratios are consistent with the US private placement notes and revolving credit facility. As
at 31 December 2023, the Group's primary restricting covenant, its leverage ratio, is below the covenant of 3.5x and
is below the Group's target range of 1x-2x at 0.50x.

The Directors of the Group have undertaken a rigorous assessment of going concern and liquidity, taking into
account financial forecasts, as well as the potential impact of key uncertainties and sensitivities on the Group's future
performance. In making this assessment, the Directors of the Group have considered the Group's existing debt levels,
the committed funding and liquidity positions under its debt covenants, its ability to generate cash from trading
activities and its working capital requirements. The Directors have also identified a series of mitigating actions that
could be used to preserve cash in the business should the need arise.

The basis of the assessment continues to be the Board-approved budget which is prepared annually for the next two-
year period and is based on a bottom-up approach to all of the Group's existing contracts, potential new contracts
and administrative functions.

Owing to the unprecedented levels of inflation driven by geopolitical factors, the Directors of the Group have
considered the Group's resilience to rising costs. Due to the nature of the Group's operations, almost all of the
revenue base has some form of inflationary protection, whether it be through contractual indexation mechanisms,
cost plus billing or being short term in nature. Though the timing of such protections becoming effective may, in the
short term, differ from the impact of cost pressures, it is expected that the current inflation levels will not have a
material impact on the Group's profitability or cash flow.

The Directors of the Group believe that appropriate sensitivities in assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a
going concern are to model reductions in the Group's win rates for bids and extensions, and reductions in profit
margins. Due to the diversity in the Group's operations, the Directors of the Group believe that a reverse stress test of
these sensitivities to assess the headroom available under the Group's debt covenants and available liquidity
provides meaningful analysis of the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the headroom available,
the Directors are then able to assess whether the reductions required to breach the Group's financial covenants, or
exhaust available liquidity, are plausible.

This reverse stress test assumes that the US private placement loan of £51m due to mature during the assessment

period is repaid and no additional refinancing occurs. On this basis the Group can afford to be unsuccessful on 80%
of its bids and extensions and suffer a reduction in profit margin of 80 basis points below the Group's forecast, whilst

Page 6

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited

still retaining sufficient liquidity to meet alt liabilities as they fall due and remain compliant with the Group’s financial
covenants.

In respect of win rates, rebids and extensions have a more significant impact on the Group’s revenue than new
business wins during the assessment period. The Group has won more than 85% of its rebids and avaitable contract
extensions by volume over the last two years, therefore a reduction of 80% or more to the budgeted bid and
extensions rates is not considered plausible. The Group does not generally bid for contracts at margins below its
target range.

In respect to margin reduction, due to the diversified nature of the Group's portfolio of long-term contracts and the
fact that the Group has met or exceeded its full year guidance for the last five years, a reduction in margin of 80bps
versus the Group's budget is not considered plausible within the assessment period combined with an 80% reduction
in bid and extensions rates.

The Directors of the Group have reassessed the Group's going concern and liquidity at the time of signing these
financial statements, taking into account financial forecasts as well as the potential of key uncertainties and sensitives
on the Group’s future performance. Following the reassessment the Directors of the Group consider the full
assessment as described above, remains unchanged. .

Consequently, the Directors of the Group are confident that the Group will have sufficient funds to continue to meet
its liabilities as they fall due for at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements and have
provided a letter of support. The Directors of the Company have considered the above and conclude that the
Company will be a going concern based on this letter of support. The financial statements have therefore been
prepared on a going concern basis.

Research and Development

The Company is involved in research and development activities. The total credit relating to research and
development activities included in profit or loss for the year ended 31 December 2023 was £0.5m (2022: charge of
£0.5m).

Proposed Dividend

The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend (2022: fnil).

Employment of disabled persons
Full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment made by the disabled, having regard to their
aptitude and ability. Appropriate training is arranged, including retraining of employees who have become disabled.

Political contributions
The Company made no political donations or incurred any political expenditure during the year (2022: fnil).

Corporate Governance Arrangements
Corporate Governance Arrangements are referred to in the Strategic Report on page 3.

Branch offices
The Company operates through branches in France, Italy, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates.

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting is referred to in the Strategic Report on page 5.

Employee engagement
Employee Engagement is referred to in the Strategic Report on page 5

Disclosure of information to auditors

The Directors have taken steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditor is aware of that information. The Directors
confirm that there is no relevant information that they know of and of which they know the auditor is unaware.

Page7

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited

Risks and uncertainties

A review of risks is undertaken in the Strategic Report.

Reappointment of auditor
Pursuant to Section 487 of the Companies Act 2006, the auditor will be deemed to be reappointed and KPMG
LLP will therefore continue in office.

Post balance sheet events

There were no post balance sheet events affecting the Company since the year end.

Approved by the Board on 27 June 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

DocuSigned by:

Nog Dunant
\usass BECBSOOPFESB422::
N Girnary
Director

Page 8

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited

Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the
Strategic Report, the Directors’ Report and the Financial
Statements

The Directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic Report, the Directors' Report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they have
elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with UK accounting standards and applicable law (UK
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework.

Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In
preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:

- select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

- make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

- state whether applicable UK accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

- assess the Company's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to
going concern; and

- use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and
enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are responsible for
such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general responsibility for taking such steps as
are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other
irregularities.

Page 9

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Independent auditor's report
to the Members of Serco Limited

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Serco Limited (“the Company”) for the year ended 31 December 2023
which comprise the Income Statement, Statement of Comprehensive Income, Balance Sheet, Statement of Changes
in Equity and related notes, including the accounting policies in note 2.

In our opinion the financial statements:
- give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of its profit for the
year then ended;
- have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including FRS 101 Reduced
Disclosure Framework; and
- have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) ("ISAs (UK)") and applicable law.
Our responsibilities are described below. We have fulfilled our ethical responsibilities under, and are independent of
the Company in accordance with, UK ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard as applied to other
entities of public interest. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis
for our opinion.

Going concern

The directors have prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis as they do not intend to liquidate
the Company or to cease its operations, and as they have concluded that the Company's financial position means that
this is realistic. They have also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could have cast significant
doubt over its ability to continue as a going concern for at least a year from the date of approval of the financial
statements (“the going concern period").

In our evaluation of the directors’ conclusions, we considered the inherent risks to the Company's business model
and analysed how those risks might affect the Company's financial resources or ability to continue operations over
the going concern period.

Our conclusions based on this work:
- we consider that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the
financial statements is appropriate;
- we have not identified, and concur with the directors’ assessment that there is not, a material uncertainty
related to events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Company's
ability to continue as a going concern for the going concern period.

However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events may result in outcomes that
are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the time they were made, the above conclusions are not a
guarantee that the Company will continue in operation.

Fraud and breaches of laws and regulations - ability to detect
Identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement due to fraud

To identify risks of material misstatement due to fraud (“fraud risks”) we assessed events or conditions that could
indicate an incentive or pressure to commit fraud or provide an opportunity to commit fraud. Our risk assessment
procedures included:

-  Enquiring of directors, internal audit, internal legal counsel, and inspection of policy documentation as to the
Company's high-level policies and procedures to prevent and detect fraud, as well as whether they have
knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud.

- Reading Board of Directors meeting minutes.

- Considering remuneration incentive schemes and performance targets for management, directors and sales
staff.

- Using analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships.

Page 10

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Independent auditor's report continued

to the Members of Serco Limited

We communicated identified fraud risks throughout the audit team and remained alert to any indications of fraud
throughout the audit.

As required by auditing standards, and taking into account our overall knowledge of the control environment, we
perform procedures to address the risk of management override of controls and the risk of fraudulent revenue
recognition, in particular:

- the risk that management may be in a position to make inappropriate accounting entries;

- _ the risk of bias in accounting estimates such as assessing whether long-term contracts are onerous,
determining provisions for disputes and litigation are adequate and pension assumptions are appropriate;
and

- _ the risk that variable revenue is inappropriately recognised.

We did not identify any additional fraud risks.

We also performed procedures including:

- Identifying journal entries and other adjustments to test based on risk criteria and comparing the identified
entries to supporting documentation. These included those posted by senior finance management/ those
posted to unusual accounts, those posted with unusual key words, journals with unexpected pairings and
those posted to seldom accounts.

- Assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias.

Identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement related to compliance with laws and regulations

We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a material effect on the
financial statements from our general commercial and sector experience, and through discussion with the directors
and other management (as required by auditing standards), and from inspection of the Company's regulatory and
legal correspondence and discussed with the directors and other management the policies and procedures
regarding compliance with laws and regulations.

We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained alert to any indications of non-
compliance throughout the audit.

The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies considerably.

Firstly, the Company is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including financial
reporting legislation (including related companies legislation) and taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of
compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related financial statement items.

Secondly, the Company is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequences of non-compliance
could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition
of fines or litigation or the loss of the Company's license to operate. We identified the following areas as those most
likely to have such an effect:

- health and safety, given the front-line nature of many of the Company's operations;

- data protection laws;

-  anti-bribery and corruption, recognizing the Governmental nature of many of the Company's customers;
- employment law, due to the significant number of employees the Company employs;

- national security laws; and

- Single source procurement regulations in the UK, due to the contracting environment.

Auditing standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to
enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any.
Therefore, if a breach of operational regulations is not disclosed to us or evident from relevant correspondence, an
audit will not detect that breach.

Context of the ability of the audit to detect fraud or breaches of law or regulation

Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not have detected some
material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we have properly planned and performed our audit
in accordance with auditing standards. For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations
is from the events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently limited
procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.

In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of fraud, as fraud may involve collusion,
forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal controls. Our audit procedures are

Page 11


DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Independent auditor's report continued

to the Members of Serco Limited

designed to detect material misstatement. We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance or fraud and
cannot be expected to detect non-compliance with all laws and regulations.

Other information

The directors are responsible for the other information, which comprises the strategic report and the directors’
report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not
express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether, based on our financial
statements audit work, the information therein is materially misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or
our audit knowledge. Based solely on that work:
- we have not identified material misstatements in the other information;
- in our opinion the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year is
consistent with the financial statements; and
- in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:
- adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or
- the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
- certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
- we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in these respects.

Directors’ responsibilities

As explained more fully in their statement set out on page 8, the directors are responsible for: the preparation of the
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view; such internal control as they determine
is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due
to fraud or error; assessing the Company's ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters
related to going concern; and using the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the
Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue our opinion in an auditor's report. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance, but does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK)
will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.

A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRC’s website at www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities.

The purpose of our audit work and to whom we owe our responsibilities
This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's members those
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company's
members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

‘DocuSigned by:

Juliette [owes

unette Lawes (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants
15 Canada Square
London
United Kingdom
E145GL
27 June 2024

Page 12

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

Income Statement’
For the year ended 31 December 2023

2023

Note £m

Revenue" 4 2,089.9
Cost of Sales (1,934.9)
Gross profit 155.0
Administrative expenses (102.1)
Amortisation of intangible assets (5.2)
Exceptional operating items 99
Operating profit 57.6
Investment revenue’ 20.2
Finance costs’ 10 (10.6)
Profit before tax 67.2
Tax charge for the year 11 (13.3)
Profit for the financial year 53.9

The above results were derived from continuing operations.

The notes on pages 17 to 41 form an integral part of these financial statements.

2022
im
1,897.7
(1,772.7)
125.0
(104.4)
(7.3)
(9.9)
3.4

6.4
(5.6)
4.2
(1.3)
2.9

" Please see note 2.6 for the change in accounting policy relating to the presentation of these financial statements.

Page 13

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

Statement of Comprehensive Income

Profit for the year
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the period:

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement:'
Net actuarial (loss)/gain on defined benefit pension schemes

Tax related to retirement benefit obligation reserve

Items that may be reclassified subsequently to the income statement’:
Unrealised gain on derivatives
Tax credit on net hedging reserve

Total other comprehensive expense for the year

Total comprehensive income for the year

The notes on pages 17 to 41 form an integral part of these financial statements.

2023 2022

Note £m £m
53.9 29

20 (24.6) (108.0)
61 27.4

(0.8) 05

0.2 (0.1)

(19.1) (80.2)

34.8 (77.3)

Please see note 2.6 for the change in accounting policy relating to the presentation of these financial statements.

Page 14

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5~4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

Balance Sheet
At 31 December 2023

At 31 At31
December December
Note 2023 2022
£m fm

Non-current assets’
Goodwill 13 6.7 67
Other intangible assets 13 20.9 23.0
Property, plant and equipment! 14 402.0 376.5
Defined benefit pension asset “20 37.3 57.0
Trade and other receivables’ 17 0.1 385.9

Deferred tax assets 12 171.9 174.3
638.9 1,023.4

Current assets
Inventories" 16 12.4 11.7
Trade and other receivables’ 17 754.6 262.6
Current tax assets 2.2 40
Derivative financial instruments 23 0.14 0.6
. 769.3 278.9
Total assets 1,408.2 1,302.3
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables’ 18 (357.9) (378.5)
Bank overdraft (19.6) (35.8)
Current tax liabilities 11 - (1.4)
Derivative financial instruments 23 (0.3) -

Provisions 19 (31.8) (29.7)
(409.6) (445.4)

Non-current liabilities

Trade and other payables’ 18 (558.7) (457.5)
Provisions . 19 (24.9) (19.9)
(583.6) (477.4)
Total liabilities . (993.2) (922.8)
Net assets 415.0 379.5
Equity .
Called up share capital 21 0.8 0.8
Share premium account 1,108.9 1,108.9
Retained earnings’ (694.5) (730.6)
Other reserves (0.2) 0.4
Shareholder’s funds . 415.0 379.5

The notes on pages 17 to 41 form an integral part of these financial statements.
The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 27 June 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

DocuSigned by:
[esi nase

Director

' Please see note 2.6 for the change in accounting policy relating to the presentation of these financial statements.

Page 15


Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

DacuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Statement of Changes in Equity

At 1 January 2022
Profit for the year

Retirement benefit obligations
Hedging and translation reserve

Total comprehensive income/
(expense) for the year

Credits in relation to share based
payments

Share capital
£m

0.8

At 1 January 2023

Profit for the year

Retirement benefit obligations
Hedging and translation reserve

Total comprehensive income/
(expense) for the year

Credits in relation to share based
payments

At 31 December 2023

0.8

Share premium Other Retained

account Reserves* earnings Total
fm fm fm fm
1,108.9 - (662.2) 447.5
- - 29 29

- - (80.6) (80.6)

- 0.4 - 0.4

- 0.4 (77.7) (77.3)

- 0.0 9.3 9.3
1,108.9 0.4 (730.6) 379.5
- - 53.9 53.9

- - (18.5) (48.5)

- (0.6) - (0.6)

- (0.6) 35.4 34.8

- - 0.7 0.7
1,108.9 (0.2) (694.5) 415.0

0.8

?Other reserves relate to hedging and foreign currency translation reserves.

The notes on pages 17 to 41 form an integral part of these financial statements.

' Please see note 2.6 for the change in accounting policy relating to the presentation of these financial statements.

Page 16

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

Notes to the Financial Statements

1. General information
The Company is a private company limited by share capital, incorporated and domiciled in the United
Kingdom.

The address of its registered office is:
Serco House

16 Bartley Wood Business Park
Bartley Way

Hook

Hampshire

RG27 9UY

The registered company number is 00242246. The nature of the Company's operations and its principal
activities are set out in the Strategic Report on page 2.

These financial statements are presented in pounds Sterling because that is the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the Company operates.

The level of rounding is to the nearest tenth of a million ('m) unless otherwise stated.

2. Accounting policies

2.1 Summary of significant accounting policies and key accounting estimates
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These
policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

2.2 Basis of preparation
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101
Reduced Disclosure Framework {"FRS 101").

In preparing these financial statements, the Company applies the recognition, measurement and disclosure
requirements of UK-adopted international accounting standards in conformity with the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006 ("UK-adopted IFRSs"), but makes amendments where necessary in order to comply with
Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of the FRS 101 disclosure exemptions has been taken.

2.3 Summary of disclosure exemptions

As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that
standard in relation to share-based payments, revenue, financial instruments, capital management, presentation of
comparative information in respect of certain assets, presentation of a cash flow statement, fair value measurement,
standards not yet effective, impairment of assets and related party transactions.

This is because the Company is included within the consolidated financial statements of Serco Group ple which are
available from the address provided in note 26.

The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, except for the revaluation of certain financial
instruments. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and

services.

2.4 Exemption from preparing group accounts
The financial statements contain information about Serco Limited as an individual company and do not contain

consolidated financial information as the parent of a group.

The Company is exempt under section 400 of the Companies Act 2006 from the requirement to prepare
consolidated financial statements as it and its subsidiary undertakings are included by full consolidation in the
consolidated financial statements of its ultimate parent, Serco Group plc, a company incorporated in the United
Kingdom and registered in England & Wales.

2.5 New and amended standards and interpretations

There are no new or amended standards or interpretations for annual periods beginning on or after 1
January 2023 that have a material impact on the financial statements of the Company.

Page 17

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

2.6 Changes in accounting policies

The Directors have elected to adopt the presentation of financial statements in accordance with IAS 1, with
amendments if relevant to comply with the Companies Act 2006. The decision to change presentation was taken to
enhance comparability with other group undertakings of the Company's ultimate parent, Serco Group plc. The below
table summarises the impact of the changes in presentation.

Presentational item as at 31 December 2023 Presentational item as at 31 December 2022
Income Statement Profit and Loss Account

Revenue Turnover

Non-current assets Fixed assets

Investment Revenue Interest receivable and similar income

Finance Costs Interest payable and similar expenses
Inventories Stock

Trade and other receivables Debtors

Trade and other payables Creditors

Property, Plant and Equipment Tangible assets

Current tax assets ‘Corporation tax asset

Current tax liabilities Corporation tax liability

Retained earnings Profit and Loss Account

2.7 Going concern

The Company has net current assets of £359.4m as at 31 December 2023 (2022: £166.5m) including a £542.7m
intercompany receivable (2022: £385.8m) and a profit for the year then ended of £53.9m (2022: £2.9m). The
Company's financial forecasts for the period of going concern indicate that the Company has sufficient financial
resources to meet its financial obligations as they fall due during the period of assessment, considered to be at least
twelve months from the signing date of these financial statements.

The Company is dependent on the availability of the intercompany financing facility that it uses to meet its day to day
working capital requirements, and therefore has obtained a letter of support from the Group’s ultimate parent, Serco
Group plc. Serco Group plc has indicated its intention to continue to make available such funds as are needed by the
Company for the period of this assessment. The Directors of the Company have been made aware of the going
concern assessment which has been performed in respect of the Group for the period ended 31 December 2023.

At 31 December 2023, the Group’s principal debt facilities comprised a £350.0m revolving credit facility maturing in
November 2027 (of which £nil was drawn) and £208.8m of US private placement notes, giving £558.8m of committed
credit facilities and committed headroom of £444.4m, being the undrawn credit facility plus cash of £94.4m. The
principal financial covenant ratios are consistent with the US private placement notes and revolving credit facility. As
at 31 December 2023, the Group’s primary restricting covenant, its leverage ratio, is below the covenant of 3.5x and
is below the Group's target range of 1x-2x at 0.50x.

The Directors of the Group have undertaken a rigorous assessment of going concern and liquidity, taking into
account financial forecasts, as well as the potential impact of key uncertainties and sensitivities on the Group's future
performance. In making this assessment, the Directors of the Group have considered the Group's existing debt levels,
the committed funding and liquidity positions under its debt covenants, its ability to generate cash from trading
activities and its working capital requirements. The Directors have also identified a series of mitigating actions that
could be used to preserve cash in the business should the need arise.

The basis of the assessment continues to be the Board-approved budget which is prepared annually for the next two-
year period and is based on a bottom-up approach to all of the Group's existing contracts, potential new contracts
and administrative functions.

Owing to the unprecedented levels of inflation driven by geopolitical factors, the Directors of the Group have
considered the Group's resilience to rising costs. Due to the nature of the Group’s operations, almost all of the
revenue base has some form of inflationary protection, whether it be through contractual indexation mechanisms,
cost plus billing or being short term in nature. Though the timing of such protections becoming effective may, in the
short term, differ from the impact of cost pressures, it is expected that the current inflation levels will not have a
material impact on the Group's profitability or cash flow.

Page 18

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

The Directors of the Group believe that appropriate sensitivities in assessing the Group's ability to continue as a
going concern are to model reductions in the Group's win rates for bids and extensions, and reductions in profit
margins. Due to the diversity in the Group's operations, the Directors of the Group believe that a reverse stress test of
these sensitivities to assess the headroom available under the Group’s debt covenants and available liquidity
provides meaningful analysis of the Group's ability to continue as a going concern. Based on the headroom available,
the Directors are then able to assess whether the reductions required to breach the Group’s financial covenants, or
exhaust available liquidity, are plausible.

This reverse stress test assumes that the US private placement loan of £51m due to mature during the assessment
period is repaid and no additional refinancing occurs. On this basis the Group can afford to be unsuccessful on 80%
of its bids and extensions and suffer a reduction in profit margin of 80 basis points below the Group's forecast, whilst
still retaining sufficient liquidity to meet all liabilities as they fall due and remain compliant with the Group's financial
covenants. :

In respect of win rates, rebids and extensions have a more significant impact on the Group's revenue than new
business wins during the assessment period. The Group has won more than 85% of its rebids and available contract
extensions by volume over the last two years, therefore a reduction of 80% or more to the budgeted bid and
extensions rates is not considered plausible. The Group does not generally bid for contracts at margins below its
target range.

In respect to margin reduction, due to the diversified nature of the Group’s portfolio of long-term contracts and the
fact that the Group has met or exceeded its full year guidance for the last five years, a reduction in margin of 80bps
versus the Group's budget is not considered plausible within the assessment period combined with an 80% reduction
in bid and extensions rates.

The Directors of the Group have reassessed the Group's going concern and liquidity at the time of signing these
financial statements, taking into account financial forecasts as well as the potential of key uncertainties and sensitives
on the Group's future performance. Following the reassessment the Directors of the Group consider the full
assessment as described above, remains unchanged.

Consequently, the Directors of the Group are confident that the Group will have sufficient funds to continue to meet
its liabilities as they fall due for at least 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements and have
provided a letter of support. The Directors of the Company have considered the above and conclude that the
Company will be a going concern based on this letter of support. The financial statements have therefore been
prepared on a going concern basis.

2.8 Fair value

Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or is
estimated using another valuation technique. There are certain transactions in these financial statements which are
similar to fair value, but are determined by the treatment set out in their respective standards. These are: share-based
payment transactions that are within the scope of IFRS 2 Share-Based Payment; leasing transactions that are within
the scope of IFRS 16 Leases; or the calculation of net realisable value under IAS 2 Inventories and value in use under
IAS 36 Impairment of Assets.

2.9 Revenue"

The Company recognises revenue based on the principles set out in IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers
and is recognised based on the delivery of performance obligations and an assessment of when control is transferred
to the customer.

For all contracts, the Company determines whether each arrangement meets the definition of a contract under IFRS
15 and creates enforceable rights and obligations.

Contracts are combined if they are entered into at or near the same time and one or more of the
following criteria are met:

- They are negotiated as a package with a single commercial objective.

- Consideration receivable in one contract depends on the other contract.

- Goods or services are a single performance obligation.

For contracts with multiple components, Management applies judgement to consider whether those promised goods
and services are:
-  adeliverable (i.e. a good or a service) that is distinct; or
-  aseries of distinct deliverables that are substantially the same and that have the same pattern of transfer to
the customer (transferred over time using the same measure of progress).

‘ Please see note 2.6 for the change in accounting policy relating to the presentation of these financial statements.

Page 19

DacuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

At contract inception, the transaction price is the total amount of consideration to which the Company
expects to be entitled to in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer.

Once the total transaction price is determined, the Company allocates this to the identified performance obligations
in proportion to their relative stand-alone selling prices and recognises revenue when (or as) those performance
obligations are satisfied. Where there is only one performance obligation, no allocation is necessary as the full
transaction price is allocated to the single performance obligation.

Where there is more than one performance obligation, the Company looks at each performance obligation
separately to see if there is an observable price available, however due to the bespoke nature of the services
provided by the Company there is normally no observable stand-alone selling price and the expected cost-plus
margin approach is used. All bid models for new contracts are built up and negotiated with the customers on a cost-
plus margin basis and therefore this approach most accurately reflects the commercial reality and the value of the
benefits transferred to the customer.

The Company enters into contracts which contain extension periods where either the customer or both parties can
choose to extend the contract or there is an automatic annual renewal and/or termination clauses that could impact
the actual duration of the contract. Judgement is applied to assess the impact that these clauses have when
determining the appropriate contract term. |he term of the contract impacts both the period over which revenue
from performance obligations may be recognised and the period over which contract fulfilment assets and
capitalised bid and phase in costs are expensed.

Further details on revenue recognition for specific contract types are shown below.

Revenue recognition: Repeat service-based contracts

The majority of the Company's contracts are repeat service-based contracts where value is transferred to the
customer over time as the core services are delivered. Therefore, in most cases revenue will be recognised on the
output basis, based on direct measurements of the value to the customer of the services transferred to date relative to
the remaining services under the contract.

This is a faithful depiction of the transfer of services since the service delivered to the customer is unchanged. Where
the output method is used, the Company often uses a method of time elapsed which requires minimal estimation.
Certain repeat service-based contracts use output methods based upon user numbers; service activity levels; or fees
collected. Where any price reductions within output-based contracts are contractual, but the level of service is not
decreasing, revenue will be deferred from initial years to subsequent years in order for revenue to be recognised on
a consistent basis.

There are certain contracts where a separate performance obligation has been identified for services where the
pattern of delivery differs to the core services and which are capable of being distinct, such as asset construction or
asset maintenance. In these instances, where the transfer of control is most closely aligned to our efforts in delivering
the service, the input method is used to measure progress and revenue is recognised in direct proportion to costs
incurred. In limited circumstances, other methods are used to measure progress under the input method, including
resources consumed, time elapsed or labour hours expended. This is a faithful depiction of the transfer of services
because costs (or other inputs) most accurately reflect the incremental benefits received by the customer from efforts
to date.

Where deemed appropriate, the Company will utilise the practical expedient within IFRS 15, allowing revenue to be
recognised at the amount which the Company has the right to invoice, where that amount corresponds directly with
the value to the customer of the Company's performance completed to date.

Under IFRS 15, unless upfront fees received from customers including transition payments can be clearly attributable
to a distinct service the customer is obtaining, then such payments do not constitute a separate performance
obligation and instead are deferred and spread over the life of the core services.

In general, the timing of satisfaction of performance obligations is consistent with when payment becomes due, other
than in instances where up front win fees or transition payments are received, where in most instances these are
deferred, Any changes to the enforceable rights and obligations with customers and/or an update to the transaction
price will not be recognised as revenue until there is evidence of customer agreement in line with the Company's
policies.

Revenue recognition: Variable revenue

The Company has a number of contracts where at least an element of the revenue generated is variable in nature.
Variability in revenue recognised can arise from a number of factors, including usage related volumes, graduated
performance against contractual performance indicators, indexation linked pricing, profit sharing elements and

Page 20


DoguSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

customer decisions related to the provision of goods or services. Any variable amounts will only be recognised where
itis highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur.

Revenue recognition: Long-term project-based contracts
The Company has a limited number of project-based long-term contracts. Revenue associated with these contracts is
recognised at the point in time when control over the deliverable is passed to the customer.

Revenue recognition: Contract modifications

When a modification to an existing contract is approved, the Company first assesses whether it adds distinct goods or
services to the existing contract that are priced commensurate with the stand-alone selling prices for those goods or
services. If this is the case, then the modification is accounted for prospectively as a separate contract. If the pricing is
not commensurate with the stand-alone selling prices for the goods or services and the new goods or services are not
distinct from those in the original contract, then this is considered to form part of the original contract. Pricing is
updated for the entirety of the revised contract and any historic adjustments recorded as a result are recognised as a
cumulative adjustment to revenue in the period of the modification. If the pricing is not commensurate with the stand-
alone selling prices for the goods or services and the new goods or services are distinct from those in the original
contract, then this is considered to represent the termination of the original contract and the creation of a new
contract which is accounted for prospectively from the date of modification.

Revenue recognition: Other

Sales of goods are recognised when goods are delivered and title has passed. The Company has a limited number of
pass through arrangements in respect of goods or services procured by the Company on behalf of customers where
it assesses whether it is acting as a principal or as an agent.

The Company is acting as principal if it is in control of a good or a service prior to transferring to the customer and
gross revenue and costs are recognised.

More commonly, the Company is acting as agent where it is arranging for those goods or services to be provided to
the customer without obtaining control, for example, where the Company is engaged to manage operations for a
customer but procures goods or services on behalf and at the instructions of the customer in order to deliver the
operation. When acting as an agent, only the fee or commission is recognised as revenue and the costs represent
only the direct costs of facilitating the transaction.

Investment revenue from interest is accrued for on a time basis, by reference to the principal outstanding and at the
effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the
expected life of the financial asset to that asset's net carrying amount.

Dividend income from investments is recognised when the right to receive payments has been established.
The Company has no material exposure to returns or refunds

2.10 Tax
The tax expense represents the sum of current tax expense and deferred tax expense.

Current tax expense is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the
income statement because it excludes items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other years and it
further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Company's liability for current tax is calculated using
tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.

Deferred tax is provided, using the liability method, on temporary differences at the balance sheet date between the
tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for accounting purposes. Deferred tax assets are
generally recognised for all deductible temporary differences, carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax
losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which these items can be utilised.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill or from the
initial recognition of an asset and liability in a transaction other than a business combination and, at the time of the
transaction, it affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.

Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences arising on investments in subsidiaries, except
where the Company is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be utilised.

Page 21

DacuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the
asset is realised, based upon tax rates and legislation that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance
sheet date. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the income statement, except where it relates to items charged or
credited directly to equity, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in equity.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets
against current tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority where the
Company intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.

2.11 Retirement benefit costs .
Payments to defined contribution pension schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.

For defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit
actuarial cost method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each balance sheet date. Actuarial gains and
losses are recognised in full in the period in which they occur. They are recognised outside the income statement and
are presented in the statement of comprehensive income.

Both current and past service costs are the amounts recognised in the income statement, reflecting the expense
associated with the individuals. Current service cost represents the increase in the present value of the scheme
liabilities expected to arise from employee service in the current period. Past service cost is recognised immediately.
Gains and losses on curtailments or settlements are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the
curtailment or settlement occurs.

The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit
obligation as reduced by the fair value of scheme assets. Any asset resulting from this calculation is limited to the
present value of available refunds (which is only recognised to the extent that the Group has an unconditional right to
receive it) and reductions in future contributions to the scheme. To the extent that an economic benefit is available as
a reduction in future contributions and there is a minimum funding requirement required of the Company, the
economic benefit available as a reduction in contributions is calculated as the present value of the estimated future
service cost in each year, less the estimated minimum funding contributions required in respect of the future accrual
and benefits in that year.

Calculation of the amounts recognised in the financial statements in respect of defined benefit pension schemes
requires a high level of judgement, as further explained in note 3.

2.12 Foreign currency transactions and balances

Transactions in currencies other than Sterling are recorded at the rates of exchange on the dates of the transactions.
At each balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are
retranslated at the rates prevailing on the balance sheet date. Gains and losses arising on retranslation are included in
the net profit or loss for the period, except for exchange differences arising on non-monetary assets and liabilities
where the changes in fair value are recognised directly in equity through the statement of comprehensive income
(SOCI). Income and expense for overseas operations are translated at the average exchange rates for the period.

2.13 Goodwill

Goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair value of the net assets
acquired and is recognised as an intangible asset when control is achieved. Negative goodwill is recognised
immediately in the income statement. Fair value measurements are based on provisional estimates and may be
subject to amendment within one year of the acquisition, resulting in an adjustment to goodwill.

Goodwill itself does not generate independent cash flows and therefore, in order to perform required tests for
impairment, it is allocated at inception to the specific cash generating units (CGUs) or groups of CGUs which are
expected to benefit from the acquisition. On the disposal of a business which includes all or part of a CGU, any
attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.

The fair values associated with material business combinations are valued by external advisers and any amount of
consideration which is contingent in nature is evaluated at the end of each reporting period, based on internal
forecasts.

2.14 Other intangible assets
Material intangible assets are grouped into classes of similar nature and use and separately disclosed. Other
intangible assets are amortised from the date of completion.

Customer relationships can arise on the acquisition of subsidiaries and represent the incremental value expected to

be gained as a result of existing contracts in the purchased business. These assets are amortised over a period that
does not exceed the average length of the related contracts.

Page 22

DacuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

Licences comprise premiums paid for the acquisition of licences, while franchises represent costs incurred in
obtaining franchise rights arising on the acquisition of franchises. These are amortised on a straight-line basis over the
life of the respective licence or franchise.

Software and IT represent computer systems and processes used by the Company in order to generate future
economic value through normal business operations. The underlying assets are amortised over the average length of
the related contracts.

Development expenditure is capitalised as an intangible asset only if all of certain conditions are met, with all
research costs and other development expenditure being expensed when incurred. The period of expected benefit,
and therefore period of amortisation, is typically between three and eight years. The capitalisation criteria are as
follows:

-  anasset is created that can be separately identified, and which the Company intends to use or

- sell;

- the finalisation of the asset is technically feasible and the Company has adequate resources to complete its

development for use or sale;
- _ is probable that the asset created will generate future economic benefits; and
- the development cost of the asset can be measured reliably.

2.15 Property, plant and equipment’

Assets held for use in the rendering of services, or for administrative purposes, are stated in the balance sheet at cost,
net of accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment. Assets are grouped into classes of a similar nature
and use and separately disclosed except where this is not material.

Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis at rates designed to reduce the assets to their residual value over
their estimated useful lives.

The principal annual rates used are:

Freehold buildings 2.5%

Leasehold improvements The higher of 10% or the rate produced by the lease term

Machinery 15% - 20%

Vehicles 10% - 50%

Furniture 10%

Office equipment 20% - 33%

Right of use assets Equally over the lease term from inception or equally over the remainder of

the lease term from the date of a reassessment of the lease end date

The gain or loss arising on the disposal or retirement of an asset is determined as the difference between the sales
proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the income statement. Given that there is limited
history of material gains or losses on disposal of fixed assets, the level of judgement involved in determining the
depreciation rates is not considered to be significant.

2.16 Leases

On entering into a lease, a lease liability is recorded equal to the value of future lease payments discounted at the
appropriate incremental borrowing rate and, simultaneously, a right of use asset is created representing the right
conferred to control the manner of use of the leased asset. The Group typically uses an appropriate incremental
borrowing rate, based on the lease location and duration, as it typically does not have access to the interest rate
implicit in the lease.

Lease payments are apportioned between finance charges and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a
constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are charged directly to the income
statement and corresponding assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

The lease term is measured as the non-cancellable period of a lease, together with periods covered by an option to
extend the lease if it is reasonably certain that the option will be exercised, and periods covered by an option to
terminate the lease if it is reasonably certain that the option will not be exercised. The lease term is reassessed if an
event occurs which causes either the non-cancellable period to change, or another event occurs which changes the
assessment of the likelihood of exercising an option included in the lease.

All changes to leases are accounted for on a prospective basis fram the point at which the change is triggered.

' Please see note 2.6 for the change in accounting policy relating to the presentation of these financial statements.

Page 23

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

Where, on inception, the term of a lease is less than 12 months or the value of the leased asset is less than £5,000, or
both, rentals payable under the lease are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the term of
the relevant lease.

2.17 Asset impairment

The Company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets (including goodwill) at each
reporting period, together with any other assets under the scope of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, in order to assess
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. As the impairment of assets has
been identified as both a key source of estimation uncertainty and a critical accounting judgement, further details
around the specific judgements and estimates can be seen in note 3.

If any indication of impairment exists, the recoverable amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine if there
is any impairment loss. Goodwill is assessed for impairment annually, irrespective of whether there are any indicators
of impairment. Where the asset does not generate cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group
estimates the recoverable amount of the cash generating unit (CGU) to which the asset belongs.

Recoverable amount is defined as the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use,
the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value with reference to pre-tax discount rates that
reflect the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.

If the recoverable amount is estimated to be less than the carrying amount of the asset, the carrying amount is
impaired to its recoverable’ amount. Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the
carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU and then to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in
the CGU on a pro-rata basis.

An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in
prior periods are assessed at each reporting date for indications that the loss which led to the impairment has
decreased or no longer exists.

2.18 Inventories’

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and comprise service spares, parts awaiting
installation and work in progress for projects undertaken for customers where payment is received on completion.
Cost comprises direct materials and, where applicable, direct labour costs that have been incurred in bringing the
inventories to their present location and condition.

2.19 Trade receivables '

Trade receivables are recognised initially at cost (being the same as fair value) and subsequently at amortised cost
less any credit notes, provision for impairment and expected credit losses, to ensure that amounts recognised
represent the recoverable amount.

Determining whether a trade receivable is impaired requires judgement to be applied based on the information
available at each reporting date. A provision for impairment arises where there is evidence that the Company will not
be able to collect amounts due for reasons other than customer default, which is achieved by creating an allowance
for doubtful debts recognised in the income statement within expenses. When a trade receivable is expected to be
uncollectible for reasons other than credit-related losses, it is provided for within the allowance. Subsequent
recoveries of amounts previously provided for or written off are credited against expenses.

The majority of contracts entered into by the Company are with government organisations and therefore historic
levels of default are relatively low and as a result, the risks associated with this judgement are not considered to be
significant. An expected credit loss is recorded where there is evidence that a counterparty is at risk of default due to
their credit worthiness. If the loss was material, the amount would be presented separately in the Income Statement,
however, the Company’s customer base is predominantly government or government-backed and as a result, the
Company's expected credit loss at a given point in time across the entirety of the customer base is typically
immaterial.

2.20 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and balances with banks and similar institutions which are readily

convertible to known amounts of cash, subject to insignificant changes in value and have a maturity of three months
or less from the date of acquisition.

' Please see note 2.6 for the change in accounting policy relating to the presentation of these financial statements.

Page 24

DacuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited :
Registered number: 00242246

2.21 Financial instruments

Where financial assets are not measured at fair value through the income statement, there is a requirement to assess
the carrying value of the assets by reference to the expected credit loss (ECL) associated with the asset. Under the
ECL model, the Company calculates the allowance for credit losses by considering, on a discounted basis, the
shortfall in cash receipts it would incur in various default scenarios and multiplying the shortfalls by the probability of
each scenario occurring. The allowance is the sum of the probability weighted outcomes.

The primary financial assets carried by the Company which are not measured at fair value through the income
statement are trade receivables and intercompany receivables. Owing to the nature of counterparties in
intercompany arrangements, and a detailed review of the ability of those counterparties to settle obligations as they
fall due, there is no material ECL risk associated with intercompany balances. The Company's customer base is
predominantly Government or Government-backed, and as a result, the Company's ECL at any given point in time
across the entirety of the customer base is immaterial.

2.22 Trade payables '

Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of
business from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less
(or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.

Trade payables are recognised initially at the transaction price and subsequently measured at amortised cost using
the effective interest rate method.

2.23 Loans
Loans are stated at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method. Accrued interest is recorded separately
from the associated borrowings within current liabilities.

Loans are described as non-recourse loans and classified as such only if no Group company other than the relevant
borrower has an obligation, under a guarantee or other arrangement, to repay the debt.

2.24 Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Company has an obligation to make a cash outflow as a result of a past event.
Provisions are measured at the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the balance sheet
date when settlement is considered to be likely.

Onerous contract provisions (OCPs) arise when the unavoidable costs of meeting contractual obligations exceed the
remuneration expected to be received. Unavoidable costs include total contract costs together with a rational
allocation of shared costs that can be directly linked to fulfilling contractual obligations, which have been
systematically allocated to OCPs on the basis of key cost drivers except when this is impracticable, where contract
revenue is used as a proxy to activity. The provision is calculated as the lower of the termination costs payable for an
early exit and the best estimate of net cost to fulfil the Company's unavoidable contract obligations. Where a
customer has an option to extend a contract and it is likely that such an extension will be made, the expected net cost
arising during the extension period is included within the calculation. However, where a profit can be reasonably
expected in the extension period, no credit is taken on the basis that such profits are uncertain given the potential for
the customer to either not extend or offer an extension under lower pricing terms.

2.25 Share capital

Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Equity instruments are measured at the fair value of the cash or other
resources received or receivable, net of the direct costs of issuing the equity instruments. If payment is deferred and
the time value of money is material, the initial measurement is on a present value basis.

2.26 Share-based payments

Where the fair value of share options or shares under award requires the use of a valuation model, fair value is
measured by use of Binomial Lattice, Black-Scholes or Monte Carlo Simulation models depending on the type of
scheme, as set out in note 34 of the Group accounts. The expected life used in the models has been adjusted, based
on management's best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural
considerations. Where relevant, the value of the option or award has also been adjusted to take account of market
conditions applicable to the option or award.

2.27 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities

The Company may enter into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage the exposure to interest rate,
foreign exchange risk and price risk, including currency swaps, foreign exchange forward contracts, interest rate
swaps and commodity future contracts. Further details of derivative financial instruments are given in note 25 of the
Group accounts.

' Please see note 2.6 for the change in accounting policy relating to the presentation of these financial statements.

Page 25

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently
remeasured to their fair value at each balance sheet date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss
immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of
the recognition in profit or loss depends on the nature of the hedge relationship. The Company designates certain
derivatives as either hedges of the fair value of recognised assets or liabilities (fair value hedges), hedges of highly
probable forecast transactions or hedges of firm commitments (cash flow hedges).

At the inception of the hedge relationship, the Company documents the relationship between the hedging
instrument and the hedged item, along with its risk management objectives and its strategy for undertaking various
hedge transactions. Both at the inception of the hedge and on a periodic basis, the Company assesses whether the
hedging instrument that is used in a hedging relationship is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash
flows of the hedged item.

A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the instrument is
more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months. Derivatives, which mature
within 12 months, are presented as current assets or current liabilities.

Details of the fair values of the derivative instruments used for hedging purposes and movements in the hedging and
translation reserve in equity are detailed in the Statement of Comprehensive Income and described in note 25.

2.28 Fair value hedges

Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges are recorded in profit or
loss immediately, together with any changes in the fair value of the hedged item that is attributable to the hedged
risk. The change in the fair value of the hedging instrument and the change in the hedged item attributable to the
hedged risk are recognised in the line of the income statement relating to the hedged item.

Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Company de-designates the hedging relationship, the hedging
instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. The adjustment to
the carrying amount of the hedged item arising from the hedged risk is amortised to profit or loss from that date.

2.29 Cash flow hedges .

The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges
are deferred in equity. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Amounts accumulated in equity are reclassified to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or
loss, in the same line of the income statement as the recognised hedged item.

Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Company de-designates the hedging relationship, the hedging
instrument expires or is sold, terminated, exercised, or no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any cumulative gain
or loss deferred in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognised when the forecast transaction is ultimately
recognised in profit or loss. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss
that was deferred in equity is recognised immediately in profit or loss.

2.30 Net investments in foreign operations

Exchange differences arising on monetary items that form part of the Company's net investment in foreign operations
are initially recognised in equity and accumulated in the hedging and translation reserve and reclassified from equity
to profit or loss on disposal of the net investment. When monetary items no longer form part of a hedging
relationship, the exchange differences that arose during the time that the hedge was in place remain in the hedging
translation reserve until such time as the net investment is disposed of.

2.31 Dividends payable
Dividends are recorded in the Financial Statements in the period in which they are declared, appropriately authorised
and no longer at the discretion of the Company.

3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation
uncertainty

In the process of applying the Company's accounting policies, which are described in note 2 above,
management has made the following judgements that have the most significant effect on the amounts

recognised in the financial statements. As described below, many of these areas of judgement also
involve a high level of estimation uncertainty.

Page 26

DacuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

Key sources of estimation uncertainty

Provisions for onerous contracts .

Determining the carrying value of onerous contract provisions requires assumptions and complex judgements to be
made about the future performance of the Company's contracts. The level of uncertainty in the estimates made,
either in determining whether a provision is required, or in the calculation of a provision booked, is linked to the
complexity of the underlying contract and the form of service delivery. Due to the level of uncertainty and
combination of variables associated with those estimates, there is a significant risk that there could be a material
adjustment to the carrying amounts of onerous contract provisions within the next financial reporting period.

Major sources of uncertainty which could result in a material adjustment within the next financial year are:

¢ The ability of the Company to maintain or improve operational performance to ensure costs or performance
related penalties are in line with expected levels;
Volume driven revenue and costs being within the expected ranges;
The outcome of open claims made by or against a customer regarding contractual performance or
contractual negotiations taking place where there is expected to be a positive outcome from the Group's
perspective; and

* The ability of suppliers to deliver their contractual obligations on time and on budget.

In the current year, there has been an overall net charge of new and existing OCPs of £6.0m. Revisions have resulted
from triggering events in the current year, either through changes in contractual positions or changes in
circumstances which could not have been reasonably foreseen at the previous balance sheet date. To mitigate the
level of uncertainty in making these estimates, Management regularly compares actual performance of the contracts
against previous forecasts and considers whether there have been any changes to significant judgements.

The future range of possible outcomes in respect of those assumptions and significant judgements made to
determine the carrying value of onerous contracts could result in either a material increase or decrease in the value of
onerous contract provisions in the next financial year. The extent to which actual results differ from estimates made at
the reporting date depends on the combined outcome and timing of a large number of variables associated with
performance across multiple contracts.

The individual provisions are discounted where the impact is assessed to be significant. When used, discount rates
are calculated based on the estimated risk-free rate of interest for the region in which the provision is located and
matched against the ageing profile of the provision.

The Company undertakes a robust assessment at each reporting date to determine whether any individual customer
contracts, which the Company has entered into, are onerous and require a provision to be recognised in accordance
with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities & Contingent Assets. The Company operates a large number of long-
term contracts at different phases of their contract life cycle. Within the Company's portfolio there are a small number
of contracts where the balance of risks and opportunities indicates that they might be onerous if transformation
initiatives or contract changes are not successful. The Company has concluded that these contracts do not require an
onerous contract provision on an individual basis. Following the individual contract reviews, the Company has also
undertaken a top-down assessment which assumes that, while the contracts may not be onerous on an individual
basis, as a portfolio there is a risk that at least some of the transformation programmes or customer negotiations
required to avoid a contract loss will not be fully successful, and it is more likely than not that one or more of these
contracts will be onerous. Therefore, in considering the Company's overall onerous contract provision, the Company
has made a best estimate of the provision required to take into consideration this portfolio risk. As a result, the risk of
OCPs and the monitoring of individual contracts for indicators remains a critical estimate for the Group. As at 31
December 2023, the provision recognised in respect of this portfolio of contracts is £7.6m.

Onerous contract provisions totalling £6.0m are estimated for individual contracts, based on the specific
characteristics of the contract including possible contract variations, estimates of transaction price such as variable
revenues and forecast costs to fulfil those contracts. As noted above, the Group also holds a balance of £7.6m in
respect of the portfolio risk associated with operating a large number of long-term contracts, giving a total onerous
contract provision of £13.6m (see note 19). Management has considered the nature of the estimate for onerous
contract provisions and concluded that it is reasonably possible that outcomes within the next financial year may be
different from Management's assumptions and could, in aggregate, require a material adjustment to the onerous
contract provision. However, due to the estimation uncertainty across numerous contracts each with different
characteristics, it is not practical to provide a quantitative analysis of the aggregated judgements that are applied,
and Management does not believe that disclosing a potential range of outcomes would provide meaningful
information to a reader of the financial statements.

Whilst the focus of the judgement is to determine whether the Company is required to record an onerous contract
provision, Management also inherently assess whether any assets dedicated to the contract are required to be

Page 27


DacuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

impaired where contracts are forecast to make sustainable losses in the future. In accordance with IAS 37, the
Company will impair assets dedicated to the contract before the recognition of an onerous contract provision.

Retirement benefit obligations

Identifying whether the Company has a retirement benefit obligation as a result of contractual arrangements entered
into requires a level of judgement, largely driven by the legal position held between the Company, the customer and
the relevant pension scheme. The Company’s retirement benefit obligations are covered in note 20.

The calculation of retirement benefit obligations is dependent on material key assumptions including discount rates,
mortality rates, inflation rates and future contribution rates.

In accounting for the defined benefit schemes, the Company has applied the principle that the asset recognised for
the Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme (SPLAS) and the shared cost section of the Railways Pension Scheme is
equal to the full surplus that will ultimately be available to the Company as a future refund.

No pension assets are invested in the Company's own financial instruments or property.

Pension assets held by insurance companies including the annuity policies in SPLAS are valued at the equal and
opposite of the defined benefit obligations that they insure.

The SPLAS pension scheme invests into private debt funds which do not have an observable market price and are
remeasured to fair value at each reporting date. The valuation methodology relies upon the net asset value provided
by the fund administrator at 30 September adjusted for actual cash flows in the period to 31 December. The
Company has undertaken a risk assessment to assess whether this industry standard valuation methodology remains
the Company’s best estimate at 31 December and has concluded that although there is heightened estimation
uncertainty, this methodology provides the most accurate valuation and estimate for Management.

Critical accounting judgements

Deferred tax

Deferred tax assets are recognised on tax deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that
taxable profit will be available against which they can be utilised. Significant Management judgement is required to
determine the amount of the deferred tax asset that should be recognised, based upon the likely timing, geography
and level of future taxable profits.

A £171.9m UK deferred tax asset is recognised on the Company's balance sheet at 31 December 2023 (2022:
£174.3m). This is recognised on the basis of a sustained return to profitability of the UK business which will enable
future tax deductions and previous tax losses within the UK to be utilised.

Further details on deferred taxes are disclosed in note 12.

4. Revenue
The analysis of the Company's revenue for the year from continuing operations is as follows:
2023 2022
£m fm
Revenue as disclosed in the income statement 2,089.9 1,897.7

The Company manages its business on an operating segment basis and these segments are the basis on which the
Company reports its segment information. The Company's reportable operating segments are as follows:
Reportable operating segment Sector

UK & Europe Services for sectors including Transport and Community Services, Citizen Services,
Defence, Health, and Justice & Immigration delivered to UK Government, UK
devolved authorities and other public sector customers in the UK and Europe

Middle East Frontline services for sectors including Defence and Transport in the Middle East
region.

The analysis of the Company's revenue for the year by operating segment is as follows:

"Please see note 2.6 for the change in accounting policy relating to the presentation of these financial statements.

Page 28

.

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

2023 2022

: £m £m

UK & Europe 2,062.3 1,867.6
Middle East ‘ 27.6 30.1

2,089.9 1,897.7

The analysis of the Company's revenue for the year by geographic location is as follows:

2023 2022

fm fim

United Kingdom 2,042.6 1,849.8
Other 47.3 47.9

2,089.9 1,897.7

The following table shows the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations. This represents
revenue expected to be recognised in subsequent periods arising on existing contractual arrangements:

2023 2022

fm £m

Less than 1 year 1,758.4 1,417.5
Between 1-5 years 4,459.8 3,749.7
More than 5 years 2,802.7 3,246.5

9,020.9 8,413.7

5. Exceptional operating items

Exceptional items are non-recurring items of financial performance that are outside of normal practice and material to
the results of the Company either by virtue of size or nature. These items require separate disclosure on the face of
the income statement to assist in the understanding of the underlying performance of the Company.

2023 2022

fm fim

Costs associated with successful acquisitions - 09
Capital contributions to subsidiaries - 90
Compensation received on the early termination of contractual services (9.9) -
Exceptional operating items (9.9) 99

In 2023, an exceptional credit of £9.9m was received following the early termination of a contract.

In 2019 the Company's ultimate parent, Serco Group ple, settled on behalf of the Company's subsidiary, Serco
Geografix Limited, the fine it received from the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) in relation to issues with its Electronic
Monitoring contract reported in 2013. The settlement was made by way of a loan between Serco Group ple and
Serco Geografix Limited. In 2022, to facilitate the repayment of the outstanding loan, the Company made a non-
refundable and non-repayable capital contribution to its Subsidiary. The capital contribution was not made by way of
subscription for share capital since no new shares were issued. As Serco Geografix Limited no longer has a trade, the
investment was immediately impaired resulting in an exceptional charge of £7.3m.

During the year ended 31 December 2022, the Company also made a £1.7m non-refundable and non-repayable
capital contribution to its Subsidiary Serco Environmental Services Limited. The capital contribution was not made by
way of subscription for share capital as no new shares were issued. The investment was to allow Serco Environmental
Services Limited to settle a loan due to another Serco Group undertaking. As Serco Environmental Services Limited
no longer has a trade, the investment was immediately impaired resulting in an exceptional charge of £1.7m.

Also in 2022, exceptional costs of £0.9m were incurred on behalf of the Company's parent, Serco Holdings Ltd. for
the acquisition of OXZ Holdings AG.

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

6. Operating profit

Operating profit is stated after charging:

2023 2022

£m £m

Research and development costs 0.5 0.5
Operating lease expense? - property 1.2 0.6
Operating lease expense’ - plant and machinery 19 0.2
Staff costs 715.6 771.0
Amortisation of other intangible assets 5.2 7.3
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment - owned" 7.3 9.0
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment! - leased 84.9 78.0
Other exceptional operating items (9.9) 99

Lease asset impairment 0.7 24

The Group’s Audit Committee limits the non-audit work undertaken by the External Auditor and monitors the non-
audit fees paid during the year. Amounts payable to KPMG LLP and their associates by the Company in respect of
non-audit services are shown within the Group financial statements. The audit fees were £667,905 (2022: £480,000).

Operating lease expense relates to short term leases under IFRS 16.

7. Staff costs

The average number of persons employed by the Company (including Directors) during the year was 18,559 (2022:
21,518). The aggregate payroll costs {including Directors' remuneration) were as follows:

2023 2022

£m fm

(restated)

Wages and salaries” 621.3 666.2
Social security costs 60.5 65.0
Staff pensions 29.7 32.3
Share-based payment expense 41 75
715.6 771.0

*The prior year accounts disclosed a 2022 figure of £593.9m which excluded certain employee costs such as
overtime. An amount of £666.2m has been been included for 2022 in the current year accounts that is comparable to
the 2023 figure.

Under the Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP), eligible employees have been granted options or conditional share
awards with an exercise price of two or zero pence. Awards vest after the performance period of two to three years
and are subject to the achievement of certain performance measures, with the exception of non-performance awards.
These non-performance awards are only subject to continued employment on vesting dates which vary from two to
three years after the grant dates.

On the performance related awards, the performance measures are Earnings per Share (EPS), Total Shareholder
Return (TSR) and Return on Invested Capital (ROIC).

8. Directors’ remuneration
The Directors’ remuneration for the year was as follows:

2023 2022

fm £m

Directors’ remuneration 1.6 2.4
Long term incentive schemes 0.9 1.6
se

The number of Directors who were granted or exercised share options is:

‘ Please see note 2.6 for the change in accounting policy relating to the presentation of these financial statements.

Page 30

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

2023 2022
Granted share options 3 3
3 3

Exercised share options

None of the Directors are members of the Company's defined benefit or money purchase pension schemes.

The aggregate of remuneration and amounts receivable under long term incentive schemes of the highest paid
Director was £0.9m (2022: £1.1m), and Company pension contributions of £nil (2022: £nil) were made to a money
purchase scheme on their behalf.

During the year, the highest paid Director exercised share options and received shares under a long term incentive
scheme.

9. Investment revenue

2023 2022
£m im
Interest receivable from group undertakings 17.0 3.7
Net interest receivable on retirement benefit assets 3.2 2.7
20.2 6.4
10. Finance costs
2023 2022
fm fm
Interest payable to group undertakings 44 2.1
Interest payable under finance leases 6.2 3.5
10.6 5.6
11. Tax
Tax credited in the income statement:
2023 2022
£m fm
Current taxation
45 09

UK corporation tax

Adjustments in respect of prior years 2.2 2.0
Consortium relief (2.0)
6.7 0.9
Deferred taxation
Arising from origination and reversal of temporary differences 7.2 4.1
Adjustments in respect of prior years (0.5) (2.9)
Impact of change in deferred tax rate (0.1) (0.8)
Total deferred taxation 6.6 0.4
Tax charged/(credited) in the income statement 13.3 1.3

Factors affecting current tax charge for the year
The tax on profit before tax for the year is lower than (2022: higher than) the standard rate of tax in the UK of 23.5%

(2022: 19%). The differences are reconciled below:

" Please see note 2.6 for the change in accounting policy relating to the presentation of these financial statements.

Page 31

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

2023 2022
fm fm
Profit before tax 67.2 4.2
Corporation tax at standard rate 15.8 0.8
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.3 1.2
Unrelieved tax losses - 19
Other non taxable income (3.9) (1.3)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 17 (0.9)
Overseas rate differences (0.5) 0.4
Impact of change in deferred tax rate (0.1) (0.8)
Total tax charge/{credit) 13.3 1.3
12. Deferred tax
The movement in the deferred tax asset in the year is as follows:
2023 2022
£m £m
At 1 January 174.3 149.5
Deferred tax (charged)/credited to income statement! (6.6) (1.0)
Items taken directly to equity - retirement benefit obligations reserve 42 25.4
Tax taken directly to reserves - share-based payment (0.2) 0S
Tax taken directly to reserves - hedge reserves 0.2 (0.1)
171.9 174.3
2023 2022
fm £m
Difference between accumulated depreciation and amortisation and capital allowance 13.7 17.6
Share-based payments and employee benefits 7.3 75
Movement in retirement benefit obligations (7.3) (11.5)
Tax losses 152.4 156.2
Other temporary differences 5.7 46
Derivative financial instruments 0.1 (0.1)
171.9 174.3

Of the £6,594k deferred tax debited to the income statement, £6,658k has been credited to deferred tax on the
balance sheet, but a £64k debit in respect of the R&D expenditure credit has been debited to cost of sales (£64k),
rather than deferred tax on the balance sheet.

Factors affecting future tax rates

On 24 May 2021, legislation which increases the UK tax rate from 19% to 25% from April 2023 was substantively
enacted. These measures increase the Group's future current tax charge accordingly. The deferred tax balance at 31
December 2023 has been calculated reflecting the increased rate of 25%.

Unprovided deferred tax
2023 2022
im £m
Other temporary differences - 0.6
Capital losses 1A 1.2
1.1 1.8

As noted above, the deferred tax asset provided at 31 December 2023 has been recognised at the tax rate
applicable at the time the temporary differences are expected to reverse. Capital losses have not been provided as it
is not currently expected that there will be future capital gains against which to offset them.

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

13. Goodwill and other intangible assets

Development Customer

Goodwill Software expenditure relationships Total
fm fm fm £m £m

Cost
At 1 January 2023 239.1 82.2 52.4 12.5 386.2
Additions - 2.1 15 - 3.6
Disposals - (1.1) - - (1.1)
Exchange differences - (0.1) (0.2) - (0.3)
At 31 December 2023 239.1 83.1 53.7 12.5 388.4
Accumulated amortisation and impairment : -
At 1 January 2023 (232.4) (68.0) (52.0) (4.1) (356.5)
Amortisation charge - (4.2) (0.2) (0.8) (5.2)
Disposals - 0.6 - - 0.6
Impairment - - - - -
Exchange differences - 0.1 0.2 - 0.3
At 31 December 2023 (232.4) (71.5) (52.0) (4.9) (360.8)
Net book value -
At 31 December 2023 6.7 11.6 1.7 76 27.6

14. Property, plant and equipment

Furniture, Fittings &

Land & Buildings Equipment Motor vehicles
Owned Leased Owned Leased Owned Leased Total
£m £m £m £m fim £m £m

Cost
At 1 January 2023 4.0 509.1 47.7 6.2 27.1 72.4 666.5
Additions - 113.4 45 - 3.5 97 131.1
tet oyapications provision booked _ 09 _ _ _ _ 09
Disposals (0.6) (28.1) (7.0) (0.2) (15.5) (5.9) (87.3)
Reclassifications 0.1 (0.1) 1.5 (1.5) 9.2 (9.2) -
Exchange differences - (0.1) (0.1) - - - (0.2)
At 31 December 2023 3.5 595.1 46.6 45 24.3 67.0 741.0
Depreciation
At 1 January 2023 2.8 189.8 35.5 5.1 19.1 37.7 290.0
Charge for the year - 74.9 5.8 0.4 15 9.6 92.2
Eliminated on disposal (0.6) (19.0) (6.6) (0.2) (15.5) (2.5) (44.4)
Reclassifications 0.1 (0.1) 15 (1.5) 9.0 (9.0) -
Impairment charge 0.2 0.7 (0.8) - 1.2 - 1.3
Exchange differences - - (0.1) - - - (0.1)
At 31 December 2023 2.5 246.3 35.3 3.8 15.3 35.8 339.0
Net book value
At 31 December 2023 1.0 348.8 11.3 0.7 9.0 31.2 402.0

15. Investments

The Company holds 100% of the ordinary shares of Serco Environmental Services Ltd. This entity is incorporated in
the United Kingdom and was in liquidation at 31 December 2023 and at the date of signing the accounts. No
activities were pursued in the year to 31 December 2023. The address of Serco Environmental Services Ltd is 82 St.
John Street, London, EC1M 4JN, United Kingdom.

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

The Company operates through branches in France, Italy, Qatar, and the United Arab Emirates.

16. Inventories

2023 2022
fm fm
Service spares, supplies & consumables 11.5 10.7
Work in progress (goods to be sold) 09 1.0
12.4 11.7

17. Trade and other receivables
2023 2022
Amounts falling due within one year fim fm
Amounts owed by group companies 575.1 53.3
Trade receivables' . 62.1 74.2
Other receivables’ 9.8 5.5
Prepayments 48.9 51.1
Contract assets 58.7 78.5
754.6 262.6

Amounts owed by group companies have a fixed repayment date. Interest is charged on the balance of LIBOR minus
0.2%. On 31 March 2023 the synthetic LIBOR rate was discontinued and was replaced by the Bank of England base
rate in this calculation of interest.

The trade receivables balance is stated after an allowance for doubtful debts of £0.3m (2022: £0.5m). Movements on
the Company's allowance for doubtful debts are as follows:

2023 2022

im fm

AttJanuary OO OSS
Net charges and releases to income statement (0.2) (0.1)
0.3 0.5

2023 2022

Contract assets fm £m
Accrued income and unbilled receivables 54.2 73.6
Capitalised bid costs 0.3 0.3
Capitalised mobilisation and phase in costs 4.2 4.6
58.7 78.5

Deferred bid and phase in costs are held within contract assets as due within one year. These assets represent up-
front investment in contracts which are recoverable and expected to provide benefits over the life of those contracts.
Bid costs are capitalised only when they relate directly to a contract and are incremental in securing the contract. Any

costs which would have been incurred whether or not the contract is actually won are not considered to be.

capitalised bid costs.

Deferred bid and phase in costs are held within contract assets as they are realised as part of the normal operating

cycle of the Company.

2023 2022

Amounts falling due after more than one year £m £m
Amounts owed by group companies - 385.8
Other receivables’ 0.1 0.1
0.1 385.9

" Please see note 2.6 for the change in accounting policy relating to the presentation of these financial statements.

Page 34

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

18. Trade and other payables
2023 2022

Amounts falling due within one year fm £m
46.1 59.4

Trade payables

Other taxes and social security 45.4 44.6
Other payables! 3.3 44
Accruals 108.9 123.3
Contract liabilities 15.9 40.5
Amounts owed to group companies 25.4 -
Lease liabilities 412.9 106.3

357.9 378.5

2023 2022
Amounts falling due after more then one year fm fm
Amounts owed to group companies 248.3 196.1
Contract liabilities 40.4 15.2
Lease liabilities 270.0 246.2

558.7 457.5

The allocation of contract liabilities between current and non-current is presented on the basis that the current
portion will unwind in the following 12 months through revenue. There were no material items in the current portion
of contract liabilities in 2022 which did not unwind during the year.

Amounts owed to group companies have a repayment date of 5 years from the effective date, being 1 January 2028.
From the effective date of 1 January 2023, interest is charged on the balance at LIBOR equivalent plus 2.25%. On 31
March 2023, the synthetic 1 Month GBP LIBOR was discontinued and replaced by the Bank of England base rate in
the calculation of interest.

19. Provisions

Employee Other

Property Contract benefits —_ provisions Total

£m fm £m fm £m

At 1 January 2023 13.8 3.4 7.6 24.8 49.6
Charged to the income statement’ 5.2 13.6 47 46 28.1
Released to the income statement! (1.4) (0.6) {0.3) (5.7) (8.0)
Utilised (2.3) (2.8) (1.9) (6.6) (13.6)
ght of ditapidations provisions booked to 0.9 _ _ _ 09
Exchange differences - - (0.3) - (0.3)
At 31 December 2023 16.2 13.6 98 17.1 56.7
Non-current liabilities 12.3 6.0 0.3 6.3 249
Current liabilities 3.9 7.6 95 10.8 31.8

Total provisions held by the Company at 31 December 2023 amount to £56.7m (2022: £49.6m).

Property provisions relate to leased properties which are either under-utilised or vacant and where the unavoidable
costs associated with the lease exceed the economic benefits expected to be generated in the future, and it also
includes dilapidations in occupied properties. The provision has been calculated based on the discounted cash
outflows required to settle the lease obligations as they fall due, with the longest running lease ending in March 2037.

Contract provisions relate to onerous contracts which will be utilised over the life of each individual contract. The
present value of the estimated future cash outflows required to settle the contract obligations as they fall due over the

respective contracts has been used in determining the provision. The individual provisions are discounted where the
impact is assessed to be material.

' Please see note 2.6 for the change in accounting policy relating to the presentation of these financial statements.

Page 35

DoeuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

Employee related provisions relate primarily to restructuring of Serco Group plc’s UK & Europe division. This
restructure is expected to be completed and the balances settled in 2024.

Other provisions are held for legal and other costs that the Company expects to incur over an extended period.
These costs are based on past experience of similar items and other known factors and represent management's best
estimate of the likely outcome. They will be utilised with reference to the specific facts and circumstances, with the
majority expected to be settled by 31 December 2027.

Individual provisions are only discounted where the impact is assessed to be significant. Currently, the effect of
discounting is not material.

20. Pension and other schemes

Defined benefit pension schemes
i) Characteristics and risks
The Company contributes to defined benefit schemes for qualifying employees in the UK.

There are two non-contract specific schemes which are Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme (SPLAS) and a non-
contract specific section of the Railways Pension Scheme (RPS). The funding policy for the UK pre-funded schemes is
to contribute amounts which will achieve 100% funding on a projected salary basis based on regular actuarial
valuations.

The Company also makes contributions under Admitted Body status for one section of the Local Government Pension
Scheme for the period to the end of the relevant customer contract. The Company is required to pay regular
contributions as decided by the respective scheme actuary and as detailed in each scheme’s schedule of
contributions. In addition, the Company may be required to pay some or all of any deficit (as determined by the
respective scheme actuary) that is remaining at the end of the contract.

In respect of Local Government Pension Schemes, as there is a residual liability, the Company recognises a sufficient
level of provision in these financial statements based on the IAS 19 Employee Benefits valuation at the reporting date
and contractual obligations.

Scheme funding
The normal contributions expected to be paid during the financial year for all schemes ending 31 December 2024

are £5.4m (2022: £4.9m).

The assets of funded schemes are held independently of the Company's assets in separate trustee administered
schemes. The trustees of each pension scheme are required by law to act in the interest of the scheme and of all
relevant stakeholders in the scheme. The trustees of the pension schemes are responsible for the investment policy
with regard to the assets of the scheme. The Company's schemes are valued by independent actuaries annually using
the projected unit credit actuarial cost method for accounting purposes. This reflects service rendered by employees
to the date of valuation and incorporates actuarial assumptions including discount rates to determine the present
value of benefits, inflation assumptions, projected rates of salary growth and life expectancy of pension plan
members. Discount rates are based on the market yields of high-quality corporate bonds in the country concerned.
Pension assets and liabilities in the different defined benefit schemes are not offset.

The schemes typically expose the Company to risks that impact the financial performance and position of the
Company and may affect the amount and timing of future cash flows. The key risks are set out below:

- Investment risk. The schemes hold assets with which to discharge the future liabilities of these schemes.Any
decline in the value of these investments directly impacts on the ability of the schemes to meet its
commitments and could require the Company to fund this shortfall in future years. SPLAS's investment
strategy aims to reduce volatility risk by better matching assets to liabilities and is based on the actuarial
funding basis. 48% of the scheme’s assets are annuity policies, which result in an insurer funding the future
benefit payments to the relevant members and therefore eliminate the risk of changes in the future value of
the benefits to the scheme. The investment strategy outside of the annuity has a benchmark allocation of
45% Liability Driven Investments (LDIs), 40% Buy and Maintain Credit and 15% Private Debt. The main asset
classes that make up the LDI investments are gilts and corporate bonds with inflation and interest swap
overlays and are therefore linked to the key drivers of the scheme’s liabilities.

- Interest risk. The present values of the defined benefit schemes’ liabilities are calculated using a discount
rate determined by reference to high-quality corporate bond yields and therefore a decrease in the bond
interest rate will increase the schemes’ liabilities. This will be partially offset by an increase in the return of the
schemes’ debt investments.

Page 36

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

- Longevity risk. The present values of the defined benefit schemes’ liabilities are calculated by reference to
the best estimate of the mortality of the schemes’ participants, both during and after their employment. An
increase in the life expectancy of the schemes’ participants will increase the schemes liabilities.

- Inflation risk. The present values of the defined benefit schemes’ liabilities are calculated to include the effect
of inflation on future purchasing power based on estimations around inflation rates. An increase in expected
future inflation rates will increase the schemes’ liabilities.

- Salary risk. The present values of the defined benefit schemes’ liabilities are calculated by reference to the
future salaries of the schemes’ participants, as such, an increase in the salary of the schemes’ participants will
increase the schemes liabilities.

Serco Pension and Life Assurance Scheme (SPLAS)

The largest non-contract specific schemes is SPLAS. The most recent full actuarial valuation of this scheme was
undertaken as at 5 April 2021 and completed in May 2022. The actuarially assessed deficit for funding purposes was
£70.0m. The increase to the actuarially assessed deficit for funding purposes was as a result of the RPI reform
announced by the UK government to take effect from 2030.

Pension obligations are valued separately for accounting and funding purposes and there is often a material
difference between these valuations. As at 31 December 2023, the estimated actuarial deficit on a funding basis for
SPLAS was £23.0m (2022: £27.0m) whereas the accounting valuation resulted in an asset of £30.5m (2022: £47.5m).
The primary reason a difference arises is that pension scheme accounting requires the valuation to be performed on
the basis of a best estimate whereas the funding valuation used by the trustees makes more prudent assumptions.

The schedule of contributions for SPLAS was agreed during 2022, with 44.3% of pensionable salaries for active
employees due to be paid in regular contributions from 1 June 2022. The schedule of contributions also determined
that additional shortfall contributions were required and the Group has committed to make deficit recovery payments
of £6.6m per year by 31 March from 2022 to 2030. An annual assessment of the shortfall is performed and if the
scheme is determined to be in a surplus position the shortfall contributions due by 31 March are deferred to the
following year. If the shortfall calculated in the annual assessment is less that than the cumulative shortfall due to date,
the contribution is capped at the shortfall calculation and any excess is carried forward to the next year.

ii) Events in the year

During the year there continued to be a high degree of volatility in the pensions market. Discount rates and short-
term inflation rates had been rising since 31 December 2021. Concerns over high global inflation, recession, rising
interest rates and sharp rises in bond yields continued through to the third quarter of 2023 and, as inflation fell and
interest rates rose, bond yields fell slightly below the levels at 31 December 2022.

Despite the volatility, Serco’s pension schemes remain in a strong funding position and have an accounting surplus,
before tax, the decrease in the net retirement benefit asset of £19.7m is as a result of the following:
- Discount rates being lower than prior year resulting in an increase in pension obligation
- Actual inflation in 2023 was higher than prior year assumptions resulting in an experience adjustment
increasing pension obligations
- Updated mortality assumptions to reflect the latest available actuarial projections resulting in a reduction to
pension obligations
- Reductions to long term RPI inflation assumptions have resulted in a decrease to pension obligations

Page 37

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

iii) Value recognised in total comprehensive income in the year
The amounts recognised in the financial statements for the year are analysed as follows:
2023 2022
fm £m

ey a
Recognised in the income statement

Current service cost - employer 1.6 3.5
Settlement gain recognised - (0.4)
Administrative expenses and taxes 2.0 2.4
Recognised in arriving at operating profit 3.6 5.5
Interest income on scheme assets - employer (48.9) {27.8)
Interest cost on scheme liabilities - employer 45.7 25.1
Finance income (3.2) (2.7)
Total recognised in the income statement 0.4 2.8
included within the SOCI

Actual return on scheme assets 36.7 (539.6)
Less: interest income on scheme assets (48.9) (27.8)
Net return on scheme assets (12.2) (567.4)
Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 24.6 20.9
Effect of changes in financial assumptions (16.4) 515.0
Effect of experience adjustments (20.6) (76.5)
Total recognised gain/{loss) in the SOCI (24.6) (108.0)

iv) Balance sheet values

The SPLAS Trust Deed gives the Company an unconditional right to a refund of surplus assets, assuming the full
settlement of plan liabilities in the event of a plan wind-up. Pension assets are deemed to be recoverable and there
are no adjustments in respect of minimum funding requirements as economic benefits are available to the Company
either in the form of future refunds or, for plans still open to benefit accrual, in the form of possible reductions in
future contributions.

Present Present
Fair value of value of Fair value of value of
scheme scheme Surplus/ scheme scheme Surplus/
assets liabilities (deficit) assets liabilities (deficit)
2023 2023 2023 2022 2022 2022
£m £m £m fm £m £m
SPLAS 916.9 (886.5) 30.4 925.3 (877.8) 47.5
Other Schemes in surplus 70.5 (63.6) 6.9 71.5 {62.3) 9.2
Net retirement benefit asset 987.4 (950.1) 37.3 996.8 (940.1) 56.7
v) Pension asset values
The scheme asset values at 31 December are:
2023 2022
£m fm
Scheme assets fair value
Equities 31.1 35.5
Bonds except LDI 136.4 150.6
Pooled investment funds (Audax, Golub and Ares) 145.0 140.0
LDI 235.8 217.7
Property 0.2 0.2
Cash and other 8.7 12.1
Amounts held by insurance companies 430.3 441.0
Fair value of scheme assets 987.5 997.1
Present value of scheme liabilities (950.2) (940.1)
Net retirement benefit asset . 37.3 57.0

As required by IAS 19 Employee Benefits, the Company has considered the extent to which the pension plan assets
should be classified in accordance with the fair value hierarchy of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement.

' Please see note 2.6 for the change in accounting policy relating to the presentation of these financial statements.

Page 38

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

Equity and Bonds all virtually have quoted prices in active markets and are classified as level 1, except for the unitised
equity and bond fund investments in the non-contract specific section of the Railways Pension Scheme which are
Level 2 or Level 3 based on the Net Asset Value provided by the fund administrator.

Pooled investment funds have no observable market price and the valuation is based on the Net Asset Value
provided by the fund administrator at 30 September adjusted for actual cash flows in the period to 31 December.
Therefore, these investments are classified as level 3.

LDIs are valued at fair value which is typically the Net Asset Value provided by the fund administrator and are
classified as level 2.

LDls are valued at fair value which is typically the Net Asset Value provided by the fund administrator. The LDIs are
comprised of a mix of Level 1 and Level 2 instruments, including corporate/government bonds priced at their quoted
bid price, derivatives made up of interest rate/inflation swaps and payables in respect of repurchase agreements.

Amounts held by insurance companies are valued at the equal and opposite of the defined benefit obligations that
they insure and are classified as level 3.

Changes in the fair value of scheme liabilities are analysed as follows:

2023 2022
£m £m
At 1 January 940.2 1,430.2
Current service cost - employer 1.6 3.5
Scheme participants’ contribution 0.3 0.3
Interest cost - employer 45.7 25.1
Benefits paid (50.0) (51.2)
Effect of changes in financial assumptions (24.6) (514.9)
Effect of changes in demographic assumptions 16.4 (20.9)
Effect of experience adjustments 20.6 76.4
Plan settlements - (8.4)
At 31 December 950.2 940.1
Changes in fair value of scheme assets are analysed as follows:
2023 2022
£m £m
At 1 January 997.0 1,579.7
Interest income on scheme assets - employer 49.1 27.8
Administrative expenses and taxes (2.0) (2.4)
Employer contributions . 5.4 18.1
Contribution by employees 0.3 0.3
Benefits paid (50.0) (51.2)
Return on scheme assets less interest income (12.3) (567.3)
Plan settlements ~ (7.9)
At 31 December 987.5 997.1

vi) Actuarial assumptions: SPLAS

The assumptions set out below are for SPLAS, which reflects 86% of total liabilities and 87% of total assets of the
defined benefit pension scheme in which the Company participates. The significant actuarial assumptions with
regards to the determination of the defined benefit obligation are set out below.

The Company continued to set RPI inflation in line with the market break-even expectations less an inflation risk
premium. The inftation risk premium has remained at 0.3% both at 31 December 2022 and at 31 December 2023.

The average duration of the benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period is 12 years (2022: 12 years).

Page 39

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

2023 2022
Significant actuarial assumptions % %
Discount rate 4.80 % 5.00 %
Rate of salary increase 2.85 % 2.90 %
RPI inflation . 3.05 % 3.20 %
CPI inflation 2.35 % 2.40 %

2023 2022
Post retirement mortality Years Years
Current pensioners at 65 - male 20.9 21.5
Current pensioners at 65 - female 23.6 24.1
Future pensioners at 65 - male 22.8 23.6
Future pensioners at 65 - female 25.6 26.2

Sensitivity analysis for SPLAS is provided below, based on reasonably possible changes of the assumptions occurring
at the end of the reporting period, assuming all other assumptions are held constant. The sensitivities have been
derived in the same manner as the defined benefit obligation as at 31 December 2023 where the defined henefit
obligation is estimated using the Projected Unit Credit method. Under this method each participant's benefits are
attributed to years of service, taking into consideration future salary increases and the scheme’s benefit allocation
formula. Thus, the estimated total pension to which each participant is expected to become entitled at retirement is
broken down into units, each associated with a year of past or future credited service. The defined benefit obligation
as at 31 December 2023 is calculated on the actuarial assumptions agreed as at that date. The defined benefit
obligation as at 31 December 2023 is calculated on the actuarial assumptions agreed as at that date. The sensitivities
are calculated by changing each assumption in turn following the methodology above with all other things held
constant. The change in the defined benefit obligation from updating the single assumption represents the impact of
that assumption on the calculation of the defined benefit obligation.

2023 2022
Increase/(decrease) in defined benefit obligation of SPLAS £m fm
Discount rate - 1.0% increase (93.8) (93.4)
Discount rate - 1.0% decrease 114.1 113.8
Inflation - 1.0% increase 741 68.0
Inflation - 1.0% decrease (69.1) (68.1)
Rate of salary increase - 1.0% increase 1.5 1.6
Rate of salary increase - 1.0% decrease (1.3) (1.5)
Mortality - one year age rating 26.6 25.4

Management acknowledges that the method used of presuming that all other assumptions remaining constant has
inherent limitation given that it is more likely for a combination of changes but highlights the value of each individual
risk and is therefore a suitable basis for providing this analysis.

The increase or decrease in the defined benefit obligation in the sensitivity table above would be offset by the
corresponding movement in the scheme’s assets. A 1% change in the long-term gilt yields consistent with the
discount rates would result in an approximate offsetting movement of £90.0m (2022: £100.0m) in the scheme’s LDI
investment and a 1% change in long term inflation expectation would result in an approximate offsetting movement
of £60.0m (2022: £70.0m) in the scheme’s LDI Investment.

Defined contribution pension scheme
The Company paid employer contributions of £26.7m (2022: £27.3m) into UK defined contribution schemes, foreign
defined contribution schemes and foreign state pension schemes.

Serco participated in certain pre-funded defined benefit pension arrangements relating to contracts, including
participations in public sector schemes, however, contractual protections are in place allowing actuarial and
investment risk to be passed to the end customer via recoveries for contributions paid.

The nature of these arrangements varies from contract to contract but typically allow for the majority of contributions
payable to the schemes in excess of an initial rate agreed at the inception to be recovered from the end customer, as
well as exit payments payable to the schemes at the cessation of the contract, such that the Group's net exposure to
actuarial and investment risk is immaterial. Cash contributions are recognised as pension costs and no asset or
liability is shown on the balance sheet.

Page 40

DocuSign Envelope ID: FFD4CBC9-96C5-4AB8-8086-9E87 100A3456

Serco Limited
Registered number: 00242246

21. Share capital
Allotted, called up and fully paid shares

2023 2023 2022 2022
Allotted, called up and fully paid shares fm Number fm Number
Ordinary share capital of £1 each 0.8 800,776 0.8 800,776

22. Contingent liabilities

The Company, together with its ultimate parent and certain other subsidiaries, is included within interest pooling
arrangements involving cross guarantee structures. The overdraft balance was £19.6m at 31 December 2023 (2022:
£35.8m).

Serco Limited is a cross-guarantor with other group companies on a joint and several basis in respect of the
borrowing facilities of the Serco Group. These relate to Bank Debt facilities and US private placement bonds. As at
31 December 2023, the total facility amounts were £350.0m (2022: £350.0m) for the revolving credit facility and
£208.8m (2022: £266.4m) for the US private placements.

The Company is aware of claims and potential claims which involve or may involve legal proceedings against the
Company. The Directors are of the opinion, having regard to legal advice received and the Company's insurance
arrangements, that it is unlikely that these matters will, in aggregate, have a material effect on the Company's financial
position.

23. Derivative financial instruments

Assets - Liabilities Assets Liabilities

2023 2023 2022 2022

£m £m £m £m

Forward foreign exchange contracts 0.1 (0.3) 0.6 -
Analysed as

Current 0.1 (0.3) 0.6 -

The Company is exposed to foreign currency transaction risk on costs. Any material transactional exposure that does
arise is hedged by the Group Treasury function using forward foreign currency contracts. Hedges on highly probable
forecast transactions or commitments have been designed as cash flow hedges.

All currency derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are highly effective and the fair value loss of £0.2m arising in
the year (2022: gain of £0.6m) has been deferred in equity.

24. Parent and ultimate parent undertaking
The Company's immediate parent is Serco Holdings Limited.

°

The ultimate parent and controlling party is Serco Group plc, a company incorporated in the United Kingdom and
registered in England and Wales, Serco Group plc is the parent undertaking of the smallest and largest group to
consolidate these financial statements. These financial statements are available upon request from the Company
Secretary, Serco Group plc, 16 Bartley Wood Business Park, Bartley Way, Hook, Hampshire, RG27 9UY.

25. Post balance sheet events

There were no post balance sheet events affecting the Company since the year end.

Page 41

