Shooters Hill Sixth Form College L
Annual Report and Financial Statements a

Year ended 31 August 2024 oa

Company Limited by Guarantee oa .! :
Registration Number 4 . t
08270802 (England and Wales)

aaa ES “0 =

A aS Ea

21012025
COMPANIES HOUSE

ie 7

.Y SMOOTERS HILL

Transforming Lives


Contents

Reports

Reference and administrative information

Trustees’ report
Governance statement

Statement on regularity, propriety and
compliance

Statement of Trustees’ responsibilities
Independent auditor's report

Independent reporting accountant's
report on regularity

Financial Statements
Statement of financial activities
Balance sheet

Statement of cash flows
Principal accounting policies

Notes to the financial statements

1
3
20

25
26
27

32

&88 & &

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College

Reference and administrative information

Members

Trustees

College Strategic Group
(Senior leadership team)
Principal

Deputy Principal
Assistant Principal
Assistant Principal
Assistant Principal
Assistant Principal
Assistant Principal
Assistant Principal

HR Director

Chief Financial Officer

Registered office

Company registration
number

Independent external
auditor

Mother A van den Hof (appointed 11 September 2019)
Karen Hunter (re-appointed 8 July 2020)

Helen Laker (re-appointed 8 July 2020)

Dennis Hyland (appointed 24 May 2022)

Jacqueline Gray (reappointed by members 22 May 2023 Chair from 8 July 2020)
Valliyappan Balaguru (reappointed by members 22 May 2023)
Spencer Drury (resigned 3 July 2024)

Fred Gichuhi (resigned 3 July 2024)

Clive Mardner (reappointed by members 22 May 2023)

Pamela Morgan (appointed 6 December 2022, Parent Trustee)
Paul Proctor (resigned 26 March 2024)

Scott Rattray (resigned 01 June 2024)

Dominic Scarlett (reappointed by members 22 May 2023)

\vis Williams (co-opted trustee, appointed 07 December 2023)
Andrew Stanley (co-opted trustee appointed 8 September 2021)
Anthony Chan (Parent Trustee, appointed 7 December 2023)

‘Geoffrey Osbome

Theresa Bray

Sophie Farmer

Andrea Knight

Natalie Osborne

Alexander Rolfe (resigned 31 March 2024)
Nicole Schnappauf

Danville. Berbeck (appointed June 2024)
Larrissa Alexander

Mary Obemeasor

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College
Red Lion Lane

London

SE18 4LD

United Kingdom

08270802 (England and Wales)

Buzzacott LLP
130 Wood Street
London

EC2vV 6DL

.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 1

Reference and administrative information

Independent internal
auditor

Bankers

Solicitors

Kreston Reeves Chartered Accountants
Montague Place, Quayside

Chatham Maritime

Chatham

Kent

ME4 4QU

Lloyds Bank

78 New Road
Gravesend
Kent

DA11 OAR
United Kingdom

Eversheds Sutherland LLP
1 Wood Street

London

EC2V 7WS

United Kingdom

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College

2

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

The Trustees present their statutory report together with their financial statements of Shooters
Hill Sixth Form College (also referred to in this document as the ‘Academy Trust’, the ‘College’,
or the ‘charitable company’) for the year from 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024.

The report has been prepared in accordance with Part 8 of the Charities Act 2011 and
constitutes the directors’ report for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006. The annual
report serves the purposes of both a trustees' report, and a directors’ report, and strategic
report under Company law.

The Academy Trust operates an academy for students aged 16-19 and up to 25-year-olds for
High Needs students and those with an Educational and Health Care Plan (EHCP), servicing
a catchment area in Woolwich, Royal Greenwich Borough, and Southeast London.

The College has a student capacity for learners of 1,500 and had a roll of 1,892 for funding
purposes in the 2023 academic year. The Trust was oversubscribed during the academic
year.

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the accounting policies set
out therein and comply with the Academy Financial Handbook, Articles of Association,
applicable laws and Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended
Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with the Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the United Kingdom (FRS 102).

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT

Constitution ; ;

The Academy Trust is a company limited by guarantee (Company Registration No. 08270802)
and Is an exempt charity with no share capital. The charitable company’s memorandum and
articles of association are the primary goveming documents for the purpose of company law.
Shooters Hill Sixth Form College was incorporated on 26 October 2012 and obtained
Academy status from 1 November 2012.

The Full Governing Board (FGB) are the trustees of Shooters Hill Sixth Form College and are
also the directors of the company for the purposes of company law. The term Governors,
Trustees, and Directors are used interchangeably within this document. Details of the trustees
who served throughout the period and to the date of approval of this report, except as noted,
are included in the Reference and Administrative Details on page 1.

Method of recruitment and appointment or election of Trustees
At the first FGB meeting of the academic year, the Board confirmed the appointment of those
serving and its sub committees for 2023-24 academic year.

Trustees are appointed on a 4-year term of office to ensures a staggered re-election or
replacement process as trustees retire, they may wish to resign before the term ends if they
want to do or are free to run for a second 4-year term.

Members of the Trust do not need to be reappointed.

Trustees are appointed in line with the Department for Education (DFE) Academy
Governance guidance, and this includes appointment, application, and peer recommendation.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 3

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT (continued)

Method of recruitment and appointment or election of Trustees (continued)

When appointing a new trustee, the board considers a range of skills and experience within
existing membership to ensure that the board has the necessary skills to contribute fully to
the Academy's development and strategic direction.

As set out in college’s articles of association the number of Trustees shall be not less than 3.
The Academy Trust has the following Trustees:

@ Six (6) Trustees appointed by Members under Article 50.

@ One (1) Staff Trustee, comprising teachers and support staff, subject to Article 50A.
@ Two (2) parent Trustees appointed under Articles 53-56B.

@ Two (2) Co-opted Trustees appointed under Article 58.

Policies and procedures adopted for the induction and training of Trustees.

New Trustees on appointment have an induction programme to understand their roles and
responsibilities and how the Full Governing Board and its Committees operate led by the
Chair and governance professional. This includes meetings with the Chair, Govemance
Professional and the CEO/ Principal, who is also the Accounting Officer, to explain key issues
facing the Trust and a tour of the academy trust.

The new Trustees undergo a skills audit and are offered additional training to address any
highlighted training needs. The Trustee Training Plan for the academic year is included within
the Quality Improvement Plan (QIP) and attend their first meeting of the Full Governing Board
as observers.

New Trustees are introduced to the Governor Hub Portal used by all trustees and the College
website links to essential policies and procedures, agendas and minutes, handbooks,
guidance notes, strategic documents, and other links.

Trustee's indemnities

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College is a member of the Department for Education (Df) Risk
Protection Arrangement (RPA), an alternative to insurance where UK government funds cover
losses that arise. This scheme protects Trustees, Members and Officers from claims arising
from negligent acts, errors or omissions occurring whilst on academy business, and provides
cover up to an aggregate amount of £10,000,000 in one membership year.

Members’ liability

Each member of the charitable company undertakes to contribute to the assets of Shooters
Hill Sixth Form College in the event of it being wound up while they are a member, or within
one year after they cease to be a member, such amount as may be required, not exceeding
£10, for the debts and liabilities contracted before they ceased to be a member.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 4

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT (continued)

Organisational Structure

The organisational structure of the academy trust consists of the Full Governing Board (Board
of Trustees/Directors/FGB); Committees; the Principal and the College Strategic Group
(CSG) and wider College Leadership Group (CLG).

The Full Governing Board (Board of Trustees/FGB) constituted under memorandum and
articles of association, is responsible for ensuring that high standards of corporate
governance are maintained.

The Full Governing Board, who meet at least once a term, supported by its committees, is
responsible for strategic leadership role; creating robust accountability and ensuring financial
probity. Trustees are linked based on their experience or interest to key College strategic
areas of Employability, Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion; High Needs and SEND;
Safeguarding; GDPR, Estates and Health and Safety, T Levels, Digital Services, Science,
Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM) and to the Student Leadership Council.

During the financial year, a review of the effectiveness of Board governance including.
structure, management and decision-making processes was conducted by an independent
external third party, Stone King LLP with recommendations on improving governance
submitted to the Board. An action plan to address those recommendations is in place,
monitored by the Full Governing Board. The principal, the College Strategic Group (CSG) and
wider College Leadership Group (CLG) run and manage the Trust on a day-to-day basis at
an executive level, implementing the policies set by the Full Governing Board and reporting
back to them through the committee structure. The purpose of this management structure is
to distribute responsibility and accountability and to encourage involvement in decision
making at all levels of its entire staff to support continual improvement.

The Board setup a Committee structure to improve oversight and strengthen governance and
determines membership, terms of reference and delegated responsibilities and procedures
for its committees. It receives minutes and reports from each committee for consideration
and/or ratification and monitor their activities through reports from the relevant Chairs to the
Full Governing Board. The following Committees are in place during the period ended 31
August 2024:

Finance & HR.
Quality & Standards.
Audit & Risk.
Nominations.

Pay & Personnel.

eefee ¢

The Committees have their own terms of reference detailing their responsibilities as
determined by the Board. The terms of reference and meeting frequency for each Committee
are reviewed annually by each committee and approved by the Full Governing Board.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 5

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT (continued)

Organisational Structure (continued)

The terms of reference for the Finance & HR; Quality & Standards; and Audit & Risk are
contained within the Scheme of Delegation. Pay & Personne! Committee meet once a year
to review the Trust's pay policy and agree the recommendations put forward by the principal
for the annual pay increases for all staff employed by the Trust. The Pay & Personnel
Committee also sets the annual pay increase for the principal.

At the end of each academic year the schedule of committee meetings for the following
academic year is compiled by the Governance Professional (formerly called Clerk to the
Governing Board), circulated, and agreed at the at the final Full Governing Board of the year
in preparation for the start of the next academic year.

Papers relating to financial planning and performance are provided to the Audit & Risk and
Finance & HR Committees and are summarised with different emphasis at each meeting
before papers go to the Full Governing Board. Advice and guidance for Trustees is updated
annually in the Schemes of Delegation and includes details of the sub-committee framework
and functions as well as information on how the Academy operates, the roles and
responsibilities of the Governing Board, its standing orders and the role of the trustees and
the structure of the Trust’s College Strategic Group (CSG) comprising of the College's senior
management.

Decisions reserved for the consideration of the Full Governing Board include proposals for
changes to the constitution of the Academy, committee structure, appointment or removal of
the Chair, Vice Chair, appointment of the Principal and/or Accounting Officer, and
Governance Professional, approval of College Quality Improvement Plan (QIP), Self-
Assessment Review (SAR) and, on the recommendation of the Finance & HR and Audit &
Risk Committees to the Board, the budget and year-end Annual Report and Financial
Statements.

The Board devolves responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Academy to the
Principal through the Scheme of Delegation. The principal directs the College Strategic Group
(CSG) which consists of Deputy Principal, Assistant Principals, Chief Financial Officer, and
HR Director. The College Strategic Group (CSG) and wider College Leadership Group (CLG);
meet on a frequent basis at an executive level implementing the policies laid down by the
Trustees and reporting back to them, providing evidence, assurance reports, and data
analysis at Board meetings, enabling Trustees to monitor effectively and discharge their
oversight functions.

The Principal, as the Accounting Officer, operates within the Trustee approved Schemes of
Delegation; and is responsible for staff appointment with representatives from the Full
Governing Board as part of the interview panel for senior appointments. Authorisation of
spend within agreed budgets are summarised in the Scheme of Delegation approved by the
Board annually.

An annual general meeting (AGM) for Members is held annually at which financial year-end
matters are presented, aimed at keeping members updated on relevant developments that
impact on their roles and responsibilities. intemal and external training for trustees is
undertaken throughout the academic year as required in the skills audit and Quality
improvement Plan (QIP).

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 6

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT (continued)

Arrangements for setting pay and remuneration of key management personnel.
Shooters Hill Sixth Form Academy Trust has a set of banded pay scales to which staff are
appointed. These have been benchmarked against other schools and academies. Staff pay
and progression are reviewed annually, including a performance management appraisal, to
ensure value for money is delivered.

The Board has determined through its Pay and Personnel Committee that the pay scale for
leadership posts will be in line with Schoo! Teachers’ Pay and Conditions Document (STPCD)
minimum and maximum levels by taking account of the volume and complexity of the
College's, and that the Pay and Personnel Committee will use reference points when making
pay determinations.

The performance management appraisal for the Principal is undertaken by the Chair of the
Board of Trustees in a panel with other Board members. The pay range for the Principal will
be seven points and five points for other leadership posts. Pay and Personnel Committee was
chaired by the Vice Chair of Finance & HR Committee and comprised of two other Trustees
and the Chair of Trustees. Annual review by Pay and Personnel Committee agrees the
College Strategic Group (CSG) salaries for recommendation to the Board. The Principal
undertakes an annual review of other staff salaries, in accordance with the Pay Policy.

Trade union facility time

No time was spent by relevant union officials on paid trade union activities during contracted
employment hours in the relevant period from 01 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 for
purposes of reporting under the Trade Union (Facility Time Publication Requirements)
Regulations 2017.

Equality, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion

During the financial year 2023-24, the Trust appointed an Equality, Diversity, Equity and
Inclusion (EDEI)Officer, a dedicated post with the aim of promoting good relations and
practices for all staff and students. The role is dedicated to fostering the personal and
professional growth of all our members, ensuring that each person feels valued, supported,
and empowered; within a thriving community where every individual, both students and staff
alike can flourish.

The Trust’s Equality, Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (EDEI) Champions, comprising of
teaching and support staff meets regularly with the EDEI officers to drive EDEI strategy, under
the leadership of the Principal and Director of HR and present their report and
recommendations to the Full Governing Board yearly.

The Trustees recognise that equality, diversity, equity and inclusion should be an integral part
of good practice within the Trust, creating a working environment in which the contribution
and needs of all people are fully valued and respected. The Trust recognise and protects the
characteristics as outline in the Equality Act 2010.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 7

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT (continued)

Disabled persons

The policy of the Academy Trust is to support the recruitment and retention of students and
employees with disabilities. Disabled employees are accorded equality of opportunities for
training, career development and promotion.

We recognise that young persons with special educational needs or disabilities often need
supported opportunities to gain access to the workplace. The college currently has internships
for such young people working with three local empldyers and the Department for Work and
Pensions (DWP) to access support and job coaches for young people. Success stories
include young people who have gone on to work in finance, marketing, facilities operatives
and catering and hospitality.

The Trust is a disability confident employer.

Related parties and other connected charities and organisations

There are no third-party related activities which control or significantly influence the decisions
and operations of the Trust; and no sponsors or formal parent teacher associations associated
with the academy.

However, the Trust's collaborations in the Community include Greenwich School Sports
Partnership (GSSP), collaborating with local schools, employers, and community groups. All
funds associated with the partnership are for the benefit of primary sport.

The Trust is a member of the Sixth Form Colleges Association (SFCA) network and works in
close partnership with the Royal Greenwich Borough and other community groups to help
support College improvements and benchmarking in sharing good practice and expertise in
all aspects of teaching and learning as well as educational, administration, leadership, and
management.

OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES

Shooters Hill Sixth Form Academy Trust's vision is to create an inclusive education providing
a broad curriculum mix was its paramount commitment for all students regardless of ability,
race, religion, gender, ethnicity, colour, sexuality, or class. The Strategic vision of the Trust to
2027 is to:

@ Create a truly inclusive environment that is fully accessible to individual needs of learners
and enhancing social mobility.

¢@ Provide high quality student experience that enables personal growth, development, and
confidence.

@ Develop staff into truly inspirational practitioners.
«Enhance the Trust's digital capabilities and access to learning beyond the timetable.
«@ Further develop the Trust's capacity to sustain growth and expand the offerings to meet

local context.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 8

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

OBJECTIVES AND ACTIVITIES (continued)
The key priorities during 2023-24 were to:

¢@ Continue to embed pedagogical approaches to check that students are learning.

@ Continue to improve the teaching, learning, and assessment in mathematics, science,
business, construction and hair and beauty.

«@ Further develop the potential of growth by securing external opportunities to increase
student numbers.

«@ Fully implement the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion strategy.
@ Significantly improve the digital capabilities of all staff.
¢@ Further develop the Leadership capabilities of the College Leadership Group.

¢# Continue to embed a culture of high expectations and standards that truly impacts on the
student experience.

@ Improve the overall effectiveness of Governance.

To realise the Trust's objectives and principal activity in establishing, maintaining, managing,
and developing through teaching and learning, and balanced curriculum plan, the Trust need
to:

¢ Work collaboratively to ensure a positive, safe, and rewarding experience for the
community.

¢@ Value faimess for all in promoting personal growth.
¢@ Leading by example with compassion, empathy and understanding, and
# Conducting ourselves with honesty, integrity, and respect.

The Trust prepares leamers for different destinations through higher qualifications levels for
university, employment opportunities including apprenticeships, and independent living.

Public benefit

The Trust's Articles of Association state that it exists for the benefit of public education which
is free at point of use and Trustees can confirm that they have complied with the duty in
Section 4 of the Charities Act 2006 to have due regard to the Charity Commissioner's general
guidance on public benefit in exercising their powers or duties, for the benefit of the
inhabitants of Greenwich and the surrounding areas of Southeast London.

The Academy promotes the provision of facilities for recreation and leisure time to the local
neighbourhood in the interests of community cohesion, social welfare and with the objective
of improving wellbeing of those involved with the students and their guardians, parents, and
carers.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 9

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT

Achievements and performance

The Trust has had a remarkable year in continuing to meet challenges with strength,
compassion and unwavering support for staff, students and wider community. The college
welcomed 1892 learners of mixed-ability and muiti-culturally diverse pupils with its values and
ethos of transforming students’ lives by inspiring them to take advantage of the high quality
educational and enrichment opportunities on offer.

Awards have increased to 88%, 1% above our KPI of 87% and above the national average
by 8.1%. Certificate programmes have significantly increased to 85.2%, a 6.1% increase and
above the national average by 2.3%. Level 2 English and Maths is in line with last year, 75.2%
compared to 75.2% and is above the national average by 5.3%. A level equivalents”, continue
to improve, overall achievement has improved by 1.7% to 86.1%, just 0.9% below the KP! of
87%.

In 2023/24, overall achievement was 77%, in line with 22/23, which was also 77%. This is 2%
below the predicted: outcome and 10% below the College target of 87%,excluding
mathematics and English qualifications our overall achievement is 82.9%. increased the pass
rate this year by 2.3%. The College Strategy Group (CSG) are confident that achievement
rates will rise again for 2024-25.

During the academic year, 2023-24, the college achieved a “Good” rating from OFSTED for;

Quality of education.

Persona! development.

Leadership and management.

Education programmes for young people.
Provision for learners with high needs.

ff ©

The Trust received an Outstanding rating for Behaviour and attitudes and the OFSTED report
confirmed that safeguarding arrangement are effective.

During the year, the Trust was awarded T-Level Wave 5 Capital grant of £273k and T-Level
Specialist Equipment Allocation of £191k for T level Business and Administration and Creative
Arts and Design.

The Trust made two bids to the Department for Education (DfE) Condition Improvement Fund
(CIF). The first bid was replacing the failed Flat Roof coverings to Block EFAA as many
instances of water ingress have been reported and continue to cause disruption to the college.

The second bid was for safeguarding upgrade as students do not have a sufficient protection
system in place and therefore cars and delivery vehicles could cause serious harm.
Unfortunately, the Trust was not successful with either bid but the Trust undertook the
necessary work out of the reserves.

The Trust has an enhanced focus on students and staff health and wellbeing by putting in
place a range of measures such as flexible working arrangements, Employee Assistance .
programme and Private Health benefit for all staff.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 10

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Achievements and performance (continued)
Student's mental health post-pandemic continue to be an area the college has invested in by
having a trained counsellor to provide support services and various enrichment activities.

The College provides a link school support for 14-16-year-old secondary schools students
with an alternative provision of offering vocational courses with core subjects. During 2023-
24, the College welcomed fifty (50) students from five (5) local colleges and schools.

The College caters well for a broad spectrum of students on full time study programmes and
offer a wide range of programmes including vocational qualifications and Advanced level
courses.

[Typeofcourse Number
[Vocational 590 | 84.04% |
8.30%

Foundation Leaming 7.66%
4992 | 100% |

The composition of the student cohort remains comparatively stable year-on-year, the gender
breakdown of students in 2023-24 was:

[Gender Number
44.40%

[Mate 052 55.60%
[Total 92] 100%

Students in receipt of Free School Meals (FSM) was 32% as a large percentage of students
come from lower income backgrounds; this is compared with the number of pupils eligible for
free school meats nationally for all schools as 24.6% (23.8& in 2022-23). A total of 13.85% of
our students had Education Health and Care Plans (EHCP) compared with 17.68% in 2022-
23.

Other characteristics |_Number [| % |

Education Health and Care Plan (EHCP) | 262 | 13.85%
Free Schoo! Meals (FSM) 32.03%

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 11

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Achievements and performance (continued)

College cohort Borough breakdown
Students from the Royal Greenwich Borough represents about 52% of the total cohorts with

48% coming from neighbouring boroughs, Bexley and Lewisham, followed by Bromley
borough.

[Borough Number
[Barking Dagenham 187%
[Bexey 810 16.38%
[Croydon 0.26%
[Dartford 827%
| RoyalGreenwich Borough 51.59%
[eambeth 042%
[Medway TT 0.87%
[Newham et 81%
pOther 184%

The ethnicity of our students is broadly representative of the borough as detailed in the table
below:

2023-24 2022-23 2022-23 2021-22
Number - % Number % Number %

;

Ethnicity

Any other Asian background
Any other Black / African /
Caribbean background

Any other ethnic group

Any Other Mixed / multiple
ethnic background

Any Other White background

eo

Bangladeshi

Chinese
English / Welsh / Scottish /
Northem Irish / British

Gypsy or Irish Traveller

£
g

Not provided

Pakistani

White and Asian

White and Black African
White and Black Caribbean
Totat

|
[|
a)
[70 |
anes
a
|
[0 |
anc
[2]
ad

1,892

Nn
=

» 2 = ela s
E3 2 s &

elelels
ARE

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 12

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)
Achievements and performance (continued)
Key performance indicators

Quality of Education

100% of teaching and learning at expected standard or better.
Increase the percentage of staff at above expected to 20%.
Student Achievement rate at 87% or better.

Students Vocational Achievement rate at 90% or better.

T Level Achievement 90% (NEW).

A level Achievement rate at 87% or better.

A level ALPS grade 2 rate or better.

BTEC ALPS grade 2 rate or better.

English and Math’s grade 3 to grade 4 conversion rate 40%.
Foundation Math's and English (Functional skills): 87%.
Retention at 93% or above.

The proportion of students progressing up a level improves to 80%.

eee e+e Oe HH HHH OH

Behaviour and Attitudes
@ Attendance 90% or better.

Personal Development and Wellbeing

@ College success rate (achievement + positive destination) 87%.

@ Less than 2.5% of students leaving the College should not be NEET by September.

@ The number of students benefiting from high quality work experience- 75% or more.

@ 100% of students undertaking T Levels to be undertaking a placement.

@ 100% of students have access to and engage with an employer relevant to their course
of study.

Provision for Learners with High Needs
@ The proportion of students undertaking external work experience should represent the
overall cohort.

Overall Effectiveness

To ensure a high level of student satisfaction (90% + positive) in the summer term survey.
Improve the enrolment target to 2000+.

Proportion of the budget spent on staffing at 70%.

Increase the out of hours use of the College site by 25%.

Refurbish a further 25% of the college estate.

Maintain the average group size at 18.

oe ef © Oo

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 13

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT

Going Concern

The Trust's financial position is healthy with free reserves of £4,992,000 as of 31 August 2024,
with forecasted surplus of £424,000 in 2024-25. The Trust had net current assets on 31
August 2024 of £4,982,000 (2023 — £4,796,000).

Considering the positive financial position and growth in student, Trustees have a reasonable
expectation that the College has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for
the near future. For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going concern basis in
preparing the accounts.

Financial review

Principal Funding Sources

The Trust's income is from the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA), which is part of
the Department for Education (DfE), in the form of GAG funding/recurrent grants, which is
restricted to specific purposes. The grants received from the ESFA during the year ended 31
August 2024 and the associated expenditure are shown as restricted funds in the Statement
of Financial Activities.

The trust also receives £583,000 T Level Wave 4 capital grants for fixed assets from the
ESFA.

Total income for the year ended 31 August 2024 amounted to £19,496,000 (2023:
£15,188,000).

Total expenditure for the year ended 31 August 2024 amounted to £17,849,000 (2023:
£15,060,000).

The largest component of the College's expenditure is in relation to its staff costs which
totalled £12,337,000 (2023: £10,428,000).

Overall net income (before actuarial gains and losses on the Local Government Pension
Scheme (LGPS)) in 2024 was therefore £1,647,000 (2023: £128,000). After accounting for
actuarial gains of £70,000 (2023: actuarial gains of £1,578,000) on the LGPS, the overall net
increase in the Academy Trust's fund balances in August 2024 were £1,717,000 (2023: net
increase of £1,706,000).

Excluding movements relating to the Academy Trust's fixed assets and the effects of non-
cash adjustments made in respect of the LGPS liability, the operational surplus for the year
(before the utilisation of revenue reserves to finance investment in fixed assets) amounted to
£2,008,000 (2023: operational surplus of £177,000).

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 14

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Financial position

The total funds held by the Academy Trust on 31 August 2024 were £34,937,000 (2023:
£33,220,000). This comprised unrestricted funds of £1,317,000 (2023: £877,000), restricted
fixed assets fund of £30,507,000 (2023: £29,096,000) and other restricted funds of
£3,113,000 (2023: £3,247,000).

The unrestricted funds are available to the academy trust for use towards meeting any of the
charitable objects of the academy trust at the discretion of the trustees. This therefore forms
part of the academy trust's revenue reserves.

The restricted fixed assets fund is equal to the carrying value of the academy trust's tangible
fixed assets, together with any capital grants which remain unspent at the balance sheet date.
It is separated on the balance sheet in recognition of the fact that the funds are not readily
available for use without the sale of tangible fixed assets, major part of which is required for
the day-to-day operation of the Academy. This therefore does not form part of the academy
trust’s operational revenue reserves (as discussed below).

The other restricted funds principally relate to unspent funding from the ESFA, and the Local
Authority incorporates the Academy Trust's share of the net liability in the LGPS. The London
Borough of Greenwich Pension Fund, in which the academy participates, showed a deficit of
£562,000 on 31 August 2024, (2023: £682,000).

Excluding the pension reserve, the restricted revenue funds as of 31 August 2024 were
£3,675,000 (2023: £3,929,000). Aggregating this with unrestricted revenue reserves of
£1,317,000 (2023: £877,000) provides the Academy with total operational revenue reserves
of £4,992,000 (2023: £4,806,000). This is effectively the reserves available to fund the day-
to-day operations of the Academy Trust.

Reserves policy

Shooters Hill Sixth Form Trust funding is made up of restricted funds funded by fixed asset
funds, General Annual Grant (GAG) funding and unrestricted funds. Trustees have
determined that the appropriate level of unrestricted reserves should be equivalent to one (1)
month of GAG funding, which is equivalent to approximately £1.3m. This is to provide enough
working capital to cover one month staff salaries, one month of supplier payments, delays
between spending and receipt of grants and to provide a cushion to deal with unexpected
emergencies such as urgent maintenance.

The academy's current level of unrestricted reserves is £1,317,000, which is in line with the
target set.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 15

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

STRATEGIC REPORT (continued)

Treasury and Investment Policy

During 2023-24, Trustees agreed to invest some of the surplus funds of the academy trust in
high interest savings deposits. A £1.5m of total reserves was placed on a 95-day Notice
Deposit Savings Account with a UK Bank to cover the required level of operational reserves
and another £2m via the Insignis Cash Management portal, with multiple Financial Services
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) protected banks, making a total short-term investment of
£3.5m.

The return on investment totalling £98k was earned during the year and this forms part of
unrestricted income.

Fundraising activities

The Trust did not receive any donation during the year and is not registered with the
Fundraising Regulator and does not subscribe to any fundraising codes of practice. However,
during the financial year 2023-24, the Trust supported staff who raised funds for charitable
purposes and the Accounting Officer ensured fundraising activities aligned with the Trust's
vision and values. Funds were raised for:

@ Great Ormond Street Hospital (GOSH).
@ The Sickle Cell Society.

« Cancer Research,

«@ MSF Doctors without Borders.

The Trust does not participate in direct fundraising activities with the public, which might be
considered contentious or use professional fundraisers, no complaints were received about
above fundraising activities.

PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

The academy has a formal risk management process in place to assess all risks and
implements risk management strategies. The process is reviewed by the Audit and Risk
Committee on a regular basis, through review of a comprehensive risk register. The register
identifies the types of risk the academy trust faces, scoring and prioritising these in terms of
their potential operational and financial impact, assessing the likelihood of occurrence and
identifying means of mitigating them. Where necessary, actions to mitigate the risks identified
are put in place.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 16

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES (continued)
The principal risks the academy trust has identified include:

o

Lack of improvement in the quality of teaching and learning and the reputation of the
trust for not achieving positive outcomes for students. The mitigation to achieve this
includes robust self-assessment process to identify key areas for improvement; tracking
student progress through a dedicated Quality Assurance Team Meetings; Key
Performance Indicator (KPI) dashboard and recruiting high quality teaching and
leadership personne! and robustly monitored Quality Improvement plan (QIP) by College
Strategic Group (CSG); Full Governing Body (FGB) and Quality Standards sub-
committee.

Student recruitment at enrolment and the risk of having low student numbers remain the
key driver behind the financial stability of the trust, and while student numbers continue
to be very strong, mitigations include, continued investment in marketing, open evenings;
parental welcome events, student induction, enrolment strategy that is understood by all
staff and curriculum plan agreed and shared with all Curriculum leaders that includes
clear student number targets.

High cost of living, high levels of inflation, value for money, energy cost and the impact
of cost pressures on the trust’s budget and learning resources. Mitigation includes where
possible, have a joint procurement of contracts, continuous review of existing contracts
for value for money consideration and strict compliance with the Trusts tending and
procurement policy.

The growth of Artificial Intelligence (Al), fake invoices seeking payment for goods,
services and works; fake emails using senior managers identity to seek authorisation for
payments and increased risk of cyber-attack/crime resulting in a loss of systems/data
information and business continuity. Mitigation includes Business Continuity Plan and
Disaster Recovery Policy that is reviewed and updated annually, working towards Cyber
Essentials accreditation certification, staff awareness training and installation of latest
security systems.

Risk of data breach of students and staff data; enhancing digital capabilities to
accommodate rapid changes in technology and site expansion; mitigation includes
mandatory awareness training for all staff, ah-hoc GDPR audits, through curriculum
planning, identify hardware and software upgrades and ensure iT systems are in place
to support GDPR policy.

The maintenance of a safe and secured environment for the students; a safer
environment to ensure that classrooms are available to provide a high-quality conducive
learning environment and a holistic estates management and maintenance plan.
Mitigation includes ensuring that estates maintenance, build and repair works are carried
out during students’ holidays and half-term, ensuring that there is a clear plan in place
for agreed timescales; and a responsible person to undertake Health & Safety audits
with actions points followed up by College Strategic Group (CSG).

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 17

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES (continued)

All Health and safety information is stored for easy access on the staff Hub, this includes
Asbestos Management, Catering Management, Contractor Management, Fire, HCID
monitoring, Air quality monitoring, Risk Assessments, Portable Appliance Testing, Tree
Management, Security reviews, COSHH Assessments and Data sheets, Swimming
Regulations, external Audits, college Health and Safety policy, Condition surveys,
Accessibility surveys and 5-year maintenance plan. The College works alongside the DFE
GEMS framework for all its compliance needs which includes the college Health and Safety
Committee meeting three (3) times a year. They review first aid statistics, health, safety and
wellbeing concerns, departmental audit feedback and relevant policy reviews. The Health and
Safety Committee is set out as in the college Health and Safety Terms of Reference. Minutes
and actions from these meetings are available on the staff Hub.

During the year the College Strategic Group (CSG) conducted a full review of the
strategic risks the college faces. The Audit and Risk sub-committee assess the risk register
at their regular meetings and the Full Governing Body (FGB) also assess the risk register
yearly.

PLANS FOR FUTURE PERIODS

The Trust is driven by the ambition of transforming the lives of students by providing the best
student experience for the young people. Early in the academic year it became clear, ‘from
incoming applications, that it was highly likely that accommodation would be short for the
academic year 2024-25. As such the Board approved expenditure on some temporary
accommodation and the exploration of permanent accommodation on site in an area where
planning permission had been previously obtained from Royal Borough of Greenwich (RBG),
to be ready for academic year 2025-26. The temporary accommodation is on site and in its
first meeting of the academic year 2024-25. Trustees approved a commitment to spend up to
£3m on the new building. Work to agreed contractual arrangements is in progress with
building expected to start in January 2025. In addition, other plans include:

1. Improvement of student outcomes and destinations;
2. Provision of off-site NCFE Sports and Physical Activity qualification provision;
3. Bringing in apprenticeships provision;

4. Starting new T level qualifications in the Creative industry and Business Administration,
through a £273k (capital) and £191k (Special Equipment fund) T level Wave 5 funding;

5. Expanding of School Links provision for 14-16-year-olds;

6. Partnership working arrangements with the Construction Industry Training Board (CITB)
to enable Construction students to be able to train directly with CITB. This will enhance
students access to gaining the required work experience and skills needed for the
construction industry;

7. Ensure financial viability of the Trust and compliance with legislative and regulatory
requirements;

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 18

Trustees’ report Year to 31 August 2024

PLANS FOR FUTURE PERIODS (continued)

8. Provide 14-16 provision for home-schooled children to ease those tutored at home back
into mainstream education. This programme will bring in children who have never been
in public-school but are receiving home education. A dedicated Officer was recruited to
lead provision in the next academic year; and,

9. Review support services to improve effectiveness across the Trust operations.

The College continues to develop and implement a broad and balanced curriculum strategy
that is coherent, progressive, challenging and meets the needs of our student's progression
to further learning, university, employment, or apprenticeships.

We recognise the need to continue to develop relationships with other academies, schools
and wider education and work-based learning providers to benefit from the economies of
scale in procuring products and services, developing staff, and sharing knowledge, skills, and
expertise.

The Trust will also continue to explore opportunities to grow in scale and expand the size of
the Academy's current provision to benefit from economies of scale, both educationally and
financially.

AUDITOR
As far as the Trustees are aware:

¢ there is no relevant audit information of which the charitable company’s auditor is
unaware; and

«@ the Trustees, who are also the Directors, have taken all steps that they ought to have
taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that
the auditor is aware of that information.

The Trustees’ Report, incorporating a Strategic Report, was approved by order of the Full
Governing Board, as the company’s directors and signed on its behalf by:

Oy

Jacqueline Gray
Chair of Trustees

Date: s| nf hy

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 19

Governance statement Year to 31 August 2024

Scope of responsibility

As Trustees we acknowledge we have overall responsibility for ensuring that Shooters Hill
Sixth Form College, (the Trust) has an effective and appropriate system of control, financial
and non-financial. However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the
tisk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.

As Trustees, we have taken account of Department for Education (DFE) Governance
Handbook and competence framework for governance; had a review of our govemance
arrangements and adhered to Academy handbook requirements.

The Governing Body has delegated the day-to-day responsibility to the Principal/Chief
Executive Officer (CEO), as Accounting Officer, for ensuring financial controls conform with
the requirements of both propriety and good financial management and in accordance with
the requirements and responsibilities assigned to it in the funding agreement between
Shooters Hill Sixth Form College and the Secretary of State for Education.

The Accounting Officer is also responsible for reporting to the Full Governing Board any
material weaknesses or breakdowns in internal control.

Governance
The Full Governing Board has formally met six (6) time during the year ended 31 August
2024 and the attendance during the year are as follows:

Director Number of meetings attended Out of a possible

Jacqueline Gray (Chair) 5 5
Valliyappan Balaguru

\vis Williams

Anthony Chan

Spencer Drury (resigned 3.7.24)
Fred Gichuhi (resigned 3.7.24)
Clive Mardner

Pamela Morgan

Paul Proctor (resigned 26.3.24)
Scott Rattray (resigned 1.6.24)
Dominic John Scarlett

Andrew Stanley

NAENONATANNW
AaQaAnaaqanannh wo

During the year, two (2) new Trustees were appointed to replace two (2) that resigned.
Declaration of gifts and hospitality and register of pecuniary interest are standing agenda
items at each Full Goveming Board (FGB) meeting along with a request by the Chair to
inform the governance clerk of any changes as and when they arise were announced during
the year. Trustees’ declarations are published on the college website. No gifts or hospitality
were declared by trustees during the year.

Trustees have effective oversight through a series of calendared meetings, which included,
a Full Governing Board (FGB) meeting four (4) times a year and one extra-ordinary meeting
held to discuss specific issues.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 20

Governance statement Year to 31 August 2024

Governance (continued)

The Trust's finances are discussed at each Full Governing Board (FGB) and Finance and
HR Committee meetings, which met three (3) times in the year. Trust's finances were,
therefore reviewed and discussed by Trustees seven (7) times in the year, and management
accounts were circulated to the Chair and other Trustees monthly. Financial information,
reports and data is presented to the Board of Trustees to inform their discussions by the
Principal, the CFO (Chief Financial Officer) and College Strategic Group (CSG) member as

appropriate.

Finance and HR Committee

The Finance and HR Committee is a sub-committee of the Full Governing Board, and the
focus is one of financial scrutiny and oversight in supporting the FGB (Board) in maintaining
the Trust as a going concern. The committee is tasked with reviewing the overall financial
position of the Trust for appropriateness, monitoring the Trust's compliance with financial
management procedures at all levels within the Trust and receiving the annual accounts and
financial statements before the Full Governing Board (FGB) approval.

Finance and HR committee also makes recommendations on financial matters to the FGB
as appropriate and in line with the terms of reference. Attendance at meetings in the year
was as follows:

Trustees Meetings attended Out of possible
Valliyappan Balaguru (Chair) 3 3
Dominic John Scarlett 3 3
Pamela Morgan 3 3
Anthony Chan 2 3

Audit and Risk Committee

The Audit and Risk Committee's role is to advise the board on the adequacy of the Trust's
intemal control framework, including financial and non-financial controls and risk
management arrangements, to direct a programme of internal scrutiny and to consider the
results and quality of external audit. It is tasked with reviewing the overall risk profile of the
Trust for appropriateness and to monitor the risk management techniques employed at all
levels within the Trust and receiving the Internal Auditor's report before FGB (Board)
approval.

The Committee makes appropriate recommendations to the Fuli Governing Board (FGB)
that it deems proper within the context of its terms of reference. its purpose is to meet to
consider reports on the effectiveness of internal controls, including those from Responsible
Officer reviews and to monitor the risk register, business continuity and disaster
management plans and policies and attendance at meetings in the year was as follows:

Trustees Meetings attended Out of possible
Clive Mardner (Chair) 2 3
Jacqueline Gray 3 3
Fred Gichuhi (To March 2024) 4 1
Ivis Williams (from December 2023) 2 2

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 21

Governance statement Year to 31 August 2024

Audit and Risk Committee (continued)

During the year, trustees from both the Finance & HR and Audit & Risk committees attended
an extra joint meeting for presentation of the 2023-24 Annual Report and Accounts for the
year ended 31 August 2024 by the external audit firm, Buzzacott LLP and Accountancy
Services.

Quality and Standards Committee

Trustees Meetings attended Out of possible
Dominic John Scarlett (Chair) 3 3
Fred Gichuhi 3 3
Spencer Drury (resigned 3.7.24) 2 3
Andrew Stanley 3 3

Review of value for money
As Accounting Officer, the Principal has responsibility for ensuring that the Trust delivers
good value in the use of public resources. The Accounting Officer understands that value for
money refers to the educational and wider societal outcomes achieved in return for the
taxpayer resources received.

The Accounting Officer considers how the Trust's use of its resources has provided good
value for money during each academic year, and reports to the Full Governing Board (FGB)
where value for money is improved, including the use of benchmarking data where available.

The Accounting Officer for the Academy Trust has delivered improved value for money
during the year by ensuring all purchases are made using the Academy's tendering and
procurement procedure to ensure all transactions are checked and critically analysed for
value for money consideration; and that the Trust Staff are trained and aware of financial
management procedures as contained in the Trust Staff Financial handbook.

The Accounting Officer is responsible for ensuring that the Trust uses its funding effectively
according to funding agreement and to ensure that the estate remains safe, well-maintained,
and compliant with relevant regulations and prioritising key areas within the estate requiring
urgent attention, thereby mitigating potential risks.

The Trust's Scheme of Delegation (SoD), setting out who to make decision and conduct
certain functions on behalf of FGB (Board), is in place and updated regularly, detailing
tendering and procurement policy, and expenditure authorisation limits of Officers.

The purpose of the system of internal control

The system of internal control is designed to manage risk to a reasonable level, rather than
to eliminate all risk of failure, to achieve compliance with policies, aims and objectives. It can
therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance of effectiveness.

The system of internal contro! is based on an on-going process designed to identify and
prioritise the risks to the achievement of Academy Trust policies, aims and objectives, to
evaluate the likelihood of those risks being realised and the impact should they be realised,
and to manage them efficiently, effectively, and economically. This has been in place at
Shooters Hill Sixth Form College throughout the period 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024
and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and accounts.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 22

Governance statement Year to 31 August 2024

Capacity to handle risk

The Soard of Trustees has reviewed the key risks to which the Academy Trust is exposed
together with the operating, financial and compliance controls that have been implemented
to mitigate those risks. The Board of Trustees is of the view that there is a formal ongoing
process for identifying, evaluating, and managing the Academy Trust's significant risks that
have been in place throughout the period 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 and up to
the date of the approval of the annual report and financial statements. This process is
regularly reviewed by the Board of Trustees.

The risk and control framework

The academy trust has developed a system of intemal financial control which is based on a
framework of regular management information and administrative procedures, including the
segregation of duties and a system of delegation and accountability. It includes:

# comprehensive budgeting and monitoring systems with an annual budget and periodic
financial reports which are reviewed and agreed by the Full Governing Board.

regular reviews by the Finance and HR Committee of reports which indicate financial
performance against the forecasts and of major purchase plans, capital works and
expenditure programmes.

setting targets to measure financial, non-financial and other performance.

@ clearly defined purchasing (asset purchase or capital investment) guidelines.

@ delegation of authority and segregation of duties, and identification and management of
risks.

Review of effectiveness

As accounting officer, the principal has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the

system of internal controi. During the year in question the review has been informed by:

¢@ the work of the internal auditor.

@ the work of the external auditor.

the financial management and governance self-assessment process; and

¢@ the work of the College Strategic Group (CSG) within the Academy Trust who have
responsibility for the development and maintenance of the internal control framework.

The accounting officer has been advised of the implications of the result of their review of
the system of internal control by the Finance & HR and Audit & Risk Committees and a plan
to address weaknesses and ensure continuous improvement of the system is in place.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 23

Governance statement Year to 31 August 2024

Conclusion

Based on the advice of the Audit-and Risk Committee and the Accounting Officer, the Board
of Trustees is of the opinion that the academy trust has an adequate and effective framework
for governance, risk management and control.

Approved by order of the Governing Body on and signed on its behalf by:

Jacqueline Gray Geoff Osborne
Chair of Trustees Accountirig Officer

Date: s[afry Ss 12 fate

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 24

Statement on regularity, propriety and compliance Year to 31 August 2024

As Accounting Officer of Shooters Hill Sixth Form College (the Trust), | have considered my
responsibility to notify the academy trust Full Governing Board (FGB) and the Education and
Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) of material irregularity, impropriety and non-compliance with
ESFA terms and conditions of funding, including for estates safety and management, under
the funding agreement in place between the academy trust and the Secretary of State. As
part of my consideration, | have had due regard to the requirements of the Academy Trust
Handbook 2023, including responsibilities for estates safety and management.

| confirm that | and the academy trust's Full Governing Board (FGB) are able to identify any
material irregular or improper use of funds by the Academy Trust, or material non-compliance
with the terms and conditions of funding under the Academy Trust's funding agreement and
the Academies Trust Handbook 2023.

I confirm that no instances of material irregularity, impropriety or funding non-compliance have
been discovered to date. If any instances are identified after the date of this statement, these
will be notified to the Full Governing Board (FGB) and the Education & Skills Funding Agency
(ESFA).

Geoff Osbome cee oO

Accounting Officer

Date: s/izf2¢

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 25

Statement of Trustees’ responsibilities Year to 31 August 2024

The Trustees (who are also the Directors of Shooters Hill Sixth Form College (the ‘Academy
Trust’) for the purposes of Company Law) are responsible for preparing the Trustees’ report
and the financial statements in accordance with the Annual Accounts Direction issued by the
Education and Skills Funding Agency, United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) and applicable law.and reguiations.

Company law requires the Trustees to prepare accounts for each financial year. Under
company law, the trustees must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they
give a true and fair view of the. state of affairs of the academy and of its incoming resources
and application of resources, including its income and expenditure for that period. In preparing
these accounts, the trustees are required to:

«select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.

# observe the methods and principles in the Charities’ SORP 2019 and the ESFA
Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024.

# make judgement and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.

state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards (FRS 102) is followed,
subject to any material departures.

# disclosed and explained in the accounts.

*# prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume
that the Academy Trust will continue in operation.

The trustees are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to
show and explain the trust's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time
the financial position of the trust and enable them to ensure that the financial statement
complies with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets
of the academy and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of
fraud and other irregularities.

The trustees are responsible for ensuring that in its conduct and operation the academy trust
applies financial and other controls, which conform with the requirements both of propriety
and of good financial management. They are also responsible for ensuring that grants
received from the ESFA/DfE have been applied for the purposes intended.

The trustees are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate, charity and
financial information included on the Trust's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from
legislation in other jurisdictions. :

Approved by order of the members of the Full Governing Body and signed on its behalf by:

Jacqueline Gray

Chair of Trustees

Date: s/ af zy
Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 26

Independent auditor's report 31 August 2024

Independent auditor's report to the members of Shooters Hill Sixth Form College

Opinion :

We have audited the financial statements of Shooters Hill Sixth Form College (the ‘charitable
company’) for the year ended 31 August 2024 which comprise the statement of financial
activities, the balance sheet, the statement of cash flows, the principal accounting policies,
and the notes to the financial statements. The financial reporting framework that has been
applied in their preparation is applicable law, United Kingdom Accounting Standards,
including Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financia! Reporting Standard applicable in
the UK and Republic of Ireland’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice),
Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of Recommended Practice applicable to
charities preparing their accounts in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard
applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) (the Charities SORP (FRS 102)) and
the ESFA Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024.

In our opinion, the financial statements:

* give a true and fair view of the state of the charitable company's affairs as at 31 August
2024 and of its income and expenditure for the period then ended;

«# have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice;

«@ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006;
and

«# have been prepared in accordance with the Charities SORP FRS 102 and Academies
Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs
(UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in
the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We
are independent of the charitable company in accordance with the ethical requirements that
are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical
Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the Trustees’ use of the going
concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties
relating to events or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on
the charitable company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve
months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 27

Independent auditor's report 31 August 2024

Conclusions relating to going concern (continued)
Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Trustees with respect to going concern are
described in the relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The Trustees are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the Annual Report and Financial Statements other than the financial
statements and our auditor's report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not
cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report,
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements, or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to
be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the
financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work
we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

¢ the information given in the Trustees’ report, which is also the directors’ report for the
purposes of company law and includes the strategic report, for the financial year for which
the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

¢ the Trustees’ report, which is also the directors’ report for the purposes of company law
and includes the strategic report, has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the charitable company and its environment
obtained In the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the
Trustees’ report including the strategic report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the
Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

¢ adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have
not been received from branches not visited by us; or

¢ the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and retums; or
certain disclosures of Trustees' remuneration specified by law are not made; or

@ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 28

Independent auditor’s report 31 August 2024

Responsibilities of Trustees

As explained more fully in the statement of Trustees’ responsibilities, the Trustees are
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give
a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Trustees determine is necessary to
enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the Trustees are responsible for assessing the charitable
company’s ability to continue as a going concer, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to
going concer and using the going concern basis of accounting unless Trustees either intend
to liquidate the charitable company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but
to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as
a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an
auditor's report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We
design procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material
misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures
are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below:

Our approach to identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in respect of
irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, was as follows:

@ the engagement director ensured that the engagement team collectively had the
appropriate competence, capabilities, and skills to identify or recognise non-compliance
with applicable laws and regulations;

@ we identified the laws and regulations applicable to the charitable company through
discussions with management, and from our knowledge of the academy trust sector;

@ the identified laws and regulations were communicated within the audit team regularly and
the team remained alert to instances of non-compliance throughout the audit;

« we considered the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the charitable
company and determined that the most significant are the Companies Act 2006, the
Charities SORP FRS 102, the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024, the Academy
Trust Handbook 2023, and the Academy Trust's funding agreement with the ESFA as well
as legislation pertaining to safeguarding in the UK;

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 29

Independent auditor's report 31 August 2024

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements (continued)

# we understood how the charitable company is complying with those legal and regulatory
frameworks by making inquiries to management and those responsible for legal,
compliance and governance procedures. We corroborated our inquiries through our
review of the minutes of Trustees’ meetings.

¢ we planned and carried out a separate limited assurance engagement in respect of
regularity, propriety, and compliance in accordance with the Framework and Guide for
External Auditors and Reporting Accountants of Academy Trusts issued by the ESFA, as
set out in our separate independent reporting accountant's assurance report on regularity.

We assessed the susceptibility of the charitable company’s financial statements to material
misstatement, including obtaining an understanding of how fraud might occur, by:

@ making enquiries of management as to where they considered there was susceptibility to
fraud, their knowledge of actual, suspected, and alleged fraud; and

« considering the internal controls in place to mitigate risks of fraud and non-compliance
with laws and regulations.

To address the risk of fraud through management bias and override of controls, we:

¢@ performed analytical procedures to identify any unusual! or unexpected relationships;
¢ reviewed journal entries to identify unusual transactions;

¢ tested the authorisation of expenditure as part of our substantive testing thereon; and

¢ assessed whether judgements and assumptions made in determining the accounting
estimates set out in the accounting policies were indicative of potential bias.

In response to the risk of irregularities and non-compliance with laws and regulations, we
designed procedures which included, but were not limited to: :

agreeing financial statement disclosures to underlying supporting documentation;
reviewing the minutes of Trustees’ meetings;

enquiring of management and as to actual and potential litigation and claims;

@ reviewing any available correspondence with Ofsted, ESFA and HMRC; and

@ the work undertaken in relation to the limited assurance engagement in respect of
regularity, propriety and compliance in accordance with the Framework and Guide for
External Auditors and Reporting Accountants of Academy Trusts issued by the ESFA, as
set out in our separate independent reporting accountant's assurance report on regularity.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 30

Independent auditor’s report 31 August 2024

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements (continued)

There are inherent limitations in our audit procedures described above. The more removed
that laws and regulations are from financial transactions, the less likely it is that we would
become aware of non-compliance. International Standards on Auditing also limit the audit
procedures required to identify non-compliance with laws and regulations to enquiry of the
Trustees and other management and the inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence,
if any.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located
on the Financial Reporting Council's website at www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This
description forms part of our auditor's report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the charitable company's members, as a body, in accordance
with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so
that we might state to the charitable company’s members those matters we are required to
state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by
law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the charitable company
and the charitable company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the
opinions we have formed.

frveeh q

Gumayel Miah (Senior Statutory Auditor)

For and on behalf of Buzzacott LLP, Statutory Auditor
130 Wood Street

London

EC2v 6DL

12 December 2024

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 31

Independent reporting accountant’s report on regularity 31 August 2024

Independent reporting accountants assurance report on regularity to Shooters Hill
Sixth Form College and the Education and Skills Funding Agency

In accordance with the terms of our engagement letter and further to the requirements of the
Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) as included in the Academies Accounts
Direction 2023 to 2024 we have carried out an engagement to obtain limited assurance about
whether the expenditure disbursed and income received by Shooters Hill Sixth Form College
during the period from 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 have been applied to the
purposes identified by Parliament and the financial transactions conform to the authorities
which govern them.

This report is made solely to Shooters Hill Sixth Form College and the ESFA in accordance
with the terms of our engagement letter. Our work has been undertaken so that we might
state to Shooters Hill Sixth Form College and the ESFA those matters we are required to state
in a report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept
or assume responsibility to anyone other than Shooters Hill Sixth Form College and the ESFA,
for our work, for this report, or for the conclusion we have formed.

Respective responsibllities of Shooters Hill Sixth Form College’s Accounting Officer
and the reporting accountant

The Accounting Officer is responsible, under the requirements of Shooters Hill Sixth Form
College’s funding agreement with the Secretary of State for Education dated 31 July 2024
and the Academy Trust Handbook, extant from 1 September 2023, for ensuring that
expenditure disbursed, and income received is applied for the purposes intended by
Parliament and the financial transactions conform to the authorities which govern them.

Our responsibilities for this engagement are established in the United Kingdom by our
profession's ethical guidance and are to obtain limited assurance and report in accordance
with our engagement letter and the requirements of the Academies Accounts Direction 2023
to 2024. We report to you whether anything has come to our attention in carrying out our work
which suggests that in all material respects, expenditure disbursed, and income received
during the period from 1 September 2022 to 31 August 2024 have not been applied to
purposes intended by Parliament or that the financial transactions do not conform to the
authorities which govern them.

Approach
We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Framework and Guide for External
Auditors and Reporting Accountant of Academy Trusts issued by ESFA.

The objective of a limited assurance engagement is to perform such procedures as to obtain
information and explanations to provide us with sufficient appropriate evidence to express a
negative conclusion on regularity.

A limited assurance engagement is more limited in scope than a reasonable assurance
engagement and consequently does not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become
aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance
engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a positive opinion.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 32

independent reporting accountant’s report on regularity 31 August 2024

Approach (continued)
Our engagement includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the regularity
and propriety of the Academy's income and expenditure.

The work undertaken to draw to our conclusion includes:

« Anassessment of the risk of material irregularity and impropriety across all the Academy's
activities;

¢ Further testing and review of the areas identified through the risk assessment including
enquiry, identification of contro! processes and examination of supporting evidence
across all areas identified as well as additional verification work where considered
necessary; and

@ Consideration of evidence obtained through the work detailed above and the work
completed as part of our financial statements audit to support the regularity conclusion.

Conclusion

In the course of our work, nothing has come to our attention which suggests that in all material
respects the expenditure disbursed and income received during the period from 1 September
2023 to 31 August 2024 has not been applied to purposes intended by Parliament and the
financia! transactions do not conform to the authorities which govern them.

Buzzacott LLP
Chartered Accountants
130 Wood Street
London

EC2v 6DL

12 December 2024

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 33

Statement of financial activities Year to 31 August 2024
(including income and expenditure account and statement of total recognised gains and losses)

Restricted funds _
Un- 2024 2023
rastricted Fixed Total Total
funds Genera! assets funds funds
Notes £'000 £000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Income from:
Donations and capital grants 1 2 _ 583 585 $68
Charitable activities
. Funding for the Academy's educational operations 2 - 18,284 - 18,254 13,760
Other trading activities 3 559 - - 559 440
Investments 4 98 - - 98 20
Tota! Income 659 18,254 583 19,496 15,188
Expenditure on:
Charitable activities
. Academy's educational operations 6 219 16,636 994 17,849 15,060
Total expenditure 5 219 16,636 994 17,849 15,060
Net income (expenditure) before transfers 440 1,618 (411) 1,647 128
Transfers between funds 15 _- (1,822) 1,822 _ _—
Net income (expenditure) after transfers 440 (204) 1,411 1,647 128
Other recognised gains and losses
Actuarial gain on defined benefit pension schemes 19 - 70 _ 70 1,578
Net movement in funds 440 (134) 1,441 1,717 1,706
Reconcillation of funds
Funds brought forward at 1 September 2023 877 3,247 29,096 33,220 31,514
Funds carried forward at 31 August 2024 1,317 3,113 30,507 34,937 33,220

All the Academy's activities derived from continuing operations during the above two financial periods.

A separate Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses is not required as all gains and losses
are included in the above Statement of Financial Activities.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 34

Balance sheet as at 31 August 2024

2024 2024 2023 2024

Notes £ £ £ £
Fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets 10 30,551 29,150
Current assets
Debtors 12 531 693
Investments 1 3,500 2,000
Cash at bank and in hand 2,296 3,763

6,327 6,456

Creditors: amounts falling due
within one year 13 (1,345) (1,660)
Net current assets 4,982 4,796
Total assets less current llabilities 35,533 33,946
Creditors: amounts falling after
more than one year 14 (34) (44)
Net assets excluding defined
benefit pension scheme liability 35,499 33,902
Defined benefit pension scheme
lability 19 (562) (682)
Total net assets 34,937 33,220
The funds of the Academy:
Restricted funds
. Fixed asset funds 30,507 29,096
. Restricted income funds 15 3,675 3,929
. Pension reserve 15 (562) (682)
Total restricted funds 33,620 32,343
Unrestricted income funds 15 1,317 877
Total funds 34,937 33,220

The accounts on pages 34 to 60 were approved by the Trustees and authorised for issue on
and are signed on their behalf by:

Jacqueline Gray
Chair of Trustees

Date! 5 nf zy

Company Registration Number: 08270802

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 35

Statement of cash flows Year to 31 August 2024

2024 2023
£ £

Net cash flow from operating activities
Net cash provided by operating activities A 1,757 713
Cash flows from financing activities B (10) (10)
Cash flows from investing activities c (3,214) (2,205)
Change in cash and cash equivatents in the year (1,467) (1,502)
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds:
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 September 2023 3,763 5,265
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 August 2024 Oo 2,296 3,763

A Reconciliation of expenditure to net cash flow from operating activities

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Net (expenditure) Income for the reporting period (as per the
statement of financlal activities 1,647 128
Adjusted for:
Depreciation charges 994 718
Capital grants from Df and other capital income (583) (968)
Interest receivable {98) -
Defined benefit pension scheme obligation inherited _ (20)
Defined benefit pension scheme service cost adjustment (74) 222
Defined benefit pension scheme finance cost adjustment 24 77
(Increase)/decrease in debtors 162 (307)
Increase/(decrease) in creditors (315) 863
Net cash provided by operating activities 1,757 713
B_ Cash flows from financing activities
. 2024 2023
£'000 £000
Repayments of borrowing (10) (10)
Netcashused in financing activities 00010) 10)
C Cash flows from investing activities
2024 2023
£'000 £000
Dividends, interest, and rents from investments 98 20
Purchase of tangible fixed assets (2,395) (2,193)
Capital grants from DfE/ESFA 583 968
Payments to acquire investments. {1,500) (1,000)
Net cash used in investing activities (3,214) (2,205)

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 36

Statement of cash flows Year to 31 August 2024

D Analysis of cash and cash equivalents

2024 2023

£'000 £'000

Cash at bank and in hand 2,296 3,763
Total cash and cash equivalents 2,296 3,763

E Analysis of change in net debt

Att At3i

September Cash August

2023 flows 2024

£'000 £000 £'000
Cash at bank and in hand 3,763 (1,467) 2,296
Loans due within one year (10) - (10)
Loans due after more than one year (44) 10 (34)
(54) 10 (44)
Total 3,709 (1,457) 2,252

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 37

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Statement of accounting policies

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College (the ‘Academy Trust’) is a charitable company. The
address of its main place of business is given on page 1 and the nature of its operations
are set out in the Trustees’ report.

A summary of the principal accounting policies adopted (which have been applied
consistently, except where noted), judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty,
is set out below.

Basis of preparation

The financial statements of the Academy Trust, have been prepared under the historical
cost convention in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard Applicable in the UK
and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102), Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of
Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with
the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102)
(Charities SORP FRS 102), the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024 issued by
ESFA, the Charities Act 2011 and the Companies Act 2006.

The Academy Trust meets the definition of a public benefit entity under FRS 102. The
financial statements are presented in Sterling presented to the nearest thousand pounds.

Assessment of going concern

The Trustees assess whether the use of going concern is appropriate, i.e., whether there
are any material uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt
on the ability of the charitable company to continue as a going concem. The Trustees make
this assessment in respect of a period of at least one year from the date of authorisation for
issue of the accounts and have concluded that the Academy Trust has adequate resources
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and there are no material
uncertainties about the Academy Trust's ability to continue as a going concern. Thus, they
continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the accounts.

Income
All income is recognised when the Academy Trust has entitlement to the funds, the receipt
is probable and the amount can be measured reliably.

Grants are included in the statement of financial activities on a receivable basis. The balance
of income received for specific purposes but not expended during the period is shown in the
relevant funds on the balance sheet. Where income is received in advance of meeting any
performance-related conditions there is not unconditional entitlement to the income and its
recognition is deferred and included in creditors as deferred income until the performance-
related conditions are met. Where entitlement occurs before income is received. the income
is accrued. .

General Annual Grant is recognised in full in the statement of financial activities in the period

for which it is receivable, and any abatement in respect of the period is deducted from
income and recognised as a liability.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 38

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Income (continued)

Capital grants are recognised in full when there is an unconditional entitlement to the grant.
Unspent amounts of capital grants are reflected in the balance sheet in the restricted fixed
asset fund. Capital grants are recognised when there is entitlement and are not deferred
over the life of the asset on which they are expended.

Donations
Donations are recognised on a receivable basis (where there are no performance-related
conditions) where the receipt is probable and the amount can be reliably measured.

Other income
Other income, including the hire of facilities, is recognised in the period it is receivable and
to the extent the Academy Trust has provided the goods or services.

Donated fixed assets

Donated fixed assets are measured at fair value unless it is impractical to measure this
reliably, in which case the cost of the item to the donor is used. The gain is recognised as
income from donations and a corresponding amount is included in the appropriate fixed
asset category and depreciated over the useful economic life in accordance with the
Academy Trust's accounting policies.

interest receivable
Interest receivable is included within the Statement of Financial Activities on a receivable
basis.

Expenditure

Expenditure is recognised once there is a legal or constructive obligation to transfer
economic benefit to a third party, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be
required in settlement, and the amount of the obligation can be measured reliably.

Expenditure is classified by activity. The costs of each activity are made up of the total of
direct costs and shared costs, including support costs involved in undertaking each activity.
Direct costs attributable to a single activity are allocated directly to that activity. Shared costs
which contribute to more than one activity and support costs which are not attributable to a
single activity are apportioned between those activities on a basis consistent with the use of
resources. Central staff costs are allocated on the basis of time spent, and depreciation
charges are allocated on the portion of the asset's use.

All resources expended are inclusive of irrecoverable VAT.
Expenditure on raising funds
This includes all expenditure incurred by the Academy Trust to raise funds for its charitable

purposes and includes costs of all fundraising activities events and non-charitable trading.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 39

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Expenditure (continued)

Charitable activities

These are costs incurred on the Academy Trust's educational operations, including support
costs and costs relating to the governance of the Academy Trust apportioned to charitable
activities. .

Governance costs

These include the costs attributable to the Academy Trust's compliance with constitutional
and statutory requirements, including audit, strategic management, Trustees’ meetings and
reimbursed expenses.

Tangible fixed assets

Assets costing £1,000 or more are capitalised as tangible fixed assets and are carried at
cost, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment. Where a group of assets are
purchased collectively and cost £5,000 or more, these are capitalised.

Where tangible fixed assets have been acquired with the aid of specific grants, either from
the government or from the private sector, they are included in the balance sheet at cost
and depreciated over their expected useful economic life. The related grants are credited to
a restricted fixed asset fund in the statement of financial activities and carried forward in the
balance sheet. Depreciation on such assets is charged to the restricted fixed asset fund in
the statement of financial activities so as to reduce the fund over the useful economic life of
the related-asset on a basis consistent with the Academy Trust's depreciation policy. Where
tangible fixed assets have been acquired with unrestricted funds, depreciation on such
assets is charged to the unrestricted fund.

On conversion to Academy status the Local Authority gifted the school buildings to the
Academy Trust with a 125 year long term lease. The properties were professionally valued
as at 1 November 2012, the date of transfer. The valuation was based on the Depreciated
Replacement Cost (DRC) for specialist property and the land uses the market value. As the
buildings are of a specialist nature then a Depreciated Replacement Cost method has been
used to calculate the fair value of the buildings. The amounts originally recognised are now
taken to be the deemed cost of the relevant assets and are not revalued.

Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets other than land, at rates calculated to
write off the cost of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as

follows:

Leasehold buildings 50 Years
Leasehold land . 125 Years
improvements to land and buildings 50 years
Computer equipment 3 years
Fixtures, fittings & equipment 5 years
Motor vehicles 5 years

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 40

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Tangible fixed assets (continued)
Assets under the course of construction are not depreciated until they are available for their
intended use.

A review for impairment of a fixed asset is carried out if events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value of any fixed asset may not be recoverable. Shortfalls
between the carrying value of fixed assets and their recoverable amounts are recognised
as impairments. Impairment losses are recognised in the statement of financial activities.

Liabilities

Liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation at the balance sheet date as a result
of a past event, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be required in
settlement, and the amount of the settlement can be estimated reliably. Liabilities are
recognised at the amount that the Academy Trust anticipates it will pay to settle the debt or
the amount it has received as advanced payments for the goods of services it must provide.

Leasing commitments
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Investments
Current asset investments are stated at market value.

Financial Instruments

The Academy Trust only holds basic financial instruments as defined in FRS 102. The
financial assets and financial liabilities of the Academy Trust and their measurement basis
are as follows.

Financial assets
Trade and other debtors are basic financial instruments and are debt instruments measured
at amortised cost. Prepayments are not financial instruments.

Cash at bank is classified as a basic financial instrument and is measured at face value.

Financial liabilities
Trade creditors, accruals and other creditors are financial instruments, and are measured
at amortised cost. Taxation and social security are not included in the financial Instruments
disclosure definition.

Deferred income is not deemed to be a financial liability, as the cash settlement has already
taken place and there is an obligation to deliver services rather than cash or another
financial instrument.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 41.

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Cash at bank and in hand

Cash at bank and in hand represents such accounts and instruments that are available on
demand. Notice deposits with a maturity of more than 90 days at the point of investment are
included on the balance sheet as investments in short-term deposits.

Taxation

The Academy Trust is considered to pass the tests set out in Paragraph 1 Schedule 6 of the
Finance Act 2010 and therefore it meets the definition of a charitable company for UK
corporation tax purposes. Accordingly, the Academy Trust is potentially exempt from
taxation in respect of income or capital gains received within categories covered by chapter
3 part 11 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 or Section 256 of the Taxation of Chargeable
Gains Act 1992, to the extent that such income or gains are applied exclusively to charitable
purposes.

Pensions benefits

Retirement benefits to employees of the Academy Trust are provided by the Teachers'
Pension Scheme (‘TPS’) and the Local Government Pension Scheme (‘LGPS'). These are
defined benefit schemes, and the assets are held separately from those of the Academy
Trust.

The TPS is an unfunded scheme and contributions are calculated to spread the cost of
pensions over employees’ working lives with the Academy Trust in such a way that the
pension cost is a substantially level percentage of current and future pensionable payroll.
The contributions are determined by the Government Actuary based on quadrennial
valuations using a prospective unit credit method. The TPS is an unfunded multi-employer
scheme with no underlying assets to assign between employers. Consequently, the TPS is
treated as a defined contribution scheme for accounting purposes and the contributions are
recognised in the period to which they relate.

The LGPS is a funded multi-employer scheme, and the assets are held separately from
those of the Academy Trust in separate trustee administered funds. Pension scheme assets
are measured at fair value and liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis using the
projected unit credit method and discounted at a rate equivalent to the current rate of return
on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities.

The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance
sheet date. The amounts charged to net income or expenditure are the current service costs
and the costs of scheme introductions, benefit changes, settlements, and curtailments. They
are included as part of staff costs as incurred. Net interest on the net defined benefit
liability/asset is also recognised in the statement of financial activities and comprises the
interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and interest income on the scheme assets,
calculated by multiplying the fair value of the scheme assets at the beginning of the period
by the rate used to discount the benefit obligations. The difference between the interest
income on the scheme assets and the actual return on the scheme assets is recognised in
other recognised gains and losses. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately
in other recognised gains and losses.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 42

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Fund accounting
Unrestricted income funds represent those resources which may be used towards meeting
any of the charitable objects of the Academy Trust at the discretion of the Trustees.

Restricted fixed asset funds are resources which are to be applied to specific capital
purposes imposed by the Education and Skills Funding Agency/Department for Education
where the asset acquired or created is held for a specific purpose.

Restricted general funds comprise all other restricted funds received and include grants
from the Education and Skills Funding Agency/Department for Education.

Agency arrangements

The academy trust acts as an agent in distributing 16-19 bursary funds from ESFA.
Payments received from ESFA and subsequent disbursements to students are excluded
from the statement of financial activities as the trust does not have contro! over the charitable
application of the funds. The trust can use up to 5% of the allocation towards its own
administration costs and this is recognised in the statement of financial activities. The funds
received and paid, and any balances held are disclosed in note 27.

Critical accounting estimates and areas of judgement

Accounting estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical
experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be
reasonable under the circumstances.

The Academy Trust makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting
accounting estimates and assumptions will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual
results. The estimates and assumptions that have a significant risk of causing a material
adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are
discussed below.

LGPS

The present value of the Local Government Pension Scheme defined benefit liability
depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a variety of
assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net cost or income for pensions
include the discount rate. Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount
of the pension liability. Furthermore, a roll forward approach which projects results from the
latest full actuarial valuation performed at 31 March 2019 has been used by the actuary in
valuing the pensions liability at 31 August 2024. Any differences between the figures derived
from the roll forward approach and a full actuarial valuation would impact on the carrying
amount of the pension liability.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 43

Principal accounting policies 31 August 2024

Critical accounting estimates and areas of judgement (continued)

Useful economic lives of tangible assets

The annual depreciation charge for tangible assets is sensitive to changes in the estimated
useful economic lives and residual values of the assets. The useful economic lives and
residual vaiues are reassessed annually. They are amended when necessary to reflect
current estimates, based on technological advancement, future investments, economic
utilisation, and the physical condition of the assets.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 44

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

1 Donations and capital grants

Restricted
Un- fixed 2024 2023
restricted assets Total Total
funds funds funds funds
£'000 £000 £°000 £'000
Capital grants _- 583 583 947
Donated fixed assets - - - 21
Other donations 2 _ 2 -
2 583 585 968
2023
Unrestricted —_‘ Restricted Total
funds funds funds
Comparative information for 2022/23 £'000 £'000 £'000
Capital grants _ 947 947
Donated fixed assets - 21 21
Other donations = = =
_ 968 968
2. Funding for the Academy's educational operations
2024 2023
Unrestricted Restricted Total Total
funds funds funds funds
£'000 £000 £°000 £'000
Education and Skills Funding Agency
(ESFA) grants .
General Annual Grant (GAG) _- 15,513 15,513 11,058
Other DfE/ ESFA grants
. Academy free school meals — 198 198 157
. Tuition fund _ 214 214 125
. Teachers’ Pay Additional Grant _ 291 291 _—
. Teachers’ Pension grants — 203 203 324
. Other grants = =_ = 291
_ 16,419 16,419 11,955
Other government grants
Loca! Authority EHCP income = 1,640 1,640 4,652
— _.__ 1,640 1,640 4,652
Other income from educational
operations _ 195 195 153

—_ 18,254 18,254 13,760

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 45

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

2 Funding for the Academy’s educational operations (continued)

2023
Unrestricted Restricted Total
funds funds funds
Comparative information for 2022/23 £'000 £000 £000
Education and Skilis Funding Agency (ESFA) grants
General Annual Grant (GAG) - 11,058 11,058
Other OfE/ ESFA grants
. Academy free school meals - 157 157
- Tuition fund - 125 125
. Rates _ — —
. Teachers’ pension grants _— 324 324
. Teachers pay grants _ _ _
. Other grants -_ 291 291
_ 11,955 11,955
Other government grants
Local Authority EHCP income _ 1,652 1,652
= 1,652 1,652
Other income from educational operations _— 153 153
- 13,760 13,760
Other trading activities
Unrestricted funds
2024 2023
——£000_ __—£'000_
Hire of facilities 183 194
Catering income 233 164
Other income 143 92
559 440
Investment income
Unrestricted funds
2024 2022
——_£000_____—£'000__
Interest receivable 98 20

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 46


Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

5 Expenditure

Non pay expenditure
Staff 2024 2023
costs Other Total Total
(note 7) Premises costs funds funds
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Academy's educational
operations
. Direct costs 6,442 994 1,286 8,722 8,087
. Support costs (note 6) 5,895 1,660 1,572 9,127 6,973
12,337 2,654 2,858 17,849 15,060
Non pay expenditure
Staff 2023
costs Other Total
(note 7) Premises costs funds
Comparative information for 2022/23 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Academy's educational operations
. Direct costs 6,134 718 1,235 8,087
. Support costs (note 6) 4,294 1,671 1,008 6,973
10,428 2,389 2,243 15,060
Net income/(expenditure) for the year includes:
2024 2024
£'000 £000
Operating lease rentals 25 37
Depreciation 994 718
Fees payable to auditor for
. Audit 20 19
. Other services 6 3
6 Charitable activities
2024 2023
Total Total
funds funds
£'000 £000
Direct costs - educationa! operations 8,722 8,087
Support costs - educational operations 9,127 6,973
17,849 15,060

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 47

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

6 Charitable activities (continued)

2024 2023
Analysis of support costs £°000 £'000
Support staff costs 5,895 4,294
Technology costs 367 329
Premises costs 1,660 1,671
Legal costs . 10 9
Other support costs 1,146 635
Governance costs (note 7) 49 35

9,127 6,973

7 Staff
a) Staff costs
Staff costs during the year were:
2024 2023
Wages and salaries 9,046 6,946
Socia! security costs 935 750
Operating costs of defined benefit pension schemes 2,036 2,552
12,017 10,248
Supply staff costs 285 159
Staff restructuring , 19 21
12,337 10,428
Staff restructuring costs comprise:
Severance payments 19 21
35 21

b) Severance payments
The academy trust paid two severance payments in the year, disclosed in the following
bands: (2023 — one)

2024 2023
No. No.
£0- £25,000 2 1

c) Special staff severance payments
Included in staff restructuring costs are special severance payments totalling £18,795 (2023:
£nil). Individually, the payments were: £7,606 and £11,189.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 48

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

d)

Staff (continued)

Staff numbers
The average number of persons employed by the Academy during the year ended 31
August 2024 was as follows:

2024 2023

No. No.

Teachers 92 78
Administration and support 116 105
Management 10 9
218 192

Higher paid staff
The number of employees whose employee benefits (excluding employer pension costs)
exceeded £60,000 was:

2024 2023
No. No.

£60,001 - £70,000 13
£70,001 - £80,000 2
£80,001 - £90,000 _
£90,001 - £100,000 1
£110,001 - £120,000 _—
£120,001 - £130,000 1

ov

Key management personnel

The key management personnel of the Academy Trust comprise the Trustees and the senior
management team as listed on page 1. The total amount of employee benefits (including
employer pension contributions and employer national insurance contributions) received by
key management personnel for their services to the Academy Trust was £911,087 (2023:
£994,000).

Trustees’ remuneration and expenses

The Trustees only receives remuneration in respect of services they provide undertaking
the roles of Director and staff, and not in respect of their services as Trustees. The value of
Trustees remuneration, including pension contributions, was as follows:

2024 2023
£ £
F Gichuhi (Staff):
. Remuneration 55,000 - 60,000 50,000 - 55,000
. Employer's pension contributions 15,000 - 20,000 10,000 - 15,000
D Berbeck(Staff) (resigned 23 March 2023):
. Remuneration - 55,000 - 60,000
. Employer's pension contributions _ 10,000 - 15,000

Other Trustees did not receive any remuneration from the Academy Trust. During the year,
no expenses (2023: £nil) were reimbursed to Trustees (2023: Enil).

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 49

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

9 Trustees’ and officers’ insurance
The Academy Trust has opted into the Department for Education's Risk Protection
Arrangement (RPA), an alternative to insurance where UK government funds cover losses
that arise. This scheme protects Trustees and officers from claims arising from negligent
acts, errors or omissions occurring whilst on Academy Trust business, and provides cover
up to £10,000,000. It is not possible to quantify the Trustees and officers’ indemnity element
from the overall cost of the RPA scheme.

10 Tangible fixed assets

Freehold —_ Leasehold Furniture

land and land and and = Assetunder Computer Motor
buildings buildings | equipment _— construction equipment vehicles Total
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £000 £'000 £’000

Cost
At 1 September 2023 30,285 1,110 1,093 718 1,846 88 35,137
Additions - 2,027 379 (715) 676 28 2,395
Disposats = _- = = _ (38) (38)
At 31 August 2024 30,285 3,137 1,472 _- 2,522 78 37,494
Depreciation
At 1 September 2023 4,084 39 412 - 1,395 57 5,987
Charge for the year 377 59 194 - 350 14 994
Disposals =_ = = od = (38) (38)
At 31 August 2024 4,461 98 606 _ 1,745 33 6,943
Net book values
At 31 August 2024 25,824 3,039 866 =_ 77 45 30,551
At 31 August 2023 26,201 1,071 681 718 451 31 29,750

The asset under construction at 31 August 2024 relates to the development of the facilities
in preparation for the launch of T-Level courses. Contractual commitments in relation to
works yet to be completed at the balance sheet data (and therefore not included within
additions above) are disclosed within note 17 to the financial statements.

11 Investments

2024 2023

£000 £'000

Balance brought forward 2,000 1,000
Additions 1,500 1,000
Balance carried forward 3,500 2,000

Investments comprise interest earning cash deposits with a minimum term exceeding 90
days but less than one year.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 50

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

12

13

14

Debtors
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Trade debtors . 71 37
VAT recoverable 362 619
Prepayments and accrued income 98 37
531 693
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Trade creditors 66 348
Taxation and social security 211 -
ESFA creditors: abatement of GAG _ 396
Loans 10 10
Other creditors 403 273
Accruals and deferred income 655 633
1,345 1,660
Deferred income
Deferred income at 1 September 2023 — 39
Released during the year - (39)
Resources deferred in the year 10 _
Deferred income at 31 August 2024 10 =_
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
2024 2023
£'000 £000
CIF Loan 34 44
Analysis of loans
2024 2023
£7000 £000
Not wholly repayable within five years by instalments - 7
Wholly repayable within five years 44 47
44 54
Less: included in current liabilities (note 13) (10) (10)
Amounts included above 34 44
Loan maturity
Debt due in one year or less (note 13) 10 10
Due in more than one year but not more than two years 10 10
Due in more than two years but not more than five years 24 27
Due in more than five years _ 7
44 54

Included above are three CIF loans received in 2018, 2019, and 2021 which are interest
free and repayable over a term of 8 years.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 51

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

15 Funds

The income funds of the Academy include restricted funds

unexpended balances of grants held for specific purposes:

Income

comprising the following

15,513
198
214

291
203

30,360
191
(44)

30,507

Att
September
2023
£000
Restricted general funds
General Annual Grant
(GAG) 3,929
Academy free school meals _-
Tuition fund -
Teachers Pay Additional
Grant _
Teachers’ Pension grant _
Other restricted income _
Pension reserve (682)
3,247
Restricted fixed asset
funds
Fixed asset fund 29,150
DfE group capita! grants _
CIF loans (54)
29,096
Total restricted funds "32,343
Unrestricted funds
. General funds 877
Total unrestricted funds 877
Total funds 33,220

19,496

The specific purposes for which the funds are to be applied are as follows:

Restricted general funds

Gains,

losses and

Expenditure transfers

£'000 £000
(13,945) (1,822)
(198) -
(214) _
(291) ~
(203) _
(1,835) —
50 70

(16,636) (4,752)

(994) 2,204
_ (392)
_ 10
(994) 1,822
(17,630) 70
(219) =
(219) _—
(17,849) 70

34,937

All restricted funds are grants received from the Department for Education and the Local

Authority for the purpose of running the Academy.

General Annual Grant (GAG)

Under the funding agreement with the Secretary of State, the Academy was not subject to
a limit on the amount of GAG that it could carry forward at 31 August 2024.

Fixed assets fund

The fund includes the value of the tangible fixed assets of the academy on conversion, and
monies transferred from the GAG or other restricted funds specifically for expenditure on

tangible fixed assets, and the annual charges for depreciation of these assets.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 52

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

15 Funds (continued)

Transfers
Transfers from GAG restricted funds and other ESFA grant funds to the fixed assets fund
represent the purchase of fixed assets from GAG funding and other ESFA funding.

Comparative information
Comparative information in respect of the preceding period is as follows:

At? Gains, At
September lossesand 31 August
2022 income Expenditure transfers 2023
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Restricted general funds
General Annual Grant
(GAG) 5,200 11,058 (11,124) (1,205) 3,929
Academy free school meals _ 157 (157) - _
Tuition fund - 125 (125) - -
Teachers’ pension grant - 324 (324) _ -
Other DIE/ESFA grants ad 291 (291) - -
Local Authority grants - 1,652 (1,652) — _—
Other restricted income _ 153 (153) _ -
Pension reserve (1,961) = (299) 1,578 (682)
3,239 13,760 (14,125) 373 3,247
Restricted fixed asset funds
Fixed asset fund 27,675 21 (718) 2,172 29,150
DfE group capital grants 30 947 _ (977) _
CIF loans (64) = _ 10 (54)
27,641 968 (718) 1,205 29,096
Total restricted funds 30,880 14,728 (14,843) 1,578 32,343
Unrestricted funds
. General funds 634 460 (217) _ 877
Total unrestricted funds 634 460 (217) ~ 877
Total funds 31,514 15,188 (15,060) 1,578 33,220

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 53

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

16 Analysis of net assets between funds

17

18

Fund balances at 31 August 2024 are
represented by:

Tangible fixed assets

Current assets

Creditors falling due within one year
Creditors falling due after one year
Defined benefit pension liability

Total net assets

Comparative information

Fund balances at 31 August 2022 are

represented by:

Tangible fixed assets

Current assets

Creditors falling due within one year
Creditors falling due after one year
Defined benefit pension liability
Total net assets

Capital commitments

Expenditure contracted for but not provided in the accounts

Unrestricted
funds

Total
2024
£'000

Unrestricted
funds

_—__(562)
34,937

30,551
6,327
(1,345)
(34)
562

Commitments under operating leases
At 31 August 2024, the total of the Academy's future minimum lease payments under non-
cancellable operating leases was as follows:

Amounts due within one year
Amounts due in two and five years

3,247

Restricted funds
General Fixed asset
£'000 £'000
_ 30,551
5,054 (44)
(1,345) _
(34) -
(562) _
3,113 30,507

Restricted funds
General Fixed asset
£'000 £000
_ 29,150
5,579 _-
(1,650) (10)
_ (44)
(682) =
29,096

2024
£'000

2024

£'000

25

29,150
6,456
(1,660)
(44)

(682)
33,220

2023

£'000

494

2023

£'000

37
37
74

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 54

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

19 Pension and similar obligations
The Academy Trust's employees belong to two principal pension schemes: the Teachers’
Pension Scheme England and Wales (TPS) for academic and related staff; and the Local
Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) for non-teaching staff, which is managed by Royal
Borough of Greenwich. Both are multi-employer defined benefit schemes.

The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS related to the period ended 31 March 2020 and of
the LGPS 31 March 2022.

Contributions amounting to £208,000 were payable to the schemes at 31 August 2024
(2023: £149,000) and are included within creditors.

Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS) is a statutory, contributory, defined benefit scheme,
governed by the Teachers’ Pension Scheme Regulations 2014. Membership is automatic
for teachers in academies. All teachers have the option to opt out of the TPS following
enrolment.

The TPS is an unfunded scheme to which both the member and employer makes
contributions, as a percentage of salary. These contributions are credited to the Exchequer.
Retirement and other pension benefits are paid by public funds provided by Parliament.

Valuation of the Teachers' Pension Scheme

The Government Actuary, using normal actuarial principles, conducts a formal actuarial
review of the TPS in accordance with the Public Service Pensions (Valuations and Employer
Cost Cap) Directions 2014 published by HM Treasury every 4 years. The aim of the review
is to ensure scheme costs are recognised and managed appropriately and the review
specifies the tevel of future contributions.

Actuarial scheme valuations are dependent on assumptions about the value of future costs,
design of benefits and many other factors. The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS was
carried out as at 31 March 2020. The valuation report was published by the Department for
Education on 27 October 2023, with the SCAPE rate, set by HMT, applying a notional
investment retum based on 1.7% above the rate of CPI. The key elements of the valuation
outcome are:

# employer contribution rates set at 28.68% of pensionable pay (including a 0.08%
administration tevy). This is an increase of 5% in employer contributions and the cost
contro! result is such that no change in member benefits is needed; and

@ — total scheme liabilities (pensions currently in payment and the estimated cost of future
benefits) for service to the effective date of £262,000 million and notional assets
(estimated future contributions together with the notional investments held at the
valuation date) of £222,200 million, giving a notional past service deficit of £39,800
million

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 55

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

19 Pension and similar obligations (continued)
Teachers’ Pension Scheme (continued)

Valuation of the Teachers' Pension Scheme (continued)
A copy of the valuation report and supporting documentation is on the Teachers’ Pensions
website.

Under the definitions set out in FRS 102, the TPS is an unfunded multi-employer pension
scheme. The academy trust is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and
liabilities of the plan. Accordingly, the academy trust has taken advantage of the exemption
in FRS 102 and has accounted for its contributions to the scheme as if it were a defined
contribution scheme. The academy trust has set out above, the information available on the
scheme.

The employer's pension costs paid to TPS in the period amounted to £1,079,000 (2023 —
£1,189,000).

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS)

The LGPS is a funded defined-benefit scheme, with the assets held in separate trustee-
administered funds. The total contributions are as noted below. The agreed contribution
rates for future years are 16.2% for employers and 5.5% - 12.5% for employees.

Parliament has agreed, at the request of the Secretary of State for Education, to a guarantee
that, in the event of academy closure, outstanding Local Government Pension Scheme
Department for Education. The guarantee came into force on 18 July 2013 and on 21 July
2022, the Department for Education reaffirmed its commitment to the guarantee, with a
parliamentary minute published on the GOV.UK website.

2024 2023

Total contributions made £7000 £000

Employer's contributions 662 545

Employees’ contributions 226 193

Total contributions 888 738
At 31 At31

August August

2024 2023

Principal Actuarlal Assumptions % %

Rate of increase in salaries 3.85% 3.90%

Rate of increase for pensions in payment/nflation 2.85% 2.90%

Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.05% 5.30%

Inflation assumption (CPI) 2.85% 2.90%

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 56

a

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

19 Pension and similar obligations (continued)

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) (continued)

The current mortality assumptions include sufficient allowance for future improvements in
mortality rates. The assumed life expectations on retirement age 65 are:

Retiring today
Males
Females

Retiring in 20 years
Males.
Females

At 34
August
2024
Years

19.3
22.7

20.7
24.2

At31
August
2023
Years

19.2
22.6

20.6
24.1

The approximate increase in the Academy's overall pension liability as a result of change in

the principal actuarial assumptions would be as follows:

Discount rate + 0.1%
Discount rate -0.1%

Mortality assumption + 1 year
Mortality assumption - 1 year
Pension increases +0.1%
Pension increases -0.1%

The Academy's share of the assets in the scheme were:

Equities

Corporate bonds

Property

Cash and other liquid assets

Other

Total market value of assets
Present value of scheme liabilities
- Funded

Deficit in the scheme

At31
August
2024
£'000

(177)
182
310

(300)
180

(176)

Fair value
at 31
August
2024
£'000
4,819
2,061
912
194
1,052
9,038

(9,600)
(562)

At31
August
2023
£'000
(149)
153
265
(257)
187

(183)

Fair value
at 31
August
2023

£'000

3,945
1,728
795
208
900

7,576

(8,258)
{682}

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 57

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

419 Pension and similar obligations (continued)

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) (continued)

2024 2023
Amounts recognised in statement of financial activities £’000 £'000
Current service cost 588 767
Interest income (413) (280)
Interest cost 437 357
Total amount recognised In the SOFA 612 844
Analysis of pension finance costs
Expected return on pension scheme assets (413) (280)
Interest on pension liabilities . 437 357
Pension finance costs 24 77
Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as 2024 2023
foltows: £'000 £'000
At 1 September 2023 8,258 8,257
Current service cost 588 767
Interest cost 437 357
Employee contributions 226 193
Actuarial loss (gain) 329 (1,424)
Benefits paid (238) 108
At 31 August 2024 9,600 8,258
Changes in the fair value of the Academy's share of scheme 2024 2023
assets: £'000 £000
At 1 September 2023 7,576 6,296
Interest income : 413 280
Actuarial gain 399 154
Employer contributions 662 545
Employee contributions 226 193
Benefits paid (238) 108
At 31 August 2024 9,038 7,576

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 58

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

20 Related party transactions

a1

Owing to the nature of the Academy Trust's operations and the composition of the Goveming
Body being drawn from local public and private sector organisations, transactions may take
place with organisations in which the Academy Trust has an interest. All transactions
involving such organisations are conducted at arm's length and in accordance with the
Academy Trust's financial regulations and normal procurement procedures. The following
related party transaction took place in the period of account.

No material related party transactions took place with members or Trustees in the period of
account.

During the year the Principal's, Geoff Osborne, wife Natalie Osbome worked as an Assistant
Principal. The appointment was made in open competition and Geoff Osborne was not
involved in the decision-making process regarding appointment. She is paid within the
normal salary scale for her role and receives no special treatment as a result of her
relationship to the Principal.

Members’ Ilability

Each member of the charitable company undertakes to contribute to the assets of the
company in the event of it being wound up while he or she is a member, or within one year
after he or she ceases to be a member, such amount as may be required, not exceeding £1
for the debts and liabilities contracted before he or she ceases to be a member.

Agency arrangements

The academy trust distributes 16-19 bursary funds to students as an agent for ESFA. In the
accounting period ending 31 August 2024 the trust received £184,000 (2023: £183,000) and
disbursed £173,000 (2023: £97,000) from the fund. An amount of £104,000 (2023:
£190,000) is in included in other creditors relating to undistributed funds that is repayable to
ESFA.

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 59

Notes to the financial statements 31 August 2024

23 Comparative information
Analysis of income and expenditure in the year ended 31 August 2023 between restricted

and unrestricted funds:
Restricted funds
Un- —_ General 2023
restricted - Annual Total
funds Grant Other funds
£ £ £ £
income from:
Donations and capital grants - - 968 968
Charitable activities
. Funding for the Academy's educational operations - 13,760 - 13,760
Other trading activities 440 - - 440
{nvestments 20 =- = 20
Total income 460 13,760 968 15,188
Expenditure on:
Charitable activities
. Academy's educational operations 217 14,125 718 15,060
Total expenditure 217 14,125 718 15,060
Net income (expenditure) before transfers 243 (365) - 250 128
Transfers between funds = (1,205) 1,205 =
Net income (expenditure)
243 (1,570) 1,455 128
Other recognised gains and losses
Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit pension
schemes - 1,578 _- 1,578
Net movement infunds . 243 8 1,485 1,706
Reconciliation of funds .
Funds brought forward at 1 September 2022 634 3,239 27,641 31,514
Funds carried forward at 31 August 2023 877 3,247 29,096 33,220

Shooters Hill Sixth Form College 60

ord

