“SIEMENS
enerey

anev

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL \
eGR NERY LIOITED

Baghstared nunaiber OA72973.
September 30, 2O23


SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

Company information

Company Name

Directors

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED

Company secretary

DJ Davidson
P O'Brien
R Keyzer-Dean

P O'Brien

Registered number

Registered office

Independent auditor

04729734

CA Parsons Works
Shields Road
Newcastle Upon Tyne
NE6 2YL

United Kingdom

Ernst & Young LLP
No.1 Colmore Square
Birmingham

B4 6HQ

United Kingdom


sStstegichepout

WD ivectorsareport

Seaman of the Bikackars?
rasponainiities in raspact of tha Annual
Reaperteand Fhancal Statements

4) linden Raden AuclRerrs repro to Gao
Siemensienergygindustrial

6 Steetement of Comprehensive neon
7 SetamaTRet Fania Rosiom
Statementioticasntlows
QBsrarementorchanges inequity

{|Q@ Stesasto tha Financial Seeamants


SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

The directors of Siemens Energy Industrial Turbomachinery Limited (“the Company”) present the annual report containing a strategic report,
directors’ report and the financial statements for the year ended September 30, 2023. In these financial statements, the terms “Siemens Energy”
and “Group” refer to the Company's ultimate parent undertaking, Siemens Energy AG and its Group companies.

1 Strategic report

1.1. Principal activities

Siemens Energy Industrial Turbomachinery Limited is engaged in the
design, manufacture, installation, maintenance and marketing of

1.2. General business review

The directors work closely with management to anticipate risks from
economic or global factors and plan accordingly. The Company remains
vigilant of warning signs exhibited in both the global economy and
domestic economy. An evaluation of the potential impact of market
factors is undertaken regularly by the management so that the
Company can respond appropriately. This includes the ongoing
consideration of the effects of Britain's exit ("Brexit”) from the European
Union (“EU”) and the UK-EU Trade and Cooperation Agreement treaty
with regard to any short-to-medium term impact. Risks around these
macro-economic factors have not had a material impact on the business
and there is no impact on the figures presented as at September 30,
2023 and 2022.

The directors have reviewed the recent geopolitical tensions and have
not noted any risk or business impact to date but continue to monitor
the potential risks for inflationary cost increases and supply chain
challenges. The Company continuously updates its business practices
with regard to local laws and regulations to ensure business continuity
in all working environments. As a result, the Company has continued to
operate and trade successfully. This view is underpinned by business
continuity planning, risk management and an integrated internal
control framework.

The directors are also closely monitoring the evolving strategic and
policy landscape in support of achieving net zero in the United Kingdom
("UK") by 2050 and the outcomes from the 28th UN Climate Change
Conference of the Parties (“COP28"). The Company is involved in a wide
range of activities to support its customers in their energy transition
journey, and this is helping to shape the Company's response to the
market.

In the previous financial year, the Group laid foundations for a new
corporate structure called Versatile Organisation to Lead
Transformation (‘VOLT’), which would ensure clearer structures,
holistic market access, operational excellence and improved
transparency to our customers, partners and the financial market. As a
result of this reorganisation, the former Division of the reportable Gas
and Power (GP) segment were reassigned into three business areas -
Gas Services (GS), Grid Technologies (GT) and Transformation of
Industry (TI).

On December 26 2022, a major fire occurred at one of the Company's
key suppliers, resulting in significant disruption to its supply chain and
operations. This unfortunate incident has had a considerable impact on

industrial gas turbines for industrial applications, combined heat and
power, and power generation applications.

the Company, affecting its ability to procure parts and components for
both the new build and overhaul of SGT Engines.

As a consequence of the fire, the Company's supplier's production
facilities were severely damaged, causing an unexpected halt in their
manufacturing capabilities. This unforeseen event has led to a shortage
of critical parts that are integral to the Company's production process.
Asa result, the Company has experienced delays in fulfilling customer
orders.

Management has been working diligently to minimise the impact on
customers and operations by identifying alternative solutions in the
short and medium term. They have also been in constant
communication with our affected clients to provide updates on the
situation and to provide assurance that everything in the Company's
power is being done to mitigate the consequences of this incident.
Management are taking all necessary steps to ensure that the supply
chain is restored as soon as possible.

During FY23, the Company implemented a SCM resilience program
designed to robustness, adaptability, and responsiveness of an
organisation's supply chain in the face of disruptions and uncertainties.
The primary goal of such a program is to ensure business continuity,
minimise financial losses, and maintain customer satisfaction during
unexpected events.

Key components of this SCM resilience program include:

1. Risk assessment and management: Identify, assess and prioritise
potential risks and vulnerabilities within the supply chain. Develop
strategies to mitigate or manage these risks, including contingency
plans, alternative sourcing and inventory buffers.

2. Supplier diversification: Avoid over-reliance on a single supplier or
region by diversifying the supplier base. Engage with multiple suppliers
for critical components or materials.

3. Visibility and transparency: Enhance end-to-end visibility across the
supply chain, including tracking supplier performance, lead times, and
inventory levels.

4. Collaboration and communication: Foster strong relationships with
suppliers, partners and stakeholders through regular communication
and information sharing.

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
“ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

1.3

The Company operates in the fields of power generation and industrial
applications. Oil prices have continued to be volatile during the year
creating delays in the investment strategies of key customers. These
market conditions have been made more difficult due to continuing
economic and geo-political conditions in certain major trading
territories. Despite these difficulties, the Company has been able to
trade profitably at a gross profit level, and continues to identify
opportunities to grow.

1.4

The statement of financial position showed an overall increase in net
assets of £22,138k (5.1%) to £457,038k (2022: £434,900k). The
balance sheet movement reflects the operational movements of the
year.

1.5

Net cash flows from operating activities of continuing operations is
£31,866k compared to £19,779k in the previous year. The change
reflects the movements in the Statement of Financial Position noted
above and the flow through of profit year on year.

Net cash flows from investing activities of continuing operations is
£25,487k (2022: £3,102k net cash used) with the change attributable

1.6 Analysis of Financial Key

The Company measures its performance on a number of key
performance indicators, as noted below:

Key Performance Indicators 2023 2022
£'000 £'000
TS ——ee
Turmover 268,208 263,476
Operating profit for the financial year 26,623 8,285
Profit for the financial year 26,578 5,456
New orders received 437,854 322,750
Total order backlog 761,901 610,050

Review of Statement of Income

Revenue increased in the year by £4,732k (1.8%) to £268,208k (2022:
£263,476k).

The operating profit from continuing operations was £26,623k in the
current year, compared to an operating profit of £8,285k in the
previous year. The Company received a dividend of £29,000k from its
subsidiary in the year (2022: fnil).

The Company made a net profit for the financial year, net of taxation of
£26,578k (2022: £5,456k).

Review of Statement of Financial Position

Net current assets increased by £28,527k to £173,003k (2022:
£144,476k).

Review — Statement of Cash Flows

to a dividend of £29,000k being received from the Company's
subsidiary (2022: £nil).

The net cash used by financing activities of continuing operations,
mainly representing payments to Group companies, changed from a
payment of £13,725k to a payment of £55,138k in the year.

Performance Indicators

The Company has high volume projects and has multi-year customer
orders. While orders for large projects may lead to volatility in order
intake from one reporting period to the next, revenue is generally less
affected by such volatility. The long-term service contracts, normally a
key feature of larger projects performed by the Company, leads to
steady revenue recognition over several reporting periods. Hence, the
Company's order backlog gives a high level of visibility of future
revenues.

The Company's profitability level differs substantially among the
portfolio elements. Therefore, during any given period, the results of
operations are affected by the portfolio mix sold in each division. The
results of operations and margins, therefore, depend on the Company's
ability to generate revenue from servicing the installed fleet as it
becomes subject to wear and tear. The Company aims to maintain and
expand the long lifespan of the installed fleet to secure orders for
service contracts, primarily focusing on long-term service programs.
Therefore, the Company sees service as a major pillar of Siemens
Energy's sustainable business success, which the management seek to
enlarge and leverage even more in the future.

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

1.7. Principal risks and uncertainties

The directors undertake regular assessments of the key risks impacting
the Company. As part of the Group's Enterprise Risk Management
process ("ERM"), the Company has implemented a co-ordinated set of
risk management and control systems, inctuding strategic planning and
management reporting, to help anticipate, measure, monitor and
manage its exposure to risk. The process aims for early identification,
evaluation, and response to risks and opportunities that could
materially affect the achievement of our strategic, operational,
financial, compliance and climate-related objectives across the entire
organisation. It is not the ultimate purpose of ERM to avoid or eliminate
business risks, but to support entrepreneurial decision-making by
finding the right balance of managing risks and pursuing opportunities.
The key areas identified, and the related controls are as follows:

« Risks related to project execution: The Company engages in large
and complex projects, where execution may take several years.
These contracts are exposed to risks, which are identified and eval-
uated for every project. Nevertheless, the business may see devia-
tions from its execution plan and related calculated cost. This is par-
ticularly true in projects with untested or new technology that have
never been executed before. In certain cases, there are risks of un-
foreseeable project-related changes in critical personnel, quality, fi-
nancial problems of customers and/or partners, cost overruns or
contractual penalties due to delays or unexpected technical prob-
lems, unforeseen developments at the project sites, effects of legal
or political conditions, performance problems with suppliers, con-
tractors and consortium partners, or logistical difficulties. This
could lead to significant increases in project costs, negatively affect-
ing the performance of projects and having a material adverse ef-
fect on the business, financial position, and results of operations.
In some cases, this also could lead to disputes. To address those
risks, the Group have established a global project excellence organ-
isation to monitor a transparent risk assessment and approval pro-
cess for bid submission, a standard model for project execution, a
curriculum to systematically improve the capabilities of our project
management personnel as well as a continuous improvement pro-
gramme focused on lessons learned, in order to prevent failure rep-
etition.

« Credit risk: The business activities could be negatively affected if
the customers or suppliers do not have access to financing on eco-
nomically viable terms. Furthermore, the Company may incur un-
expected losses on financial instruments if the credit quality of the
contractual partners deteriorates or if they default on, or fall behind
schedule with, their payment obligations, arising from trade receiv-
ables. The level of receivables and amounts overdue is monitored
closely. In some areas specific measures are in place to reduce the
credit risk.

Liquidity risk: In order to maintain liquidity to ensure that sufficient
funds are available for ongoing operations and future develop-
ments, the Company uses an intercompany loan account (Group
cash pooling facility). Further details regarding liquidity risk can be
found in the accounting policies in note 2 to the financial state-
ments.

Economic risk: The directors work closely with management to an-
ticipate risks from economic or global factors and plan accordingly.
The Company has remained vigilant over the warning signs exhib-
ited in the global economy and uncertainty in the UK economy. An
evaluation of the potential impact of market factors is undertaken
regularly by the management so that the Company can respond ap-
propriately. This includes considering the effects of Britain's exit
("Brexit") from the European Union ("EU"). Whilst no financial state-
ment impact to date, the agreed UK-EU Trade and Coopera-
tion Agreement treaty terms remain a risk which is being closely
managed. Equally, the directors have reviewed the recent geopolit-
ical tensions and have not noted any financial statement impact to
date, but continue to monitor the potential for inflationary cost in-
creases and supply chain challenges.

Threats to Cybersecurity: The global increase in cybersecurity
threats and higher levels of professionalism in cybercrime pose a
risk to the security of products, systems and networks and to the
confidentiality, availability, and integrity of the Company's data.
The Group attempts to increase overall cybersecurity resilience by
employing proven cybersecurity professionals and by utilising sev-

- eral measures, including awareness measures for its staff on a

global scale, target oriented employee training, comprehensive
monitoring of the networks and systems through cybersecurity de-
fence teams, and by using security systems such as firewalls and
virus scanners.

Climate related risks: This information can be found in the TCFD
reporting on pages 15 to 24 in the Strategic Report.

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

1.8

The directors of the Company must act in accordance with a set of
general duties. These include a duty under s.172 of the Companies Act
2006 to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its
members, and in doing so have regard (amongst other matters) to:

1) the likely consequences of any decision in the long term;
2) the interests of the Company's employees;

3) the need to foster the Company's business relationships with
suppliers, customers and others;

4) the impact of the Company's operations on the community and the
environment;

5) the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high
standards of business conduct; and

6) the need to act fairly as between members of the Company.

Employees

Section 172 (1) Statement

Understanding the perspectives of the Company's stakeholders and
building good relationships enables their views to be taken into account
by the Board of directors of the Company (“Board”). The Board uses
forums such as the Extended Board Meetings (“EBM”) plus the Siemens
Energy Management Meeting ("SEMM") cascades delivered via the EU
Hub updates and other sessions to ensure they are well informed to
make key decisions. All Board members participate in the EBM and EU
Hub cascades, which have representation from all Business Units and
Support functions. Given the size and nature of Siemens Energy in the
UK, stakeholder engagement often takes place at both an operational
and senior management level as well as by the Board, the mechanisms
that are in place provide a good basis to ensure stakeholder feedback is
considered in the operation of the Company.

At Siemens Energy, our People Agenda is critical to how we achieve our business priorities by focusing on clear aspired outcomes in three key areas: thriving

environment, game changing leaders ond vibrant workforce.
Engagement

Thriving environment: .

Siemens Energy is creating an environment for people to be self-directed, to
have responsibility, and find meaning in their work. We guide this by setting
standards through our Inclusion & Diversity (1&D) Framework, applying new
ways of working, and establishing cross-organisational networks.

Key topics, decisions and outcomes influenced by this stakeholder group
SS
Siemens Energy is committed to building a welcoming, inclusive and diverse or-
ganisation. We understand diversity as a fact and inclusion as a choice: we want
a diverse workforce that not only reflects today's society, but also makes best use
of it by real inclusion. This means, we respect and value each other, so that eve-
ryone can fully develop their potential.

We use “inclusion” to describe our commitment to being an open and inclusive
Company, striving to create safe, welcoming workplaces with a culture that en-
courages equality and belonging. We listen respectfully to learn from others and
leverage our differences to innovate for better solutions. An inclusive culture
brings our purpose to life; it ignites our innovation potential, paves our way to-
wards a sustainable future and helps us transform ourselves and our customers.

We use “diversity” to describe our commitment to recognising and respecting the
differences between people whilst valuing the contribution everyone can make
to our business. We do not tolerate discrimination or bias of any kind. At Siemens
Energy, we want every person to bring their authentic self to work and trust that
their potentiat will be fulfilled.

Employees can make their views known through employee representative bodies,
whether at a local, business or national level. These bodies provide a mechanism
for ongoing dialogue between Company management and the employees’ repre-
sentatives on all aspects of the Company's operations. Furthermore, a confidential
whistle-blowing hotline called ‘Speak Up’ enables employees to raise concerns
about any aspect of Company practices or behaviour.

We have three strategic drivers that form the basis of our plan for Inclusion and
Diversity: (1) Equity: We recognise the unique needs of each individual or group
and we remove barriers and create opportunities under which everyone can par-
ticipate on equal terms. (2) Belonging: We make our mix work by creating an in-
Clusive culture where people feel respected, engaged, able to speak up and be
themselves. (3) Society and Partnerships: We work together, internally and exter-
nally, with customers and partners to support us in becoming more diverse and
inclusive.

Game-changing leaders:
Leaders navigate through changing situations by providing clarity and direction
in uncertain conditions. They bring new strategies, new mindsets, and business
transformation to life, triggered by outside market changes and role modelling
our Leadership Essentials.

Leadership Essentials

Our leaders are encouraged to seek feedback to become more self-aware and to
be held accountable for role modelling our leadership essentials and leadership
behaviours.

Voices

The SE Voices engagement survey gives all employees worldwide, the opportunity
to reflect and share their unique perspective on how they perceive our company,
aur culture, leadership, team collaboration and work environment. It addresses
the topics ike Drivers of Engagement, Human Energy, Employee Well-Being as
well as Siemens Energy's Behaviours & Values.

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

Employees

At Siemens Energy, our People Agenda is critical to how we achieve our business priorities by focusing on clear aspired outcomes in three key areas: thriving

environment, game changing leaders and vibrant workforce.
Engagement
iS

Key topics, decisions and outcomes influenced by this stakeholder group

See mend
The views of our employees are critical in helping us continually improve our-
selves as an organisation, and regular employee engagement surveys enable us
to both further understand our employees’ perspective and generate ideas which
can benefit everyone.

Team Up For Action

To drive Engagement and Human Energy, we expect and foster accountability on
all levels. In addition to our corporate actions, our “Team up for Action” pro-
gramme enables teams and their managers to realise positive change within their
circle of influence: Employees focus on individual and team accountability for
change while managers enable teams to create actions that will inspire engage-
ment.

Vibrant workforce:

Our ambition is to become the employer of choice in the energy industry. We do
this by investing in employer branding, learning and development, strategic
workforce planing, and a recognition and performance management system.
Alt elements contribute to the implementation of our strategy and anchor our
values and behaviours.

Growth

All our employees including apprentices and graduates are supported in growing
and developing in their roles by the availability of comprehensive training pro-
grammes to equip them for both current and future roles. In addition to technical
training, all our employees have access to learning and development resources
that are individuat, transparent and self-driven. All employees are encouraged to
review their skills and to hold a growth dialogue with their manager to devise a
growth and development plan.

Performance Management

All employees are set their top responsibilities linked to our Purple Book, followed
by objectives which are discussed at regular check-ins with the employee’s man-
ager. Through these regular check-ins objectives are reviewed and amended to
ensure they continually support the organisation's strategy

Transformational Accelerators (TAs)

Siemens Energy has a community of TAs from all areas and levels of the organisa-
tion who drive cultural change in line with our people and cultural strategy. They
meet regularly to build a community of change agents and share success stories.

Recognition

Siemens Energy operates a number of recognition programmes for example STAR,
which enables any employee to nominate or reward other colleagues for their
excellent performance and collaboration.

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
“ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

Customers and Suppliers

Business relationships with the Company’s customers and suppliers are fundamental to Siemens Energy.

Engagement

Customers are always at the centre of our thinking with regard to technology,
innovation and how to best consult and support them. Our main goal is to es-
tablish ourselves as the partner of choice for our customers by fostering close
and trusted partnerships.

Key topics, decisions and outcomes influenced by this stakeholder group

We engage with our customers to develop a portfolio of energy technology prod-
ucts, solutions and services in the delivery of their operational business require-
ments. We develop strong relationships with customers, suppliers and business
partners to assist in their journey to a more sustainable environment and a carbon
neutral target.

in the Energy sector, Siemens Energy has long term relationships with all the ma-
jor utilities, industrial customers and Special Purpose Vehicles (SPVs). We engage
with our customers through a number of contractual models for products, sys-
tems and EPC construction contracts for major infrastructure projects and service
contracts supporting the installed assets over its lifetime.

Liquidity of our suppliers is critical to ensure a sustainable supply chain and
Board members support this through reviewing our payment performance; en-
suring availability of electronic invoicing and engagement of senior manage-
ment with suppliers who are showing signs of financial stress.

Our suppliers add value to Siemens Energy and our stakeholders through prod-
uct innovation, quality, availability, and investment, We rely on our suppliers to
provide a competitive and transparent supply chain, which we develop to ulti-
mately generate energy. Our aim is to create sustainable diversity and safety for
our people and for the people in our supply chain,

We continue to extend our supply chain finance solution in order to facilitate the
sale of receivables under attractive conditions to support suppliers to optimise
their cashflow and working capital.

We continue to measure and report purchase volume with Voluntary, Community
and Social Enterprises (VCSEs). We now ask suppliers if they are classified as a
VCSE, either as a ‘Social Enterprise’ or ‘Not for Profit’ which supports an increase
in purchasing volume reported for the current year.

We continue our commitment to support Voluntary, Community and Social En-
terprises (VCSEs) through monitoring and reporting the social impact of every-
day spend, which is measured and communicated to the Extended Board
through the Social Value Portal Report.

Decarbonisation continues to be key strategy theme for Siemens Energy. A De-
carbonisation Steering Committee meets quarterly comprising of workstream
leads, selected members of the management team and several Extended Board
members, including the UK Vice President. Supply Chain Decarbonisation up-
dates are shared with the Steering Committee who then have an opportunity to
provide feedback.

Social Enterprise spend has increased by 66%. The increase is mainly due to pur-
chasing office supplies through a company that creates social impact in the UK
and overseas. Through this partnership Siemens Energy has supported transform-
ing 584 lives during 2022 in both social and environmental initiatives. We now
work with several other social enterprises including a soft drinks company who
support water security, a wood recycling company which provides training and
employment to tong term unemployed, a site signage company who support ex-
service people into employment plus several other enterprises. Purchasing vol-
ume with ‘Not for Profit’ organisations was 6.5 times bigger than last year, mainly
due to location specific project work with a charity that supports regional heritage
projects while bringing social value to the local area.

We have committed to a 30% reduction in Scope 3 supply chain emissions, using
Financial Year 2018 data as a baseline, this target has been signed off by the
Global Board. To support delivery the business assesses the supply chain data,
using accepted methodology and external databases which provides a Baseline
analysis of CO2e emissions, both directly and indirectly in the supply chain.

The Baseline CO2e data is used to identify the highest supply chain emitters who
are asked to complete an online Due Diligence Assessment (DDA), providing ac-
curate information across several areas of carbon emission reduction, this is used
to calculate the supplier's Co2 reduction performance. Suppliers selected to com-
plete the DDA this year cover >75% of company-wide supply chain emissions. Sie-
mens Energy reported a 13.9% reduction against the baseline. Future improve-
ments include allowing suppliers to increase Co2 transparency within their own
supply chain by inviting up to 10 of their own suppliers to complete a DDA free of
charge.

We continue to promote the real living wage with our suppliers to enhance peo-
ple’s lives which has been shown to improve supply chain performance.

Additionally, making online information available to support suppliers in the iden-
tification of Co2 reduction opportunities and training material to ‘map a carbon
footprint’ is being trialled to support smaller suppliers who may not have the re-
sources or expertise available in-house.

We work with customers to ensure the Real Living Wage requirements on their
projects are passed onto the suppliers we work with, both directly employed, and
people employed at subcontractors.

Our procurement function is committed to developing business relationships
with organisations who are aligned to respansible business objectives to maxim-
ise joint performance and bring additional value. Relationships with strategic
suppliers are supported by a member of the senior management team who acts
as an owner.

We have carried out a survey of a cross section of suppliers to understand how
many currently meet the real living wage standards or have future plans to imple-
ment. Should the business decide to become accredited by the Living Wage Foun-
dation, the responses will help identify the steps needed to correctly implement
the Living Wage Foundation's requirements.

As a result of the ongoing geopolitical issues globally, we are working with our
key suppliers to assess the risks this poses to their business operations and what
support we can offer.

As part of our Annual Supplier Management Plan, we review suppliers and the
level of engagement required. Where required, supplier workshops are attended
by Senior Management from Siemens Energy and the supplier to discuss collabo-
ration and wider aspects of the relationship.

A supply chain resilience tracker has been established which tracks the risks for
our key suppliers and outlines the mitigation actions between the supplier and
Siemens Energy. This approach has been enhanced in 2023 to target specific sup-
pliers with a risk questionnaire. The results are presented to the senior manage-
ment team for review and input.

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

Communities and Environment

Siemens Energy is committed to its purpose ‘we energise society’ which is supported by its Sustainability approach. Social Impact is delivered through our Societal
Engagement Programme and protection of the environment is supported by our Decarbonisation and Zero Harm Programmes.

Engagement

Societal Engagement Programme

In the UK, we follow the Siemens Energy global approach, for societal engage-

ment, with a focus on regional! activities. Societal Engagement is grouped into
three key themes:

1. Energy Transformation
2. Access to education
3. Sustaining communities

Key topics, decisions and outcomes influenced by this stakeholder group
TT
Societal Engagement Programme outcomes for FY23

1. Energy transformation

Siemens Energy provide ongoing support to National Energy Action (NEA) with
the development of ‘bitesize training’, ’ to identify homeowners who might be in
a vulnerable situation in relation to their energy use and supply. Since the release
of the training app in July 2023, NEA has engaged with interested organisations
across the energy sector from housing associations to energy companies. Further
interest in the product has come from the education sector and NEA are develop-
ing a student / younger person friendly version of the e learning which will be
released to students in colleges. The Company will continue to support develop-
ment of NEA training for first time tenants, students and young people.

We have established a Societal Engagement Programme to deliver social value
which is led by the Head of Sustainability and supported by a network of local
site and project ambassadors.

We are committed to following the United Nations Sustainable Development
Goals which are a social value charter for the planet.

We have engaged the services of a leading specialist consultancy in this area,

Social Value Portal (SVP) to enable measurement of social value, generated by
the Societal Engagement Programme.

2. Access to education

The Work Experience Programme has been developed with a portfolio of bitesize
resources reflecting the sustainable challenges faced by our business. The mod-
ules give students real life insight, exploring the world of Siemens Energy, Sci-
ence, Technology, Engineering and Maths (STEM) careers, whilst helping students
to develop key core skills such as listening, reading, observing, analysis, team
working, researching, and problem solving.

Virtual work experience programmes delivered in 2023 were registered by over
380 students from across the UK with a focus on engaging with students from
deprived areas.

A Virtual Work Experience website has been launched with free resources availa-
ble to download.

To support inclusion and diversity in education, a Panel and Hackathon event were
delivered in partnership with Stemettes, an award-winning social enterprise work-
ing young non-binary people into STEM.

STEM activities supported: Primary Engineer competition, STEMFest Net Zero in
Newcastle, Furness STEM show in Cumbria, work experiences sessions hosted at
local sites and STEM visits to schools.

3. Sustaining Communities

Our Societal Engagement Community have been delivered fundraising and com-
munity programmes across our sites and projects in the UK. The volunteering ac-
tivities and donations are recorded in our Sacial Value portal. Key projects for FY23
have included:

© Fundraising for MIND to support the mental health charity and mental health
campaigns.

© Support for the Wildlife Trusts with over 5% of employees volunteering for
‘Wild Workdays’ in 2023.

© Siemens Energy donated over £90K to charities in FY23 and in addition to do-
nations from employee fundraising. Volunteering for charity and community
projects was over 6000 hours.

Siemens Energy created over £4 million of social value in FY23 using National
TOMS framework supported by the Social Value Portal. This was a sustained im-
provement Social Value generation from FY22 as volunteering and schools’ en-
gagement opportunities continue to grow post-Covid.

We use both non-financial and financial data as evidence of the impact of our
activities on communities.

A full update of Siemens Energy Social Value delivered from our UK Societal En-
gagement programme has been published on our UK website.

In August’ 2023, our UK colleagues, with their friends and family, continued to
make a powerful statement of Inclusion & Diversity - standing out as an ally to
our Pride Community in the heart of Lincoln City by participating in the ‘Lincoln
Pride UK Parade’.

Decarbonisation Programme (UK)

Siemens Energy is dedicated to delivering our customers innovative solutions
that drive their energy transformation and support the decarbonisation of the
energy sector. At the same time, we are consistently pursuing climate neutrality
in our own operations and intend to be climate neutral by 2030. The three pillars
of Decarbonisation in Siemens Energy are:

. Decarbonise our product and service portfolio;
. Climate neutrality in our own operations by 2030;
° Emission reductions throughout our supply chain.

Decarbonisation Programme (UK) outcomes

Siemens Energy carbon and energy performance for FY23 is reported in the
Streamlined Energy and Carbon (SECR) report, for the legal entities that meet the
required reporting thresholds.

An update of Siemens Energy performance against UK Decarbonisation targets in
support of the Climate Neutral Programme for own operations has been published
on our UK website.

A UK Energy Forum co-ordinated energy performance targets for all sites in sup-
port of our Decarbonisation targets.

10

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
“ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

Communities and Environment

Siemens Energy is committed to its purpose ‘we energise society’ which is supported by its Sustainability approach. Social Inpuct is delivered through our Societal
Engagement Programme and protection of the environment is supported by our Decarbonisation and Zero Harm Programmes.

Engagement

SS
In the UK, we follow the Siemens Energy global approach, looking in more detail

at the risks and opportunities for decarbonisation in our UK based businesses.
The Decarbonisation Steering Committee oversees workstreams for delivering
decarbonisation targets.

The Decarbonisation Programme is reviewed annually to consider significant
events, risks and opportunities that impact targets. The Decarbonisation Pro-
gramme has been communicated to internal and external stakeholders.

Key topics, decisions and outcomes influenced by this stakeholder group

eed
Siemens Energy manufacturing sites in Newcastle and Lincoln are certified to ISO

50001:2018 for energy management. The manufacturing sites at Ulverston will
be joining the certificate in FY24.

In F¥24 the Siemens Energy UK carbon footprint will be externally verified to
measure reduction in emissions over the past two years since the previous verifi-
cation audit in January 2022.

UK Decarbonisation Targets:
Carbon Neutral Programme
. Climate neutral in operations by 2030
. 50% reduction in absolute emissions by 2025 (from 2019 baseline)
. Reduction of carbon emissions from gas used for turbine tests by 5%
year-on year (normalised against test demand)
. Company car vehicte fleet to be 100% law emission vehicles by 2025

Sulphur Hexafluoride (SF6)
. Reduce total SF6 emissions year on year as a % of total SF6 installed

(leak rate)

Energy performance
. Annual energy performance targets for all Siemens Energy managed

manufacturing sites and offices

. Replace natural gas used for heating at manufacturing sites and of-
fices by 2030

. Programme for installation of local renewable energy on manufac-
turing sites and offices

Decarbonise the supply chain
. Reduction in supply chain emissions by 30% by 2030 vs 2018

FY22 was the first year that Siemens Energy has reported Climate-related Finan-
cial Disclosures following the introduction of new legislation in April 2022. The
new legislation implements the Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) Task Force on Cli-
mate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFO) framework. Disclosures of material cli-
mate related financial information can help support investment decisions as we
move towards a low-carbon economy. in FY23 a reporting framework has been
established to monitor climate related risks and opportunities for the UK.

An update of Siemens Energy performance against the UK Decarbonisation tar-
gets in support of the Climate Neutral Programme for own operations has been
published on our UK website.

Zero Harm programme

Siemens Energy succeeds through its people. Fostering the health and safety
culture and performance of Siemens Energy employees as welt as safeguarding
their working conditions are core to Siemens Energy social and business com-
mitment.

The Company commits to supporting the physical and mental wellbeing of all em-
ployees, engaging with Occupational Health providers and various wellbeing part-
ners to achieve this. Across the Company, Wellbeing Champions and Mental
Health First Aiders are part of a strategic approach to wellbeing which aims to
equip our managers and employees with the tools to cope with the stresses and
strains of life and make healthy lifestyle decisions. All employees have access to
an Employee Assistance Programme (including counselling where required), fort-
nightly virtual Yoga sessions as well as various training courses on topics such as:
Building Resilience, Mental Health Awareness, Mindfulness and Body Mechanics.
Mental health is part of a global strategy for Siemens Energy Group. In line with
this, in the UK we have implemented several improvements in the last year. Anew
mental health training program for Managers has been rolled out in FY23 which
raises awareness on their own mental health and also looking after their teams.
The training also provides numerous resources for assistance to managers. The
mental health Calm application has also been rolled out globally to ail employees
and their families to sign up to free of charge.

Siemens Energy has a Zero Harm philosophy based on 4 principles:
It is achievable;

We do not compromise;

We take care of each other;

We develop locally and share globally.

Below this sits a set of 6 EHS behaviours that are mandatory for all employees

to follow concerning risk assessment, incident reporting, stopping work if it is
unsafe, driving, health and environment.

The Company continues to invest considerable resource in bespoke training for
frontline employees on Safety Leadership with the THRIVE program using actors
in immersive and realistic training, giving employees the confidence to say stop
and to challenge when something is unsafe.

Environmental Protection

Siemens Energy global Zero Harm programme supports both the safety of our
employees (as described in Employees Section above) and protection of the en-
vironment.

A monthly wellbeing newsletter and wellbeing awareness updates are regularly
sent to employees of Siemens Energy.

In addition to creating local zero harm programs for Environment, Health and
Safety, a country specific set zero Harm plan of commitments was rolled out de-
signed to improve the Health and Safety performance and culture of the business.

in FY23, Siemens Energy complied with the extended producer responsibility
(EPR) for packaging and with the ESOS Regulations reporting.

11

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

Communities and Environment

Siemens Energy is committed to its purpose ‘we energise society’ which is supported by its Sustainability approach. Social Impact is delivered through our Societal
Engagement Programme and protection of the environment is supported by our Decarbonisation and Zero Harm Programmes.

Engagement

There are four core principles for Zero Harm underpinned by behaviours and
building blocks for focal programmes.

Key topics, decisions and outcomes influenced by this stakeholder group

LNT oe
In FY23 Siemens Energy input into the DEFRA consultation group on changes to

the F-gas regulations.

The principles for Environmental protection:

We will act to reduce the environmental impacts of our work activities and pro-
tect resources;

We will never ignore any opportunities to minimise energy usage and waste
generations.

tn support of Siemens Energy Climate Neutral Programme, from FY23 all loca-
tions, including leased sites procured 100% renewable energy.

A Duty of Care Audit was conducted with waste provider with focus on sub-con-
tractor management, modern slavery, and compliance issues.

Focus on minimising the environmental impact of our project and civils work, pro-
moting circularity, and reducing embedded carbon.

The three focus topics for Environmental Protection:
. Decarbonisation
. Product Stewardship
. Conservation of Resources

Further details are published in the Siemens Energy Group 2023 Sustainability re-
port.

Compliance with environmental regulations is managed through loca! manage-
ment systems certified to the International Standard ISO 14001:2015.

All our businesses comply with the requirements of and ISO 50001:2018 for
Energy Management and set annual targets for energy performance improve-
ment.

An annual compliance review is conducted for all businesses supported by inter-
nal audits.

Details of our energy performance improvements are included in the SECR disclo-
sure in the Directors’ report.

Siemens Energy have established clear objectives for waste management with
commitment to moving up the Waste Hierarchy, maintaining zero waste (indi-
rect) to landfill and improving waste segregation and recycling at all Siemens
Energy locations (office, production and project sites).

In FY23, Siemens Energy reviewed the Waste management programme to include
targets for Circular Economy and Resource management.

12

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
“ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

Government, Regulators and Trade Associations

Continuous dialogue with policy-makers is extremely important for the success of a globo! company like Siemens Energy.

Engagement

Siemens Energy is politically neutral, but we operate in markets which are
shaped by UK Government policy, either directly or indirectly. We are also pro-
viders of solutions to some of the most pressing issues facing the planet, such
a3 digitisation, decarbonisation and urbanisation. As a result, we are regularly
consulted on economic and policy issues by governments, business associations
and civil society. With the full acquisition of Siemens Gamesa Renewable Energy
(“SGRE”), we have combined the Siemens Energy UK and SGRE Government Af-
fairs teams in the UK.

Our external engagement is governed by our Company commitment to respon-
sible and sustainable business. In doing so, we often meet with policymakers
directly. We also engage through memberships of industry organisations such
as Energy UK, Renewable UK and Make UK.

Key topics, decisions and outcomes influenced by this stakeholder group

Siemens Energy engages with policymakers at all levels in the UK Government,
devolved nations and on a cross-party basis.

Energy cost and energy security have moved up the political agenda in many
countries, including the LIK. There has been significant cost inflation since the
Russian invasion of Ukraine. The recent period of more rapid UK political changes
created a degree of uncertainty over the direction of energy policy at a time when
the industry is gearing up to deliver significant energy infrastructure changes re-
quired for net zero.

We continued thought leadership on the supply chain required for a net zero elec-
tricity system following our 2022 report “A National Endeavour - Delivering the
supply chain for a net zero GB electricity system by 2035”, which was launched at
a parliamentary reception on September 6, 2022. Other active topics this year
include impact on offshore wind auction rounds of inflated global commodity
prices, decarbonisation readiness of new power generation, re-regulation post
Brexit, e.g., UKCA marking requirements for spares was eventually dropped in
recognition of the impact on companies’ exports, e.g., removal of export credit
and other support for export of fossit fuelled equipment, inward investment, Hy-
drogen policy development and energy market design (REMA).

Members of our leadership team regularly meet with key contacts within the De-
partment for Energy Security and Net Zero (“DESNZ*), Number 10 energy policy
team and the Department for Business and Trade, to discuss and understand the
UK Government's approach to reaching net zero and how energy policy will de-
liver this. Members of the EBM are also involved in joint Government-industry
working groups on supply chain and developing hydrogen policy in the UK, in-
cluding the Green Jobs Taskforce, the UK Hydrogen Delivery Council and the
Global Grids Project within King Charles’ Sustainable Markets Initiative. We re-
sponded to formal consultations on subjects including decarbonisation readiness,
low carbon hydrogen standards and REMA.

There has been further political engagement with MPs and local political stake-
halders in relation to construction projects and site footprints.

The Company is also participating in the Just Transition Working Group (TPT-
Transition Plan Taskforce) by contributing to its work through collaboration or
feedback.

Engagement with Make UK has included employment policy implications and the

Skills Survey post COVID-19, Siemens Energy participates in several Energy UK
committees covering public affairs and policy development covering a range of
topics.

The Company published a UK tax strategy, available on our Company website,
outlining its approach to taxation in the UK and its intention to be fully compliant
and transparent in its interactions with HMRC.

13

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

Siemens Energy AG Group Companies

The Siemens Energy Group is building our new Company for long-term value creation through focusing on the energy market transformation and stronger profita-

bility with a simplified and leaner Company structure.

Engagement
ed
In 2023, Siemens Energy Group acquired the remaining shares of Siemens
Gamesa Renewable Energy (“SGRE”) to gain full control and ownership. The ac-
quisition of SGRE makes Siemens Energy a global market leader for renewable
energies.

The Company has a twin track approach, delivering improved bottom line per-
formance while creating long-term value through its Energy of Tomorrow pro-
gramme, with a focus on:

* The supply side (low or zero emission power generation);
* The distribution side (transport of and energy storage); and
* The demand side (reducing CO2 emissions through electrification).

All the above is underpinned by an Environmental, Sustainability and Govern-
ance (“ESG”) programme.

Key topics, decisions and outcomes influenced by this stakeholder group
SS
In the UK, plans are being developed to allow for the integration of the SGRE and
Siemens Energy entitics, this includes work to integrate people, IT systems and
processes. As a large focus market, Siemens Energy in the UK will be one of the
first companies globally to commence integration and will be an ‘carly adopter’
for the company blueprint. Members of the Siemens Energy UK Board are regu
larly involved in the global project which is taking care of the integration.

In areas of rapid growth, such as hydrogen or grid stability, taking an carly lead
sets the pattern for the whole industry. We aim to emulate our success with off
shore wind in the last decade, where leading technology solutions coupled with
recognised thought leadership, helped secure our strong position in the industry.

The Company is involved in numerous discussions and developments with clients
and stakeholders in relation to a) the supply of low or zero emissions power gen-
erating assets, b) the distribution side including the transport of energy and stor-
age and c) the demand side including the reduction of Co2 emissions through
electrification and other means.

Examples include: Hyflex Power Project, which is a CHP power plant that has been
designed to run on 100% hydrogen. The use of e methanol as a low carbon fuel
for small gas turbines, Grid stability projects to support renewables deployment,
electrification of offshore assets and the reinforcement of grid infrastructure to
enable energy transition grid connections.

The development of projects of this nature will form the foundation for future
opportunities in this area.

The strategic decisions of the Siemens Energy AG Group guide the decisions
taken by the Board which, in turn, adapts the Group strategy for the UK specific
market and in line with the duties contained within the Companies Act 2006
and considering UK custamer, employee and other stakeholder intarests etc.

The directors have a strong rolationship with the EBM team, which is made up
of all UK Business Units and Support Function Heads. This key stakeholder group
regularly discuss the local Company strategy for implementation and adoption
in their businesses or functions, and regutarly receive communications from the
Siemens Energy AG Group Board to hetp inform progress and direction relating
to the global strategy.

The energy transition to net zero affects every part of Siemens Energy's market
and our future depends on being leaders of the transition and being regarded by
all stakeholders as a trusted and capable partner. The transition is happening in
different ways and timing in cach country, so it is vitat that the Company shows
clear and consistent understanding of our local market and is seen to be a thought
leader in key areas here.

The Board and EBM members are in regular contact with customers and cmploy-
ees plus other key stakeholders and Industry bodies to provide valuable input and
to influence the Board decision making processes.

Dividend proposais are also a key decision made each year, with the Board having
regard to the ability of the Company to make a dividend taking into account,
amongst other considerations, guidelines under Companies Act 2006 and Pension
Schemes Act 2021, local funding requirements and investments, a3 well as the
needs of our globat Siemens Energy Group.

The Board continues to maximise efficiencies by operating a iean board structure,
and by investing in digital tools, to promote better and faster decision making.

14

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

1.9 Taskforce for climate related financial

(TCFD)

Reporting requirements under sections 414CA and 414CB of the
Companies Act 2006

Introduction

Sustainability is an integral part of the Siemens Energy AG (the “Group”)
strategy, which is embedded in every Group subsidiary in the world,
including Siemens Energy UK companies (“SE UK” or the “Company’).
To create transparency on the Company's climate actions, the
Company's directors disclose how they address risks and opportunities
arising from climate change. To do so, the directors are committed to
implement the recommendations and guidance provided by the ‘UK
Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy’ (now led by
the Department for Energy Security and Net Zero and Department for
Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy) on Climate-related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD), and to meet the targets set out in the ‘Sustainability
Report 2023" published by the Group.

Governance

A, The Board's oversight
Opportunities ("CROs")

of Climate-Related Risks and

Sustainability and climate action play a key role in our decision-making
Processes. We are committed to making an important contribution to

Siemens Energy ‘Group’

ERM Process

Sustainability Council

disclosures

the global economy's decarbonisation and supporting our customers in
transitioning to a more sustainable world. In May 2022, the Group
announced the aspiration to reach net zero across the entire value
chain, in line with a 1.5°C pathway. We have already implemented GHG
emission reduction initiatives along the entire value chain: in the supply
chain, in our own operations, and through the goods and services we
provide to our customers.

The Group's Sustainability Program, which is fully integrated into our
Company strategy, is led by our Chief Sustainability Officer ("CSO"), who
is also the CEO of the Group. Climate action is a regular topic on the
agenda of Executive Board meetings, as decarbonisation is the
cornerstone of Siemens Energy's ("SE") business strategy. Topics
covered include adapting SE's business model to offer decarbonised
solutions to our customers and the progress of SE's program to become
climate neutral in our own operations by 2030.

The Executive Board is informed quarterly and aligns on the reporting
of all significant risks and opportunities throughout the SE Group, from
the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process including climate
issues. Due to the relevance of the topic, it was decided to also include
emission targets in the Senior Management's Long-Term Incentive -
scheme.

Sustainability Report - TCFD

Siemens Energy UK
Statutory Reporting / Sustainability

TCFD Report — Statutory
Accounts

UK TCFD SteerCo

UK CROs Assess

Real Estate /
Insurance

Companies /
Business Areas

Legal and
Communications

Supply Chain

Government Affairs
Management

15

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

B. Management's role in assessing and managing CROs

To reflect the importance of sustainability and climate action, the Group
has established the Siemens Energy Sustainability Council. It meets
quarterly and consists of decision-makers representing Business Areas
(Area Executive Vice President-EVPs), Regional Hubs (Senior Vice
president of Hubs-SVPs), and Heads of Corporate Functions. The
Sustainability Council strategically oversees the implementation of the
Sustainability Program by making decisions, setting priorities and focus
where needed, providing resources to implement the Sustainability
Program, and being sustainability ambassadors both inside and outside
of Siemens Energy. The Group CEO chairs the Council in his role as CSO.
He receives reqular updates on the status of implementation of the
Sustainability Program and an overview of topics where a decision is
needed (if applicable). The Sustainability Council was established in
February 2021.

The Vice President Sustainability manages the Sustainability
Department, which is part of the Strategy Function, and is responsible
for driving sustainability (including climate-related topics) within
Siemens Energy and for coordinating the Group-wide sustainability
activities, programs, and measures. Among others, the Sustainability
Department coordinates the Climate Neutral Program and works on
portfolio topics. The implementation of climate actions in Business
Areas and Countries is ensured by nominated Sustainability Business
Partners.

In the UK, the Head of Sustainability fulfils the role of the Country
Sustainability Business Partner, reporting to the Vice President of
Siemens Energy UK (the Country Managing Director).

In 2023, Siemens Energy UK has established a TCFD Steering
Committee (the “SteerCo”) for review of Climate Related Risks and
Opportunities (CROs) and Financial Disclosures in the UK. The SteerCo
meets twice a year to review CROs and amend the financial impacts
based on information from the Group and our UK operations.

The objectives of the SteerCo:

* Ensure that Siemens Energy has identified the addressed risks and
opportunities arising from climate change on the UK Business Areas.

* Ensure that risks and opportunities align with the Group TCFD
reporting.

* Ensure that accountability and responsibility is assigned for
monitoring climate risks and opportunities.

* Ensure transparency of climate related risks by reporting to UK
Board.

* Benchmarking with other businesses in the energy sector.

Risk Management
A. Processes for identifying and assessing climate related risks

The SteerCo has been established for review of Climate Related Risks
and Opportunities (CROs) and Financial Disclosures in the UK. Members
of the SteerCo include representatives from Business Areas and
Corporate Functions who contribute to the Climate Risk and
Opportunity (CRO) categories:

* Technology

¢ Markets

¢ Policy and Legal
¢ Reputation

* Physical Risks

Climate-related risks and opportunities are analysed within our
dedicated Group Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process as well as
within further operational processes, e.g., in Property Risk Engineering
analyses for detailed location-specific Environment Health and Safety
(EHS) risks (e.g., fires, floods). In FY24, it is planned to use the Group
ERM process template to document UK CROs identified by the SteerCo.
This will support alignment with the Group TCFD reporting.

In the ERM template, the risks identified are prioritised based on its:
1. Impact level - ona scale of 1 (marginal) to 9 (major); and

2. Likelihood level - on a scale of less than 20% (unlikely) to greater
than or equal to 90% (certain).

The risk assessment allows Siemens Energy to prioritise the identified
risks and focus management attention on the most important topics.
The assessment also serves as the basis for the definition of adequate
response measures and monitoring activities.

For Climate related risks and opportunities at Group level (irrespective
of the exposure level), response plans are documented using the Group
ERM template. All response plans have to be agreed upon by the
management tevel concerned, and are founded on the general
response strategy, which has to be mandatorily determined (to be
chosen from five different risk response strategies: “Avoid”, "Reduce",
“Transfer, “Watch”, and "Retain").

ERM Methodology
B. Processes for managing climate-related risks

Climate change is integrated into this process to the extent that it
influences risks and opportunities across the different organisational
units and areas assessed, e.g., in relation to corporate sustainability,
EHS, supply chain, or financing activities. In the UK, the SteerCo meets
twice a year to review CROs and amend the financial impacts based on
information from the Group and our UK operations and to ensure that
accountability and responsibility is assigned for monitoring climate risks
and opportunities. This helps the Company to identify UK based risks
and opportunities, thereby strengthening our regional response to
climate related scenarios.

Environmental, Health and Safety and Quality (EQS), Real Estate and
Business Continuity functions contribute to the assessment of physical
climate risks in Company operations and is recorded in Local Business
Continuity Plans. Severe weather, such as fires, hurricanes, high winds
and seas, blizzards, flooding, and extreme temperatures may cause
evacuation of personnel, curtailment of services and suspension of
operations, inability to deliver materials to job sites in accordance with
contract schedules, loss of or damage to equipment and facilities,
supply chain disruption, and reduced productivity. The likelihood of
severe weather impacting our ability to deliver on the Company's
commitments is limited but will be monitored annually. A prolonged
period of high temperatures, and more frequent occurrences of severe
weather, is likely to increase the impact on the work environment in
future years. Storms could impact the Company's ability to work on
project sites in more remote regions of the country, and wildfires from
high temperatures could disrupt travel and supply deliveries.

The Group insurance process includes a natural hazard risk analyses for
each new building project that drives the selection process for new site
areas. The collected data and information allow the Group to identify
geographical areas where we pay special attention at our sites in regard
of risks from changed physical climate parameters. In the UK, the
Company is extending this process for new sites and properties that we

16

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
“ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS,
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

lease. The Group has introduced a risk analysis procedure to
systematically identify potential risks in the supply chain and the
Company will look to extend this to be included in our UK supplier
management plans.

Strategy
A. CROs identified over the short, medium and long term

gradual over several yearsidecades. In particular, the trend towards
decarbonisation in the energy market might force us to review our
strategy, organisational setup, and portfolio. The Company will screen
for climate action commitments and upcoming regulations, to derive
risk exposure and review relevant findings with the UK TCFD Steerco for
further action in the respective area of responsibility.

The table below describes the risks and opportunities arising from

climate change on our business. The respective response plans to cope
with both categories of risk, physical and transitional, have been further
translated into opportunities to grow our business and contribute to
more sustainable energy systems for society:

The impacts of climate change might have significant effects on our
Company throughout the entire value chain, such as on markets,
technologies, policy and legal, reputation, as well as physical impacts
on our sites, portfolio, or supply chains, although these changes will be

Climate Related Risks

‘Siemens Energy defines a time horizon of up to 3 years as short-term, as for short-term analysis the market can be derived from a bottom-up analysis of the pipeline
of projects in development (white for longer-term views we have to rely on a top-down approach).

2 Siemens Energy defines a time horizon above 3 and up to 5 years as medium-term. Market developments for this horizon are typically derived from outlook scenarios
as provided by third parties, (e.g. S&P Global, IEA, Bloomberg). Even if the market development may not end up being the most likely scenario, this gives us a rather
conservative view that enforces reasonable planning that is robust enough against potential deviations from the scenario assumed.

3 Siemens Energy defines a time horizon above 5 and up to 30 years as long-term. For this horizon, holistic iong-term energy concepts for countries are being prepared
by making use of various scenarios such as IHS Inflections, IHS Multitech Mitigation Case, or IEA STEPS, IEA SOS or IEA Net Zero by 2050. The aim is to better assess
the consequences and robustness of the current and alternative energy plans we may be proposing. This helps us to identify the most reasonable plan of action while
maintaining adequate robustness if real-world developments differ from the assumptions made. Beyond this horizon, any predictions are associated with high
uncertainty and supposedly little impact on today’s business. Nevertheless, we are using state-of-the-art climate models (SSPs by IPCC on the basis of the AR6) to
account for any potential risks beyond this horizon.

SE Global Climate Risks & Opportu-
nities

(2023 Sustainability Report) SE UK Climate Risks

a
« A medium-term risk is the pace ¢
and scale of what is needed to
reach Net Zero in UK and the ‘UK
plc* risks not being able to deliver
the project opportunities due to
other countries moving faster and

securing capacity in factories.

Risk driver Group Response Plan

Analysis of our group portfolio,
identifying three areas of focus —
core, growth, and transformation
to address and enhance identified
technology needs in the R&D plan-
ning process and beyond.

* Climate change triggers signifi-
cant changes in our markets and
customer requirements (e.g., de-
carbonised energy systems). Our
operating results depend on our
ability to develop new applica-
tions while adapting our business
models, offering and product .
portfolio and to optimize our cost
base accordingly.

R&D guard rail and consistent deci-
sion making for R&D reallocation
reflecting strategic (transforma-
tional) focus of the company.
Development programme — work-
ing with customers. .

7 « Even if we succeed in developing «
Transitional - Technology The five fields of action are the

main tool to drive transformative

innovative technologies, our com-
petitors may be able to commer-

Group Exposure Score cialise similar technologies faster « Gas Services business model technology developments in SE.
Short - term High or more successfully than us. might change because of energy Their most essential task is to
Mid - term? Major mix dominated by renewables and shape SE’s (green) technology

interconnectors, we have technol- portfolio of the future (e.g.,

Long - Term3

ogy being developed - H2 firing,
and CCUS post 2035.

power-to-X, heat pump) to suit fu-

ture energy market demands and

satisfy future customer needs

* Change in business model will {e.g., H2 production, energy stor-
pose risk to service centre longev- age, resilient grids, decarbonised
ity. heat, H2-fired gas turbines).

* Four Innovation Centres have
been established across 4 regions
to bring SE’s innovation activities
closer to the customer and lever-
age regional partner ecosystems,
ensuring an efficient and focused
portfolio development.

17

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

Transitional — Market

Exposure Score:
Short - term? High

Mid - term? High

Long - Term? Maj

Transitional — Policy & Legal

Group Exposure Score

Short - term Medium
Mid - term Medium
Long - Term Medium

There is a risk that, due to the sus-
tainabifity trend in the energy
markets (e.g., the shift from fossil
fuels toward renewables, intensi-
fied competitive behaviour, low
demand for hydrocarbons), we
may face reduced demand for cer-
tain parts of our products and ser-
vices (e.g., fossil-based portfolio,
countries depending on high oil
prices may reduce their invest.
ment in energy infrastructure
andlor default on payments).

Que to the rapid rise of the trend,
we may not he able to adapt our
business model and product port-
folio to such disruptive develop-
ments.

Market shifts toward renewable
energy are assumed to have a pos-
itive impact on aspects of our
business, including wind power
with incentives and government-
funded investments becoming
available across the globe (i.e., IRA
bill).

The markets of the gas and power
business are affected by changes
in national energy regulations,
such as support of renewable en-
ergy, carbon pricing and climate
change targets, and the moderni-
sation of energy and electricity
markets. These will drive an incen-
tive to adapt current products and
develop sustainable solutions lev-
eraged by supporting regulations.
itis also expected that many coun-
tries will increase their (financial
and regulatory) support for cli-
mate-friendly technologies and
solutions to reach climate neutral-

ity.

Risks arising from non-compliance
with the Code of Conduct, legai,
contractual or (emerging) regula-
tory requirements might affect
Siemens Energy, e.g., through le-
gal requirements on emissions.

CO2 taxes, financing restrictions
for GHG-emitting technologies or
declining subsidy levels might af-
fect the financial sustainabitity of
some of our business segments.

* Risk over the current skill set and
how transferrable these are to
new products.

« Rick from the IRS bill (US) which
may make the US a more attrac
tive market to our customers than
the UK.

« As unabated fossil generation is
anchrined in law, this may impact
our business where we still sup-
port gas as part of the transition.

« Inflation Reduction Act (US), the
£U Response and UK Govt. inabil
ity to set the right policy means
that there is a risk that we cannot
compete on subsidies. SE advo-
cating for increased simplicity and
agility to make the UK the ‘easiest
place to do business’ - this is un-
likely, but it is recognised by Govt.
that they need to do something
and there may be a response in
the Autumn statement response.

market risks
through the Siemens Energy com-
mon market evaluation process
along with regular competitor
analysis. Individual response as
pects are addressed for all SE units
(Divisions, Corporate Functions,
Siemens Gamesa Renewable En-
ergy (SGRE)).

Monitoring of

Constantly screen climate related
developments in the decarbonisa-
tion programs of customers and
investors, to derive risk exposure
and share relevant findings with
the Sustainability Council for fur
ther action in the respective area
of responsibility.

To raise awareness for CSG risks in
projects an ESG check is imple-
mented early in the process and
where necessary mitigation ac-
tions are identified and imple-
mented in a timely manner.

* No specific UK risk identified.

« No specific UK risk identified.

« UK has ended taxpayer support for
fossil fuel projects overseas. No
“export finance or other support
(via embassies etc.) for interna-
tional projects } products relating
to fossil fuels. This is relevant for
any UK business with export mar-
ket.

Monitoring current and emerging
regulations in our major markets.
Raising awareness of these new
regulations to assess potential im-
pacts and develop sustainable so-
jutions.

informing affected businesses as
early as possible to create room for
timely portfolio (products and ser-
vices) adaptations.

Where applicable, informing on
emerging regulations either di-
rectly through contacts with the
relevant regulatory bodies, or via
associations, or together with sim-
ilarly affected companies to avoid
or lessen foreseen impact.

18

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
“ ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

« The EU Taxonomy requires Sie-
mens Energy to publicly disclose
sustainability-related financial fig-
ures, potentially affecting future
investment decisions by external
investors.

« As a result of the conflict in
Ukraine, we face the risk that the
energy transition in Europe might
be delayed in the short term be-
cause of policymakers’ focus on
securing the energy supply in Eu-
rope. This might, for example, af-
fect plans to accelerate the expan-

and integration = of

renewables into the energy sys-
tem.

sion

« No specific UK risk identified.

© No specific UK risk identified.

Transitional —- Reputation

Exposure Score:

Short - term

Mid - term

Long - Term

« Reputational changes impact the
decisions of our stakeholders. i.e.,
reputational damage might result
in adverse effects on our business
(e.g, loss of tenders, discontinua-
tion, or adaptation of some of our
products earlier than expected)
and financial conditions (e.g., un-
attractive investment opportunity
for investors, divestments of ESG-
oriented investors). However, a
positive reputation may lead to
better stakeholder relationships
and thus may result in further
business opportunities (e.g., fi-
nancing, tenders, etc.).

« Increasing public pressure {e.g.,
media campaigns, boycotts) may
accelerate the shift from fossil-
based energy generation toward
renewables.

e If the strategic implementation
deviates from what has been com-
municated, this may result in a
lack of credibility for external
stakeholders and partners

* No specific UK risk identified.

¢ No specific UK risk identified.

« The UK is behind in investment.
There is an aspiration to upgrade
the Grid by 2030. Risk that there is
no investment to support the en-
ergy transition for SE.

implementation of a climate ac-
tion program, including targets, to
create transparency on decarboni-
sation levers and aim to decarbon-
ise our portfolio.

Active portfolio management,
where sustainability/ESG fit is one
of the four strategic lenses ap-
plied.

Constant screening of climate-re-
lated developments in the strate-
gic programs of customers and in-
vestors to derive risk exposure and
share relevant findings with the
Sustainability Council for further
action in the respective area of re-
sponsibility.

ESG risks in projects are addressed
at different stages of the process
from early bid management
throughout project execution in-
volving various expert teams
across the company. We work
closely with ProjectCustomer Fi-
nance & Sales to discuss identifica-
tion and implementation of miti-
gation actions. Furthermore, we
perform carbon footprint assess-
ments for selected customer pro-
jects to support decision-making.

« Transparency creation on ESG
performance for stakeholders,
e.g., through the Sustainability
Report and contribution to rele-
vant ESG ratings and standards.

19

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

+ Severe weather, such as fires, fur

7 vicanes, high winds and seas, bliz-
zards and extreme temperatures
may cause evacuation of person-
nel, curtailment of services and
suspension of operations, inability
to deliver materials to job sites fol-
lowing contract schedules, loss of
or damage to equipment and facil-
ities, supply chain disruption or re-
duced productivity. Readiness for
these emergencies will lead to in-
creased resitience.

Transitional — Acute

Exposure Score:
Short - term

Medium

Medium

Mid - term

« We may face the risk of missing
out in identifying all global cli-
mate risks (e.g., floods, storms,
etc.) due to changes in climate
conditions that result in damage
to property, impact on business
continuity or the need for invest-
ment in preventive measures.

* Risks will inercase in future, time
risk allowanec, commercial Term

5 to 10 years.

* Flooding measures~ responsibility
on Siemens Energy UK.

« Construction business / Supply
Chain Management risks, reliance
on key suppliers.

* Most of the weather events are
short term impact and managea-
ble, albeit with delays and exten-
sion of time etc.

« There will be increased nature-
based requirements when build-
ing projects (Green Jobs Delivery
Group).

« No specific UK risk identified.

.

.

Continuous evaluation and moni
toring of changes in physical cli-
mate parameters based on global
studies, weather statistics and
trends based on international ex-
perience of insurance companies.

Performance of local risk assess-
ments based on our EHS emer-
gency management and develop-
ment of protection concepts if
needed.

Qur insurance department pro-
vides natural hazard risk analysis
for each new building project that
supports the selection process for
the respective site areas. The col-
lected data and information allow
us to identify geographical areas
where we pay special attention to
risks from changes to physical cli-
mate parameters.

Constant improvement of our EHS.
Emergency Response Manage-
ment System and the supply chain
response.

« Long-term shifts in climate pat-
terns (e.g., longer and warmer
seasons, extreme cold, drought)
may affect our and our customers”
operations and could result in the
development of new markets and
business models. This would re-
quire changes to our product port-
folio and project execution.

Physical - Chronic

Exposure Score:

* Extreme heat — impacting Employ-
ees working conditions, reducing
number of hours for employees
working outside on projects, pro-
ject delivery risks.

« Transparency on environmental
stressors and impacts has been
created to evaluate, e.g., water
Stress on locations.

« We are analysing the potential
impacts on our locations globally
using different pathways and tak-
ing into consideration the total
insured values.

¢ Based on this baselining, we are
implementing preventive
measures, supported by the inte-
grated management systems and
insurance risk reports.

Consistent improvement of our
EHS Emergency Response Man-
agement System.

20

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
- ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

Climate Opportunities

Opportunity Driver

Transitional — Products and
services

Exposure Score:

Short - term | High

Mid - term Major

High

Long - Term

SE Global Opportunities
(2023 Sustainability Report)

We strengthen our decarbonisation portfolio and grow markets
while we continuously adapt our business models and our prad-
uct, service and solutions portfolio to the changing customer
and market behaviour.

New products/projects comprise e.g., H2 production, SF6-free
high-voltage equipment, decarbonised heat, H2 fired gas tur-
bines or energy storage for our clients in existing power plants,
as standalone sotutions for grids, arid in combination with re-
newabie energies like PV or wind.

It is expected that many countries will increase their (financial
and regulatory) support for climate-friendly technologies and
solutions to reach climate neutrality.

SE UK Opportunities

¢ Clean Air solutions to replace use of SF6 in switchgear is an
opportunity but will depend on deployments and haw soon
we adapt to new product in the region.

¢ Gas turbines will include 2 firing and CCUS, allowing CO2
abatement post 2035 when these technologies are mature.

* Carbon calculations and full LCA for transmission solutions
are requested during bid and tenders’ phase for Grid Tech-
nologies projects and the ability to provide a ‘low carbon’
solution to our customers can be the differentiator between
winnirig or fosing a project. Requirements flow down from
OFGEM to clients who ultimately feed these down to their
supply chain (SE). Example would be SSEN no longer ac-
cepting SF6 as an option for future projects due to the car-
bon impacts.

Transitional — Market

Exposure Score:

Policies currently proposed by the European Commission, in-
cluding the Net Zero Industry Act and proposal to reform the Eu-
ropean electricity market, may lead to increased demand for our
offerings. Existing governmental programs and policies may
also create more market demand than we currently expect.

The increasing need for energy security and autonomy, presents
further opportunity for SE to expand operating earnings and
profitability. This could include investing in energy infrastruc-
ture in countries that are seeking to reduce their dependence on
imported energy sources.

Market shifts toward renewable energy are assumed to have a
positive impact on aspects of our business, including wind
power with incentives and government-funded investments be-
coming available across the globe (i.e., IRA bill).

« For Siemens Energy in the UK, there is a healthy pipeline for
Grid Technotogy and Gas Services business and the integra-
tion with SGRE as a renewable business (wind power)
brings further opportunities. The UK is in a position to pro-
vide market information into SE Global technology
roadmaps e.g. H2 etc.

« Decarbonisation readiness brings opportunities with new /
substantially refurbished combustion power plants that
need to be H2 or CCS ready.

= The Hull Freeport will bring opportunities for SE UK with the
integration of SGRE.

+ “Powering up Britain (Energy Security Strategy)” explicitly
links energy security with net zero ("Energy security neces-
sarily entails the smooth transition to abundant, !ow-car-
bon energy’).

« Future technology investment will help SE UK to attract
new customers (Geopura).

« UK Government targets on H2, CCUS, Grid, OSW bring op-
portunities for SE UK, for example, 10GW Low Carbon H2
by 2030, SOGW OSW by 2030, Net Zero Power Grid by 2035
(requiring 15 CCUS plants).

« The Net Zero Hydrogen Fund (development and deploy-
ment of new low carbon hydrogen production) is an oppor-
tunity for SE UK.

* Focus on ‘Skills for the Future/Green Skills’ with STEM and
Education events will bring opportunities to enhance the
business reputation.

° There is opportunity to enhance reputation on project sites
through social engagement and driving social vatue.

« Business continuity plans consider severe weather events
and bring opportunities to manage risk, for example, the
factory at Lincoln (Ruston Works) is close to a river, but IT
has been moved to a different location (Teal Park).

21

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

B. impact of CROs on business, strategy and financial planning

Climate-related risks and opportunities influence the Company
strategy as well as financial planning, e.g., in terms of portfolio
adaptation, allocation of investments and R&D, own operations,
and the entire value chain to mitigate risks arising from the
transition to a lower-carbon economy, such as CO2 taxes, financing
restrictions for greenhouse gas-emitting technologies, or a reduction in
customer demand due to a change in consumer behaviour. As such,
climate-related risks and opportunities might have a significant impact
on the Company's products and services in the short, medium and long-
term.

‘Decarbonisation’ is one of the key market drivers for Siemens Energy,
and we will continue to transform our portfolio as part of our company
program “Energy of Tomorrow” where we want to be ready to be
leading the energy transition. Therefore, SE focus on building our
company based on three key pillars: 1. Low or zero-emission power
generation, 2. Transport of electricity and storage and 3. Reducing our
CO2-footprint and energy consumption in industrial processes. This
includes the reduction of absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by at
least 46% by 2025 from the base year 2019. This is an even greater
ambition than our initial target year, originally 2030, as validated by the
SBTi. In this context, Siemens Energy decided in November 2020 to no
longer support the development of new, purely coal-fired power plants,
for example.

Furthermore, in response to transition risks such as carbon pricing,
Siemens Energy has developed a Climate Neutral Program and aims to
be climate neutral by 2030 in its own operations. In addition,
procurement prices might rise due to carbon pricing, which is why we
engage with suppliers to reduce carbon emissions in our supply chain
through our Carbon Reduction @ Suppliers program.

Scenario analysis allows us to develop an understanding of how various
combinations of climate-related risks, both transition and physical risks,
may affect SE’s businesses, strategies, and financial performance over
time, The Company relies on the Group climate-related scenarios and
models and regional sources of information to inform scenario analysis
for UK markets.

1. Corporate strategy: For the Group global strategic assumptions, IHS
Inflections are used, but also BNEF NEO, IEA Net Zero by 2050 (NZE
2050) and IRENA. They are applied in all businesses — for example, to
deduce assumptions regarding fossil energy additions, investments,
policies and regulations. The time span until 2040/2050 reflects long
cycles of energy investments. The results are used to inform manage-
ment about possible opportunities and threats if scenario compliance
with climate goals materialises, as well as for corporate strategy devel-
opment, the planning process, the sales targets for our regional man-
agers and as a basis for our management decisions on an annual basis.
Scenarios highlight the need for balancing fluctuating renewables and
ensuring the stability of the electricity grid.

2. Business strategy: For our business strategies, we use climate sce-
narios to be able to compare, challenge or complement our strategic
mid- to long-term related planning processes. They also help us identify
new business opportunities, such as investment in hydrogen and en-
ergy storage. Here, we are using S&P Connect Inflections, as well as IEA
STEPS with the following rationale: S&P Connect Inflections, for exam-
ple, is used for the Gas Services business with customised data for mar-
ket planning. Our regional strategy is based on NDCs. Data provided are
power generation, installed capacity, retirements and gross capacity ad-
ditions by technology and fuel type, but also further macroeconomic
indicators. IEA STEPS is used to incorporate a multitude of socictal (e.g.,

push for decarbonisation) and economic indicators (e.g., GDP, popula-
tion growth) and power generation-specific predictions. Based on this
market model, strategic business decisions (e.g., footprint, portfolio ad-
aptations, marketing strategies) are made, for example, to predict the
power generation market evolvement in the next 5-10 years. We also
use external scenarios, especially for installed capacityipower consump-
tionlinvestments (CapEx/OpEx). We compare how the markets react to
extreme parameters and adjust our strategic outlook monitoring and/or
our deducted strategic rationales accordingly. Recently, S&P Connect
Inflections and IEA STEPS scenarios were considered, looking at indica-
tors such as uptake of renewables, need for new high voltage transmis-
sion lines, or demand for electrolyzers. The results confirmed our strat-

3. Decarbonisation strategy: To estimate the future GHG emissions of
our products, we use different market scenarios to cover various poten-
tial futures and global warming potentials.

C. Resilience of the Siemens Energy strategy, taking into
considerations different climate-related scenarios including a
2°C or lower scenario

To further understand the risk that climate change could have on our
business, the Company will use climate scenarios to consider CROs and
will review in the UK TCFD SteerCo. We used twa in-house scenarios:

* The first assumed that the global response to the threat of climate
change is enough to limit global average temperature increases to
no more than 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels (as set out in the Paris
Agreement) by 2100 (the 1.5°C scenario). In this scenario, rapid
changes are made to progress decarbonisation goals: coordinated
policy, regulation and customer behaviour favours bans on polluting
technologies, and support for low-carbon solutions. Based on the
market analysis, the Company supports the conclusion that the
transition impacts in this scenario would be focused around
technological shifts to support decarbonisation, with the main
impacts being a trend towards more large-scale renewables in the
generation mix, a trend towards electrification and public pressure
against the use of gas.

* The second scenario assumed that the 1.5°C target is missed by
some margin, comparable to a 4°C global average temperature
increase (4°C scenario). In this scenario, changes are less rapid and
less comprehensive, and emissions remain high, so that the physical
ramifications of climate change are more apparent by 2030. Market
analysis for this scenario indicates a slower global progress. This
scenario would result in fragmented and ad hoc policy, which would
not provide consistency for our business activities with our
customers. The main impacts of this scenario were increased
weather events of escalating severity and frequency, which could
increase disruption to aur customers, less coordinated policy and
regulation in pursuit of decarbonisation, resulting in an increase in
overall costs and complexity.

While assessing, analysis showed that, without action, there are risks in
both the scenarios presented. However, while these would need to be
managed, some of these changes represent material opportunities.

22

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

Metrics and targets

A. Metrics used to assess CROs in line with strategy and risk
management processes

Decarbonisation is a core part of Siemens Energy's strategy. Therefore,
it is essential to set targets and measure the performance against those
targets. We will continue to transform our portfolio, since the greatest
potential to reduce GHG emissions is within our products, solutions,
and services. As part of the SBTi evaluation, we integrated the use of
our sold products into our carbon footprint calculation. Sold products
worldwide make up over 99% of our overall carbon footprint. We are
committed to a 28% reduction collectively by 2030 from a 2019 base
year. The SBTi confirms that our target for the use of our sold products
is in line with the Paris Climate Agreement to limit global warming to
well below 2°C.

Becoming climate neutral in our own operations is an integral part of
the decarbonisation journey for Siemens Energy. We aim to be climate
neutral in our own operations by 2030. The global target sets a reduc-
tion of absolute Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by at least 46% by 2025
from the base year 2019 — in line with a 1.5°C trajectory, as validated
by the SBTi. The strongest levers to achieve climate neutrality by 2030
are reducing energy consumption, using renewable electricity, reduc-
ing SF6 emissions, and new mobility concepts.

B. Scope 1 &2, and Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions, and related
risks

In the UK, the Company follows the Siemens Energy global approach,
looking in more detail at the risks and opportunities for decarbonisation
in regional based businesses.

The baseline for the Company carbon footprint is financial year 2021
(October 2020 —- September 2021) as our first full year operating as Sie-
mens Energy. Prior to the carve out in 2020, Siemens Energy operated
as the Gas and Power Division of Siemens AG. Significant reductions in
carbon had been achieved prior to the carve-out from the baseline year
2014-15. Siemens Energy as a new business was formed in 2020, re-
baselined our performance energy targets from the financial year 2021.

Carbon Trust Assurance Limited (CTA) was commissioned by the Com-
pany to provide an independent, limited level of assurance by conduct-
ing a verification of the UK carbon footprint in line with the GHG proto-
col and verified to ISO 14064-3. This assessment was for FY 2021 and
in FY24 we have commissioned a verification of the UK carbon footprint
for FY 23 to review progress against targets over the past two years.
Siemens Energy UK measures Scope 1 and Scope 2, however Scope 3 is
limited to business travel, which includes flights, rail, taxis, and car hire
data for the reporting period.

With regard to decarbonisation in the supply chain, the Group has in-
troduced the Carbon Reduction @ Suppliers pilot project, which has en-
abled us to calculate our carbon footprint for upstream activities, iden-
tify the top 100 suppliers with the highest carbon footprint, and then
share their implemented and planned CO: reduction measures with us.
We commit to the Group target of reducing relative Scope 3 GHG emis-
sions from purchased goods and services as well as transportation and
distribution by 30% per procurement volume (£ spent) until 2030.

For more information on our decarbonisation efforts, energy consump-
tion, and related GHG emissions, please refer to the SECR disclosure sec-
tion the Directors’ report below and Siemens Energy UK Decarbonisa-
tion Programme (Sustainability | Home | Siemens Energy United
Kingdom (siemens-energy.com).

Definitions and glossary of terms

BNEF NEO: The New Energy Outlook (NEO) is Bloomberg NEF’s annual long-term
scenario analysis on the future of the energy economy.

COP: The UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties. The climate talks brought
together heads of state, climate experts and campaigners to agree coordinated
action to tackle climate change. The Company is a principal partner of COP.

Carbon (Climate) Neutral: defined by an internationally-recognised standard
- PAS 2060 - which sets out requirements for the quantification, reduction and
offsetting of greenhouse gas emissions. In this standard, the definition of a
carbon neutral footprint is a ‘condition in which during a specified period there
has been no net increase in the global emission of greenhouse gases to the
atmosphere as a result of the greenhouse gas emissions associated with the
subject during the same period’. The approach to residual emissions differs, with
specific greenhouse gas removals required for Net Zero targets, whereas carbon
offsets are accepted for carbon neutrality.

Decarbonisation: Decarbonisation is the term used for removal or reduction of
carbon dioxide (CO2) output into the atmosphere. Decarbonisation is achieved by
switching to usage of low carbon energy sources.

GHG: Gases that trap heat in the atmosphere are called greenhouse gases -
Carbon dioxide (CO2): Methane (CHa): Nitrous oxide (N20): Fluorinated gases
(Hydrofluorocarbons, Perfluorocarbons, Sulphur hexafluoride, and nitrogen
trifluoride)

GHG Scope 1, 2 and 3: The GHG Protocol Corporate Standard classifies a
company’s GHG emissions into three ‘scopes’. Scope 1 emissions are direct
emissions from owned or controlled sources. Scope 2 emissions are indirect
emissions from the generation of purchased energy. Scope 3 emissions are all
indirect emissions (not included in scope 2) that occur in the value chain of the
reporting company, including both upstream and downstream emissions.

IEA: International Energy Agency.

IEA Net Zero by 2050: The Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario (NZE). This is a
normative IEA scenario that shows a narrow but achievable pathway for the global
energy sector to achieve net zero CO2zemissions by 2050, with advanced
economies reaching net zero emissions in advance of others. This scenario also
meets key energy-related United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),
in particular by achieving universal energy access by 2030 and major
improvements in air quality. The is consistent with limiting the global temperature
rise to 1.5 °C without a temperature overshoot (with a 50% probability), in line
with reductions assessed in the IPCC in its Special Report on Global Warming of
15°C.

1EA SDS Scenarios: International Energy Agency Sustainable Development
Scenario (SDS). For the World Energy Outlook 2021 (WEO-2021), four scenarios
were modelled: the Net Zero Emissions by 2050 Scenario (NZE), the Announced
Pledges Scenario (APS), the Stated Policies Scenario (STEPS), and the Sustainable
Development Scenario (SDS).

S&P Global (Formerly !HS Markit) -S&P Global provides subject matter experts,
analysts and consultants to provide actionable intelligence to make informed
decisions.

23

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

IRENA: The International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA) is an
intergovernmental organisation that supports countries in their transition to a
sustainable energy future, and serves as the principal platform for international
cooperation, a centre of excellence, and a repository of policy, technology,
resource and financial knowledge on renewable energy.

Net Zero: The Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) has defined Net Zero
targets for corporates as follows: To reach a state of net zero emissions for
companies implies two conditions: 1)To achieve a scale of value-chain emission
reductions consistent with the depth of abatement achieved in pathways that
limit warming to 1.5°C with no or limited overshoot and; 2)To neutralise the
impact of any source of residual emissions that remains unfeasible to be
eliminated by permanently removing an equivalent amount of atmospheric
carbon dioxide.’

NDCs: Nationally determined contributions (NDCs) are at the heart of the Paris
Agreement and the achievement of these long-term goals. NDCs embody efforts
by each country to reduce national emissions and adapt to the impacts of climate
change.

Paris Agreement: The agreement, also known as the Paris Climate Accord, within
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change dealing with
greenhouse gas emissions mitigation, adaptation and finance starting in the year
2020, and adopted by consensus on December 12, 2015.

SBTi: Science Based Targets Initiative, aligned to the Paris Agreement

SF6:; Sulphur hexaftuoride is an inorganic, colourless, odourless and non-
flammable greenhouse gas. SFe is used in the electricity industry as a gaseous
dielectric medium for high-voltage circuit breakers, switchgear and other
electrical equipment. The Kyoto. protocol estimated that the global warming
potential over 100 years of SFe is 23,900 times more potent than that of CO2.

STEM: Science, technology, engineering and mathematics.

Approved by the board of directors on February 9, 2024, and signed on
its behalf by

DJ Davidson
Director

Registered office:

CA Parsons Works,

Shields Road, Newcastle upon Tyne
NE6 2YL

United Kingdom

24

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
” ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

2 Directors’ report

The directors who served the Company during the year and subsequently
were as follows:

DJ David {Appointed:
evieson 01/01/2024)
‘eo: (Appointed:
P OBrien 01/10/2022)
(Appointed:

RK -Di
eyzer-Bean 03/07/2023)
S Scrimshaw (Resigned: 01/01/2024)
M Gray (Resigned: 03/07/2023)
S Davina (Resigned: 01/10/2022)

None of the directors holding office on September 30, 2023 had notified a
beneficial interest in any contract to which the Company or its subsidiary
undertakings were a party during the financial year.

The directors benefited from qualifying third party indemnity provisions in
place during the financial year and at the date of this report.

2.1 Dividends

The directors have not recommended a dividend (2022: Enil).

Research and
development

2.2

The Company continues to invest in research and development in the UK.
During the year, the Company spent £14,304k (2022: £17,226k) on research
and development. During the year the Company has been engaged by
Siemens Energy AG to provide contract research and development services
to continue the development of the intellectual property owned by Siemens
Energy AG. The recharge in the year for research and development activities
undertaken amounted to £15,097k (2022: £17,418k).

2.3 Financial instruments

The Company's financial risk management objectives and policies, including
the exposure to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk are set out in note
29 to the financial statements.

2.4 Going concern

The directors continue to monitor the ongoing geopolitical tensions on the
future financial results and have prepared a going concern assessment and
cash flow projections for the business. The current trading is in line with the
updated forecasts taking into account the ongoing geopolitical instability.

As part of a sensitivity analysis, management prepared a worst-case scenario
forecast to estimate the impact on the results and cash forecast for the period
of 12 months (through to February 28, 2025) from the date of signing the
accounts, including order intake and revenue assumptions. This forecast
considers the ongoing contracts which are part of the critical infrastructure
and are not impacted by the geo-political instability.

Based on the Company's forecasts, the directors consider that the Company
will continue the trend of previous years and will trade profitably and
generate positive cash flows from operations over the next 12 months (being
to February 28, 2025). Additionally, a cash pooling facility is available in
Siemens Energy AG across its worldwide Group. Cash balances generated by
entities are passed to Siemens Energy AG and companies are able to draw
down on these facilities if required. Further information on the cash pooling
risks, and their potential impacts, can be found in the Siemens Energy AG
2023 annual report.

For 2023, based on their assessment of the Company’s financial position,
future performance, liquidity and risks, the directors have concluded the
Company has adequate resources to adopt the going concern basis of
preparation for the financial statements.

25

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

2.5

Position Statement

Siemens Energy strategy to decarbonise global energy systems is
central to our efforts to be the partner and driver of the energy
transition, The three core commitments to decarbonise along the value
chain are:

* Commitment to decarbonise our product and service portfolio via
Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) with a target of 28%
reduction of GHG from the use of sold products by 2030 (from a
2019 baseline).

* Commitment to climate neutrality in our own operations by 2030
with a target reduction of relative Scope 1+2 GHG emissions by
2030: 46% (from a 2019 baseline).

¢ Pursuit of emission reductions throughout our supply chain with a
target reduction of relative Scope 3 GHG emissions in our supply
chain by 2030 of 30% (kg CO2e/€ PVO spent, base year 2018).

The Siemens Energy UK business has established a regional
Decarbonisation programme with targets established for reduction in
energy use and carbon emissions from operations (Scope 1&2)
emissions in line with the global objectives. The UK programme and
targets are reviewed annually and updated every three years. In FY24,
the targets have been revised and are better aligned with the global
targets.

Streamlined Energy Carbon Reporting ("SECR")

Carbon Neutral Programme

¢ Climate neutral in operations by 2030.

* 50% reduction in absolute emissions by 2025 (from 2019 baseline).

* Reduction of carbon emissions from gas used for turbine tests by
5% year-on year (normalised against test demand).

* Company car vehicle fleet to be 100% low emission vehicles by
2025.

Sulphur Hexafluoride (SF6)

* Reduce total SF6 emissions year on year as a % of total SF6 installed
(leak rate)

Energy performance

* Annual energy performance targets for all Siemens Energy
managed manufacturing sites and offices.

* Replace natural gas used for heating at manufacturing sites and
offices by 2030.

* Programme for installation of local renewable energy on
manufacturing sites and offices.

Decarbonise the supply chain

* Reduction in supply chain emissions by 30% by 2030 vs 2018
(aligned with global target).

All Siemens Energy Industrial Turbomachinery Limited site locations are
certified by BSI to the International Standard ISO 50001:2018 for
Energy Management.

Comparisons with previous year figures for energy use and GHG emissions

FY23 Intensity Measure: 30.75 tCO2e/£million
FY22 Intensity Measure: 37.12 tCO2e/£million

FY21 Intensity Measure: 42.82 tCO2e/£ million

2023 2022 2021
kWh tCO2e kWh tCO2e kWh tCO2e

SS A A A A LS
Gas 26,456,378 4,846 32,184,196 5,895 53,283,351 9,797
Purchased Electricity* : 12,998,588 3,004 14,345,364 3,316 15,042,216 3.815
Transport (owned fleet) 774,841 181 1,144,106 181 629,776 105
Fuel (Diesel) 868,552 217 1,427,806 387 1,529,169 391

* Using Location based electricity factors

Energy Performance Improvements in FY23
Ruston Works, Lincoln

Ruston Works is a small gas turbine manufacturing, test and office
facility based in a city centre location. There are 653 employees at this
site, with an average of 14 engines manufactured per annum and circa
112 engines tested'per annum.

The energy performance objective for the Ruston Works site is
investment in infrastructure, including new offices, refurbishments,
LED lighting and removal of gas for heating. Vacant areas of the site

have been identified for closure. The energy management on site is
being expanded to include monitoring of machines to ensure they are
used efficiently and are turned off when possible.

The gas used for testing turbines at Ruston Works is the most significant
contribution to the carbon footprint of the business and the objective is
to reduce the number of turbine engine tests/retests and move to more
alternative fuels (eMethanol, Hydrogen) by 2030.

26

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

Energy improvement projects completed in FY23

* Bay 6 corridor lighting replaced with LED's.

« New test bay doors installed.

¢ — Insulation of walls in Bay 35.

* Replacement of lighting with LED in Met Lab office.

Ongoing projects:

* Investment in digital twin technology for test of gas turbines.

* Investigating machine energy consumption.

* Investigating energy efficiency upgrade of the Ruston Works Air
dryer unit.

* Insulation installed for Bay 32 roller shutter door.

* The installation of an Air lock in Bay 34 (to the same specification
as Bay 1) is on hold. :

Energy Performance projects planned for FY24

¢ Packaging and Modules move to Q3. (approx. 7% in electricity and
55% in gas heating by relocating from the North side of the site).

* Air compressor heat used to heat buildings instead of atmosphere
(dependant on technology).

* Transfer of work from Scheiss and Wotan to Carneghi and DMG.
(estimated energy reduction of approx. 110,000 kwh a year).

« Use of eMethanol (carbon neutral fuel) for testing the turbines.

* Insulation to the external walls of the factory.

* Replacement of TS light tubes in JRB to LED lighting.

* Replacing lighting in canteen.

* Air curtain for the Bay 36 roller shutter door.

Teal Park, Lincoln

Teal Park is a small gas turbine service centre, which comprises of a
workshop, warehouse and offices, located at North Hykeham,
Lincoln. Teal Park services/overhauls an average of 120 small gas
turbines annually and supplies small gas turbines spares globally. There
are 512 employees at Teal Park.

Energy improvement projects completed in FY23

* Workshop lighting replaced with LED's to align with main office
. building (GSOC).

* Gas boilers replaced with the electric equivalent.

* — Office LED lighting upgrade

Energy Performance projects planned for FY24

Business Case approved for Solar Panels (PV) for main office building
(GSOC) but investment deferred to FY25.

Kirkton Drive Workshop, Aberdeen

The Aberdeen Service Centre (Kirkton Drive) manufacture, overhaul
and test small gas turbines, approximately 20 units per year. There are
30 employees who are directly involved or support workshop
operations on a daily basis plus project managers and technical support
staff who coordinate work activities in the North Sea.

Energy improvements in FY23

« — Installed LED lighting in test cell control room. The site is now fully
fitted with LEDs throughout.

« Compressed air line leak testing carried out. All deficiencies
identified have been addressed.

¢ Consolidation of office staff into one main office, allowing the
closure of large 1st floor office.

* Night shift now only operates on an ‘as and when’ required basis.
Consolidation of office staff into one main office, allowing the
closure of large 1st floor office.

Energy Performance projects planned for FY24

* Install roof top solar PV panels.

* Replace 4x14 cooler fans with one chiller unit.
* Fit high speed roller doors.

¢ — Install de-stratification fans.

Methodologies used in calculation of disclosures
Alignment with Financial Reporting

SECR Disclosure has been prepared in line with the Company's annual
accounts made up to September 30, 2023.

Reporting method

GHG emissions reported in accordance with GHG Protocol Corporate
Accounting and Reporting Standard.

Conversion factors

Siemens Energy applies the Defra greenhouse gas conversion factors to
calculate carbon and fugitive emissions. The carbon footprint is
reported in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalence (CO2e).

Data Sources

Data is collected and reported via in-house information systems as well
as third party systems.

* Navigator System is used for energy consumption data (Electricity
& Gas) from supplier data.

* For sites where the landlord is responsible for energy contracts, the
kWh is calculated from invoices. An average unit price for gas and
electricity is used to convert the cost (£) to kWh. The unit cost has
been updated in 2023 to reflect changes in energy prices.

* Fleet data is sourced from Fuel Cards and Mileage expense claims
and includes commercial vehicles, hire cars, company cars and
personal cars driven for business. The DEFRA average vehicle
conversion factors are used for the different vehicle types (Petrol,
Diesel, PHEV, BEV).

¢ Energy consumption from projects sites is collated from meter
readings, invoices for fuel and invoices from customers.

Reason for intensity measurement choice

Turnover is the most appropriate intensity metric due to varied nature
of business operations.

Renewable Energy

The Company has a contract for 100% renewable electricity with
guarantees of origin (REGO) for all owned sites in the UK. In 2023,
renewable energy certificates have been purchased to account for
energy consumption on sites where the landlord is responsible for the
purchasing energy. The Company used 100% renewable energy in
2023 but has elected to report purchased electricity using location
factors instead of market factors.

27

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

2.6

The directors cantinue to encourage employee participation within the
Company. The Company utilises a number of initiatives to engage with

2.7

Statement of engagement with employees

employees and more information can be found in the s.172 statement
on pages 7 to 14.

Statement of engagement with customers, suppliers

and others in a business relationship with the

company

Business relationships with customers, suppliers and other business
partners are fundamental to Siemens Energy. The Group maintains
business relationships only with reputable partners who comply with
the law. The directors are required to promote the success of the
Company as a whole and, in doing so, have regard to a range of

2.8 Group policies

Environmental

Siemens Energy is committed to our purpose ‘we energise society’
which is supported by our Sustainability approach. Social Impact is
delivered through our Corporate Society Responsibility (“CSR”) strategy
and protection of the environment is supported by our Decarbonisation
and Zero Harm Programmes. Further information can be found in the
s.172 statement and TCFD reporting on pages 7 to 24 in the Strategic
Report.

Equal opportunities

The Company is committed to equal opportunities for all, free from
discrimination and harassment. Siemens Energy values the

2.9 Subsequent events

There were no other significant events after the reporting period.

2.10 Political donations

No political donations were made during the current or preceding
financial year.

stakeholders. Further information can be found in the s.172 statement
on pages 7 to 14 where the Company has set out how it has engaged
with its key stakeholders, including customers, suppliers and others in
a business relationship with the Company, and how the Board has
considered their interests during the year.

contribution of all employees. All job applicants and employees,
customers, visitors, or contractors will receive equal treatment
regardless of sex, race, disability, sexual orientation, religion or belief,
age, colour, marital status, trade union membership, nationality or
ethnic or national origins.

Inclusion and Diversity initiatives have focused on inclusive culture,
LGBTQIA+ inclusion, racial and gender equality and equal opportunities
for people with disabilities. Siemens Energy has sought to influence
these topics externally through influencing and collaboration with
customers, suppliers and other Siemens Energy businesses via
workshops, hosting webinars and on social media.

28

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

2.11 Disclosure of information to the auditor

The directors who held office at the date of approval of this annual
report confirm that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit
information of which the Company's auditor is unaware, and each

2.12 Auditor

Ernst & Young LLP have notified the directors that they will not be
seeking re-appointment. In accordance with s489 of the Companies Act
2006, a resolution for the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor of the
Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming meeting.

Approved by the board of directors on February 9, 2024, and signed on
its behalf by

DJ Davidson
Director

Registered office:

CA Parsons Works,

Shields Road, Newcastle upon Tyne
NE6 2YL

United Kingdom

director has taken all steps that ought to have been taken as director to
make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to
establish that the Company's auditor is aware of that information.

29

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

3 Statement of the Directors’ responsibilities in
respect of the Annual Report and Financial
Statements

The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom laws and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law, the directors have elected to prepare
the Company's financial statements in accordance with UK-adopted international accounting standards ("IAS"). Under Company Jaw, the directors
must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the financial position, financial performance
and cash flows of the Company for that period.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to:

* select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors, and then apply
them consistently;

* make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

* present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information;

* provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in UK-adopted IASs is insufficient to enable users to understand
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Company's financial position and financial performance;

* state that the Company has complied with UK-adopted IASs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial
statements; and

* prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's transactions and
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements
comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a strategic report and directors’ report that comply with that
law and those regulations. The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included in
the Company's website.

30

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
” YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

4 Independent Auditor’s report to the Members of
Siemens Energy Industrial Turbomachinery- Limited

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Industrial Turbine Company (UK) Limited for the year ended September 30, 2023 which comprise the
Statement of Income, the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the Statement of Financial Position, the Statement of Cash Flows, the
Statement of Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 34, including a summary of significant accounting policies. The financial reporting
framework that has been applicd in their preparation is applicable law and UK adopted international accounting standards.

tn our opinion the financial statements:

* give a truce and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at September 30, 2023 and of its profit for the year the ended;

¢ have been properly prepared in accordance with International Accounting Standards in conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act
2006; and

* have heen prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We rondicted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UX) (ISAs (UIK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under
those slandards are further described in the Audilor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial staterments section of our report. We are
independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK,
inicludiny the FRC’s Ethical Staridard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with lhese requirernents.

We believe that ihe audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our apinion.
Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the preparation of the
financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that, individually or
collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern for a period of 12 months from when the financial
statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant sections of this report.
However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted; this statement is not a guarantee as to the company’s ability to continue as
a going concern.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditor's report
thereon: The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report.

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report,
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the
financial statements, or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such
material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in
the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other
information, we are required to report that fact. :

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, based an the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

¢ the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the fiuaricial year for which the financial slatemerits are prepared is

consistent with the financial statements; and
* ihe sirategic report and directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirernenits.

31

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

Independent Auditor’s report to the Members of
Siemens Energy Industrial Turbomachinery Limited

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified
material misstatements in the strategic report or directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to you if, in our
opinion:

* adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; ui
* the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

* certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

* we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 31, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary
to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error,

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing,
as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the
company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives ave lo obtain reasonable assurance aboul whether the finaricial slalernents as a whole are free frorm ruaterial misstalement, wheltier
duc to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a
guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line with our responsibitities,
outlined above, to detect irregularities, including fraud. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of
not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or
through collusion. The extent.to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below. However, the
primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.

» We obtained an understardiny uf the legal and regulatory frameworks Uial are applicable lo the Conipany atid determined that the most
significant are thuse that relate tu the reporting framework GAS and the Companies Act 2006) and the relevarit tax compliance regulations it
the UK.

* We understood how Siemens Industrial Turbomachinery Limited is complying with those frameworks by enquiries of management and those
charged with governance to understand how the Company, maintains and communicates its policies and procedures in these areas. We
understood any controls put in place by management to reduce the opportunities for fraudulent transactions.

« We assessed the susceptibility of the Company's financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud might occur by meeting
with management and those charged with governance to understand where it considered there was susceptibility to fraud. We understood the
programmes and controls that the Company, has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud; and
how senior management monitors those programmes and controls. Where the risk was considered to be higher, in respect of management
override, including in respect of revenue recognised, we performed audit procedures to address the identified fraud risk.

© These procedures included using a risk-based approach to identify a selection of coritracis covering all operating segments for detailed testy,
including understanding the nature of the contract and stage of completion, testing the costs to complete to verify the margin is appropriate
and verifying the clerical accuracy of the revenue calculation. In relation to management override we incorporated data analytics into our testing
of manual journals, including segregation of duties, and into our testing of revenue recognition. We tested specific transactions back to source
documentation. Our procedures were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the Company financial statements were free from material
misstatement.

32

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023

Independent Auditor’s report to the Members of
Siemens Energy Industrial Turbomachinery Limited

¢ Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify noncompliance with such laws and regulations and respond to the
assessed risks. Our procedures including verifying that material transactions are recorded in compliance with IAS and where appropriate the
Companies Act 2006. Compliance with other operational laws and regulations was covered through journal entry testing, with a focus on
journals posted by the key management personnel including directors of the Company and journals indicating large, unusual transactions based
on our understanding of the business and enquiries of management.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting Council's website at
https:!www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit
work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report
and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company
and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Emy & You, uf

Stephen Kirk (Senior Statutory Auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Birmingham

14" February, 2024

33

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
STATEMENT OF INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

5 Statement of Income

Note 2023 2022
SS

Revenue 3B 268,208 263,476
Cost of sales (251,934) (238,101)
Gross profit 16,274 25,375
Research and development income 793 192
Marketing and distribution expenses (13,817) (14,272)
Administrative expenses (5,554) (2,845)
Income from investments 5 29,000 -
Other operating expenses 6 (73) (165)
Operating profit 4 26,623 8,285
Interest income/{expenses), net 9 222 (471).
Interest income from pension plans and similar commitments, net 9 224 60
Profit from continuing operations before income taxes 27,069 7,874
Income tax expenses 10 (491) (2,418)
Profit from continuing operations, net of income taxes 26,578 5,456
Net profit for the financial year 26,578 5,456

34

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
‘STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOMEL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

6 Statement of Comprehensive Income

Note 2023 2022
SS
Net profit for the financial year 26,578 5,456
Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss
(Losses)/gains on remeasurement of defined benefit plans 23 (5,699) 964
Deferred tax crediti(charge) on (losses)/gains on remeasurement of defined benefit plans 1,425 (242)
Total items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (4,274) 722
Items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss
Losses on derivative financial instruments (221) (596)
Deferred tax credit on losses on derivative financial instruments 55 208
Total items that may subsequently be reclassified to profit or loss (166) (388)
Total comprehensive income . . 22,138 5,790
Attributable to Owners of the Company 22,138 5,790
SS

35

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION

FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

7 Statement of Financial Position

Note 2023 2022
I

Assets
Cash and cash equivalents - -
Trade and other receivables 1 140,965 72,868
Other current financial assets _ 12 1,951 4,723
Contract assets 3 16,326 21,986
Inventories 13 171,725 160,707
Current income tax assets 18,359 12,918
Other current assets 14 1,074 3,220
Total current assets 350,400 276,422
Goodwill 15 160,877 160,877

Property, plant and equipment 17 40,070 43,278
Investments 18 133,961 133,961
Post-employment benefits 23 4,174
Other non-current financial assets 16 43 718
Deferred tax assets 10 : 2,314
Total non-current assets 334,951 345,322
Total assets 685,351 621,744
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
Current lease liabilities 21 2,121 2,141
Trade and other payables 20 30,519 27,296
Other current financial liabilities 19 4,154 8,855
Contract liabilities 3 97,922 58,316
Current provisions 24 6,909 6,608
Other current liabilities 22 35,772 28,730
Total current liabilities 177,397 131,946
Lease liabilities - non-current 21 19,257 20,873
Post-employment benefits 23 892
Provisions - non-current 24 58 2,080
Other liabilities - non-current 25 1,290 1,740
Deferred tax liabilities 10 29,419 30,205
Total non-current liabilities 50,916 54,898
Total liabilities 228,313 186,844

36

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

Note 2023 2022
SI

Equity
Share capital 26 183,000 183,000
Share premium 38,340 38,340
Capital contribution reserve 65,933 65,933
Cash flow hedging reserve (1,351) (1,185)
Retained earnings 171,116 148,812
Total equity 457,038 434,900
Total liabilities and equity 685,351 621,744

These financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the board of directors on February 9, 2024 and were signed on their behalf
by:

R Keyzer-Dean
Director

Registered number: 04729734
Siemens Energy Industrial Turbomachinery Limited

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
STATEMENT OF CASHFLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

8 Statement of Cashflows

Note 2023 2022
LA
Cash flows from operating activities
Net profit / (loss) for the financial year 26,578 5,456
Adjustments to reconcile net profit / (loss) to cash flows from operating activities:
Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of property, plant and equipment 17 5,164 6,177
Depreciation and impairment of right-of-use assets 7 2,110 1,833
Income taxes . 10 491 2,418
Interest income, net 9 (446) 471
Dividends received from investments (29,000) -
Losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment, net 18 210
Other non-cash (income) / expenses (437) (13)
Operating profit before changes in working capital and provisions 4,478 16,552
Changes in assets and liabilities
Inventories 13 (11,018) (989)
Contract assets 3 5,660 5,134
Trade and other receivables 4 (16,247) 2,120
Other current assets 12,14 4,918 (741)
Trade payables and other payables and accrued expenses 20 6,511 (6,991)
Contract liabilities 3 39,606 3,283
Current provisions 24 301 (602)
Other current liabilities 19,22 2,341 6,930
Long-term assets 16 675 (718)
Long-term liabilities 25 (450) (532)
Long-term provisions 24 (2,022) (569)
Cash generated from operations 34,753 22,877
Income taxes paid (1,141) (1,212)
Research and development tax credit (1,783) (1,024)
Interest received, net 9 446 (471)
Defined benefit pension contributions paid 23 (409) (391)
Cash flows from operating activities - continuing operations 31,866 19,779
Cash flows from investing activities
Additions to intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 17 (3.513) (3,102)
Dividends received from investments 29,000 :
Cash flows fromi(used by) investing activities - continuing operations 25,487 (3,102)


SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
STATEMENT OF CASHFLOWS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

Note 2023 2022
Cash flows from financing activities
Change in financing from other Group companies 11,20 (55,138) (13,725)
Repayment of lease liabilities , (2,215) (2,952)
Dividends paid to the parent 7
Cash flows used by financing activities - continuing operations (57,353) (16,677)

Change in cash and cash equivalents - -

Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year - -

Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year - -

Siemens Energy AG operates a cash pooling facility across its worldwide Group. Cash balances genecrated by entities are passed to Siemens Energy
AG and companies are able to draw down on these facilities if required. Therefore, apart from any accounts held with local banks, amounts invested
with/drawn down from the Siemens Energy AG accounts are shown as an intercompany balance. Changes in the balances on these facilities are
included in cash flows from financing activities in the Statement of Cash Flows. An increase in cash that is loaned to the cash pool is shown as a
cash outflow from financing activities, and an increase in cash borrowed from the cash pool is shown as a cash inflow from financing activities.

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
STATEMENT OF CHANGES OF EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

9 Statement of Changes in Equity

Capital contri- Cash flow hedg-

Retained Earn-

Share Capital Share premium bution reserve ing reserve ings Total equity
SS | NN
Brought forward October 1, 2021 183,000 38,340 65,933 (797) 142,634 429,110
Net profit for the financial year - - : - 5,456 5,456
Oth hensive (loss)/profit, net of i
er comprehensive (loss)/profit, net of income . . . (388) 722 334
taxes
Total comprehensive (loss)/profit for the financial
ip ive (loss)ip : - . - (388) 6,178 5,790
year
Balance at September 30, 2022 183,000 38,340 65,933 (1,185) 148,812 434,300
Brought forward October 1, 2022 183,000 38,340 65,933 (1,185) 148,812 434,900
Net profit for the financial year - - - . 26,578 26,578
Other comprehensive loss, net of income taxes - : : (166) (4,274) (4,440)
Total hensive (loss)/profit for the fi ial
‘otal comprehensive (loss)/profit for the financial . . . (166) 22,304 22,138
year
Balance at September 30, 2023 183,000 38,340 65,933 (1,351) 171,116 457,038

Cash flow hedging reserve

The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the cumulative net change in fair value of cash flow hedging transactions related to hedged transactions that

have not yet occurred.

40

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

10 Notes to the Financial Statements

NOTE 1 Basis of presentation

The accompanying financial statements present the operations of Siemens
Energy Industrial Turbomachinery Limited (the “Company") and have been
prepared and approved by the directors in accordance with the UK-adopted
international accounting standards ("UK-adopted IAS") and applied in
accordance with the Companies Act 2006. The financial statements were
authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on February 9, 2024. The
financial statements are generally prepared on the historical cost basis,
except as stated in note 2.

The Company has prepared and reported its financial statements in Great
British Pounds (GBP or £) and the financial information is disclosed in
thousands of £, except where stated otherwise. ‘k’ denotes thousands of £
and ‘m’ denotes millions of £. Due to rounding, numbers presented may
not add up precisely to totals provided. The Company is a United Kingdom
based company incorporated in England and Wales and offers a wide range
of products, systems, solutions, and services in the fields of power
transmission, central and distributed power generation, as well as
industrial applications for the oil and gas industry and for industrial process
applications.

The Company applied all standards and interpretations issued by the
International Accounting Standards Board ("IASB") that were effective as
of September 30, 2023. In these financial statements, the term ‘Group’
refers to all companies for whom the ultimate parent undertaking is
Siemens Energy AG. The accounting policies set out below have, unless
otherwise stated, been applied consistently to all periods presented in
these financial statements.

' NOTE 2 Summary of critical accounting
estimates and significant accounting policies

Critical accounting estimates and judgments

The accounting policies require critical accounting estimates that involve
complex and subjective judgments and the use of assumptions, some of
which may be for matters that are inherently uncertain and susceptible to
change. Such critical accounting estimates could change from period to
period and have a material impact on the results of operations, financial
positions, and cash flows of the Company. Critical accounting estimates
could also involve estimates where the Company reasonably could have
used a different estimate in the current accounting period. Further details
are included as follows:

Revenue recognition — Revenues are recognised over time under the
percentage-of-completion method. It places considerable importance on
accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards completion and may
involve estimates on the scope of deliveries and services required for
fulfilling the contractually defined obligations. These significant estimates
include total estimated costs, total estimated revenues, contract risks,
including technical, political and regulatory risks, and other judgments, and
may lead to an increase or decrease of revenue.

If a sales contract contains more than one distinct good or service, the
transaction price is allocated to each performance obligation based on

The directors continue to monitor the ongoing geopolitical tensions on the
future financial results and have prepared a going concern assessment
and cash flow projections for the business. The current trading is in line
with the updated forecasts taking into account the ongoing geopolitical
instability.

As part of a sensitivity analysis, management prepared a worst-case
scenario forecast to estimate the impact on the results and cash forecast
for the period of 12 months (through to February 28, 2025) from the date
of signing the accounts, including order intake and revenue assumptions.
This forecast considers the ongoing contracts which are part of the critical
infrastructure and are not impacted by the geopolitical instability.

Based on the Company's forecasts, the directors consider that the
Company will continue the trend of previous years and will trade
profitably and generate positive cash flows from operations over the next
12 months (being to February 28, 2025). Additionally, a cash pooling
facility is available in Siemens Energy AG across its worldwide Group. Cash
balances generated by entities are passed to Siemens Energy AG and
companies are able to draw down on these facilities if required. Further
information on the cash pooling risks, and their potential impacts, can be
found in the Siemens Energy AG 2023 annual report.

For 2023, based on their assessment of the Company’s financial position,
future performance, liquidity and risks, the directors have concluded the
Company has adequate resources to adopt the going concern basis of
preparation for the financial statements.

relative stand-alone selling prices. If stand-alone selling prices are not
observable, the Company reasonably estimates those.

Trade and other receivables — Valuation allowances are set up for
expected credit losses, representing a forward-looking estimate of future
credit losses involving significant judgment. Expected credit loss is the
gross carrying amount less collateral, multiplied by the probability of
default and a factor reflecting the loss in the event of default. Probabilities
of default are mainly derived from internal rating grades. A simplified
approach is used to assess expected credit losses from trade receivables
and contract assets by applying their lifetime expected credit losses. The
movement on the valuation allowance is given in note 11.

Impairment review — The Company performs an impairment test, at
least annually, to check if the goodwill has incurred any impairment, in
accordance with its accounting policy. The determination of the
recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit or a group of cash-
generating units to which goodwill is allocated involves the use of
estimates by management. The outcome predicted by these estimates is
influenced e.g. by the successful integration of acquired companies,
volatility of capital markets, interest rate developments, foreign exchange
rate fluctuations and the outlook on economic trends. In

41

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

determining recoverable amounts, discounted cash flow calculation
use five-year projections that are based on financial forecasts. Cash flow
projections take into account past experience and represent
management's best estimate about future developments. Cash flows
after the planning period are extrapolated using individual growth
rates. Key assumptions on which management has based its
determination of fair value less costs to sell and value in use include
estimated growth rates and weighted average cost of capital. These
estimates, including the methodology used, can have a material impact
on the respective values and ultimately the amount of any goodwill
impairment. See note 15 for further explanation of the goodwill
impairment test in the year.

Likewise, impairment testing of property, plant and equipment and
other intangible assets involves the use of estimates in determining the
assets’ recoverable amount which can have a material impact on the
respective values and ultimately the amount of any impairment.

Income taxes — As of each period end, management evaluates the
recoverability of deferred tax assets, based on projected future taxable
profits. Based upon the level of historical taxable income and
projections for future taxable income over the periods in which the
deferred tax assets are deductible, management believes it is probable
the Company will realise the benefits of these deductible differences.
As future developments are uncertain and partly beyond management's
control, assumptions are necessary to estimate future taxable profits as
well as the period in which deferred tax assets will recover. Estimates
are revised in the period in which there is sufficient evidence to revise
the assumption. If management considers it probable that all or a
portion of a deferred tax asset cannot be realised, a corresponding
valuation allowance is taken into account.

inventories — The Company is required to make judgements regarding
write downs to determine the net realisable value of inventories. These
write downs involve accounting estimates of quantity, technical and
price risks.

Provisions — Significant estimates are involved in the determination of
provisions related to onerous contracts, warranty costs, asset
retirement obligations, legal and regulatory proceedings. The Company
records a provision for onerous sales contracts when current estimates
of total contract costs exceed expected contract revenue. Onerous sales
contracts are identified by monitoring the progress of the project and
updating the estimate of total contract costs which also requires
significant judgment relating to achieving certain performance
standards, as well as estimates involving warranty costs and estimates
regarding project delays including the assessment of responsibility
splits between the contract partners for these delays. Uncertainties
regarding asset retirement obligations include the estimated costs of
decommissioning and final waste storage because of the long
timeframe over which future cash outflows are expected to occur
including the respective interest accretion. The estimated cash outflows
could be impacted significantly by changes of the regulatory
environment. Legal proceedings often involve complex legal issues and
are subject to substantial uncertainties. Accordingly, considerable
judgment is part of determining whether it is probable that there is a
present obligation as a result of a past event at the end of the reporting
period, whether it is probable that such a legal proceeding will result in
an outflow of resources and whether the amount of the obligation can
be reliably estimated. Internal and external counsels are generally part
of the determination process. Due to new developments, it may be
necessary, to record a provision for an ongoing legal proceeding or to
adjust the amount of a previously recognised provision. Upon
resolution of a legal proceeding, the Company may incur charges in
excess of the recorded provisions for such matters. The outcome of

legal proceedings may have a material effect on the Company's
financial position, its results of operations and or its cash flows. For
further explanation of the movement in provisions in the year see note
24.

Leases — In determining the lease term, management considers all
facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive to exercise
an extension option or not. Extension options (or periods after
termination options) are only included in the lease term if the lease is
reasonably certain to be extended (or not terminated). The discount
rate used to calculate the lease liability is the rate implicit in the lease,
if it can be readily determined, or the lessee’s incremental borrowing
tate if not. Incremental borrowing rates are determined monthly and
depend on the term, country, currency and start date of the lease.

Defined benefit pension plan -- Actuarial valuations rely on key
assumptions including discount rates, expected compensation
increases, rates of pension progression and mortality rates. Discount
rates used are determined by reference to yields on high-quality
corporate bonds of appropriate duration and currency at the end of the
reporting period. In case such yields are not available discount rates are
based on government bonds yields. Due to changing market, economic
and social conditions the underlying key assumptions may differ from
actual developments. For a discussion of the current funded status see
note 23.

Significant accounting policies

Foreign currency transaction — Transactions that are denominated in
a currency other than the functional currency of an entity, are recorded
at that functional currency applying the spot exchange rate at the date
when the underlying transactions are initially recognised. At the end of
the reporting period, foreign currency denominated monetary assets
and liabilities are revalued to functional currency applying the spot
exchange rate prevailing at that date. Gains and losses arising from
these foreign currency revaluations are recognised in the Statement of
Income. Those foreign currency denominated transactions which are
classified as non-monetary are remeasured using the historical spot
exchange rate.

Revenue recognition — The Company recognises revenue, when or as
control over distinct goods or services is transferred to the customer i.e.
when the customer is able to direct the use of the transferred goods or
services and obtains substantially all of the remaining benefits,
provided a contract with enforceable rights and obligations exists and
amongst others collectability of consideration is probable taking into
account the Company's customer's creditworthiness. Revenue is the
transaction price the Company expects to be entitled to. Variable
consideration is included in the transaction price if it is highly probable
that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur once associated
uncertainties are resolved. The amount of variable consideration is
calculated by either using the expected value or the most likely amount
depending on which is expected to better predict the amount of
variable consideration. Consideration is adjusted for the time value of
money if the period between the transfer of goods or services and the
receipt of payment exceeds twelve months and there is a significant
financing benefit either to the customer or the Company. If a contract
contains more than one distinct good or service, the transaction price
is allocated to each performance obligation based on relative stand-
alone selling prices. If stand-alone selling prices are not observable, the
Company reasonably estimates those. Revenue is recognised for each
performance obligation either at a point in time or over time.

42

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

Sales from construction type contracts: Revenues are recognised over
time under the percentage-of-completion method, based on the
percentage of costs incurred to date compared to total estimated costs.
An expected loss on the contract is recognised as an expense
immediately. Payment terms are usually 60 days from the date of
invoice issued according to the contractual terms.

The percentage-of-completion method places considerable importance
on accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards completion and
may involve estimates on the scope of deliveries and services required
for fulfilling the contractually defined obligations. These significant
estimates include total estimated costs, total estimated revenues,
contract risks, including technical, political and regulatory risks, and
other judgments. Under the percentage-of-completion method,
changes in estimates may lead to an increase or decrease of revenue.
In addition, the Company needs to assess whether the contract is
expected to continue or to be terminated. In determining whether the
continuation or termination of a contract is expected to be the most
likety scenario, all relevant facts and circumstances relating to the
contract are considered on an individual basis.

Revenues from services: Revenues are recagnised over time on a
straight-line basis or, if the performance pattern is other than straight-
line, as services are provided, i.e., under the percentage-of-completion
method as described above. Payment terms are usually 60 days from
the date of invoice issued according to the contractual terms.

Sale of goods: Revenues are recognised at a point in time when control
of the goods passes to the buyer, usually upon delivery of the goods.
Invoices are issued at that point in time and are usually payable within
60 days.

Dividends: Dividends are recognised when the right to payment is
established.

Income from interest — Interest is recognised using the effective
interest rate method.

Government grants — Government grants are recognised when there
is reasonable assurance that the conditions attached to the grants are
complied with and the grants will be received. Grants awarded for the
purchase or the production of fixed assets (grants related to assets) are
generally offset against the acquisition or production costs of the
respective assets and reduce future depreciations accordingly. Grants
awarded for other than non-current assets (grants related to income)
are reported in the Statement of Income under the same functional area
as the corresponding expenses. They are recognised as income over the
periods necessary to match them on a systematic basis to the costs that
are intended to be compensated. Government grants for future
expenses are recorded as deferred income.

Product-related expenses — Provisions for estimated costs related to
product warranties are recorded in Cost of sales at the time the related
sale is recognised.

Research and development costs — Costs of research activities are
expensed as incurred.

Costs for development activities are capitalised when the recognition
criteria in IAS 38, Intangible Assets are met. Capitalised development
costs are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment
losses with an amortisation period of generally three to ten years.

Goodwill — Goodwill is not amortised, but instead tested for
impairment annually, as well as whenever there are events or changes
in circumstances (triggering events) which suggest that the carrying
amount may not be recoverable. Goodwill is carried at cost less
accumulated impairment losses.

The goodwill impairment test is performed at the level of a cash-
generating unit represented by a division or equivalent, which is the
lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management
purposes.

For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business
combination is allocated to the cash-generating unit or the group of
cash-generating units that is expected to benefit from the synergies of
the business combination. If the carrying amount of the cash-
generating unit or the group of cash-generating units, to which the
goodwill is allocated, exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment
loss on goodwill allocated to this cash-generating unit or the group of
cash-generating units is recognised. The recoverable amount is the
higher of the cash-generating unit's or the group of cash-generating
units’ fair value tess costs to sell and its value in use. If either of these
amounts exceeds the carrying amount, it is not always necessary to
determine both amounts. The Company determines the recoverable
amount of a cash-generating unit based on its fair value less costs to
sell. These values are generally determined based on discounted cash
flow calculations. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed in
future periods.

Other intangible assets — The Company amortises intangible assets
with finite useful lives on a straight-line basis over their respective
estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values. Estimated
useful lives for software, patents, licenses and other similar rights
generally range from three to five years, except for intangible assets
with finite useful lives acquired in business combinations. Intangible
assets acquired in business combinations primarily consist of customer
relationships and technology. Useful lives in specific acquisitions
ranged from four to twenty years for customer relationships and from
five to twenty years for technology.

Property, plant and equipment — Property, plant and equipment, is
valued at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.
Depreciation expense is recognised using the straight-line method. Any
land and construction in progress are not depreciated. The following
useful lives are assumed:

Table

Property Over the course of the lease
Plant & machinery 3 to 15 years
Technical machinery & equipment 3 to 15 years
Furniture & office equipment 3 to 5 years

Right-of-use assets — Right-of-use assets are depreciated under the
straight-line method over the shorter of the lease term and the useful
life of the underlying assets. See lease accounting policy for further
details.

43

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

Impairment of property, plant and equipment and other intangible
assets — The Company reviews property, plant and equipment and
other intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be
recoverable. In addition, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives as
well as intangible assets not yet available for use are subject to an
annual impairment test. Impairment testing of property, plant and
equipment and other intangible assets involves the use of estimates in
determining the assets' recoverable amount which can have a material
impact on the respective values and ultimately the amount of any
impairment.

Income taxes — The Company operates in various tax jurisdictions and
therefore has to determine tax positions under respective local tax laws
and tax authorities’ views which can be complex and subject to different
interpretations of taxpayers and local tax authorities. Under the liability
method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for the future
tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial
statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their
respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets are recognised if sufficient
future taxable profit is available, including income from forecasted
operating earnings, the reversal of existing taxable temporary
differences and established tax planning opportunities.

inventories — Inventories are valued at the tower of acquisition or
production costs and net realisable value, cost being generally
determined on the basis of an average or first-in, first-out method. Net
realisable value corresponds to the estimated selling price net of
remaining costs of completion and selling. Determining net realisable
value of inventories involves accounting estimates of quantity,
technical and price risks.

Contract balances

Contract assets: A contract asset is the right to consideration in
exchange of goods and services transferred to the customer. If the
Company accomplishes performance obligations by transferring goods
and services to a customer before the customer pays consideration or
before payment is due, a contract asset is recognised for the earned
consideration which is conditional.

Trade receivables: A receivable represents a company’s right to an
amount of consideration that is unconditional i.e. only the passage of
time is required before the payment of the consideration is due.
Valuation allowances for credit risks are made for contract assets and
receivables in accordance with the accounting policy for financial assets
measured at amortised cost.

Contract liabilities: A contract liability is the obligation to transfer
goods or services to a customer which the Company has received
consideration (or an amount of consideration is due) from the
customer. If a customer pays consideration before the Company
transfers goods or services to the customer, a contract liability is
recognised when a payment is made or when a payment is due
(whichever is earlier). Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue
when the Company performs under the contract.

Provisions — A provision is recognised in the Statement of Financial
Position when it is probable that the Company has a present legal or
constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that an
outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation
and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. If
the effect is material, provisions are recognised at present value by
discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money. When a

contract becomes onerous, the present obligation under the contract is
recognised as a provision.

Termination benefits — Termination benefits are provided as a result
of an entity's offer made in order to encourage voluntary redundancy
before the normal retirement date or from an entity's decision to
terminate the employment. Termination benefits in accordance with
IAS 19, Employee Benefits, are recognised as a liability and an expense
when the entity can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits.

Cash and cash equivalents — The Company considers all highly liquid
investments with less than three months maturity from the date of
acquisition to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents are
measured at cost. The Company is part of a cash pooling arrangement
across the worldwide Siemens Energy Group. Any balances within this
facility are classified as Receivables from Group companies and
Amounts due to Group companies.

Financial instruments - A financial instrument is any contract that
gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or
equity instrument of another entity. The Company does not use the
category held to maturity and does not use the option to designate
financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
at inception (Fair Value Option). Based on their nature, financial
instruments are classified as financial assets and financial liabilities
measured at cost or amortised cost and financial assets and financial
liabilities measured at fair value and as receivables from finance leases.
For additional information refer to note 29.

Regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are accounted for at
the trade date. Initially, financial instruments are recognised at their fair
value. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition or issue
of financial instruments are only recognised in determining the carrying
amount if the financial instruments are not measured at fair value
through profit or loss. Subsequently, financial assets and liabilities are
measured according to the category to which they are assigned to:

Financial assets measured at amortised cost — Loans, receivables and
other debt instruments held in a hold-to-collect business model with
contractual cash flows that represent solely payments of principal and
interest are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method less valuation allowances for expected credit losses.

Valuation allowances are set up for expected credit losses, representing
a forward-looking estimate of future credit losses involving significant
judgment. Expected credit loss is the gross carrying amount less
collateral, multiplied by the probability of default and a factor reflecting
the loss in the event of default. The movement on the valuation
allowance is given in note 11. Valuation allowances are not recognised
when the gross carrying amount is sufficiently collateralised.
Probabilities of default are mainly derived from internal rating grades.
Asimplified approach is used to assess expected credit losses from trade
receivables and contract assets by applying their lifetime expected
credit losses.

Financial assets are written off as uncaollectible if recovery appears
unlikely. Generally, if the limitation period expired, when a debtor's
sworn statement of affairs is received, or when the receivable is not
pursued due to its minor value. Receivables are written off when
bankruptcy proceedings close.

A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to cash flows expire,
or the financial asset is transferred to another party. Significant
modifications of contractual terms of a financial asset measured at
amortised cost result in derecognition and recognition of a new

44

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

financial asset; for insignificant modifications, the carrying amount of
the financial asset is adjusted without derecognition.

.
Financial liabilities — The Company measures financial liabilities,
except for derivative financial instruments, at amortised cost using the
effective interest method.

Lease liabilities - Lease liabilities are measured at the present value of
the lease payments payable over the lease term, generally discounted
using the incremental borrowing rate, unless the rate implicit in the
lease can be readily determined. Lease liabilities are subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. They
are remeasured in case of modifications or reassessments of the lease.

Derivative financial instruments — Derivative financial instruments,
such as foreign currency exchange contracts, are measured at fair value
and classified as held for trading unless they are designated as hedging
instruments, for which hedge accounting is applied. Changes in the fair
value of derivative financial instruments are recognised either in the
Statement of Income or, in the case of a cash flow hedge, in line item
Other comprehensive income, net of income taxes (applicable deferred
income tax). Certain derivative instruments embedded in host contracts
are also accounted for separately as derivatives.

Cash flow hedges — The effective portion of changes in the fair value
of derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges are
recognised in line item Other comprehensive income, net of income
taxes (applicable deferred income tax), and any ineffective portion is
recognised immediately in net income. Amounts accumulated in equity
are reclassified into net income in the same periods in which the
hedged item affects net income.

Leases — The Company leases properties and motor vehicles and the
Company sub leases property to other Siemens Energy Group
companies in the UK. Under IFRS 16, a contract is or contains a Jease if
the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset
for a period of time in exchange for consideration.

Lessee
Initial recognition

At the commencement date a lessee recognises a right-of-use asset and
a lease liability.

At the commencement date a lessee measures a right-of-use asset at
cost. The cost of the right of use asset includes:

* the initial measurement of the lease liability measured at the present
value of the lease payments payable over the lease term, discounted
at the implicit rate in the lease if that can be readily determined. If
that rate cannot be readily determined, the lessee will use their
incremental borrowing rate.

* the lease payments made before or after commencement, less the
lease incentives received;

* any initial direct costs incurred by the lessee; and

* an estimate of the costs incurred by the lessee upon disassembling
and eliminating the underlying asset, restoring the place where it
was located or restoring the underlying asset to the condition
required by the terms of the lease.

Subsequent measurement of the right-of-use asset

After the commencement date, the Company measures its right-of-use
asset using a cost model and depreciation is recognised on a straight-
line basis over the lease period. Adjustments are made to the carrying
value of the right-of-use asset where the lease liability is re-measured,

as stated in the below. Right of use assets are tested for impairment in
accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets as disclosed in the
accounting policy in Impairment of property, plant and equipment and
other intangible assets.

Subsequent measurement of the lease liability
After the commencement date, the Company measures a lease liability:

* increasing the carrying amount to reflect the interest on the lease
liability;

* reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made;
and

¢ measuring the carrying amount again to reflect the new
Measurements or changes in the lease and to reflect the in-
substance fixed lease payments that have been reviewed.

In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and
circumstances that create an economic incentive to exercise an
extension option or not. Extension options (or periods after termination
options) are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably
certain to be extended (or not terminated). The discount rate used to
calculate the lease liability is the rate implicit in the lease, if it can be
readily determined, or the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate if not.
Incremental borrowing rates are determined monthly and depend on
the term, country, currency and start date of the lease.

Lessor

The Company leases mainly land and buildings. Rental contracts are
typically made for fixed periods and lease terms are negotiated on an
individual basis and contain a wide range of different terms. Leases are
classified as either finance or operating leases, determined based on
whether substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership
of an underlying asset are transferred. If this is the case, the lease is
classified as a finance lease; if not, it is an operating lease. Receivables
from finance leases are recognised at an amount equal to the net
investment in the lease. The assets underlying the operating leases are
presented in Property, plant and equipment and depreciated on a
straight-line basis over their useful lives or to their estimated residual
value. Operating lease income is recognised on a straight-line basis over
the lease term.

If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the
Company applies IFRS 15 to allocate the consideration in the contract.
When the Companyis an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests
in the head-tease and the sub-lease separately. It assesses the lease
classification of a sub-lease with reference to the right-of-use asset
arising from the head-lease, not with reference to the underlying asset.
If a head-lease is a short-term lease to which the Company applies the
practical expedients in IFRS 16, it classifies the sub-lease as an operating
lease.

Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight-line
basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct costs incurred in
negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying
amount of the leased asset and recognised on a straight-line basis over
the lease term.

Amounts due from lessees under finance leases are recognised as
receivables at the amount of the Company's net investment in the
leases. Finance lease income is allocated to accounting periods so as to
reflect a constant periodic rate of return on the Company's net
investment outstanding in respect of the leases. Although the risks
associated with rights that the Company retains in underlying assets are
not considered to be significant, the Company employs strategies to

45

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

further minimise these risks. For example, any risks such as wear and
tear would be recovered through inter-company recharging in order to
manage these risks.

Pension costs and other post-retirement benefits

Defined contribution plan — The assets of the scheme are held
separately from those of the Company in an_ independently
administered fund. The amount charged to the Statement of Income
represents the contributions payable to the scheme in respect of the
accounting period and represents the full extent of the Company's
liability.

Defined benefit plans — The Company measures the entitlements by
applying the projected unit credit method. The approach reflects an
actuarially calculated net present value of the future benefit
entitlement for services already rendered. In determining the net
present value of the future benefit entitlement for service already
rendered (Defined Benefit Obligation (DBO)), the expected rates of
future salary increases and expected rates of future pension
progression are considered. The assumptions used for the calculation
of the DBO as of the period-end of the preceding financial year are used
to determine the calculation of service cost and interest income and
expense of the following year. The net interest income or expense for
the financial year will be based on the discount rate for the respective
year multiplied by the net defined liability (asset) at the preceding
financial year's period-end date.

Service cost and past service cost for post-employment benefits and
administration costs unrelated to the management of the plan assets
are allocated among functional costs. Past service costs and settlement
gains and losses are recognised immediately in the Statement of
Income. For unfunded plans, the amount of the line item post-
employment benefits equals the DBO. For funded plans, the Company
offsets the fair value of the plan assets with the DBO. The Company
recognises the net amount, after adjustments for effects relating to any
asset ceiling.

New and amended standards effective for the year ended
September 30, 2023:

Reference to the Conceptual Framework - Amendments to IFRS 3

In May 2020, the IASB issued Amendments to IFRS 3 Business
Combinations - Reference to the Conceptual Framework. The
amendments are intended to replace a reference to a previous version
of the IASB’s Conceptual Framework (the 1989 Framework) with a
reference to the current version issued in March 2018 (the Conceptual
Framework) without significantly changing its requirements. The
amendments add an exception to the recognition principle of IFRS 3 to
avoid the issue of potential ‘day 2’ gains or losses arising for liabilities
and contingent liabilities that would be within the scope of IAS 37
Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets or IFRIC 21
Levies, if incurred separately. The exception requires entities to apply
the criteria in IAS 37 or IFRIC 21, respectively, instead of the Conceptual
Framework, to determine whether a present obligation exists at the
acquisition date. At the same time, the amendments add a new
paragraph to IFRS 3 to clarify that contingent assets do not qualify for
recognition at the acquisition date. This was effective for annual
periods beginning on or after January 1, 2022 (October 1, 2022 for the
Company). The Company have not noted any impact on transition.

Remeasurements comprise of actuarial gains and losses, as well as the
difference between the return of plan assets and the amounts included
in net interest on the net defined benefits liability or asset. They are
recognised by the Company in the Statement of Comprehensive
Income, net of income taxes.

Borrowing costs — The Company pays or receives interest on some of
its intercompany cash balances. These are recognised within interest in
the Statement of Income when incurred or receivable. All costs directly
attributable to the cost of a qualifying asset are capitalised.

Share-based payments — The Company participates in Siemens
Energy AG share plans. Share-based payment awards at Siemens
Energy are predominantly designed as equity-settled. Fair value is
measured at grant date and expensed over the vesting period. Fair
value is determined as the market price af the underlying shares,
considering dividends during the vesting period to which the grantees
are not entitled as well as market conditions and non-vesting
conditions, if applicable.

Share-based payment awards may be forfeited if the employment of
the beneficiary terminates prior to the expiration of the vesting period.
At Siemens Energy Group level, these share-based payment plans are
predominantly designed and accounted for as plans with settlement in
shares. In accordance with IFRS 2, the fair value of awards/share
matching granted is recognised as an employee expense with a
corresponding increase in the capital contribution reserve in equity.

The Company's employees are eligible for share-based payment awards
under the Group share plans disclosed in note 28. Any expected
payments to be made to the Siemens Energy AG, in respect of these
plans is deducted from the capital contribution reserve in equity over
the vesting period, to the extent that expenses have been recorded. Any
additional payments are charged directly to the Statement of Income.

Onerous Contracts ~ Costs of Fulfilling a Contract - Amendments to
IAS 37

In May 2020, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 37 Provisions,
Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets to specify which costs an
entity needs to include when assessing whether a contract is onerous
or loss-making. The amendments apply a ‘directly related cost
approach’. The costs that relate directly to a contract to provide goods
or services include both incremental costs (e.g., the costs of direct
labour and materials) and an allocation of costs directly related to
contract activities (e.g., depreciation of equipment used to fulfil the
contract as well as costs of contract management and supervision).
General and administrative costs do not relate directly to a contract and
are excluded unless they are explicitly chargeable to the counterparty
under the contract. This was effective for annual periods beginning on
or after January 1, 2022 (October 1, 2022 for the Company). The
Company have not noted any impact on transition.

46

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

New standards and interpretations not yet adopted:

A number of new standards, amendments to standards and interpreta-
tions are not yet effective for the year ended September 30, 2023 and
have not been applied in preparing these financial statements. Those
standards that have relevance to the Company are mentioned below:

Definition of Accounting Estimates - Amendments to IAS 8

In February 2021, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 8, in which it in-
troduces a new definition of ‘accounting estimates’. The amendments
clarify the distinction between changes in accounting estimates and
changes in accounting policies and the correction of errors. Also, they
clarify how entities use measurement techniques and inputs to develop
accounting estimates. This is effective for annual periods beginning on
or after January 1, 2023 (October 1, 2023 for the Company). The impact
for this amendment is currently being assessed by the Company.

Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single
Transaction - Amendments to IAS 12

In May 2022, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 12, which narrow the
scope of the initial recognition exception under IAS 12, so that it no
longer applies to transactions that give rise to equal taxable and deduct-
ible temporary differences. The amendments clarify that where pay-
ments that settle a liability are deductible for tax purposes, it is a matter
of judgement (having considered the applicable tax law) whether such
deductions are attributable for tax purposes to the liability recognised
in the financial statements (and interest expense) or to the related asset
component (and interest expense). This judgement is important in de-
termining whether any temporary differences exist on initial recogni-
tion of the asset and liability. This is effective for annua! periods begin-
ning on or after January 1, 2023 (October 1, 2023 for the Company).
The impact for this amendment is currently being assessed by the Com-
pany.

Disclosure of Accounting Policies - Amendments to IAS 1 and IFRS
Practice Statement 2

In February 2021, the IASB issued amendments to IAS 1 and IFRS Prac-
tice Statement 2 Making Materiality Judgements (the PS), in which it
provides guidance and examples to help entities apply materiality
judgements to accounting policy disclosures. The amendments aim to
help entities provide accounting policy disclosures that are more useful
by replacing the requirement for entities to disclose their ‘significant’
accounting policies with a requirement to disclose their ‘material’ ac-
counting policies and adding guidance on how entities apply the con-
cept of materiality in making decisions about accounting policy disclo-
sures. The amendments may impact the accounting policy disclosures
of entities, determining whether accounting policies are material or not
requires use of judgement. This is effective for annual periods begin-
ning on or after January 1, 2023 (October 1, 2023 for the Company).
The impact for this amendment is currently being assessed by the Com-

pany.

Leases on sale and leaseback - Amendment to IFRS 16

In September 2022, the IASB issued amendments to IFRS 16 — Leasés
on sale and leaseback. These amendments include requirements for
sale and leaseback transactions in IFRS 16 to explain haw an entity ac-
counts for a sale and leaseback after the date of the transaction. Sale
and leaseback transactions where some or all the lease payments are
variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or rate are
most likely to be impacted. This is effective for annual periods begin-
ning on or after January 1, 2024 (October 1, 2024 for the Company).
The impact for this amendment is currently being assessed by the Com-
pany.

Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current - Amendments
tolAS1

In January 2020, IASB issued amendments to paragraphs 69 to 76 of
IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements to specify the requirements
for classifying liabilities (right to defer settlement) as current or non-

current. The amendment is still going through the consultation process
and hence proposed effective date is currently scheduled for no earlier
than January 1, 2024 (October 1, 2024 for the Company).

NOTE 3 Revenue

Under VOLT (as discussed in the Strategic report), the former Division
of the reportable Gas and Power segment was reorganised into three
business areas - Gas Services, Grid Technologies and Transformation of
Industry. In the Company, Revenue is earned from the business
category of Gas Services.

Geographical information is as follows:

2023 2022
SS
United Kingdom 92,999 74,858
Rest of Europe 34,473 49,417
Rest of World 140,736 = 139,201

268,208 263,476

The transaction price allocated to the remaining performance
obligations (unsatisfied or partially satisfied), as at September 30, are
as follows:

2023 2022
More More
Within than one Within than one
one year year one year year
—_—— —- ——,
Gas and Power (Energy) 295,061 466,840 230,733 379,317

Contract balances

2023 2022

Trade receivables 23,549 23,946
Contract assets 16,326 21,986
Contract liabilities (97,922) (58,316)

47

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

NOTE 4 Operating profit from continuing
operations has been arrived at after
charging/ (crediting)

2023 2022
<< <<
Net foreign exchange losses 248 1,359
Research and development costs 14,304 17,226
Research and development recharge (15,097) (17,418)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7,274 8,263
impairment of property, plant and equipment : 331
Reversal of prior year impairment of property, plant (584)
and equipment
Staff costs (see note 7) 85,027 84,147
Auditor's remuneration:
- audit of financial statements 98 85

Amounts payable to Ernst & Young LLP and their associates by the
Company in respect of non-audit services were £nil (2022: £nil).

Operating leases

The Company has earned an operating lease rental income on the
properties of £763k (2022: £777k) in the year.

Operating lease rentals receivable maturity analysis

Operating lease receivable due within 2023
———

One year 768

Two to five years 1,891
Six years and above -

NOTE 5 Income from investments

2023 2022
——

Dividend income 29,000 -
29,000 -

A dividend income of £29,000k (2022: f£nil) was received from the
Company's subsidiary in the year.

NOTE 6 Other operating expenses

2023 2022

—

Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (18) (75)
Other (55) (90)
(73) (165)

NOTE 7 Staff numbers and costs

2023 2022

—a

Wages and salaries 71,135 70,358

Social security costs 7,293 7,347

Expenses relating to pension plans and employee 6,599 6,442
benefits

85,027 84,147

The average number of employees (including executive directors)
during 2023 and 2022 was 1,251 and 1,297, respectively (based on
continuing operations). Part-time employees are included on a
proportionate basis rather than being counted as full units.

The employees were engaged in the following activities:

2023 2022

Manufacturing and services 1,038 1,079
Sales and marketing 107 114
Research and development 106 104

1,251 1,297

NOTE 8 Directors’ emoluments

The directors’ aggregate emoluments, including pension contributions,
in respect of qualifying services to companies within the Group were:

2023 2022

—L
£moluments receivable 943 756
Employer contributions to money purchase schemes 27 -
970 756

The directors of the Company are also directors and employees of
fellow Siemens Energy Group companies in the UK. The directors do not
believe it is practicable to apportion their qualifying services between
their services as directors of the Company and their services as directors
or employees of fellow Group companies.

The aggregate of emoluments and amounts receivable of the highest
paid director was £447k (2022: £439k). One of the directors (2022:
none) are members of the defined contribution scheme at the year end.
None of the directors are members of the Company's defined benefit
scheme. Share-based payments are described in note 2. 1 director
(2022: 1) has qualifying services shares receivable from a long-term
incentive scheme.

48

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

NOTE 9 Interest income and interest
expense

Interest expense is all for financial assets or liabilities that are not at fair
value through the Statement of Income.

The total amounts of interest income and expense were as follows:

2023 2022
————— SS LS
Interest income 772 80
Interest income - negative income on financial as- (5)
sets*
Interest income, net 772 75
Interest expense (550) (546)
Interest expense, net (550) (546)
Interest expenses, net 222 (471)
Interest income from pension plans and similar com-
te esti ps pl similar 2,789 1,653
mitments
Interest expense from pension plans and similar
st exp! p P (2.565) (1,593)
commitments
Interest income from pension plans and similar
commitments, net 224 60
Thereof: Interest expense of operations, net (274) (474)
Thereof: Other interest income, net 720 63

* From FY15 till FY22, the Group Treasury set negative interest rates for intercompany
financing activities in various currencies. Negative interest means to pay interest on financial
assets instead of receiving interest and respectively to receive interest on financial liabilities
instead of paying interest.

Interest income / (expenses) of operations, net includes interest
income and expenses arising directly from operating activities primarily
related to receivables from customers and payables to suppliers,
interest on advances from customers and advanced financing of
customer contracts.

Other interest expense, net includes all other interest amounts
primarily consisting of interest relating to corporate debt and related
hedging activities, as well as interest income on corporate assets.

Service cost for pension plans and similar commitments are allocated
among functional costs (Cost of sales, Research and development
expenses, Marketing and distribution expenses and administrative
expenses).

NOTE 10 Taxes

The analysis below is in reference to the total tax expense included in
the Statement of Income.

2023 2022
A
Current tax:

UK corporation tax (3,080) (437)
Foreign income taxes 445 312
Adjustments for prior years 118 (776)
(2,517) (901)
Deferred tax:
Originati. id | of temporary difference:
rigination and reversal of temporary differences 3,073 2,458
- current year
Origination and reversal of temporary differences
8 porory (65) 861
- prior years
Deferred tax rate change adjustment : -
3,008 3,319
Total income tax expense 491 2,418

For the years ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, the Company was
subject to UK corporation tax at a rate of 22% and 19% respectively.

The total tax expense differs from the amounts computed by applying
the statutory UK tax rate as follows:

2023 2022
——
Profit before tax 27,069 7,874
Tax at 22% (2022: 19%) 5,955 4,496
Increase | (decrease) in income taxes resulting from:
Non-deductible income, net (6,233) (6)
Research and development tax credit -
Over provided in prior years - deferred tax (65): 861
Under provided in prior years - current tax 118 (776)
Irrecoverable foreign tax and others. 347 253
Deferred tax rate change adjustment - -
wee chains atstenent between current tax and 369 590
Total income tax expense for the year 491 2418

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are
expected to apply in the period when the asset is realised or the liability
settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively
enacted at the statement of financial pasition date.

The Finance Act 2021 included an increase in the corporate tax rate to
25% (effective from 1 Apri! 2023). All deferred tax balances are
recognised at a rate of 25%.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities on a gross basis are summarised as
follows:

49

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

2023 2022

2023 2022

Assets: Valuation allowance as of beginning of the year (8,584) (8,493)
Property, plant and equipment 698 1,329 Creation (1,834) (358)
Pension plans and similar commitments 223 - Reversal 930 267
Liabilities 1,016 985 Valuation allowance as of end of the year (9,488) (8,584)
KK rr
Deferred tax assets 1,937 2,314 The ageing of trade receivables and the associated valuation allowance
is as follows:
Liabilities: 2023 2022
7 ” Allow- Altow-
Other intangible assets (31,356) (29,161) Gross ance Gross ance
Pension plans and similar commitments - (1,044) A A
Current 25,989 (180) 14,920 (70)
Deferred tax liabilities (31,356) (30,205)
30 days overdue 793 (155) 5,908 (46)
31 - 60 days overdue 3,557 (36) 478 (Q)
Total deferred tax liabilities - net (29,419) (27,891)
A 61 - 90 days overdue 2,472 (26) 1,759 (16)
. a 91+ di 13,805 9,097 14,038 8,449)
Management considers to what extent it is probable that the deferred * days overawe ‘ ) ‘ )
tax asset will be realised. The ultimate realisation of deferred tax assets 46,616 (9,488) 37,103 (8,584)
is dependent upon the generation of future taxable profits during the —
periods in which those temporary differences and tax loss carry . .
forwards become deductible. NOTE 12 Other current financial assets
Management considers it probable that the future operations will
generate sufficient taxable income to realise the deferred tax assets. 2023 2022
ee
Deferred tax balances and (expenses)/benefits developed as follows in Derivative financial instruments (note 29) 1,744 4,227
the current and previous financial year: Loans receivable 27 21
Other current financial assets 180 475
2023 2022 ——_——_.
SS 1,951 4,723

Deferred tax liabilities balance as at beginning of

(27,891) (24,541)
year
Income tax presented in the Statement of Income (3,008) (3,319) NOTE 1 3 Inve ntories
Changes in items of the Statement of Comprehen- 1,480 (34)
sive Income 7 2023 2022
Others - 3 Raw materials and supplies 31,261 24,182
Deferred tax liabilities balance as at end of year (29,419) (27,891) Work in progress 79,988 82,127
—
Costs and earnings in excess of billings on uncom-
NOTE 11 Trade and other receivables pleted contracts
Finished goods and products held for resale 67,035 59,001
2023 2022 Advances to suppliers 1,413 1,425
—e ee 179,697 166,735
Ti ivables fr he sale of a ‘ :
rade receivables from the sale of goods and ser- 37,128 28,519
vices Advance payments received (7,972) (6,028)
Receivables from Associates 14,731 7,092 171,725 160,707
—<
Receivables from Group companies 89,106 37,257
140,965 72,868 Inventory provisions of £9,806k were released following the

Changes to the valuation allowance of current and long-term
receivables presented in this note, which belong to the class of financial
assets and liabilities measured at amortised cost, are as follows:

unexpected sale of 75% of the inventory of a product line in the prior
year.

Cost of sales include inventories recognised as an expense amounting
to £(251,934)k and £(238,101)k, in the current and prior year
respectively.

50

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

NOTE 14 Other current assets

2023 2022

———=

Other tax receivables 1,012 2,165
Prepaid expenses 62 1,055
1,074 3,220

NOTE 15 Goodwill

2023 2022

Cost and net book value

Balances at beginning of year 160,877 160,877

Balances at end of year 160,877 160,877

The carrying amount of the goodwill by division and impairment review
process is detailed below:

2023 2022
——=

Division
Energy 160,877 160,877
Balances at end of year 160,877 160,877

In 2023 and 2022 there was no movement in the goodwill balance.
Under VOLT, the Company's Goodwill has been reallocated to the newly
created business area — Gas Services. The reallocation did not result in
any goodwill impairment.

The Company performs the mandatory annual impairment test in the
three months ended September, in accordance with the accounting
policy stated in note 2. The recoverable amounts for the annual
impairment test 2023 for the Company was estimated to be higher than
the carrying amount. Key assumptions on which management has
based its determinations of the value in use for the Company carrying
amount include terminal value growth rates of 1.6% in 2023 and 1.6%
in 2022, respectively and after-tax discount rates of 7.5% in 2023 and
8.5% in 2022. Where possible, reference to market prices is made.

For the purpose of estimating the value in use, cash flows were
projected for the next five years based on past experience, actual
operating results and management's best estimate about future
developments as well as market assumptions.

The value in use is mainly driven by the terminal value which is
particularly sensitive to changes in the assumptions on the terminal
value growth rate and discount rate. Both assumptions are determined
individually for the Company. Discount rates reflect the current market
assessment of the risks specific to the Company and are based on the
weighted average cost of capital for the Company. Terminal value
growth rates take into consideration external macroeconomic sources
of data and industry specific trends.

Sensitivity to change in assumptions

The recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is higher than the
carrying amount as at September 30, 2023. The terminal value growth
rate used in estimating the recoverable amount for the Company was
1.6%. A reduction in the terminal value growth rate by 0.5% would not
result in an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill.

The after-tax discount rate used in estimating the recoverable amount
for the Company was 7.5%. An increase in the after-tax discount rate of
1% would not result in an impairment in the carrying value of goodwill.

NOTE 16 Other non-current financial assets

2023 2022

——

Derivative financial instruments (note 29) 43 718
B 718

51

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

NOTE 17 Property, plant and equipment

Assets in the course of
construction

Land & buildings

Technical machinery &
equipment

Total property, plant &
equipment

Cost

At October 1, 2021 2,119 29,558 136,219 167,896
Additions 1,804. 855 1,450 4,109
Disposals - (173) (7,710) (7,883)
Transfers (1,949) - 1,949 -
At September 30, 2022 1,974 30,240 131,908 164,122
At October 1, 2022 1,974 30,240 131,908 164,122
Additions 1,562 2,594 4,156
Disposals - (1,571) (1,571)
Transfers (1,128) : 1,128 -
At September 30, 2023 2,408 30,240 134,059 166,707

Accumulated depreciation and impairment
SE |

At October 1, 2021 - 4,243 116,187 120,430
Charge for the year 1,971 6,292 8,263
Impairment . (253) - (253)
Disposals : (7,596) (7,596)
At September 30, 2022 - 5,961 114,883 120,844
At October 1, 2022 : 5,961 114,883 120,844
Charge for the year - 1,982 5,292 7,274
Disposals - - (1,482) (1,482)
At September 30, 2023 - 7,943 118,693 126,636
Net book value

At October 1, 2021 2,119 25,315 20,032 47,466
At September 30, 2022 and October 1, 2022 1,974 24,279 17,025 43,278
At September 30, 2023 2,408 22,297 15,366 40,071

Impairment of property, plant and equipment above is in respect of a strategic decision to streamline the industrial facilities under a global
restructuring programme of £nil in the year (2022: £331k). Impairment from 2021 was partially reversed (£584k) in the prior year as part of the
annual impairment review.

As of September 30, 2023, contractual commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment amount to £2,736k (2022: £3,645k).

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

Included in the above line items are right-of-use assets over the following:

Right of Use assets Land & buildings Fleet Total
Cost

At October 1, 2021 29,120 794 29,914
Additions 855 151 1,006
Additions due to lease reassessmentimodifications - 2 2
Disposals due to lease reassessmentimodifications (77) 77)
Disposals (174) - (174)
At September 30, 2022 29,801 870 30,671
At October 1, 2022 29,801 870 30,671
Additions : 639 639
Additions due to lease reassessmentimodifications - 4 4
Disposals due to lease reassessmentimodifications - (80) (80)
Disposals . (270) (270)
At September 30, 2023 29,801 1,163 30,964
Accumulated depreciation and impairment

At October 1, 2021 3,996 563 4,559
Charge for the year 1,955 130 2,085
Impairment during the year 331 . 331
Reversal of prior year impairment (584) (584)
Disposals (38) (38)
At September 30, 2022 5,698 655 6,353
At October 1, 2022 5,698 655 6,353
Charge for the year 1,968 142 2,110
Disposals : (277) (277)
At September 30, 2023 7,666 520 8,186
Net book value

At October 1, 2021 25,124 231 25,355,
At September 30, 2022 and October 1, 2022 24,103. 215 24,318
At September 30, 2023 22,135 643 22,778

53

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

NOTE 18 Investments

Shares in sub-

sidary under-
takings
Cost
At October 1, 2022 133,961
At September 30, 2023 133,961
Net book val , 202: tober 1,
jet book value at September 30, 2023 and October 133,961

2022

No investments were impaired in 2023 or 2022.

The company set out below is the principal operating subsidiary
undertaking as at September 30, 2023. Shareholdings are in voting
equity capital of companies registered in England and Wales and the
voting equity capital is wholly owned, except where otherwise stated.

Propor-
tion of or-
dinary eq-
uity and
voting
‘rights Nature of
Directly held held business
LLL SS
Industrial Turbine Company (UK) Limited
CA Parsons Works, Shields Road
Newcastle Upon Tyne NE6 2YL
United Kingdom

100% Energy

NOTE 19 Other current financial liabilities

2023 2022
——
Derivative financial instruments (note 29) 2,825 6,895
Other financial liabilities 1,329 1,960
4,154 8,855
—

NOTE 20 Trade and other payables
2023 2022
Trade payables 27,791 21,379
Amounts due to Associates 1,767 1,668
Amounts due to Group companies 961 4,249
30,519 27,296

NOTE 21 Lease liabilities

2023 2022
——s
Short-term lease liabilities 2,121 2.141
Long-term lease liabilities 19,257 20,873
ee
Maturity analysis — contractual undiscounted cash flows:
Lease payable due within £000
—
One year 2,618
Two to five years 6,441
Six years and above 19,561

NOTE 22 Other current liabilities

2023 2022

———

Bonus obligations 3,041 3,067
Other employee related costs 5,128 5,258
Other accrued liabilities 27,603 20,405
35,772 28,730

NOTE 23 Post-employment benefits

Post-employment benefits provided by the Company are organised
through defined benefit plans as well as defined contribution plans.

Defined contribution plan

The Company commenced a defined contribution pension plan from
May 1, 2003. The pension cost charge for the year represents
contributions payable by the Company to the scheme and amounted to
£6,631k (2022: £6,351k). There are no contributions prepaid or
outstanding at the end of year (2022: £nil).

Dresser-Rand Pension Plan
Defined benefit plan

The Dresser-Rand Pension Plan (“Scheme”) is a defined benefit scheme
with assets held in separate trustee administrated funds. The amount
of contributions to be paid is decided jointly by the employer (“the
Company”) and the trustees of the Scheme. Assets held in trust are
governed by UK regulations and practice. The Scheme’s investment
strategy is decided by the trustees, in consultation with the employer.
The board of trustees must be composed of representatives of the
employer and Scheme participants in accordance with the Scheme’s
legal documentation. The Company is the principal and only
participating employer in this Scheme.

54

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

The Company is aware of the High Court ruling on June 16, 2023, Virgin
Media Limited v NTL Pension Trustees Il Limited (and others), which
confirmed the implications of not having a confirmation from the
actuary in accordance with Section 37 of the Pension Schemes Act
1993, when rule changes were made to pension schemes such as this
one, between the period April 6, 1997 and April 6, 2016. An appeal
hearing is scheduled for June 25, 2024.

The Company has policies and procedures in place to comply with
necessary laws and regulations and the directors are not aware of any
non-compliance. The Board of Trustees, which is responsible for
compliance with Section 37, is currently performing an exercise to
confirm their compliance, for rule changes made in that period. If
following completion of that exercise, the Board of Trustees identified
any omissions in compliance, there would then need to be an
assessment of the impact on the actuarial valuation of the Scheme. At
this point, it is not possible to reliably estimate whether this would
result in a material change to the pension accounting reflected in these
financial statements.

Movement in net amount recognised:

2023 2022
—=
Net t ised of the Scheme at beginnii
jet amount recognised of the Scheme at beginning 4174 2759
of year
Other finance incomel(expenses) 224 60
Contributions paid 409 391
Remeasurements included in Statement of Compre-
oe ma p (5,699) 964
hensive Income
Net amount recognised of the Scheme at end of (892) 4,174

year
ee

The movement in the Scheme (deficit)/surplus is split between
operating charges and finance items, which are charged to the
Statement of Income, and remeasurement gains and losses, which are
charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

The numbers shown in this disclosure have been based on calculations
carried out by a qualified independent actuary to take account of the
requirements of IAS 19 in order to assess the liabilities of the Scheme
at September 30,2023. The Scheme’s assets are stated at their market
values at September 30, 2023.

The Scheme covers 520 participants, including no active employees,
178 former employees with vested benefits and 342 retirees and
surviving dependents.

The valuation used for IAS 19 disclosures has been based on a full
assessment of the liabilities of the Scheme as at September 30, 2023.
The present values of the defined benefit obligation (‘DBO’), the related
current service cost and any past service costs were measured using the
projected unit credit method.

The Scheme is closed to further accruals.

Remeasurement gains and losses have been recognised in the period in
which they occur, (but outside the Statement of Income), through the
Statement of Comprehensive Income.

Reconciliation of funded status to Statement of Financial Position:

2023 2022
LS SS TT
Fair value of Scheme assets 47,732 56,790
Present value of funded defined benefit obligations (48,624) (52,616)
Surplus recognised in the Statement of Financial Po- (892) 4,174

sition
ES A

Defined benefit costs are as follows:

2023 2022
LS ST

Past service costs - -

Net Interest expense 2,565 1,593
Net Interest income (2,789) (1,653)
Cc ts of defined benefit cost recognised in

‘omponents of defin: i gnised i (224) 0)
the Statement of Income
——L—__—__—————— A KL NL
LS A
Return on Scheme assets (excluding amounts in-
cluded in net interest expense and net interest in- 9,059 26,260
come) Remeasurement gains
Remeasurement gains (3,360) (27,224)
Re ts of defined benefit schi -

lemeasurement $ of defined benefit scheme recog 5,699 (964)
nised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income
Defined benefit gainsi(losses) 5,475 (1,024)

Changes to the present value of the defined benefit obligation
during the year:

2023 2022

SS SS
Defined benefit obligation at beginning of year 52,616 81,479
Past service cost -
Interest expense 2,565 1,593
Remeasurements:

Remeasurement gains from changes in demo- (1,324) (”)

graphic assumptions

Remeasurement gains from changes in financial

measul ga" ges in linanc (4,604) (27,760)

assumptions

Experience losses 2,568 $43

Benefits paid (3,197) (3,232)

48,624 52,616

Defined benefit obligation at end of year

The total DBO at the end of the year 2023 includes £nil for active
employees (2022: fnil), £16,312k for former employees with vested
benefits (2022: £22,658k) and £32,312k for retirees and surviving
dependents (2022: £29,958k).

The weighted average duration of the DBO was 11.03 years (2022:
14.15 years).

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

Changes to the fair value of Scheme assets during the year:

2023 2022

Fair value of Scheme assets at beginning of year 56,790 84,238
Interest income 2,789 1,653
Remeasurements:

cudedininwresncome ndinteresterense 858) (26.260
Employer contributions 409 391
Benefits paid (3,197) (3,232)
Fair value of Scheme assets at end of year 47,732 56,790

Actuarial assumptions:

The main assumptions used by the independent qualified actuaries to
calculate the liabilities under IAS 19 are set out below.

The assumptions used for the calculation of the DBO as of the period-
end of the preceding fiscal year are used to determine the calculation
of service cost and interest income and interest expense of the
following year. The interest income and interest expense for the fiscal
year will be based on the discount rate at the beginning of the
respective year multiplied by the net of the fair value of Scheme assets
and the DBO at the preceding fiscal year's period-end date. The fair
value of Scheme assets and DBO, and thus the interest income on
Scheme assets and the interest expense on DBO, are adjusted for
significant events after the fiscal year end, such as a supplemental
funding, Scheme changes or business combinations and disposals.

Assumed discount rates, compensation increase rates, pension
progression rates used in calculating the DBO vary according to the
economic conditions.

Main financial assumptions:

2023 2022
—
% p.a. % p.a.
Inflation (RPI) 3.20 3.60
Inflation (CPI) 2.50 2.90
Rate of general long-term increase in salaries 3.20 3.40
Rate of increase to pensions in payment
- inflation capped at 5% 3.00 3.20
- inflation capped at 3% 2.30 2.40
- inflation capped at 5% (CPI) NIA 2.80
- inflation with a floor of 3% and a cap of 5% 2.00 2.20
Discount rate for Scheme liabilities 5.62 5.03

Mortality assumptions:

The post-retirement mortality assumptions used in valuing the liabilities
of the Scheme are based on the SAPS tables scaled by a factor of 105%
(2022: 95%) for males and 105% (2022: 95%) for females. In addition,
there is an allowance for future longevity improvements in line with the
central CMI2022 (2022: CMI2021) projections with a long-term rate of
improvement of 1.25% p.a. (2022: 1.25%).

Sensitivity analysis:
A one-half-percentage-point change of the established assumptions

mentioned before, used for the calculation of the DBO as of September
30, 2023, would result in the following increase (decrease) of the DBO:

Effect on DBO as of
September 30, 2023

due to

One-half One-haif

% %
————

Increase Decrease

Discount rate (2,447) 2,612
Rate of pension progression 1,554 (1,489)

In order to determine the longevity risk the mortality rates were
reduced by 10% for all beneficiaries. The impact on the DBO amounts
to £1,208k as of September 30, 2023 (2022: £1,172k). i.e., the
adjustment of the mortality rates by 10% results in an increase of life
expectancy depending on the individual age of each beneficiary. That
means for example, that the life expectancy of a male employee aged
55 years as of September 30, 2023, increases by 0.8 years (2022: 0.8).

When calculating the sensitivity of the DBO to significant actuarial
assumptions the same method (present value of the DBO calculated
with the projected unit credit method) has been applied as when
calculating the pension obligation recognised in the Statement of
Financial Position. Increases and decreases in the discount rate, rate of
compensation increase and rate of pension progression which are used
in determining the DBO do not have a symmetrical effect on the DBO
primarily due to the compound interest effect created when
determining the net present value of the future benefit. If more than
one of the assumptions were changed simultaneously, the cumulative
impact would not necessarily be the same as if only one assumption
was changed individually. Furthermore, the sensitivities reflect a
change in the DBO only for a change in the assumptions in this exact
magnitude, i.e., 0.5%. If the assumptions change at a different level,
the effect on the DBO is not necessarily linear.

There were no changes in the methods used in preparing the sensitivity
analyses.

56

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

Disaggregation of Scheme assets:
The asset allocation of the Scheme is as follows:

2023 2022
Quoted market No quoted mar- Quoted market No quoted mar-
price in active ket price in ac- price in active ket price in ac-
Asset Class market tive market Total market tive market Total
eel SS
Fixed income securities:
Government bonds - - - 4,045 4,045
Corporate bonds 22,550 - 22,550 - - -
22,550 - 22,550 4,045 4,045
Alternative investments:
Other-Insurance contracts : 25,070 25,070 15,213 28,810 44,023
Derivatives:
Interest risk - * : 2,017 2,017
Credit, inflation and price risk - - 5,814 - 5,814
- - - 7,831 - 7,831
Cash and other assets 112 112 391 - 891
22,662 25,070 47,732 27,980 28,810 56,790

The Scheme assets do not include any transferable financial
instruments of the Company or property occupied by the Company.

The trustee of the Scheme has produced a Statement of Investment
Principles in accordance with Section 35 of the Pensions Act 1995. This
statement sets out the trustee's investment objectives and strategy. The
trustee sets investment strategy taking into account the Scheme's
liabilities, the strength of the funding position and the trustee's appetite
to risk, after taking appropriate investment advice. The trustee has
allocated the Scheme's assets to a mix of asset classes primarily equities
and bonds (fixed and indexed linked gilts and investment grade
corporate bonds).

Future cash flows:

Employer contributions expected to be paid to the Scheme in 2024 are
£300k and employer deficit funding contributions expected to be paid
to the Scheme in 2024 are £3,251k.

Under the Pension Act 2004, every UK defined benefit scheme is subject
to a statutory funding objective which requires the Scheme to hold
sufficient and appropriate assets to cover it's “technical provisions’.
These provisions are determined at least every three years following
agreement between the Company and the trustees of the Scheme upon
the assumptions to be used in the valuation. Assumptions agreed in this
triennial process are not necessarily the same as those used in the
annual IAS 19 calculations, where the directors of the Company select
the assumptions to be used.

Any technical provisions’ shortfall arising is required to be remedied,
and a recovery plan is agreed between the trustees and the Company,
which will take into account financial and demographic factors for each
scheme, as well as the financial strength (covenant) of participating
employers. The timing and length of any recovery plan reflects the
circumstances of each scheme, and results in a Schedule of
Contributions which ‘is signed by both Company and trustees (the
employer contributions expected to be paid for the following year are
stated above).

The effective date of the most recent triennial valuation for the Scheme
was April 5, 2022. The next funding valuation is ongoing as at 5 April
2025, at which progress towards full funding will be reviewed.

Expected pension benefit payments:

2024 3,251
2025 3,306
2026 3,361
2027 3,418
2028 3,476
2029-2032 18,281

57

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 {in thousands of £)

NOTE 24 Provisions

Provisions changed during 2023 as follows:

Order related
Warranties losses and risks Other Total
SSS

Balance at beginning of year 7,423 1,210 55 8,688
Additions 3,010 316 7 3,343
Usage (1,513) (756) - (2,269)
Reversals (2,442) (353) - (2,795)
Balance at end of year 6,478 417 72 6,967
Current provisions 6,478 Al7 14 6,909
Non-current provisions : : 58 58

Warranties

Warranties relate to products and services sold. See note 2 for further information concerning the Company's policy for estimating warranty
provisions.

Order related losses and risks

Provisions for order related losses and risks are recognised for anticipated losses on uncompleted construction, sales and leasing contracts.

NOTE 25 Other non-current liabilities

2023 2022

SS

Other non-current liabilities 1,290 1,740
1,290 * 1,740

The balance for both years above includes service anniversary awards of £1,290k (2022: £1,290k), due after one year.

NOTE 26 Share capital

Allotted, called up and fully paid:

2023 2022

Number £000 Number £000

ee

Ordinary shares of £1 each 183,000,000 183,000 183,000,000 183,000

NOTE 27 Commitments and contingencies

Guarantees and other commitments

The Company has provided bank guarantees in respect of contractual obligations totalling £6,143k (2022: £17,030k). These agreements have
terms typically ranging between 1 and 5 years and the Company fully indemnifies each guarantee.

As at September 30, 2023, the Company had commitments under forward exchange contracts totalling £9,397k (2022: £2,313k).

58

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

NOTE 28 Share-based payments

Share-based payment awards are based on Siemens Energy AG shares
that have been granted based on existing and new Siemens Energy
share-based payment programs.

Siemens Energy share-based payment programs

Share-based payment awards may be settled in treasury shares of
Siemens Energy AG or in cash. Share-based payment awards may be
forfeited if the employment of the beneficiary terminates prior to the
expiration of the vesting periad. At Siemens Energy Group level, these
share-based payment plans are predominantly designed and accounted
for as plans with settlement in shares.

Total pre-tax expense for share-based payment recognised in the
Company's net income from continuing operations amounted to £458k
(2022: £586k) for the year and refers primarily to equity-settled awards.

Stock Awards

The Company grants Stock Awards to members of the Board, members
of the senior management and other eligible employees. The awards
are subject to a restriction period of up to four years and entitle the
beneficiary to Siemens Energy shares without payment of consideration
following the restriction period. The awards are tied to performance
criteria.

Performance Oriented Stock Awards (PoSA) program

The Stock Awards (equity-settled) are granted once a year in November.
They are subject to a four-year vesting period, at the end of which
Siemens Energy shares are transferred. At the beginning of the vesting
period, the target amount (in EUR) is converted into Stock Awards and
multiplied at the end of the vesting period by the overall target
achievement of the three KPIs. The target achievement for Total
Shareholder Return (TSR), Earnings per Share (EPS) and development
of Siemens Energy in terms of environmental, social and governance
(ESG), can range from 0% to 200%. The overall target achievement is
the weighted average of these three target achievement levels. If the
overall target achievement is below 200%, a correspondingly reduced
number of shares will be transferred.

Ratable Stock Awards (RSA) program

The program grants eligible employees equity settled stock awards that
entitle them to receive one Siemens Energy share without payment
consideration at the end of a lock-in period. These stock awards may be
granted up to three times in a financial year. The shares that make up
the award are vested gradually which means that one quarter of the
stock awards become exercisable each year (known as graded vesting).
The fair value of the stock awards on the grant date is determined as
the market price of the Siemens Energy share on the grant date less the
present value of expected dividends.

Spin-off Incentive Programme

The Spin-off Incentive Programme was created to thank and reward
Siemens Energy employees (including senior management), for their
commitment and dedication to the successful listing of Siemens Energy
and at the same time to motivate them to continue doing their best for
the development of the Company in the future.

All Employee Program (AEP)

A Spin Off Incentive Program under AEP (without a short term
component) is a one-time incentive granted in financial year 2021.

Under the AEP (equity settled), participating employees received a
grant of Stock Awards worth 3% of their Total Target Cash (TTC), as of
September 1, 2020 (the target amount). The number of shares to be
transferred to each participant after the vesting period is subject to the
share price performance over a three year period, from the date of
Siemens Energy listing. The service period began in September 2020
and ended in September 2023. The significant drop in the stock market
price of Siemens Energy shares as of the end of Q3 2023 resulted in
only the minimum number of shares provided for in the plans being
transferred in each case in Q4 2023 and the majority of share awards
granted under these plans being expired.

Building Siemens Energy Incentive (BSEI) program

Under the BSEI program, a number of key employees who made key
contributions in preparing the Spin Off, were granted a one-time Spin
Off incentive in the financial year 2020. The initial value of the incentive
consists of a percentage of the beneficiary's base salary at the grant
date (BSE! target amount). It consists of two elements: a short term cash
component, which corresponds to 25% of the BSEI target amount, and
a long term equity component that corresponds to 75% of the BSEI
target amount and is composed of forfeitable stock awards (BSEI stock
awards). For the BSEI program, the service period began in September
2020 and ended in September 2023. The significant drop in the stock
market price of Siemens Energy shares as of the end of Q3 2023
resulted’ in only the minimum number of shares provided for in the
plans being transferred in each case in Q4 2023 and the majority of
share awards granted under these plans being expired.

Further details regarding the fair value of Stock Awards granted is
disclosed in the Siemens Energy AG 2023 annual report.

In the year ended September 30, 2023, Siemens Energy AG granted a
total of 23,496 (2022: 12,496) stock awards to 140 (2022 restated:
124) Company employees. 2022 value has been restated to reflect the
correct information. Details on stock award activity and weighted
average grant date fair value are summarised in the table below:

Weight Weight
ed av- ed av-
erage erage
grant grant

date date
fair fair
value value
Siemens Energy AG Awards (€) Awards (€)
2023 2023 2022 2022
SSS AS ST
Non-vested, beginning of
169,683 15.75 166,123 15.41
year
Granted 23,496 17.20 12,496 22.20
Forfeited (112,528) 15.16 (6,289) 15.36
Transferred | vested (51,143) 18.94 (2,647) 25.58
Non-vested, end of year 29,508 18.83 169,683 15.75,
Weighted ti -
feighted average vesting pe- 1.403 1.046

riod in years
ES

Fair value was determined as the market price of Siemens Energy shares
less the present value of dividends expected during one to four year
vesting period. Total fair value of stock awards granted in 2023
amounted to €404k (2022: €277k).

59

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

Direct Match Programme (equity-settled)

The Direct Match Programme (DMP) has been designed to offer its
employees worldwide the possibility to easily become an owner of the
Siemens Energy AG shares. By investing in shares of Siemens Energy
under the programme, an employee may benefit from additional
matching shares.

The maximum investment amount is 5% of the employees Total Target
Cash (TTC). The chosen investment amount is withheld via two equal
payroll deductions (50% in January and 50% in February after the offer
period). Shares will be purchased on the 10th trading day in March at
the Frankfurt Stock Exchange after the offer period. Together with the
purchased shares, employees will directly receive additional matching
shares in a ratio of 3:1. That means for every 3 shares purchased,
employees will receive 1 additional matching share. As soon as all
shares have been allocated to the employee's online account, a 12-
month blocking period starts after which they can freely dispose of all
their shares.

In the year ended September 30, 2023, there were 3,259 (2022: 5,070)
shares granted to 137 (2022: 214) Company employees.

NOTE 29 Additional disclosures on financial
instruments

This section gives a comprehensive overview of the significance of
financial instruments for the Company and provides additional
information of Statement of Financial Position items that contain
financial instruments.

The following table presents the carrying amounts of each category of
financial assets and liabilities:

2023 2022
SS

Financial assets

2023 2022
LL A SATS
Financial assets measured at cost or amortised cost

Trade and other receivables 140,965 72,868
Loans 27 21
Other current financial assets 180 475
Total 141,172 73,364
Financial liabilities measured at cost or amortised
cost
Trade payables (30,519) (27,296)
Other current financial liabilities (1,329) (1,960)
Lease liabilities (21,378) (23,014)
(53,226) = (52,270)

The fair values of cash and cash equivalents, current receivables, other
current financial assets, other assets, trade payables and other current
financial liabilities and other liabilities approximate their carrying
amount largely due to the short-term maturities of these instruments.

Fixed-rate and variable-rate receivables, including receivables from
finance leases, are evaluated by the Company based on parameters
such as interest rates, specific country risk factors, individual credit
worthiness of the customer and the risk characteristics of the financed
project. Based on this evaluation, allowances are taken to account for
the expected losses of these receivables. As of September 30, 2023,
and 2022, the carrying amounts of such receivables, net of allowances,
approximate their fair values.

Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are presented in
the following table:

Loans and receivables 140,992 72,889
2023 2022
Cash and cash equivalents - - ces
eae . . Financial assets measured at fair value
Derivatives designated in a hedge accounting rela- 696 504
tionship Derivative financial instruments 1,787 4,945
Derivatives not designated in a hedge accounting re- 1,091 4,441 Not designated in a hedging relationship 1,044 3,573
lationship In connection with cash flow hedges 696 504
Other current financial assets 180 475 Embedded derivatives 47 868
142,959 78,309 Financial liabilities measured at fair value
Fi jal liabiliti
tnancial wanes Derivative financial instruments* (2,825) (6,895)
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (30,519) (27,296) Not designated in a hedging relationship (1,368) (5,869)
teen designated in a hedge accounting rela- (1,457) (1,026) in connection with cash flow hedges (1,457) (1,026)
ionship
Derivatives not designated in a hedge accounting re-
lationship 1,368) (5.869) *Derivative financial instruments are split as follows:
Other current financial liabilities (1,329) (1,960) Current assets (note 12) 1,744 4,227
Lease liabilities (21,378) (23,014) Non-current assets (note 16) 43 718
(56,051) (59,165) Current liabilities (note 19) (2,825) (6,895)

The following table presents the carrying amounts of financial assets
and liabilities measured at cost or amortised cost:

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

The Company limits defauit risks from derivative instruments by a
careful counterparty selection. Derivative instruments are generally
transacted with financial institutions with investment grade credit
ratings. The fair valuation of derivative financial instruments at Siemens
Energy incorporates all factors that market participants would consider,
including the counterparty’s credit risks. The exact calculation of fair
values for derivative financial instruments depends on the specific type
of instrument:

Derivative currency contracts — The fair value of forward foreign
exchange contracts is based on forward exchange rates.

In determining the fair values of the derivative financial instruments,
no compensating effects from underlying transactions (e.g., firm
commitments and forecast transactions) are taken into consideration.

Fair value hierarchy

The Company analyses financial instruments carried at fair value by
valuation method. The different levels have been defined as follows:

* Level 1: quoted price in active markets for identical assets and
liabilities.

© Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the
assets or liability, either directly (i.e., as prices) or indirectly (i.e.,
derived from prices): and

* Level 3: inputs for the asset and liabilities not based on observable
market data.

All the Company's derivative financial instruments as at September 30,
2023 and September 30, 2022 are categorised as level 2.

Net gains / (losses) of financial instruments are as follows:

2023 2022
ee
Loans and receivables (900) 19
Derivatives with a hedge accounting relationship 829 (276)
Derivatives without a hedge accounting relationship 865 (267)
Financial assets / liabilities measured at amortised (1,113) @16)

cost
———_—_—__ A (LAL | AkNNLNNNNRN

Net gains on loans and receivables contain changes in valuation
allowances, gains or losses on de-recognition as well as recoveries of
amounts previously written off.

Net (losses) / gains on derivatives with a hedging relationship consist of
changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments (including
interest income and expense), for which hedge accounting is applied.

Net (losses) / gains on derivatives without a hedge accounting
relationship consist of changes in the fair value of derivative financial
instruments (including interest income and expense), for which hedge
accounting is not applied.

Net (losses) on financial assets and liabilities measured at amortised
cost include gains and losses on financial receivables and payables from
group companies and gains and losses on other monetary Statement of
Financial Position items denominated in foreign currency. It also
includes losses and recoveries of write offs on receivables,
miscellaneous assets and liquid assets.

Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities

The following is a summary of the Company's risk management
strategies and the effect of those strategies on the financial statements:

Foreign currency exchange risk management

As part of the Company's risk management programme, a variety of
derivative financial instruments are used to reduce risks resulting
primarily from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and
interest rates, as well as to reduce credit risks.

The fair value of each type of derivative financial instruments recorded
as financial assets or financial liabilities is as follows:

2023 2022

Asset Liability Asset Liability
SS
Foreign currency exchange
contracts without hedging re- 1,044 (1,368) 3,573 (5,869)
lationship
Foreign currency exchange
contracts in connection with 696 (1,457) 504 (1,026)
cash flow hedges
Embedded derivatives 47 : 868

1,787 (2,825) 4,945 (6,895)

The Company's significant transactions in foreign currencies expose it
to significant foreign currency exchange risks in the ordinary course of
business. The Company employs various strategies, discussed below,
involving the use of derivative financial instruments to mitigate or
eliminate certain of those exposures.

Derivative financial instruments not designated in a hedging
relationship

The Company manages its risks associated with fluctuations in foreign
currency denominated receivables, payables, debt, firm commitments
and forecast transactions primarily through a company-wide portfolio
approach. Under this approach the company-wide risks are aggregated
centrally, and various derivative financial instruments, primarily foreign
exchange contracts, are utilised to minimise such risks. In certain cases,
this strategy qualifies for hedge accounting treatment under IAS 39.
Where hedge accounting does not apply, all such derivative financial
instruments are recorded at fair value on the Statement of Financial
Position, either as Other current financial assets or Other current
financial liabilities, and changes in fair values are charged to net income
or toss.

The Company also has foreign currency derivative instruments, which
are embedded in certain sales and purchase contracts denominated in
a currency that is neither the functional currency of the substantial
parties to the contract nor a currency which is commonly used in the
economic environment in which the contract takes place. Gains or
losses relating to such embedded foreign currency derivatives are
reported in Cost of sales in the Statement of Income. In 2023, losses
totalled £821k (2022: gains totalled £868k).

61

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

Hedging activities

The Company applies hedge accounting for certain significant
anticipated transactions and firm commitments denominated in
foreign currency. Particularly, the Company entered into foreign
exchange contracts to reduce the risk of variability of future cash flows
resulting from forecast sales and purchases and firm commitments.
This risk results mainly from contracts denominated in U.S dollars and
Euros both from Siemens Energy business units entering into long-term
contracts, e.g., project business, and from standard product. business

Cash flow hedges — The effective portion of the changes in fair value
of forward exchange contracts that were designated as foreign
currency cash flow hedges are recorded in Other Comprehensive
Income. The ineffective portion is recorded in the Statement of Income.
During the years ended September 30, 2023 and 2022, £521k and
£105k were reclassified from Other Comprehensive Income into net
income because the occurrence of the related hedged forecast
transaction was no longer probable.

It is expected that £761k of accumulated gain due to the revaluation of
derivative hedging instruments in Other Comprehensive Income will be
reclassified into Cost of sales in the Statement of Income during the
year ended September 30, 2023, when the hedged forecast foreign
currency denominated sales and purchases occur.

As of September 30, 2023, the maximum length of time over which the
Company is hedging its future cash flows associated with foreign
currency forecast transactions is 24 months.

Financial risk management

The Company manages and controls its financial risks in accordance
with the Siemens Energy Group policies.

Interest rate risk

The Company's interest rate risk exposure is mainly related to interest-
bearing deposits held with local banks and amounts invested
with/drawn down from Siemens Energy AG as part of the cash pooling
facility across the worldwide Group.

The approximate impact on the Statement of Income of a 1%
fluctuation in interest rates would be £776k in 2024.

Credit risk

The Company is exposed to credit risk in connection with its external
sales. Credit risk is defined as an unexpected loss in cash and earnings
if the customer is unable to pay its obligations in due time, if the value
of financial uncertainty may cause customer default rates to increase
and collateral values to decline. The effective monitoring and
controlling of credit risk is a core competency of the Company's risk
management system. Customer ratings are analysed, and individual
customer limits are based on generally accepted rating methodologies,
the input from external rating agencies and Siemens Energy default
experiences. Credit evaluations and ratings are performed on all
customers with an exposure or requiring credit beyond a defined limit
and are carefully considered in determining the conditions under which
direct or indirect financing will be offered to customers. The Company's
customers are principally large commercial or public sector
organisations that have low credit risk. Credit risk is recorded and
monitored on an ongoing basis.

Concerning trade receivables and other receivables, as well as other
receivables included in Other financial assets that are neither impaired
nor past due, there were no indications as of September 30, 2023 that
defaults in payment obligations will occur.

Market risk

increasing market fluctuations may result in significant earnings and
cash flow volatility risk for the Company. Its UK and worldwide
operating business as well as its investment and financing activities are
affected by changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates. The
Company seeks to manage and control these risks primarily through its
regular operating and financing activities and uses derivative
instruments when deemed appropriate.

Management of financial market risk is a key priority for the Company's
key management and directors. As a member of the Company's
management, the Chief Financial Officer covers the specific
responsibility for this part of the overall risk management system. At
the highest level, the directors retain ultimate accountability. For
practical business purposes, the directors delegate responsibilities to
key management.

Any market sensitive instruments, including equity and interest-bearing
investments that the Company's pension plans hold are not included in
the following quantitative and qualitative disclosure. For additional
information see note 23.

Foreign currency exchange rate risk
Transaction risk and currency management

Transaction risk and currency management risk from Siemens Energy
international operations expose the Company to foreign currency
exchange risks in the ordinary course of business. The Company
employs various strategies discussed above involving the use of
derivative financial instruments to mitigate or eliminate certain of those
exposures.

Foreign exchange rate fluctuations may create unwanted and
unpredictable earnings and cash flow volatility. If the Company is
conducting business with international counterparties that leads to
future cash flows denominated in a currency other than its functional
currency it is exposed to the risk from changes in foreign exchange
tates. The risk is mitigated by closing alt types of business transactions
(sales and procurement of products and services as well as investment
and financing activities) mainly in the functional currency. In addition,
the foreign currency exposure is partly balanced by purchasing of
goods, commodities and services in the respective currencies as well as
production activities and other contributions along the value chain in
the local markets.

The Company does not borrow or invest in foreign currencies on a
speculative basis.

The Group has established a foreign exchange risk management
system, further details are disclosed under the financial risk
management note in the 2023 Group annual report. The Company is
responsible for recording, assessing, monitoring, reporting and
hedging its foreign currency transaction exposure.

The Company defines foreign currency exposure generally as
Statement of Financial Position items in addition to firm commitments
which are denominated in foreign currencies, as well as foreign
currency denominated cash inflows and cash outflows from anticipated
transactions.

62

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

The tables below show the net foreign exchange transaction exposure
by major currencies as of September 30, 2023 and 2022:

September 30, 2023 US$ Euro Other Total
= —

Gi State it of Fi ial

ross statement of Financial (2,784) —«4,769-=—«(368)—«1,617
Position exposure

Thereof: Financial osset (382) 6,251 15 5,884
Thereof: Financial liabilities (2,402) (1,482) (383) (4,267)

Gross exposure from firm
commitments and anticipated (32,586) 25,153 15,213 7,780
transactions
Forei hi id ti

‘oreign exchange transaction (35,370) 29,922 14,845 9,397
exposure
E ically h -
ied edged expo 35,370 (29,922) (14,845) (9,397)
Change in future cash flows
after hedging activities result-
ing from 10% appreciation of
GBP
September 30, 2022 USS Euro Other Total

Gross Statement of Financial

ae 907 5,128 (50) 5,985
Position exposure
Thereof: Financial asset 2,230 5,769 42 8,041
Thereof: Financial liabilities (1,323) (641) (92) (2,056)
Gross exposure from firm
commitments and anticipated (19,185) 3,246 18,758 2,819
transactions
Forei hi u ti
oreign exchange transaction (18,278) 1,882 18,709 2,313
exposure
ically hi =
Economically hedged expo 18,278 (1,882) (18,709) (2,313)
sure
Change in future cash flows
after hedging activities result- . . .
ing from 10% appreciation of
GBP
—— —— ————

tt is Siemens Energy AG Group policy to use 10% to analyse the
sensitivity of currency fluctuations.

Liquidity risk

Liquidity risk results from the Company's potential inability to meet its
financial liabilities, e.g., settlement of its financial debt or paying its
suppliers. The Company uses Siemens Energy Group's cash pooling and
cash management systems. The Company mitigates liquidity risk by the
implementation of effective working capital and cash management.

Amounts payable to other Siemens Energy Group companies are
repayable on demand, but historically other Group companies have not
demanded repayment of these intercompany balances.

The following table reflects all contractually fixed undiscounted pay offs
for settlement, repayments and interest resulting from recognised
financial liabilities:

2029 and
2024 2025-2028 thereafter

Non derivative financial liabitities 34,466 6,441 19,561
Trade and other payables 30,519
Lease liabilities 2,618 6,441 19,561
Other financial liabilities 1,329 -

Derivative financial liabilities 2,825 - -

Cash outflows for financial liabilities without fixed amount or timing,
including interest, are based on the conditions existing at September
30, 2023.

The Company has £961k (2022: £4,249k) due to Group companies
included in trade payables. Trade payables mainly originate from the
financing of assets used in the Company's ongoing operations such as
property, plant, equipment and investments in working capital ~ e.g.,
inventories and trade receivables. These assets are considered in the
Company's overall liquidity risk.

To monitor existing financial assets and liabilities as well as to enable
an effective controlling of future risks, Siemens Energy has established
comprehensive risk reporting covering its worldwide business units.

The balanced view of liquidity and financial indebtedness is stated in
the calculation of the net liquidity amount and is used for internal
management. It results from the total amount of cash and cash
equivalents, amounts receivable from and due to Group companies
within the Group cash pooling facility and loans from banks as stated
on the Statement of Financial Position. The amounts receivable and due
to Group companies reported below are held with Siemens Energy AG
in the Group cash pooling facility. For further information, refer to the
Statement of Cash Flows.

The following table reflects the calculation of the Company's net
liquidity:

2023 2022

Cash and cash equivalents oe -

Receivables from Group companies 77,598 24,198
Total liquidity 77,598 24,198
Amounts due to Group companies - -
Total debt - :
Net liquidity 77,598 24,198

In addition to the balances above, which are held with Siemens Energy
AG in the Group cash pooling facility, receivables from Siemens Energy
Group companies of £11,508k (2022: £13,059k), and amounts due to
Siemens Energy Group companies of £22,339k (2022: £27,047k) are
held outside of this facility.

63

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

Capital management positive cash flow from operations and maintaining a positive

relationship of the Company's current assets and current liabilities.
The Company defines its capital structure as net debt and equity. The

primary objective of the Company's capital management strategy isto The current ratio for 2023 was 1.98 (2022: 2.10). The Company has
ensure that it makes optimal use of the working capital generated from access to Siemens Energy AG cash pooling arrangement when
its trading profits. The Company's management focus is on generating —_— necessary.

NOTE 30 Related party transactions

Transactions between the Company and other Group companies are disclosed below. From the effective date of the Spin-off, Siemens AG and its
Group entities are reported as an Associate of the Company. There are various relationships between Siemens AG and Siemens Energy Group
entities in the ordinary course of business, such as sales or purchases of goods and services, leases and transfers under licence agreements.

(a) During the year the Company entered into the following transactions with related parties:

Sales of goods Purchases of goods & services Interest (income) / expense
2023 2022 2023 2622 2023 2022

OS SS SS AS
Other Siemens Energy Group companies 102,155 117,125 95,966 70,019 (772) (58)
Siemens AG Group companies (Associate) 19,870 7,210 11,178 10,910 : -
122,025 124,335 107,144 80,929 (772) (58)

Sales of goods to related parties were made at the Company's usual list prices. Purchases were made at market price.

(b) Year end balances arising from sales and purchases of goods, services and lease payables:

Amounts owed by related par- Amounts owed to related par-
ties ties
2023 2022 2023 2022

Other Siemens Energy Group companies 11,508 13,059 21,706 27,047
Siemens AG Group companies (Associate) 14,731 7,092 1,767 1,668
26,239 20,151 . 23,473 28,715

RN ES LT
The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. No provisions have been made
for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.

(c) Year end balances arising from loans to related parties

Amounts owed by related par- Amounts owed to related par-

ties ties

2023 2022 2023 2022
SS SS LS

Other Siemens Energy Group companies 77,598 24,198 - -

The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees have been given or received. No provisions have been made
for doubtful debts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties.

64

SIEMENS ENERGY INDUSTRIAL TURBOMACHINERY LIMITED
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2023 (in thousands of £)

NOTE 31 Remuneration of key management personnel

The remuneration of the key management personnel of the Company is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24
Related Party Disclosures. :

2023 2022

SS

Short-term employee benefits 943 756
Post-employment benefits 27 -
Total 970 756

The directors of the Company are also directors and employees of fellow Siemens Energy Group companies in the UK. The directors do not believe
it is practicable to apportion their qualifying services between their services as directors of the Company and their services as directors or employees
of fellow Group companies.

NOTE 32 Directors’ transactions

No such transactions occurred in 2023 or 2022 which require disclosure under the requirements of Schedule 413 of the Companies Act 2006 and
IAS 24 with the directors (or other key management personnel).

NOTE 33 Subsequent events

There were no other significant events after the reporting period.

NOTE 34 Ultimate parent undertaking

The ultimate parent undertaking is Siemens Energy AG, incorporated in Germany. Siemens Energy AG is the only Group undertaking of which the
Company is a member for which Group financial statements are prepared. Copies of the Group financial statements are available on the internet
at

https:/www.siemens-energy.com/global/en/company/investor-relations/publications-ad-hoc.html#QuarterlyandAnnualResults
or obtained from:

Siemens Energy AG

Otto-Hahn-Ring 6

D-81739 Munich
Germany

The immediate parent undertaking is Siemens Energy Holding B.V., a company incorporated in the Netherlands.

65

