Company registration number 07885196 (England and Wales)

SPORTSCAPE EDUCATION LTD

UNAUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

PAGES FOR FILING WITH REGISTRAR


SPORTSCAPE EDUCATION LTD

CONTENTS

Page

Balance sheet |

Notes to the financial statements 2-35


SPORTSCAPE EDUCATION LTD

BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 AUGUST 2024

2024 2023

Notes £ £ £ £
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 4 13 17
Current assets
Debtors. 18,551 51,799
Cash at bank and in hand 707 3.705

19,258 55,504
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
(13,255) (23,225)

Net current assets 6,003 32,279
Net assets 6,016 32,296
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 100 100
Profit and loss reserves 5,916 32,196
Total equity 6,016 32,296

For the financial year ended 31 August 2024 the company was entitled to exemption from audit under section 477 of the Companies Act
2006 relating to small companies.

The members have not required the company to obtain an audit of its financial statements for the year in question in accordance with
section 476.

The directors acknowledge their responsibilities for complying with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 with respect to
accounting records and the preparation of financial statements.

These financial statements have been prepared and delivered in accordance with the provisions applicable to companies subject to the
small companies regime.

In accordance with section 444 of the Companies Act 2006, all of the members of the company have consented to the preparation of
abridged financial statements pursuant to paragraph 1A of Schedule 1 to the Small Companies and Groups (Accounts and Directors”
Report) Regulations (ST 2008/409\b).

The directors of the company have clected not to include a copy of the profit and Joss account within the financial statements,

The financial statements were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on 22 May 2025 and are signed on its behalf by:

Mr R W Kesteven
Director

Company registration number 07885196 (England and Wales)


SPORTSCAPE EDUCATION LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

1A

Accounting policies

Company information

Sportscape Education Ltd is a private company limited by shares incorporated in England and Wales. The registered office is Unit
4C, Brooks Lane Industrial Estate, Middlewich, Cheshire, England, CW 10 05G.

Accounting convention

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the
UK and Republic of Ireland” (“FRS 102”) and the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 as applicable (o companies subject to
the small companies regime. The disclosure requirements of section LA of FRS 102 have been applied other than where additional
disclosure is required to show a true and fair view.

The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the company. Monetary amounts in these
financial statements are rounded to the nearest £.

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, [modified to include the revaluation of freehold
properties and to include investment properties and certain financial instruments at fair value]. The principal accounting policies
adopted are set out below.

Turnover

Turnover is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods and services provided in the normal
course of business, and is shown net of VAT and other sales related taxes. The fair value of consideration takes into account trade
discounts, settlement discounts and volume rebates.

When cash inflows are deferred and represent a financing arrangement, the fair value of the consideration is the present value of che
future receipts. The difference between the fair value of the consideration and the nominal amount received is recognised as interest
income.

Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the
buyer (usually on dispatch of the goods), the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, it is probable that the economic benefits
associated with the transaction will flow to the entity and the costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be
measured reliably.

Revemie from contracts for the provision of professional services is recagnised by reference to the stage of completion when the
stage of completion, costs incurred and costs to complete can be estimated reliably. The stage of completion is calculated by
comparing costs incurred, mainly in relation to contractual hourly staff rates anc materials, as a proportion of total costs. Where the
outcome cannot be estimated reliably, reveaue is recognised only to the extent of the expenses recognised that it is probable will be
recovered.

Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost or valuation, net of depreciation and any
impairment losses.

Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets less their residual values over their useful lives on the
following bases:

Plant and equipment 25% on reducing balance

The gain or loss arising on the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the sale proceeds and the carrying value
of the asset, and is credited or charged to profit or los


SPORTSCAPE EDUCATION LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

14

Accounting policies (Continued)

Impairment of fixed assets

At cach reporting period end date, the company reviews the carrying

mounts of its tangible assets to determine whe:her there is
any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the asset
is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any), Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable
amount of an individual asset, the company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset
belongs.

Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value le s to sell and value in use, In asse:

Ost

ing value in use, the estimeted future cash
flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.

If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount
of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit
or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in which case the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation
decrease.

Recognised impairment losses are reversed if, s have ceased to apply. Where an
impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-gencrating unit) is increased to the revised
estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not execed the carrying amount that would have
been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-gencrating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an
impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalucd amount, in which case
the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.

and only if, the reasons for the impairment los:

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents are basic financial assets and include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term
liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdralis are shown within
borrowings in current liabilities.

Financial instruments

The company has elected to apply the provisions of Section 11 ‘Basic Financial Instruments’ and Section [2 ‘Other Financial
Instruments Issues’ of FRS 102 to all of its financial instruments.

Financial instruments are recognised in the company's balance sheet when the company becomes party to the contractual provisions
of the instrument.

Financial assets and liabil

s are offset, with the net amounts presented in the financial statement

when there is a legally
enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle
the liability simultancously.

Basic financial assets

Basic financial assets, which include debtors and cash end bank balances, are initi

lly measured at transaction price including
transaction costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method unless the arrangement

constitutes a financing transaction, where the transaction is measured at the present value of the future receipts discounted at a
I

market rate of interest. Finan ssets:

sified as receivable within one year are not amortised.

Classification of financial liabilities

Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the company after deducting all of its
liabilities.


SPORTSCAPE EDUCATION LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

110

Accounting policies (Continued)

Basic financial liabilities

Busic financial liabilities, including creditors, bank loans, loans from fellow group compani

nd preference
classified as debt, are initially recognised at transaction price unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the
debt instrument is measured at the present value of the future payments discounted at a market rate of interest, Financial liabilities
classified as payable within one year are not amortised,

Debt instruments are subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business from
suppliers. Amounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year or less. If not, they are presented as
non-current liabilities. Trade creditors are recognised iritially at transaction price and subsequently measured at amortised cost
using the effective interest method.

Equity instruments
Equity instruments issued by the company are recorded at the proceeds received, net of transaction costs. Dividends payable on
equily instruments are recognised as liabilities once they are no longer at the discretion of the company.

Employee benefits
The costs of short-term employee benefits are recognised as a liabil:ty and an expense, unless those costs are required to be
recognised as part of the cost of stock or fixed assets.

The cost of any unused holiday entitlement is recognised in the period in which the employee's services are received.

Termiaation benefits are recognised immediately as an expense when the company is demonstrably committed to terminate the
employment of an employee or to provide termination benefits.

Retirement benefits
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall due.

Leases

Rental income from operating leases is recognised on a straight line basis over the term of the relevant lease. Initial direct costs
incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and recognised on a
straight line basis over the lease term.

Judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the company *
about the carrying amount of assets

accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgements, estimates and assumptions
and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated
s are based on historical experience and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from

assumption:
these estimates,

The estimates and underlying essumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis, Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in
the period in which the estimate is revised where the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future

periods where the revision affects both current and future periods.


SPORTSCAPE EDUCATION LTD

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 AUGUST 2024

Employees

The average monthly number of persons (including directors) employed by the company during the year was:

Total

Tangible fixed assets

Cost

At | September 2023 and 31 August 2024
Depreciation and impairment

At I September 2023

Depreciation charged in the year

At 31 August 2024

Carrying amount
At 31 August 2024

At 31 August 2023

Operating lease commitments

2024
Number

2023
Number

Total

106

89

93

AL the reporting erd date the company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable

operating leases, as follows:

2024
£

57,800

2023
£

72,200


This document was delivered using electronic communications and authenticated in accordance with the
registrar's rules relating to electronic form, authentication and manner of delivery under section 1072 of
the Companies Act 2006.

