Registered number: 03857770.

Springfields Fuels Limited

Annual report and financial statements

for the year ended 31 December 2023

coe ——

wu un

oovo9r024 #259
COMPANIES HOUSE _

1
|
|
‘
}

‘Springfields Fuels Limited

Contents
Page ,
Company information , : 1
Strategic report , 2
Directors’ report a ; 7
Statement of directors’ responsibilities a 11
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Springfields Fuels Limited ; 12
Profit and loss account : 15
Statement of comprehensive income . ; 16
Balance sheet : , 17
Statement of changes in equity 18

Notes to the financial statements : : , 19

Springfields Fuels Limited

Company information

Directors

Registered office

Independent auditor

Bankers

Craig Boothby _
David Eaves
Paul Lomas

* Raphael Kuyler

Sophie Lemaire

Springfields
Salwick

Preston
Lancashire

PR4 OXI
United Kingdom

Deloitte LLP

100 Embankment
Cathedral Approach
Manchester

M3 7FB

United Kingdom

Barclays Bank Plc
1 Churchill Place
London

‘E14 SHP

Springfields Fuels Limited

Strategic report
For the year ended 31 December 2023

The directors present their Strategic report for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
The directors, in preparing this Strategic report, have complied with Section 414C of the Companies Act 2006. -

Principal activities and fair review of the business :
The principal activities of Springfields Fuels Limited (“SFL”) are the manufacture of fuel for nuclear power stations,
related conversion processes, processing of residues and transporting of uranium.

SFL trades at the Springfields site at Salwick near Preston in Lancashire and is a wholly owned subsidiary of
_ Westinghouse Electric UK Holdings Limited (““WEC Holdings”), whose ultimate parent company is Watt New
Aggregator L.P. (Cayman), which is a Joint Venture between Brookfield Renewable Partners’ and Cameco Corporation.

On 7 November 2023, Brookfield Renewable Partners’ and Cameco Corporation acquired Westinghouse Electric
Company (“Westinghouse”) from Brookfield Corporation. This will bring Westinghouse’s best-in-class clean power
technologies under Brookfield Renewable Partner’s cutting- -edge hydroelectric, wind, solar energy storage and
distributed generation portfolio, alongside Cameco ‘Corporation’ s expertise in front-end uranium fuel capabilities. It
will further strengthen Westinghouse’s presence in nuclear technology globally and provide a long-term path for the
company’s strategic growth to the benefi it of customers.

The borrowing requirements for WEC Holdings and its subsidiaries are arranged by the Westinghouse Global Treasury
department. During the year WEC Holdings and some of its subsidiaries, including SFL, entered into a multi-currency
notional cash pool arrangement and the company can borrow cash to offset against positive cash balances held by
subsidiaries included in the facility.

The company’s Key Financial Performance Indicators (“KPIs”) during the year were as follows:

% Change

31 December 2023, 31 December 2022 increase /

£000 £000 (decrease)

Turnover 194,566 . 154,466 26.0%
Operating profit 26,396 : 15,554 69.7%
Profit for the financial year , 19,752 10,051 96.5%
Total shareholders’ funds: 112,174 100,265 11.9%
Current assets to current liabilities ratio 1.24:1 1.08:1 14.8%

The company recorded turnover of £194,566,000 (2022: £154,466,000) mainly from the manufacture and sale of
Advanced Gas Reactor (“AGR”) fuel and associated services. The reported operating profit (note 5) for the year was
£26,396,000 (2022: £15,554,000). The increase in turnover is mainly due to the increase in customer demand for AGR
fuel and associated product sales and increased residues. :

Results

The profit for the financial year amounted to £19,752,000 (2022: £10,051,000). The increase in profit is mainly due to
increased turnover as described above, operating cost savings, an increase in bank interest receivable due to the
commencement of Westinghouse’s cash pool arrangement and pension fund interest. The tax on profit amounted to a
charge of £7,011,000 (2022: £2,609,000) (note 10).

Principal risks and uncertainties

The company continues to have a lifetime contract for the supply of nuclear fuel to Britain’s fleet of Advanced Gas
Cooled Reactors. The company continues to improve production efficiencies and seeks opportunities to increase its
LWR-Fuel] load and to provide services to the nuclear market. The company continues to strengthen its relationship
with the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority (“NDA”) and Ministry of Defence (“MOD”) for uranium recovery work.

Springfields Fuels Limited

Strategic report
For the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Section 172 statement’

This section describes how the directors have had regards to the matters set out in Section 172(1) (a) to (f) of the
Companies Act 2006 (Section 172) in exercising their duty to promote the success of the company for the benefit of its
members as a whole. During the year the directors were mindful of their duties under Section 172. The board met on a
quarterly basis and board meetings are held in a spirit that encourages active participation from all directors, careful
deliberation, and challenge. Directors receive briefing packs in advance of the meeting, including input from senior
management as to the potential impact on relevant stakeholders of the proposals to be reviewed and considered at the
meeting.

Our stakeholders

The directors consider that the following groups are the company’s key stakeholders: our workforce, our customers,
nuclear and environmental regulatory bodies, our owners, the wider community and our suppliers. The board seeks to
understand the respective interests of such stakeholder groups so that they may be properly considered in the board’s
decisions. This is done through various methods, including direct engagement by board members; receiving reports and
updates from members of management who engage with such groups on a regular basis; and. coverage in our board
papers of relevant stakeholder interests with regard to proposed courses of action.

The strength of our business is built on the hard work and dedication of the SFL workforce. We also consider the
interests of former employees who are members of a pension scheme sponsored by SFL. The vast majority of our
employees are represented by established national union bodies and fall under a collective bargaining agreement. SFL
works in partnership with the local union leadership to share business challenges and opportunities and to identify and
support the changes required to ensure a long-term sustainable business.

Our customers are the reason we exist. It is essential to our future that we safely and consistently deliver products and
services on time, in full and without complaint, and continue to design safe, cost-effective products and services to
serve new and existing customers at competitive prices.

As a Licensed Nuclear site, SFL is regulated by the Office for Nuclear Regulation (“ONR”) and the Environment
Agency (“EA”). Regular communication through liaison meetings and scheduled themed inspections form the core of
our relationship and engagement. We seek a constructive and cooperative relationship with our regulatory bodies that
authorise and regulate our business activities. This helps us maintain a reputation for high standards of business conduct.
They expect us to comply with all applicable laws, regulations, licence and permit conditions.

The board is conscious of its duty to act in the best interests of the (direct and indirect) members of the company over
the long-term. We rely on our owners for the provision of debt funding as an essential source of capital to further our
business objectives. They rely on us to protect and manage their investment in a responsible and sustainable way that
generates value for them.

- Communities and the wider public expect us to act as a responsible company and neighbour, to provide high quality
employment and to minimise any adverse impact on local communities and the environment. One way in which SFL
engages with the wider community is-via the Site Stakeholder Group (“SSG”). The SSG meets twice per year and is
chaired by a member of the public. The meetings are attended by representatives of the company (including at least one
director) along with members of the local community, council members, regulators, customers, and the unions.

We rely on our suppliers to provide components, consumables, product distribution and to provide essential services
we need to operate our business. Our suppliers rely on us to generate revenue and employment for them. SFL has long
standing relationships with many suppliers, particularly in the fuel component supply chain. SFL has a team dedicated
to managing these key supply agreements and important relationships. This is achieved through regular communication
regarding demand, quality, and delivery performance feedback (including a supplier score card), along with frequent
visits to supplier sites.

Springfields Fuels Limited

' Strategic report
For the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Section 172 statement (continued)
Having regard to the likely consequences of any decision in the long-term

The board remains mindful that its strategic decisions can have long-term implications for the business and its
stakeholders, and these implications are carefully assessed. The most prevalent examples of this during 2023 were
decisions made by the board with regards to engage studies for the return of conversion services at Springfields,
following a hiatus from this product line since 2014, mainly due to the dominance of Russia in this market, the geo-
political situation has evolved this sector of the market to make it viable. The board has balanced the need for being a
competitive supplier of products and services’ whilst ensuring continued high levels of safety and operational
performance. The company has an objective to increase market share, supported by diversification and growth across
nuclear net zero opportunities in line with the UK Government’s vision.

Having regard to the interests of the company’s employees

The board takes active steps to ensure the suggestions, views and interests of the workforce are captured and considered
in decision making. Most of.the directors themselves have each served the company as employees for over 20 years.
They all therefore perform a high degree of personal oversight and engagement in the company’s affairs. This
knowledge of the business and active style of engagement ensures our executive directors maintain a strong insight into
the mood, culture, and views of the workforce which they are then better able to consider as a board. SFL’s five-year
business plan includes the ambition of being 1) re-entering the conversion services market, 2) diversifying the product
ranges manufactured at Springfields to increase customer base and opportunities post AGR and 3) a long-term viable
business with sustainable employment. This ambition is underpinned by delivering an industry leading safety and
quality performance and includes key business objectives to 1) energise people and culture; 2) stabilise production and
increase efficiency; and 3) deliver business growth and diversification.

Employee engagement

The company has numerous effective workforce engagement mechanisms in place. Employees are kept informed of
performance and strategy through regular presentations and updates from members of the board and executive lead
team. The directors attend key management meetings throughout the year including monthly communication meetings,
capital expenditure meetings and they present financial results to employees.

Regular employee engagement surveys are undertaken.

The board also pays careful regard to the health, safety and wellbeing of employees and receives updates from the Site
Director (head of site) and Environment Health and Safety Director which includes safety performance and mental
health wellbeing initiatives.

Diversity

SFL is committed to developing a culture that fosters honest, open conversations and makes space for everyone to be
themselves and thrive. Our goal is to create a company in which diversity and inclusion is an integral part of our DNA.
In 2019, SFL established the seven connected theme framework for employee engagement. The seven themes address
the following areas: 1) Talent attraction and retention; 2) Engagement; 3) Performance development and growth; 4)
Recognising and rewarding excellence; 5) Wellbeing; 6) Leadership; and 7) Equity, diversity, and inclusion (“ED&I”).
Each theme is populated by employees and union representatives drawn from across the business. SFL is also party to
The Princes responsible Business Trust’s Race at Work Charter with a goal of improving outcomes for minority ethic
employees in the workplace and have made a commitment to build a diverse environment across all levels of the
organisation which prioritises development of all employees, irrespective of background. The SFL board has a history
of gender balance amongst directors, currently 1/5 female and 4/5 male.

Springfields Fuels Limited

Strategic. report

For the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

- Section 172 statement (continued)

Having regard to the need to foster the company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others

During the year the board was briefed on major contract negotiations and strategy with regard to key customers and
suppliers. The board seeks to balance the benefits of maintaining strong partnering relationships with key suppliers
alongside the need to obtain value for money for our investors and the required safety, quality and service levels for ~
our customers. It is policy to pay suppliers invoices promptly in accordance with the contract terms, the maximum
standard terms for purchase contracts are “net 60 days”, however there are other terms in use, i.e. net 30 days, 30 days
end of month and 35 days from invoice date.

The interests of customers are considered in key decisions, i.e. restructuring programmes. Suppliers are selected to
ensure quality and safety standards are met whilst efficiencies are also sought to maximise future benefits for customers.

Having regard to the impact of the company’s operations on the community and the environment

The board supports the company’s goals and initiatives with regard to reducing the adverse impacts on the environment
and supporting the wider local community.

The board recognises that nuclear technology is inherently low carbon and contributes to environmental objectives by
minimising carbon emissions. The company has a Carbon Reduction Plan to be in line with the group’s drive for ‘net
zero’ by 2050, in line with common external standards.

Our business is regulated by the EA and as a responsible company we always seek to cooperate and engage
constructively with the Agency and meet our obligations.

Having regard to the desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct

The board recognises the importance of operating a robust corporate governance framework and has adopted an internal
controls mechanism for the delegation of authority, reporting lines and the escalation of complex or high value matters.
One such example is the Westinghouse Global Ethics Code.

Key Performance Indicators
The company monitors performance using a number of KPIs as detailed in the following table:

31 December 2023 31 December 2022

Operations Return on sales (operating profit divided by

turnover) : 13.6% 10.1%
Inventory Inventory turnover (raw material cost divided by 2.76 1.10
stocks)
Personnel Average headcount 691 641
Safety Days Away Case Rate (“DACR”) 0.48 0.08
Total Recordable Incident Rate (“TRIR”) 0.40 0.16
Work-related Days sick per employee , 15.26 - 17.61

These KPIs are aligned to the company’s strategy of “Safety and Quality First” and the strategy for short and medium-
term transformation focusing on cost reduction and improving efficiency of operations.

Springfields Fuels Limited

Strategic report
For the year-ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Future developments :

Through the Westinghouse agreed Springfields Site strategy, the company intends to continue to manufacture fuel for
nuclear power stations, provide related conversion processes and the recovery of uranium through residue processing.
The company aims to be a key manufacturer of the LWR fuel products and other new niche fuel products, and to
develop advanced nuclear technologies and materials nianagement activities at the site on behalf of Westinghouse. In
the short-term the company aims to supply global uranium recovery services and seeks to continue to operate the
transportation business on behalf of the Westinghouse group.

Approved by the board of directors on 2} August 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

Paul Lomas _

Director

Springfields Fuels Limited

Directors’ report
For the year ended 31 December 2023

The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the company, together with the audited financial statements
and independent auditor’s report, for the year ended 31 December 2023.

Directors
The directors of the company, who were in office during the year and up to the date of signing the financial statements,
were as follows:

Craig Boothby (appointed 20 June 2024)
David Eaves

Kirsty Armer (resigned 20 June 2024)
Paul Lomas

Raphael Kuyler (appointed 20 June 2024)
Richard Easterling (resigned 31 July 2024)
Sophie Lemaire (appointed 20 June 2024)

Strategic report :

The information that fulfils the Companies Act requirements of the business review is included in the Strategic report
on pages 2 to 6. This includes a review of the business during the year, of its position at the end of the year and of the
likely future developments. The strategic report also includes how the directors are fostering relationships with
suppliers, customers and other stakeholders.

Financial risk management objectives and policies
Financial instruments

During the year ended 31 December 2023 the company financed its operations from trading. The company trades with
a number of customers, whose credit ratings have been assessed, and aged debtors are monitored on a regular basis.

The main risks arising from the company’s financial instruments are interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, and
liquidity risk. The board reviews and agrees policies for managing each of these risks and they are summarised below.
The policies have remained unchanged since incorporation.

Interest rate risk

The company finances its operations through a mixture of retained profits and Westinghouse’s notional cash pool
arrangement. Interest rates are in accordance with the rates agreed by Westinghouse and the external bank.

Foreign currency risk

The company buys and sells goods in currencies other than sterling. As a result, the value of the company’s non-sterling
sales, purchases, financial liabilities and assets can be affected by movements in exchange rates. The company uses
forward foreign currency contracts to reduce exposure to movement in exchange rates by fixing the rate of any material
payments and receipts in foreign currency.

SFL does not enter into forward foreign currency contracts directly with external banks. WEC US Holdings Ltd. (“WEC
US”) (formerly Brookfield WEC Holdings Inc. (“BWHI’”)) enters into foreign currency contracts with external
providers on behalf of SFL. As at 31 December 2023 there were 3 outstanding forward foreign currency contracts
entered into by WEC US (formerly BWHI) (2022: 3) with a fair value of £5,000 net liability owed to WEC US (formerly
BWHI) from SFL (2022: net liability of £7,000) (see note 20). Hedge accounting is not applied and the contracts are
carried at fair value through profit and loss. The company has a master netting agreement (ISDA agreement) with WEC
US (formerly BWHI) to enable back to back agreements to be put in place when WEC US (formerly BWHI) enters into
forward foreign exchange contracts with external banks. .

The company has foreign currency bank balances as at 31 December 2023 and as such is subject to foreign currency
risk. Company policies ensure that an overall view of the company’s exchange exposure and foreign currency
commitments can be done in conjunction with the Treasury Department of Westinghouse.

Springfields Fuels Limited

Directors’ report ;
For the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued)

Liquidity risk
The company operates independent bank accounts locally and has the ability to borrow cash through Westinghouse’s
notional cash pool arrangement.

Multi-currency notional cash pool is a liquidity management technique whereby debit and credit balances in the multiple
group companies in various currencies are offset. All cash pooling accounts are treated as only one account with only
one balance even though the actual balances are in the name of the different group companies. The main purpose of
the cash pool is to use surplus cash and at the same time reduce borrowing costs for the group. This means that all
excess cash and borrowing requirements from the group company’s local bank accounts are concentrated in the global
cash pool. Working capital cash requirements can be retained in the local bank accounts of the subsidiary companies.
Each group company maintains its existing local bank relationship. Additionally, all cash pool bank accounts are
interest bearing. As the accounts are pooled and offset, interest expense is reduced and/or interest income is increased.

The company has access to cash resources to support ongoing operations and maintains a robust cash flow forecast to
monitor the situation.

Research and development

During the year, the company has made modifications to the oxide process and development in uranium recovery which
are estimated to be £1,741,000 of operating expenditure (2022: £1,309. 9,000) (note 5) and £486,000 of capital
expenditure (2022: £386,000).

Disabled employees

The company is committed to a policy of equal opportunities for all employees. Great care is exercised in the company’s
recruitment and selection procedures to ensure that there is no discrimination, and that training is given to meet
individual needs. Applications by people with disabilities are given full and fair consideration and, wherever practical,
provision is made for their special needs. The same criteria for training and promotion apply to people with disabilities
as to any other employee. If an employee becomes disabled, every effort is made to ensure their continued employment.

Employee involvement

The company operates a framework for employee information and consultation which complies with the requirements
of the Information and Consultation of Employees Regulations 2005. During the year, the policy of providing
employees with information about the group has been continued through meetings, and monthly communications in
which employees are encouraged to present their suggestions and views on the group’s performance. Regular meetings
are held between local management and employees to allow a free flow of information and ideas.

Directors' indemnities .

Brookfield Corporation maintains directors’ and officers’ liability insurance, covering the defence costs of civil legal
proceedings and the damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of such proceedings except, in such cases, to the
extent that a director or officer acted fraudulently or dishonestly, for all its subsidiaries. This policy i is not a third-party
indemnity, but it is designed to defend against third-party liability.

Springfields Fuels Limited

Directors’ report
For the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (“SECR”)
. 31 December 2023 31 December 2022.

_ Energy consumption used to calculate emissions (kWh) 191,461,643, =———:176,941,791
Scope 1 Direct emissions in metric tonnes CO2: , :
— Gas & fuel oil consumption 35,771 36,287
— Owned transport . . 17 168
Scope 1 Total . 35,788 36,455
Scope 2 Indirect emissions in metric tonnes CO2 — purchased electricity 506 881
Scope 3 Other direct emissions in metric tonnes CO2 — businéss travel in
employee owned vehicles . : 13 9
Total gross emissions in metric tonnes CO2 36,307 37,345
Intensity ratio — Emissions per tonne of uranium 86 92

The data has been supplied to the company’s lead ESOS (Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme) assessor. UK energy
use covers production of nuclear fuel components and the methodology used is the European Union Emissions Trading
System (“EUETS”).

The intensity ratio has reduced as emissions have reduced and fuel turnover has slightly increased. During the year we
continued to look at reducing the site footprint and closed buildings which reduced infrastructure (i.e. reducing the
steam main). Our-mobile worker initiative has categorised employees into anchor, mobile and remote and this has
enabled the company to be more efficient by reducing electricity consumption on site as employees have been working
from home. :

Going concern
The company’s business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future development, its financial position
and financial risk management objectives are as described in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 6.

The company has been profitable in the year and has increased its net asset position at 31 December 2023, strengthening
the company’s ability to continue to operate as a going concern. Trading has continued as expected in 2024 and a year
end profit is forecast.

During the year the company was reimbursed by WEC Holdings for its loan and the company now participates in
Westinghouse’s cash pool arrangement, which would provide funding to support the operations of the company. if
required. ;

Continuous assessments have resulted in the directors having a reasonable expectation that the company has adequate .
resources to continue in operational existence for twelve months from the signing date, even in the event of any possible
downside scenarios which may have an adverse impact on the performance of the company. Accordingly, they continue
to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.

Dividends
During the year the directors did not recommend a dividend to WEC Holdings (2022: £nil).

Share Capital
Details of movements in the’ company's share capital during the year are set out in note 22 to the financial statements.

Events after the balance sheet date
Events after the balance sheet date can be found in note 25.

Springfields Fuels Limited

Directors’ report
For the year ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Statement of disclosure of information to independent auditor
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this report confirms that:

* so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the company's auditor are unaware;
and

e the director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of
any relevant audit information and to establish that the company's auditor are aware of that information.

This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies
Act 2006. ,

Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor and appropriate arrangements are being
made for them to be deemed reappointed as auditor under section 485 of the Companies Act 2006 in the absence of an
annual general meeting.

Approved by the board of directors on 21 August 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

Paul Lomas

Director

10

Springfields Fuels Limited

Statement of directors’ responsibilities

The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable law and regulations. : :

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
"directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law) including FRS 101 “Reduced
Disclosure Framework”. Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they
are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of
the company for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:

. select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
. make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
+ ___ state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures

disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

. prepare the financia] statements on the going concern | basis unless it is s inappropriate to presume that the
company will continue in business. :

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company

and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.

They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for
the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

1

Springfields Fuels Limited
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Springfields Fuels Limited

Report on the audit of the financial statements ©

Opinion
In our opinion the financial statements of Springfields Fuels Limited (the company’):
e give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of i its profit for the
year then ended;
e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice,
including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and
e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements which comprise:
e the profit and loss account;

the statement of comprehensive income;

the balance sheet;

the statement of changes in equity;

the material accounting policies: and

the related notes 1 to 25.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the

- financial statements section of our report.

We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the
financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (the “FRC’s’) Ethical Standard, and we
have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting
in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions
that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern
for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are-authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concem are described in the relevant
sections of this report

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and
our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report.
Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise
explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility. is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears
to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are
required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If,
based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.
. 12

Springfields Fuels Limited
Independent auditor’s report to the members of Springfields Fuels Limited (continued)

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ responsibilities, the directors are responsible for the preparation
of the financial statements and for. being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as
the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. :

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a

‘going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of
accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are ‘free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and
are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at:
www. fre. org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report.

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in
line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements: in respect of irregularities, including
fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.

We considered the nature of the company’s industry and its control environment, and reviewed the company’s

documentation of their policies and procedures relating to fraud and compliance with laws and regulations. We also.
enquired of management and the directors about their own identification and assessment of the risks of irregularities,

including those that are specific to the company’s business sector.

We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the company operates in, and identified the
key laws and regulations that:
e had a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
These included the UK Companies Act, pension and tax legislation; and
« do not have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental to the
company’s ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty.

We discussed among the audit engagement team including relevant internal specialists such as pension and tax
specialists regarding the opportunities and incentives that may exist within the organisation for fraud and how and
where fraud might occur in the financial statements.

As a result of performing the above, we identified the greatest potential for fraud in the following area, and our
procedures performed to address it are described below:

e the company’s main revenue stream is the manufacture and sale of Advanced Gas Reactor (“AGR”) fuel
assemblies for one major customer. We pinpointed the risk of fraud through material misstatement to the
pricing arrangement within the contract which is complex and could be subject to management bias. In
addressing this risk, we performed a detailed recalculation of a sample of transactions and also obtained
independent confirmations from the customer.

In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also‘required to perform specific procedures to respond to the risk
of management override. In addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, we tested the
appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments; assessed whether the judgements made in making accounting
estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and evaluated the business rationale of any significant transactions that are
unusual or outside the normal course of business.

13

Springfields Fuels Limited

Independent auditor’s report to the members of Springfields Fuels Limited (continued)

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud (continued)
In addition, to the above, our procedures to respond to the risks identified included the following: :
¢ reviewing financial statement disclosures by testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with
provisions of relevant laws and regulations described.as having a direct effect on the financial statements;
e performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks
of material misstatement due to fraud;
_ © enquiring of management and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims,
and instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations; and
¢ reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance and reviewing correspondence with any other
relevant regulatory authorities.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

e the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

e the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements. :

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the
audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report. ,

Matters on which we are required to report by exception :
Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report in respect of the following matters if, in our opinion:

¢ adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from
branches not visited by us; or

e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

© certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

¢ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those °
"matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted
by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Berd Crenfod .

David Crawford CA (Senior statutory auditor)
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP

Statutory Auditor

Manchester, United Kingdom

21% August 2024

14

Springfields Fuels Limited

Profit and loss account
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Turnover
Cost of sales

Gross profit
Operating expenses
Exceptional items

Operating profit
Interest and similar income and expense

Profit before taxation
Tax on profit

Profit for the financial year

The above results were derived from continuing operations.

Note
4

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

£000 £000
194,566 154,466
(136,811) (102,889)
57,755 51,577
(31,359) (35,758)
- (265)

26,396 15,554
367 (2,894)
26,763 12,660
(7,011) (2,609)
19,752 10,051

15

Springfields Fuels Limited

Statement of comprehensive income
For the year ended 31 December 2023

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

’ Note £000 - £000
Profit for the financial year : 19,752 10,051
Items that cannot be reclassified to profit or loss:
Actuarial loss recognised on defined benefit pension schemes 21 (10,457) (10,800)
Movement on deferred tax relating to pension deficit 18 2,614 2,700
Other comprehensive expense for the period net of tax (7,843) (8,100)
Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to the ,
owners of the company 11,909 1,951

16

Springfields Fuels Limited

Balance sheet
As at 31 December 2023

Fixed assets
Intangible assets
Tangible fixed assets
Investments

Current assets

Stocks

Debtors :
Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Net current assets

Total assets less current liabitities

Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year

Obligations under leases
Deferred tax liability
Provisions for liabilities

Net assets excluding pension asset
Pension asset
Net assets

Capital and reserves
Called up share capital
Profit and loss account

Total shareholders’ funds

Note

“a

12
13

15

16

7
18
19

21

22

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

£000 £000
7,916 9,593
88,866 80,940
4,976 3,775
101,758 94,308
28,335 30,917
35,979 66,331
39,399 2,925
103,713 ~ 100,173
(83,698) (93,075)

20,015

: 121,773

7,098

101,406

(8,154) (10,195)
(7,369) (3,586)
(18,599) (12,212)
87,651 75,413
24,523 24,852
112,174 100,265
30,082 30,082
82,092 70,183
100,265

112,174

The notes on pages 19 to 53 are an integral part of the financial statements.

The financial statements of Springfields Fuels Limited (registration number: 03857770) on pages 15 to 53 were
approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on 21 August 2024.

They were signed on its behalf by:

Paul Lomas
Director

17

Springfields Fuels Limited

Statement of changes in equity
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Note

At 1 January 2022

Profit for the financial year

Other comprehensive (expense) / income:
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension
scheme - 21

Tax relating to components of other
comprehensive income - 10
Total comprehensive income for the year
attributable to the owners of the company

At 31 December 2022

Profit for the financial year

Other comprehensive (expense) / income:
Actuarial loss on defined benefit pension

scheme 21
Tax relating to components of other
comprehensive income 10

Total comprehensive income for the year
_ attributable to the owners of the company
At 31 December 2023

Called up

Profit. and
share capital loss account Total -

£000 £ 000 £000
30,082 68,232 98,314
- 10,051 10,051

- (10,800) (10,800)

- 2,700 2,700

: 1,951 1,951
30,082 70,183 100,265
- 19,752 19,752

- (10,457) (10,457)

- 2,614 2,614

- 11,909 11,909
30,082 82,092 112,174

18

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements
For the year ended 31 December 2023

1. General information ;
The company is a private company limited by share capital and is incorporated in the United Kingdom under the
Companies Act 2006 and domiciled in England and Wales.
The address of its registered office is:
Springfields
Salwick
Preston
Lancashire

PR4 OXI

United Kingdom

These financial statements are presented in Pounds sterling, the presentational and functional currency, because
that is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the company operates.

The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and the
Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” (FRS 101) and applicable accounting
standards because the company is a member of a group where the parent of the group (Watt New Aggregator L.P.
incorporated in Cayman) prepares consolidated financial statements in which the results of the company are
consolidated (note 23).

The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention, except, where stated in the accounting
policies, in accordance with applicable FRS 101.
2. Accounting policies ~

Summary of material accounting policies

The material accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

Basis of accounting
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 101 (Financial Reporting Standard 101)
“Reduced Disclosure Framework” as issued by the Financial Reporting Council.

New standards, amendments and International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC)
interpretations

There are no amendments to accounting standards, or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the year ended 31
December 2023 that have had a material impact on the company.
‘Summary of disclosure exemptions

As permitted by FRS 101, the company has taken advantage of the listed disclosure exemptions. Where applicable
equivalent disclosures have been given in the financial statements of Watt New Aggregator L.P. (Cayman) into
which it is consolidated, copies of which are publicly available on request from its registered office (note 23).

‘e The requirement to prepare consolidated financial statements under section 401 of the Companies Act 2006;

« the requirements of paragraphs 62, B64(d), B64(e), B64(g), B64(h), B64(j)-(m), B64(n)(ii), B64(0)(ii),
B64(p), B64(q)(ii), B66 and B67 of IFRS 3 Business Combinations; group financial statements have not been
presented;

© the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures, the categories of financial instrument and
nature and extent of risks arising on these financial instruments have not been detailed;

e the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement, the valuation techniques applied
to assets and liabilities held at fair value have not been disclosed;

e the requirements of paragraph 10(f) of IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements, a balance sheet has not
been given to reflect the change in accounting policy;

e the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash flows, a statement of cash flows has not been presented;

19

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

2.

Accounting policies (continued)

Summary of disclosure exemptions (continued)

* the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes | in Accounting Estimates
and Errors including the list of new IFRSs that have been issued but that have yet to be applied have not been
disclosed;

e the requirements of the second sentence of paragraph 110 and paragraphs 113(a), 114,115; 118, 119(a) to (c),
120 to 127 and 129 of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers;

e the requirements of paragraphs 17 and 18A of IAS 24 Related Party Transactions, related party transactions
between members of the group have not been disclosed;

e the requirements of paragraphs 134 (d)-(f) and 135(c)-(e) of IAS 36 Impairment of Assets, the valuation
techniques and assumptions used for assets held at fair value less cost to sell categorised as Level 2 and Level
3 in accordance with IFRS 13 fair value hierarchy have not been disclosed;

e the requirements of paragraph 6 of IFRS 16 Leases to capitalise leases of low value assets;

e the requirement in paragraph 88 A-D of IAS 12 income taxes, disclosure of qualitative and quantitative
information about its exposure to the Pillar Two income taxes have not been disclosed; and

e the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates
and Errors, including the list of new IFRSs that have been issued but that have yet to be applied have not been
disclosed.

Going concern

The company’s business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future development, its financial
position and financial risk management objectives are as described in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 6.

The company has been profitable in the year and:has increased its net asset position at 31 December 2023,
strengthening the company’s ability to continue to operate as a going concern. Trading has continued as expected
in 2024 and a year end profit is forecast.

During the year the company was reimbursed by WEC Holdings for its loan and the company now participates in
the Westinghouse’s cash pool arrangement, which would provide funding to support the operations of the company
if required.

Continuous assessments have resulted in the directors having a reasonable expectation that the company has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for twelve months from the signing date, even in the event _
of any possible downside scenarios which may have an adverse impact on the performance of the company.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and financial statements.

Goodwill

Goodwill arising on the acquisition of a business represents the excess of the cost of acquisition over the company’s
interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the business recognised
at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is initially recognised as an asset at cost and is subsequently measured at cost
less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is held in the currency of the acquired business and revalued to
the closing rate at each reporting period date.

Goodwill is not subject to amortisation but is tested for impairment. Company law requires goodwill to be written
off over a finite period. Non-amortisation of goodwill, in accordance with International Financial Reporting
Standards, is a departure from the requirements of company law for the overriding purpose of giving a true and fair
view. If this departure from company law had not been made, the profit for the financial year would. have been
reduced by amortisation of goodwill. However, the amount of amortisation cannot reasonably be quantified other

" than by reference to an arbitrary assumed period for amortisation.

20

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

2.

Accounting policies (continued)
Intangible assets acquired separately

Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated
amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is recognised on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful lives (environmental assets: 2 years). The estimated useful life and amortisation method are
reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in estimate being accounted for on a
prospective basis (note 11).

Exceptional items

The company presents as exceptional items those material itéms of income and expense which, because of the
nature and expected infrequency of the events giving rise to them, merit separate presentation to allow
shareholders to understand better the elements of financial performance in the year, so as to facilitate comparison
with prior years and to assess better trends in financial performance.

Tangible fixed assets

Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost, net of depreciation and provision for diminution in value. Where economic
facilities have been commissioned, the estimated cost of decommissioning the facilities is recognised, to the extent
that it is recognised as a provision under International Accounting Standard (IAS) 37 Provisions, Contingent
Liabilities and Contingent Assets, as part of the carrying value of the asset and depreciated over the useful life of
the asset.

Depreciation is provided on-all tangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write-off the cost, less estimated residual
value, of each asset evenly over its expected useful life as follows: :

Asset Class: Depreciation rate:
Land and buildings 20 years
Decommissioning assets 2 - 20 years

Plant and machinery 2 - 10 years
Fixtures, fittings and vehicles 1-5 years

Assets under construction (“AUC”) are not depreciated until they are brought into use.
Leased assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the term of the relevant lease.
Freehold land is not depreciated.

Stocks ;

Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is determined using the average cost method.
Cost comprises direct materials and where applicable, direct labour costs and those overheads that have been
incurred in bringing the stocks to their present location and condition.

Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less all estimated costs of completion and costs to be
incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.

Business combinations

Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a
business combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition-date fair value of
assets transferred to the company less liabilities incurred by the company (note 11). Acquisition-related costs are
recognised in profit or loss as incurred.

At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired, and the liabilities assumed are recognised at their fair value
at the acquisition date, except that:

e deferred tax assets or liabilities and assets or liabilities related to employee benefit arrangements are recognised
and measured in accordance with IAS 12 and IAS 19 respectively; and

21

_ Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

2, Accounting policies (continued)
Business combinations (continued)

¢ assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 are measured in
accordance with that Standard.

Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition-date
amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed (note 11 and 12).

Revenue recognition .
The entity recognises revenue as follows:

Revenue from contracts with customers °
Revenue is recognised at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity is expected to be entitled in
. exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. For each contract with a customer, the entity: identifies
the contract with a customer; identifies the performance obligations in the contract; determines the transaction price
which takes into account estimates of variable consideration and the time value of money; allocates the transaction
price to the separate performance obligations on the basis of the relative:stand-alone selling price of each distinct
good or service to be delivered; and recognises revenue’ when or as each performance obligation is satisfied in a
manner that depicts the transfer to the customer of the goods or services promised.

Variable consideration within the transaction price, if any, reflects concessions provided to the customer such as
discounts, rebates and refunds, any potential bonuses receivable from the customer and any other contingent events.
Such estimates are determined using either the 'expected value’ or 'most likely amount’ method. The measurement
of variable consideration is subject to a constraining principle whereby revenue will only be recognised to. the
extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not
occur. The measurement constraint continues until the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is

* subsequently resolved. Amounts received that are subject to the constraining principle are’ initially recognised as
deferred revenue in the form of a separate refund liability.

Sale of goods
‘Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised at the point in time when the customer obtains control of the goods,
which is generally at the time of delivery.

Rendering of services
Revenue from a contract to provide services is recognised over time as the work progresses based on either a fixed
price or an hourly rate. .

Interest

Interest revenue is recognised as interest accrues using the effective interest method. This is a method of calculating
the amortised cost of a financial asset and allocating the interest income over the relevant period using the effective
interest rate, which is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the
financial asset to the net carrying amount of the financial asset.

Other revenue
Other revenue is recognised when it is received or when the right to receive payment is established.

Foreign currencies

Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate ruling at the date of the transaction or at the contracted
rate if the transaction is covered by a forward exchange contract. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in
foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date, or if appropriate, at the
forward contract rate. Exchange differences related to settled transactions are presented as operating expenses.
Exchange differences related to unsettled balances are presented as interest income and expense.

22

Springfields Fuels Limited —

‘Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued) .

Leased assets

The company accounts for leases by applying IFRS 16. The company assesses whether a contract is or contains a
lease, at inception of the contract. The company recognises a right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability
with respect to all lease arrangements in which it is the lessee, except for short-term leases (defined as leases with
a lease term of twelve months or less) and leases of low value assets (below $5,000).

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the
commencement date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot be readily determined,
the company uses its incremental borrowing rate.

Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise:

fixed lease payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives receivable;
variable lease payments that depend on an index or rate, initially measured using the index or rate at the
commencement date;
the amount expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees;
the exercise price of purchase options, if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise the options; and

© payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the exercise of an option to terminate
the lease.

The lease liability is presented as a separate line in the balance sheet.

The lease liability is subsequently measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest on the lease
liability (using the effective interest method) and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments
made.

The company as lessee

The company re-measures the lease liability (and makes a corresponding adjustment to the related right-of-use
asset) whenever:

e The lease term has changed or there is a significant event or change in circumstances resulting in a change in
the assessment of exercise of a purchase option, in which case the lease liability is re-measured by discounting
the revised lease payments using a revised discount rate.

e The lease payments change due to changes in an index or rate or a change in expected payment under a
guaranteed residual value, in which cases the lease liability is re-measured by discounting the revised lease
payments using an unchanged discount rate (unless the lease payments change i is due to a change in a floating
interest rate, in which case a revised discount rate is used). .

e A lease contract is modified and the lease modification is not accounted for as a separate lease, in which case
the lease liability is remeasured based on the lease term of the modified lease by discounting the revised lease
payments using a revised discount rate at the effective date of the modification.

The company did not make any such adjustments during the year presented.

The right-of-use assets comprise the initial measurement of the corresponding lease liability, lease payments made
at or before the commencement day, less any lease incentives received and any initial direct costs. They are
subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses.

Whenever the company incurs an obligation for costs to dismantle and remove a leased asset, restore the site on
which it is located or restore the underlying asset to the condition required by the terms and conditions of the lease,

a provision is recognised and measured under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets. To
the extent that the costs relate to a right-of-use asset, the costs are included in the related right-of-use asset, unless
those costs are incurred to produce inventories.

23

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)

2.

’ For the year ended 31 December 2023

Accounting policies (continued)
Leased assets (continued)
The company as lessee (continued)

Right-of-use assets are depreciated over the shorter period of lease term-and useful life of the underlying asset. Ifa
lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset or the cost of the right-of-use asset reflects that the company
expects to exercise a purchase option, the related right-of-use asset is depreciated over the useful life of the
underlying asset. The depreciation starts at the commencement date of the lease.

- The right-of-use assets are presented within the tangible fixed assets line in the balance sheet.

The company applies IAS 36 to determine whether a right-of-use asset is impaired and accounts for any identified
impairment loss.

Variable rents that do not depend on an index or rate are not included in the measurement the lease liability and the
right-of-use asset. The related payments are recognised as an expense in the period in which the event or condition
that triggers those payments occurs and are included in the other operating expenses.

As a practical expedient, IFRS 16 permits a lessee not to separate non-lease components, and instead account for
any lease and associated non-lease components as a single arrangement. The company has not used this practical
expedient.

Defined benefits pension scheme

The company has Pension arrangements with the Westinghouse Electric UK Pension Plan and the Westinghouse
Electric UK DC Plan (part of the Aegon Master Trust), a defined contribution scheme. Both pension schemes
require contributions to be made to separately administered funds.

The cost of providing benefits under the defined benefit plan is determined using the projected unit method, which
attributes entitlement to benefits to the current period (to determine current service cost) and to the current and
prior periods (to determine the present value of defined benefit obligations) and is based on actuarial advice. Past
service costs are recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the vesting period or immediately if the
benefits have vested. When a settlement or a curtailment occurs the change in the present value of the scheme
liabilities and the fair value of the plan assets reflects the gain or loss which is recognised in the profit and loss
account. Losses are measured at the date that the employer becomes demonstrably committed to the transaction
and gains are measured when all parties whose consent is required are irrevocably committed to the transaction.

The interest element of the defined benefit cost represents the change in present value of scheme obligations relating
from the passage of time and is determined by applying the discount rate to the opening present value of the benefit
obligation, taking into account material changes in the obligation during the period. The expected return on plan
assets is based on an assessment made at the beginning of the period of long-term market returns on scheme assets,
adjusted for the effect on the fair value of plan assets of contributions received and benefits paid during the period.

The difference between the expected return on plan assets and the interest costs is recognised in the profit and loss
account.

Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full in the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which
they occur.

The defined benefit pension asset or liability in the balance sheet comprises the total of the present value of the
defined benefit obligation (using a discount rate based on high quality corporate bonds that have been rated at AA
or equivalent status), less any past service cost not yet recognised and less the fair value of plan assets out of which
the obligations are to be settled directly. Fair value is based on market price information and in the case of quoted
securities is the published mid-market price. The value of a net pension benefit asset is limited to the amount that
may be recovered either through reduced contributions or agreed refunds from the scheme.

Employees who commenced employment after 16 October 2006 are only eligible to join the defined contribution
section, and these are accounted for on a defined contribution basis.

24

Springfields Fuels Limited |

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)
Current and deferred tax

The tax charge for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the profit and loss account,
except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive i income or directly in shareholders’
funds.

The current tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance
sheet date in the UK.

Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable
tax regulation is subject to interpretation. A provision is recognised for those matters for which the tax
determination is uncertain but it is considered probable that there will be a future outflow of funds to a tax authority.
The provisions are measured at the best estimate of the amount expected to become payable. The assessment is
based on the judgement of tax professionals within the company supported by previous experience in respect of
such activities and in certain cases based on specialist independent tax advice.

Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their
carrying amounts in the financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from
the initial recognition of goodwill; or arise from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other
than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance
sheet date and are expected to apply when the deferred tax asset is realised, or the deferred income tax liability is
settled. :

Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are
recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary
differences can be utilised. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and
reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part
of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right of offset for current tax assets
against current tax liabilities and the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the
same taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to
settle the balances on a net basis.
Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past
event, it is probable that the company will be required to settle that obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made
of the amount of the obligation.
The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present
. obligation at the balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount
is the present value of those cash flows (when the effect of the time value of money is material).
When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third
party, a receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received, and the
amount of the receivable can be measured reliably.
Nuclear and decommissioning provisions
The financial statements include provisions for the company’s obligations in respect of nuclear liabilities, being
the costs associated with the nuclear decommissioning of production assets and also processing and disposing of
residues. These provisions are based on the latest available technical assessments of the processes and methods
likely to be used in the future and represent best estimates of the amount required to discharge the relevant
obligations. The company’s obligations are reviewed on a continual basis and provisions are updated accordingly.
Where some or all of the expenditure required to settle a provision is expected to be recovered from another party,
in accordance with IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets, the recoverable amount is
treated as an asset. Amounts relating to decommissioning are included in provisions (note 19).

25

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)

Provisions (continued) .

Nuclear and decommissioning provisions (continued)

Nuclear provisions are stated in the balance sheet at current price levels, discounted at an appropriate real rate of
return to take account of the timing of payments. Each period in interest payable and similar charges in the profit
and loss account, the movement in discounting is recognised, which reflects the need to remove one year’s
discounting from provisions made in prior years and the restatement of these provisions to current price levels.
Changes in estimate are accounted for in the year in which they arise. Discounting is only provided for when
material.

Restructuring provisions

The financial statements include provisions for the company’s obligations in respect of restructuring, being the
costs associated with employees leaving the company. These amounts represent best estimates of the amount
required to discharge the relevant obligations.

Operating profit .
Operating profit is stated after charging restructuring costs but before interest and similar income and expense.

Impairment of non-financial assets

Non-financial assets that are not ready to use are not subject to amortisation and are tested annually for impairment.
Assets that are subject to amortisation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount might not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by
which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an
asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. Prior impairments of non-financial assets (other than
goodwill) are reviewed for possible reversal at each reporting date.

Investments and other financial assets

Investments and other financial assets are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs are included as part of
the initial measurement, except for financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”). All recognised
financial assets are subsequently measured in their entirety at either amortised cost or fair value depending on their
classification. Classification is determined based on both the business model within which such assets are held and
the contractual cash flow characteristics of the financial asset unless, an accounting mismatch is being avoided.

Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows have expired or have been transferred and
the entity has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership. When there is no reasonable
expectation of recovering part or all of a financial asset, its carrying value is written off.
Classification of financial assets
Debt instruments that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at amortised cost:
¢ the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to.
collect contractual cash flows; and

¢ the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

Debt instruments that meet the following conditions are subsequently measured at fair value through other
comprehensive income (“FVTOCI”):
e the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting
contractual cash flows and selling the financial assets; and

* the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.

26

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

2. Accounting policies (continued)
Investments and other financial assets (continued)

Classification of financial assets (continued)
By default, all other financial assets are subsequently measured at FVTPL.

Despite the aforegoing, the group may make the following irrevocable election / designation at initial recognition
of a financial asset:

e the group may irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in fair value of an equity investment in
other comprehensive income if certain criteria are met; and

e the group may irrevocably designate a debt investment that meets the amortised cost or FVTOCI criteria
as measured at FVTPL if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch.

Financial assets at fair value through Profi it or loss

Financial assets not measured at amortised cost or at FVTOCI are classified as financial assets at FVIPL.
Typically, such financial assets will be either: (i) held for trading, where they are acquired for the purpose of selling
in the short-term with an intention of making a profit, or a derivative; or (ii) designated as such upon initial
recognition where, permitted. Fair value movements are recognised in profit or loss.

Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income

Financial assets at FVTOCI include equity investments which the entity intends to hold for the foreseeable future
and has irrevocably elected to classify them as such upon initial recognition.

Impairment of financial assets

The entity recognises a loss allowance. for expected credit losses on financial assets which are either measured at
amortised cost or FVTOCI. The measurement of the loss allowance depends upon the entity's assessment at the
end of each reporting period as to whether the financial instrument's credit risk has increased significantly since
initial recognition, based on reasonable and supportable information that is available, without undue cost or effort
to obtain. :

The company has historically had no bad debts for intercompany balances except for the Chapter 11 filing in 2018.
The historical loss information for intercompany balances within the group does not indicate any pattern to establish
any loss ratio and any defaults are very rare and specific. In the absence of any established relationship between
intercompany balances and default, it is reasonable to monitor the total balance of receivable on reporting dates
and determine the amounts collected / not collected for impairment using forecast position. The entity’s reasonable -
and supportable forecasts as of 31 December 2023 indicate that these balances are expected to be paid by other
group undertakings. .
For extemal trade debtors, the- ‘company has historically had no bad debts. In the absence of any historical loss /
default, it is reasonable to monitor the total balance of receivables on reporting dates and determine the amounts
collected / not collected for impairment using a forecast position. The entity’s reasonable and supportable forecasts
as of 31 December 2023 indicate that these balances are expected to be paid by external customers and the
likelihood of default is expected to be £nil.

Derecognition of financial assets

The company derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire,
or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another
entity. Ifthe company neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues
to control the transferred asset, the company recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability
for amounts it may have to pay. If the company retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a
transferred financial asset, the company continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a
collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.

27

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

2.

Accounting policies-(continued)
Investments and other financial assets (continued)

Derecognition of financial assets (continued)

On derecognition of a financial asset measured at amortised cost, the difference between the asset’s carrying
amount and the sum of the consideration received and receivable is recognised in profit or loss. In addition, on
derecognition of an investment in equity instrument which the company has elected on initial recognition to
measure at FVTOCL, the cumulative gain or loss previously accumulated in the investment’s revaluation reserve is
not reclassified to profit or loss, but is transferred to the profit and loss account reserve.

Financial liabilities and equity . :

Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance
of the contractual arrangement.

Equity instruments

An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all
of its liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the company are recognised as the proceeds received, net of direct
issue costs.

Repurchase of the company's own equity instruments is recognised and deducted directly in equity. No gain or loss
is recognised in the profit and loss account on the purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of the company's own equity
instruments.

Other financial liabilities :

Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs.’
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with
interest expense recognised on an effective yield basis.

The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating
interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated
future cash payments through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to
the net carrying amount on initial recognition.

Derecognition of financial liabilities

The company derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the company’s obligations are discharged,
cancelled or they expire. The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and
the consideration paid and payable is recognised in profit or loss.

Derivative financial instruments

The company enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign exchange
rate. risk, including forward foreign currency contracts. Further details of derivative financial instruments are
disclosed in note 20. .

Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date a derivative contract is entered into and are subsequently
remeasured to their fair value at each reporting date. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss
immediately.

A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset whereas a derivative with a negative fair
value is recognised as a financial liability. A derivative is presented as a current asset due after one year or a creditor
due after more than one year if the remaining maturity of the instrument is more than twelve months and it is not
expected to be realised or settled within twelve months. Other derivatives are presented as current assets or current
liabilities.

28

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

2.

Accounting policies (continued)

Government Grants

Grants received from government sources are recognised using the performance model. A grant related to property,
plant and equipment which does not impose specified future performance conditions is presented as a reduction to
the related asset’s carrying amount when the grant. proceeds are received or receivable. Grants related to
compensation for expenses already incurred or for immediate financial support with no future related costs are
recognized as a contra-expense in the period in which they are receivable. Government grants are not recognised
until there is reasonable assurance that the group will comply with the conditions attaching to them and that the
grants will be received. A grant received before the revenue recognition criteria are satisfied is recognised as
deferred income

Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the company’s accounting policies, which are described in note 2, the directors are required
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not
readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience
and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates
are recognised in the year in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that year or in the year of the
revision and future years if the revision affects both current and future years.

Critical judgements in applying the company’s accounting policies

The company has no critical judgements to disclose, apart from those involving estimations (which are dealt with
separately below), that the directors have made in the process of applying the company’s accounting policies and
that have the most significant effect on the financial statements recognised in the financial statements.

Key sources of estimation uncertainty :

The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet
date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
within the next financial year, are discussed below.

(7) Defined benefit pension scheme

The company has obligations to pay pension benefits to certain employees. The pension asset and post retirement
liability are calculated in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits. The cost of these benefits and the present
value of the obligation is sensitive to a-number of factors, including life expectancy, salary increases, asset
valuations and a discount rate based on inflation. The company is exposed to a number of risks relating to the
scheme, including assumptions not being borne out in practice. Some of the most significant risks are as follow,
although the list is not exhaustive:

e Asset volatility: There is a risk that a fall in asset values is not matched by a corresponding reduction in
the value placed on the scheme’s Defined Benefit Obligation (“DBO”). The scheme holds a proportion of
growth assets, which are expected to outperform corporate and government bond yields in the long-term,
but gives exposure to volatility and risk in the short-term.

e Change in bond yields: A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed on the scheme’s
DBO, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the scheme’s corporate bond
holdings.

e Inflation risk: The majority of the scheme’s DBO is linked to inflation, where higher inflation will lead to
a higher value being placed on the DBO. Some of the scheme’s assets are either unaffected by inflation
or loosely correlated with inflation (e.g. growth assets), meaning that an increase in inflation will generally
increase the deficit.

29

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

3. Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued):

Key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
(7) Defined benefit pension scheme (continued)

e Life expectancy: An increase in life expectancy will lead to an increased value being placed on the
scheme’s DBO. Future mortality rates cannot be predicted with certainty.”

See note 21 for the disclosures relating to the defined benefit pension scheme.

4. Turnover

Disaggregation of Turnover :
Revenue from contracts with customers is disaggregated by geographical location and business unit, as it best
depicts the nature and amount of the company’s revenue.

Analysis of the company's turnover by geographical location is as follows:
u 31 December 2023 3] December 2022

; ; ; £000 £000
United Kingdom 161,972 120,537
Europe - EU 19,543 18,794
Japan and Far East 7,587 8,829
North and South America : a : 5,464 ; 6,306

; 194,566 154,466

An analysis of the company’s turnover by class of business is set out below:

31 December 2023 31 December 2022

£000 £000

Oxide fuels 150,648 . 108,277
Residues 36,861 37,221
Transport : 525 531
General overhead income 6,532 — 8,437
194,566 : 154,466

An analysis of the revenue disaggregated by business unit and timing of transfer:

Oxide fuels Residues Transport General’ Total
£000 — £000 : £000 overhead £000

income

£000
Point in time 150,648 20,808 525 6,532 178,513
Overtime - 16,053 - - 16,053
Total 150,648 36,861 525, 6,532 194,566

30

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

4. Turnover (continued)
Disaggregation of Turnover (continued)
Contract balances
The timing of révenue recognition, billings and cash collections results in billed accounts receivable, unbilled
receivables (contract assets) and customer advances and deposits (contract liabilities) on the balance sheet.
The following table presents significant changes in contract asset balances during the year:

31 December 2023 31 December 2022

£000 £000
At | January 9,564 9,888
Transferred to receivables : . (7,024) (8,398)
Revenue recognised for performance obligation satisfied
during the year for. which a receivable cannot be recognised
-until fulfilling other obligations . 7,402 : -_ 8,074
As at 31 December : 9,942 9,564

The contract asset balances are mainly due to nuclear fuel and residues which will be transferred to receivables
within one year from the balance sheet date (see note 15).

The following table presents significant changes in trade debtors during the year:
31 December 2023 31 December 2022 .

: £000 £000
At 1 January . 13,876 7,893
Transferred from contract assets 8,418 9,697
Revenue recognised for performance obligation satisfied
during the year for which a receivable cannot be recognised (12,273) (3,714)
As at 31 December 10,021 13,876

The trade debtors balance is mainly due to nuclear fuel which will be settled within one year of the balance sheet -
date (see note 15). °

The following table represents significant changes in contract liability balances during the year:

31 December 2023 31 December 2022

£000 £000
At 1 January 48,135 49,962
Revenue recognised that was included in the contract
liability balance (9,454) (7,407)
Increases due to cash received, excluding amounts
recognised as revenue during the year ; 391 . 5,580
As at 31 December . 39,072 48,135

The contract liability balance is mainly related to residues for long-term contracts which will be settled as the
performance obligations are satisfied (see note 16).

31

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

5. Operating profit

Operating profit has been arrived at after (crediting) / charging:

£000

Other income ‘ (152)
Movement in work in progress (note 14) 123
Raw materials and consumables recognised as an expense 78,145
Other external operating costs 15,966
Employee costs (note 8) 60,337
Research and development expenditure 1,741
Independent auditor’s remuneration for the auditing of the .
financial statements 158
Loss / (gain) on disposal of assets 1,040
Depreciation for the period (note 12) 8,340
‘ Amortisation for the period (note 11) 2,472

Exceptional items (note 6)

31 December 2023

There are no non-audit fees included within independent auditor’s remuneration.

Exceptional items

Recognised in arriving at operating profit:

Restructuring costs

Directors’ remuneration

31 December 2023
£000

31 December 2022
£000

(167)
(5,176)
34,082
45,342
52,536

1,309

132
(20)
8,497
2,112
265

31 December 2022
£ 000
265

265

The cost of directors’ services is borne by SFL except for Kirsty Armer who was paid by Westinghouse Electric

Company UK Limited (“WEC UK”).

The directors’ remuneration for the year was as follows:

31 December 2023

£ 000

Aggregate emoluments in respect of qualifying services 961
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 43
1,004

31 December 2022
£000

419
34
453

32

Springfields Fuels Limited —

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

7. Directors’ remuneration (continued)

"In respect of the highest paid director:
31 December 2023

£000
Aggregate emoluments 708
Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 43

31 December 2022
£000

184
34

During the year, the number of directors who were receiving benefits was as follows:

31 December 2023 31 December 2022
No. : No.
Number of directors accruing benefits under defined benefit
schemes ; , 2 2
Number of directors with contributions to money purchase pension
schemes : 1 1
3 3

Employee costs :

The company has 636 (2022: 588) employees. ;

’ WEC Holdings has 52 employees (2022: 53) who perform work on behalf of SFL.
SFL has 4 employees (2022: 3) seconded from WEC LLC. ,

SFL has 1 employee (2022: 1) who performs work on behalf of WEC UK.

The aggregate remuneration for employees comprised:.

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

£000 £000

Wages and salaries : 45,105 36,435

Social security costs , : . . 5,172 4,331
Other pension costs : 10,060 11,770-

, 60,337 52,536

Other pensions costs mainly include the cost of the company’s two defined benefit pension schemes and three
defined contribution pension schemes (note 21). The cost for the defined benefit schemes amounted to £4,425,000
for the year (2022: £8,921,000) and the defined contribution schemes amounted to £4,906,000 (2022: £2,109,000).
The company has also been charged for the WEC Holdings employees’ pension costs £222,000 (2022: £271,000).

33

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

8. Employee costs (continued)

The average monthly number of employees and secondees (including executive directors) was:

Nuclear fuel
Support functions

9. Interest and similar income and expense

Interest receivable and similar income:

Bank interest
Loan interest receivable from parent company

Unrealised foreign exchange gains on unsettled balances

Interest income in respect of pension scheme (note 21)

* Interest payable and similar expense:

Bank charges
Letter of credit fees

Interest expense in respect of pension scheme (note 21)
Unrealised foreign exchange losses on unsettled balances

Finance charges payable under finance lease
Other finance charges

Net interest income and expense:

Interest receivable and similar income
Interest payable and similar expense

31 December 2023
No.

644
47

691

31 December 2022
No.

604
37

641

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

£000 £000
34 -
1,973 851
417 -
7,939 4,936
10,363 5,787
31 December 2023 = 31 December 2022
£000 £000
_ (24) (10)
(2,739) (2,335)
(6,204) (4,274)
- (684)
(1,029) (1,132)
- (246
(9,996) (8,681)

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

£000 | £000
10,363 5,787
(9,996) (8,681)
367 (2,894)

34

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

10. Tax on profit

Tax included in the profit and loss account:

Current tax

UK corporation tax at 23.52% (2022: 19%)
Group relief payable / (receivable)
Adjustment in respect of prior periods

Deferred tax

Origination and reversal of timing differences

Adjustment in respect of prior periods :

Effect of tax rate change adjustment in respect of prior periods

Tax on profit .

Tax income included in other comprehensive income:

Deferred tax
Origination and reversal of timing differences
Total tax income included in other comprehensive income

31 December 2022

31 December 2023

£000 £000
690 126
188 (647)
(264) _(48)
614 (569)
5,870 2,392
527 58

- 728
6,397 “3,178
7,011 2,609

_ 31 December 2023

31 December 2022

£000 £000
(2,614) (2,700)
(2,614) (2,700)

The tax charge for the year is higher than the average rate of corporation tax in the UK for the year ended 31
December 2023 of 23.52% (2022: 19%). The differences are explained below:

Profit before taxation

Profit before taxation multiplied by the average rate of corporation

tax in the UK of 23.52% (2022:19%)

’ Effects of:
Remeasurement of deferred tax — change in UK tax rate

Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior periods — deferred tax

Adjustments to tax charge in respect of prior periods — current tax
Income not deductible for tax purposes

Expenses not deductible for tax purposes

FRS101 adjustment

Fixed asset differences

Tax charge

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

£000 £000 -
26,763 12,660
6,295 2,405
342 227
527 58
(264) (48)
(96) (447)
13 49
89 89
105 224
7,011 2,609

35

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023 ‘

10.

11.

Tax on profit (continued)
Factors that may affect future tax charges -

The UK corporation tax rate remained unchanged at 19% up to the period ended 31 March 2023 and has
increased to 25% effective from 1 April 2023. There is no material tax impact expected following the enactment
of Finance Act 2023. oo,

Under FRS101, deferred tax is required to be calculated using rates that have been substantively enacted at the
balance sheet date. Consequently, deferred tax has been calculated based on a rate of 25% (note 18).

Intangible assets

Environmental
* Goodwill. assets Total
£000 £000 £000
Cost or valuation
At | January 2023 : : 7,121 6,695 13,816
Additions - 795 795
Write-off . - (4,223) (4,223)
At 31 December 2023 7,121 3,267 10,388
_ Accumulated amortization ; . , , ,
At 1 January 2023 - 4,223 4,223
Charge for the year : - 2,472 2,472
Write-off an ; - (4,223) (4,223)
At 31 December 2023 = 2,472 2,472
Carrying amount
At 31 December 2022 : 7,121 2,472 9,593
At 31 December 2023 7A 795 7,916

Environmental assets relate to the EUETS regulations. In December 2021, the company purchased 54,294 units at

.a cost of £4,223,000 to cover 2021 and 2022 compliance. In 2023 these units were fully amortised and written off.

Also in 2023, 15,000 units were purchased and will be amortised in 2024.

Goodwill relates to the purchase. from Paul Fabrications Limited of the nuclear component manufacturing section
which SFL has renamed to Precision Fabrications on 24 June 2020. The goodwill against the transport segment
fully impaired in prior years, has been written off. .

The company tests goodwill annually or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The company values goodwill at the recoverable amount, being the higher of the value in use basis and the fair
value less costs to sell basis. Based on impairment testing completed, no impairment was identified in respect of
the goodwill carrying value.

36

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

12. Tangible fixed assets

Cost or valuation
At | January 2023
Additions
Transfers
Disposals

At31 December 2023
Accumulated depreciation
At | January 2023

Charges for the year
Disposals

At 31 December 2023

Carrying amount
At31 December 2022

At 31 December 2023

Right-of-use Fixtures, Decomm-
Land and assets - Plantand —ffittingsand = Assetsunder —_issioning
buildings vehicles machinery vehicles construction assets Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
16,146 222 15,786 10,321 34,877 4107 141,459
- 8B - : 17,193 35 17,306
767 - 4,710 553 (6,030) 7 -
(85) (91) (1,395), (2,740) (74) : (5,052)
16,828 209 79,101 8,134 45,299 4,142 153,713
3,966 4 45,234 8,593 : 2,612 60,519
680 56 6,465 822 - 317 8,340
(77) (91) (1,114) (2,730) - - (4,012)
4,569 79 50,585 6,685 - 2,929 64,847
12,180 108 30,552 1,728 34,877 1,495 80,940
12,259 130 28,516 1,449 45,299 1,213 88,866

37

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

12. Tangible fixed assets (continued)

13.

The site lease is included within land and buildings above, depreciation of £1,854,999 (2022: £1,719,000), and net
book value of £7,847,000 (2022: £7,982,000). Land and buildings also include the premises lease for Precision
Fabrications based at Derby, which has depreciation of £332,000 (2022: £233,000) and net book value of £155,000
(2022: £254,000) (note 17).

The government grant receipts during the year are 2 presented as a reduction to the related asset’s carrying amount
when the grant proceeds are received and have been included in Assets under construction and £2,210,000 (2021:
Enil).

Investments
31 December 2023 31 December 2022
: £000 "£000
Loans to related parties 4,826. 3,625
Other investments : ~- 150 ; 150
4,976 3,775

Loans to related parties due after one year of £4,826,000 (2022: £3,625,000) receivable from Springfields
Segregated Assets Limited (“SSAL”) are for future decommissioning costs. There is no interest due on the
outstanding amount.

Other investments are monies on deposit with the bank to collateralise SFL’s HMRC duty deferment account.

14, Stocks
31 December 2023 31 December 2022
£000 £000
Raw materials and consumables . 13,404 11,116
Work in progress : 10,095 9,972
Finished goods 4,836 9,829
28,335 30,917

Stock is stated after provision for impairment of £1,738,000 (2022: £1,967,000).

15. Debtors
31 December 2023 31 December 2022 ©

£000 £000

Debtors: amounts falling due within one year:
Trade debtors (note 4) 10,021 13,865
Amounts due from group undertakings 14,116 40,931
Contract assets (note 4) 9,942 9,564
Derivative financial instruments (note 20) - 1
Prepayments and other debtors : 1,900 1,970
: 35,979 66,331

38

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

15.

16.

Debtors (continued)
The amounts due from group undertakings within one year include the following:

Corporation tax group relief receivable from Uranium Asset Management Limited (“UAM”) £497,000 (2022:
£3,289,000), WEC Holdings, £281,000 (2022: £155,000), Inspection Consultants Limited (“Incon”) £108,000
(2022: £nil) and WEC EMEA Holdings Ltd. (“WEH”) £6,000 (2022: £6,000), which is payable on demand,

Sales from Westinghouse Electri¢ Sweden AB (“WE Sweden”) £9,192,000 (2022: £3,775,000) which is payable
according to standard payment terms. There is no interest due on outstanding amounts.

Recharges from. WEC LLC £3,121,000 (2022: £1,655,000), SSAL £642,000 (2022: £1,977,000), WEC UK
£178,000 (2022: £363,000), Westinghouse Technical Services SA (“WTS”) £42,000 (2022: £nil), Westinghouse
Belgium S.A“(WE Belgium”), £9,000 (2022: £37,000), Stone & Webster LLC £28,000 (2022: £nil) and
Westinghouse Electrique France S.A.S (“WE France”), £12,000 (2022: £12,000). In the prior year there were also
charges from Westinghouse Electric Poland LLC (“WE Poland”) £75,000. The recharges are paid according to
standard trading terms. There is no interest due on outstanding amounts.

The amounts-due from group undertakings within one year for the prior year included a loan receivable from WEC
Holdings of £29,400,000 and accrued interest of £187,000. Interest on the loan was charged at a rate of 3 months
LIBOR plus 225 basis points. The loan was repayable on demand.

Creditors :
31 December 2023 31 December 2022
: £000 £000
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Trade creditors - 16,445 13,150
Amounts owed to group undertakings 8,677 | 12,806
Other taxes and social security costs . 2,043 672
Accruals 15,221 : 16,792
Derivative financial instruments (note 20) 5 8
Obligations under lease liabilities (note 17) : 2,235 1,512
Contract liabilities (note 4) 39,072 48,135
: 83,698 93,075
Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year
Obligations under lease liabilities (note 17) - 8,154 10,195
Deferred tax liability (note 18) ; . 7,369 3,586
Provisions for liabilities (note 19) 18,599 12,212
117,820 119,068

Amounts owed to group undertakings include amounts payable to UAM £188,000 (2022: £nil) for corporation tax
group relief. The remaining balance is for recharges from WEC LLC £5,447,000 (2022: £2,907,000), WEC
Holdings £88,000 (2022: £7,109,000), WEC UK £2,487,000 (2022: £1,592,000), SSAL £26,000 (2022: £24,000),
WE France £80,000 (2022: £22,000), Westinghouse Electric Japan Limited £79,000 (2022: £82,000), WE Sweden
£4,000 (2022: £96,000), WE Poland £183,000 (2022: £791,000), WTS £60,000 (2022: £45,000), Stone & Webster
LLC £16,000 (2022: £9,000), Incon £1,000 (2022: £2,000), WE Belgium £1,000 (2022: £nil) and Westinghouse
Industry Products International Company. Inc. £17,000 (2022: £18,000). In the prior year there were also charges
from Westinghouse Electric Spain, S.A-U. £6,000 and Westinghouse Electric Company (China) Co. LTD
£103,000. These recharges are payable on demand and do not incur interest in line with normal trade.

Contract liabilities include amounts received from customers for which revenue cannot yet be recognised as the
performance obligations have not been completed.

39

Springfiélds Fuels Limited

' Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023
17. Lease liabilities ©

Analysis of lease liabilities:

Amounts due for settlement:
Between one and five years
After five years

On demand or within one year

- Present value of lease obligations

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

£000, £000
2,510 2,032
5,644 8,163
8,154 10,195
2,235 1,512
10,389 11,707

The site lease term is 150 years. For the year ended 31 December 2023, the average effective borrowing rate was 8.9
percent (2022: 8.9 percent). Interest rates are fixed at the contract date. .

The remaining lease term for the premises for Precision Fabrications is for one year and six months, and the
corresponding liability is £137,000 (2022: £242,000). The borrowing rate is 3.75 percent.

The company leases several assets (vehicles), excluding the site leases, with the average lease term being two years
‘and nine months. These assets have a corresponding liability of £139,000 (2022: £113,000). The liability was
calculated using the company’s incremental borrowing rate at the commencement date for the lease

18. Deferred tax liability

Deferred tax asset due within 12 months

Total asset due within 12 months

Deferred tax liability due after 12 months
- Deferred tax asset due after 12 months
Total liability due after 12 months

Total liability.

31 December 2023 31 December 2022

£000 £000

89 89

89 89

(14,298) (10,038)

6,840 6,363
(7,458) (3,675)

(7,369) (3,586)

40

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

_ 18. Deferred tax liability (continued)

Deferred tax liability:
Accelerated
. capital Total
Provisions Pension Derivatives allowance£  Taxlosses provision ©
£000 £000 | £000 ~ 000 £000 £000
At 31 December 2022 2,671 (6,213) 200 (3,826) 3,582 (3,586)
Charged to the profit .
and loss account 1,297 (2,541) (89) (4,332) (732) (6,397)
Credited directly to OCI - 2,614 - : : 2,614
At 31 December 2023 3,968 (6,140) 111 (8,158) 2,850 (7,369)

The directors have recognised a deferred tax liability of £7,369,000 (2022: liability of £3,586,000) that is considered
to be able to be offset against the company’s taxable profits expected to arise in the future accounting years.
Management have based their assessment on the latest budget approved by the board which reflects the trading:
performance discussed in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 6. Deferred tax at 3] December 2023 has been calculated
based on the rate of 25% being the rate substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.

19. Provisions for liabilities

Decomm-

Nuclear issioning Total
provision provision provision
- £000 £000 £000

At 1 January 2023 .
Current 3,040 - 3,040
Non-current : 5,717 3,455 9,172
Total provision ; . 8,757 3,455 12,212
Additional provisions in the year , 9,037 (308) - 8,729
Unwinding of discount on provision and discount changes 366 261 627
Provisions utilised during the year (2,969) - (2,969)
At 31 December 2023 15,191 3,408 18,599
Current : , 4,689 - 4,689
Non-current 10,502 3,408 : 13,910
15,191 3,408 18,599

Nuclear Provision

Under the terms of the contract with the NDA, the NDA is responsible for decommissioning the facilities on site
as at 31 March 2010. The environmental liabilities existing at 31 March 2010 also remain the responsibility of the
NDA. However, the company is responsible for incremental decommissioning and environmental costs incurred
post 1 April 2010. Production within the year has generated some by-products (residues) which were not processed
through the site’s residues plants within the year. Since the production in question generated sales revenue in the
year, the cost of processing these by-products in the following years has been provided for.

41

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

19.

20.

21.

Provisions for liabilities (continued)

Decommissioning provision ; .

Under the lease arrangements for the occupation of the site agreed by the NDA, the company has created a provision
to cover the increasing costs of decommissioning of any new buildings or increase to the liabilities on the site after
1 April 2010. The cash to cover the obligation is transferred to SSAL and held as an intercompany receivable, as
per the terms of the Segregated Fund Deed between SSAL, NDA and the company.

Under the terms of the agreement with SSAL and the NDA, the cash to cover the obligation is calculated at current
prices as though the decommissioning was to be performed immediately and increased each year by reference to
the Retail Price Index. :

The provision is discounted and will unwind until 2040 which is the current expected site decommissioning date.

Discounting

The provisions for short (to 5 years) to medium (6 -10 years) term have been subjected to discounting based upon
His Majesty’s Treasury (“HMT”) Public Expenditure System discount rates, which apply to nuclear provisions
such as those held by the NDA. The rates are dictated by HMT each year. The provisions for long-term have been
derived by using the 20 year gilt estimate and adjusting for long-term inflation. The real discount rates applied at _
31 December 2023 to determine the net present value of provisions are:

Years Real Rate
Short-term rate - 0-5 1.19%
Medium-term rate : ~ 6:10 1.53%
Long-term rate : >10 2.07 %

Financial instruments

The derivative financial instrument net liability of £5,000 (2022: net liability of £7,000) is owed to WEC US
(formerly BWHI) from SFL for the mark to market fair value of forward foreign currency contracts, maturing in
January and February 2024. They carry no interest. The company has a master netting agreement (ISDA agreement)
with WEC US (formerly BWH]), to enable back to back agreements to be put in place when WEC US (formerly

_ BWHI) enters into forward foreign exchange contracts with external banks.

Pension asset

The company has pension arrangements with the Westinghouse Electric UK Pension Plan, a defined benefit
pension scheme, and the Westinghouse Electric UK DC Plan (part of the Aegon Master Trust), a defined
contribution pension scheme, that require contributions to be made to separately administered funds.

‘Defined contribution pension schemes

At the start of the year the company contributed to three defined contribution schemes as detailed below. In
September 2023 the employees in the Paul Fabrications Group Personal Pension Scheme transferred into the

_ Westinghouse Electric UK DC plan: SFL2 section.

42

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

21. Pension asset (continued)
Defined contribution pension schemes (continued)
31 December 2023 31 December 2022

£ 000 £ 000
Westinghouse Electric UK DC Plan: SFL2 Section
Cost for the period . 4,810 2,036
Westinghouse Electric UK DC Plan: GPS SFL Section ; .
Cost for the period , 86 4S
Paul Fabrications Group Personal Pension Scheme . :
Cost for the period _ 10 "28

Defined benefit pension schemes

The pension asset recognised in the balance sheet as at 31 December 2023 of £24,523,000 (2022: £24,852,000)
comprises of two schemes. The Westinghouse Electric UK Pension Plan SFL2 Section (“WEUKPP SFL2”) with
a net asset of £24,130,000 (2022: £24,934,000) and the Westinghouse Electric UK Pension Plan GPS SFL Section
(“WEUKPP GPS SFL”) with a net asset of £393,000 (2022: net liability £82,000).

 WEUKPP SFL2

A full actuarial valuation of the WEC section was carried out at 31 December 2022 by a qualified independent
actuary. Following this valuation the company’s ordinary contribution rate reduced with effect from August
2023, from 53.7% of pensionable salaries to 26.0% representing regular contributions. In addition, to eliminate
the WEUKPP SFL2 Section funding shortfall, the company made a one-off contribution of £725,000 in January
2023. .

On 25 August 2023 the plan became de-sectionalised as a single section plan. Pension benefits are unaffected by
this change and a revised combined Statement of Funding Principles and combined Recovery Plan have been put

in place, superseding those signed as part of the valuation process, resulting in no deficit payments being due.

The company intends to monitor funding levels on a regular basis. The next valuation is due 31 December 2025.

43

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

21. Pension asset (continued)

WEUKPP SFL2 (continued) ©.

Reconciliation of scheme assets and liabilities to assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet

The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:

Equity instruments

Debt instruments

Real estate

Derivatives

Cash and cash equivalents
Other

Fair value of scheme assets.
Present value of scheme liabilities

Defined pension scheme surplus

31 December 2023 31 December 2022

£000 £000
34,298 34,229
81,955 84,829
7418 4,416
1,632 -
34,884 14,355
4,352 _- 10,159
164,539 147,988
( 140,409) { 123,054)
24,130 24,934

The pension scheme has not invested in any of the company's own financial instruments or in properties or other

assets used by the company.

All scheme assets have a quoted value in an active market in 2023, except in 2022 £925,000 contained within other

which was not.

Amounts recognised in the profit and loss account

Amounts recognised in operating profit
Current service cost

Recognised in arriving at operating profit

Amounts recognised in finance income or costs
Interest income on pension scheme assets
Interest expense on defined benefit obligations
Net interest income

Defined benefit cost recognised in the profit and loss account

31 December 2023 31 December 2022
£000 £000

4,401 8,873

4,401 8,873

(7,840) (4,865)

6,101 4,206
(1,739) (659)
2,662 8,214

44

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended. 31 December 2023

21. Pension asset (continued)
WEUKPP SFL2 (continued)

Amounts taken to the statement of comprehensive income

Effects of changes due to experience .

Effects of changes due to demographic assumptions

Effects of changes in financial assumptions

Return on plan assets

Total loss recognised in the statement of comprehensive income

Total defined benefit cost recognised in the profit and loss and
statement of comprehensive income

Principal actuarial assumptions

31 December 2022

31 December 2023

£ 000 £000

2,339 (1,825)

(106) (10,248)

7,887 (96,353)

827 118,982

10,947 10,556

13,609 18,770

The significant actuarial assumptions used to determine the present value of the DBO at the balance sheet date are

as follows:

Discount rate

Rate of salary increase

Rate of price inflation

Rate of pension increases / deferred increases

Post retirement mortality assumptions

Assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65:
Current UK pensioners at retirement age (male / female)
Retiring in 15 years UK pensioners at retirement age (male / female)

31 December 2023
%

4.75
3.50
3.05
3.05

. 31 December 2022
%

5.00
2.00
3.20
3.20

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

Years Years
20.5 /23.7- 20.8 / 24.0
21.3 /24.8 21.6 (25.1

45

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

21. Pension asset (continued)

WEUKPP SFL2 (continued)

Sensitivity analysis

The following table shows a sensitivity analysis of the significant actuarial assumptions as at 31 December 2023.
Each specified assumption and any dependent assumption has been changed in isolation:

Rate DBO Difference Difference
% — £000 £000 %
Discount rate
Central Assumption at 31 December 2023 4.75% _ 140,409
-Increase by 0.10% 4.85% 138,144 © (2,265) -1.61%
-Decrease by 0.10% ; .. 4.65% 142,732 2,322 +1.65%
Price Inflation
Central Assumption at 31 December 2023 3.05% 140,409
-Increase by 0.10% 3.15% 142,716 2,307 +1.64%
-Decrease by 0.10% : 2.95% 139,154 (2,255) . -1.61%
Gross"
Service
Cost
£000 £7000 £7000 £7000
Mortality
Central Assumption at 31 December 2023. ~ 4,921 140,409
-Life Expectancy plus ! year 144,487 4,078 +2.90%
Scheme liabilities

Changes in the present value of scheme liabilities are as follows:

31 December 2023. 31 December 2022 .

£000 £000
Present value at start of the year. a 123,054 222,182
Current service cost 4,401 8,873
Actuarial loss / (gain) . 10,120 (108,426)
Interest expense 6,101 4,206
Benefits paid from plan assets (3,500) (4,358)
Participants’ contribution 233 577
Present value at end of the year 140,409 123,054

46

_Springfields Fuels Limited:

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

21. Pension asset (continued)

WEUKP?P SFL2 (continued)

Scheme assets mo,
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:

Fair value at start of the year

Interest income

Return on plan assets and interest income (recognised in other
comprehensive income)

Employer contributions

Benefits paid from plan assets

Participants’ contribution

Fair value at end of the year

Analysis of obligation
* DBO by status:

Actives
Vested deferred
Retirees

31 December 2023. 31 December 2022
£000 | £000

147,988 246,856

7,840 4,865

(827) (118,982)

12,805 19,030

(3,500) (4,358)

233 577

164,539 147,988

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

£000 £000
71,581 56,825
24,004 22,435
44,824 43,794
140,409 123,054

47

. Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

21. Pension asset (continued)

WEUKPP SFL2 (continued)

Actual return on scheme's assets

Return on plan assets less than discount rate and interest income

Benefit obligation at end of the year
Fair value of plan assets at end of the year
Funded status

Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets
Experience loss / (gain) on scheme liabilities
Total actuarial] loss

31 December 2023
£000

7,013

31 December 2022
£000

(114,117)

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

£000 £000
(140,409) (123,054)
"164,539 147,988
24,130 24,934
827 118,982
_10,120 (108,426)
10,947 10,556

The expected employer cash contributions for the next financial year are £12,805,000 and the weighted average

duration of the defined benefit obligation is seventeen years.

WEUKPP GPS SFL

A full actuarial valuation of the total WEC section was carried out at 31 December 2022 by a qualified
independent actuary. Following this valuation the company’s ordinary contribution rate reduced with effect from
August 2023, from 47% of pensionable salaries to 28% representing regular contributions. In addition, to
eliminate the deficit, the company agreed to make monthly contributions of £292,000 from 1 January 2024 until

31 December 2025.

On 25 August 2023 the plan became de-sectionalised as a single section plan. Pension benefits are unaffected by
this change and a revised Combined Statement of Funding Principles and Combined Recovery Plan have been
put in place, superseding those signed as part of the valuation process, resulting in no deficit payments being due.

The company intends to monitor funding levels on a regular basis. The next valuation is due 31 December 2025.

48

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

21. Pension asset (continued)
WEUKPP GPS SFL (continued)

Reconciliation of scheme assets and liabilities to assets and liabilities recognised in the balance sheet
The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:

31 December 2023 31 December 2022

£000 £000

Equity instruments : 559 460
Debt instruments ; 1,336 1,091
Real estate : , 121 63
Derivatives . 26 . -
Cash and cash equivalents : 569 226
Other . , : : 71 145
Fair value of scheme assets 2,682 1,985
Present value of scheme liabilities (2,289) (2,067)

_ Defined pension scheme surplus / (deficit) recognised in the balance 393 — + (82)

sheet

All scheme assets have a quoted value in an active market in 2023, apart from in 2022 which had £13,000 of other
securities contained within other.

Amounts recognised in the profit and loss account

31 December 2023 31 December 2022

£000 £000
Amounts recognised in operating profit
Current service cost . 24 : 48
Recognised in. arriving at operating profit : 24 48
Amounts recognised in finance income or costs
Interest income on pension scheme-assets (99) (71)
Interest expense on defined benefit obligations _ 103 68
Net interest income / (expense) 4 (63)
Defined benefit cost recognised in the profit and loss account 28 45

49

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

21. Pension asset (continued)
WEUKPP GPS SFL (continued)

Amounts taken to the statement of comprehensive income

31 December 2023 31 December 2022

£000 ; £000
Effects of changes in demographic assumptions and experience 39 (63)
Effects of changes in financial assumptions . 81 (1,534)
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense (610) 1,841
Total (gain) / loss recognised in the statement of comprehensive ,
income ; 490 244
Total (gain) / loss recognised in the profit and loss account and statement :
of comprehensive income - 462 289

Principal actuarial assumptions

The significant actuarial assumptioris used to determine the present value of the DBO at the balance sheet date are

as follows: . . :
31 December 2023 31 December 2022
% , %
Discount rate : 4.75 5.00
Rate of salary increase . 3.50 2.00
Rate of price inflation 3.05 3.20
Rate of pension increases / deferred increases , 3.05 3.20

Post retirement mortality assumptions

31 December 2023 31 December 2022

Year Year
Assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65: . :
Current UK pensioners at retirement age (male / female) - 20.5 / 23.7 20.08 / 24.0
Retiring in 15 years UK pensioners at retirement age (male / female) 21.3 / 24.8 21.60 /25.1

50

Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023

21. Pension asset (continued)

WEUKPP GPS SFL (continued)

Sensitivity analysis

The following table shows a sensitivity analysis of the significant actuarial assumptions as at 31 December 2023.
Each specified assumption and any dependent assumption has been changed in isolation:

Rate DBO Difference Difference
% £7000 £7000 %
Discount rate
Central Assumption at 31 December 2023 4.75% _ 2,289
-Increase by 0.10% ; 4.85% 2,254 (5) -1.53%
-Decrease by 0.10% 4.65% 2,325 . 36. +1.57%
Price Inflation
Central Assumption at 31 December 2023 3.05% 2,289 -
-Increase by 0.10% 3.15% __- 2,325 36 +1.57%
-Decrease by 0.10% ; 2.95% 2,256 - 33) -1.44%
Gross
Service
Cost . .
£7000 £000 o £7000 £000
Mortality
Central Assumption at 31 December 2023 23 2,289
-Life Expectancy plus ] year 2,356 67 _ +2,93%
Scheme liabilities

Changes in the present value of scheme liabilities are as follows: ;
: 31 December 2023 31 December 2022

£000 £ 000
Present value at start of the year 2,067 3,569
Current service cost . 24 48
Effects of changes in demographic assumptions and experience 39 (63)
Effect of changes in financial assumptions 81 (1,534)
Interest expense 103 68
Participants’ contribution - 2
Benefits paid from plan asset (25) (23)
Present value at end of the year 2,289 2,067

51

, Springfields Fuels Limited

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023 ;

21. Pension asset (continued)
WEUKPP GPS SFL (continued)

Scheme assets _

Fair value at start of the year

Interest income

Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in income
Employer contributions

Participant’s contributions

Benefit paid

Fair value at end of the year:

31 December 2023 31 December 2022
£000 £000

1,985 3,758

99 71

610 (1,841)

13 18

- 2

(25) _(23)

2,682 “1,985

The pension scheme has not invested in any of the company's own financial instruments or in properties or other

assets used by the company.

Analysis of obligation

Defined benefit obligation by status:
Actives

’ Vested deferred
Retirees

Actual return on plan assets

Return on plan assets greater / (less) than discount rate and interest
income

Benefit obligation at end of the year
Fair value of plan assets at end of the year

Funded status
Experience adjustments arising on scheme assets
Experience loss / (gain) on scheme liabilities

Total actuarial gain

31 December 2023

31 December 2022

£000 £000

623 500

795 729

871 838

2,289 2,067

31 December 2023 31 December 2022
£000 £000

709 (1,770)

31 December 2023

31 December 2022 ,

£000 £000
(2,289) (2,067)
2,682 1,985
393 (82)
(610) 1,841
120 (1,597)
(490) 244

The expected employer cash contributions for the next twelve months is £13,000. The weighted average duration

of defined benefit obligation is sixteen years.

52

‘Springfields Fuels Limited _

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the year ended 31 December 2023.

22.

23.

24.

25.

Called up share capital

Authorised shares:

£000 No.

At 1 January 2023. 30,082 30,081,413

At 31 December 2023 30,082 30,081,413
Allotted, called up and fully paid shares:

£000 No.

At 1 January 2023 : __ 30,082 30,081,413

At 31 December 2023 ; 30,082 30,081,413

The company has one class of ordinary shares which carries no right to fixed income.

During the year the directors did not recommend a dividend to WEC Holdings (2022: £nil).

Controlling party

The company is a subsidiary undertaking of WEC Holdings.
The ultimate parent and controlling party of WEC Holdings was Brookfield Corporation, Canada, up until 7

. November 2023 when it disposed of its investment to Watt New Aggregator L.P. (Cayman), which is a Joint

Venture between Brookfield Renewable Partners’ and Cameco Corporation.

The smallest and largest group in which the results of the company are consolidated is that headed by Watt New
Aggregator L.P. (Cayman), a registered limited partnership established under the laws of Bermuda; registered
address: C/o Maples Corporate Services Limited, PO Box 309, Ugland House, Grand Cayman, KY 1-1104, Cayman
Islands.

Contingent liabilities and capital commitments

The company has contingent liabilities and has issued guarantees under the Companies Act 2006 Section 394CA
or 479A.

At 31 December 2023 the company had £10,665,000 (2022: £5,407,000) of capital commitments for work not

" carried out at the year end date. Capital commitments all relate to plant and equipment.

There is a contingent fiability in respect of an unlimited guarantee provided to Barclays Bank Plc. This guarantee
relates to Westinghouse’s cash pool arrangement that includes other group companies.

Post balance sheet events

On 28 March 2024, WEC Holdings, approved cash contributions to its subsidiaries to fund bonuses paid to
employees in 2023. SFL received £2,900,00 on 26 June 2024.

No other items requiring adjustment or disclosure have occurred between the 31 December 2023 reporting date
and the date of authorisation.

53

