Registration number: 02366879

SSE Services plc

Directors Report and Financial Statements

for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

*ADCIULLL*
Alt 27/09/2024 #76

COMPANIES HOUSE

FRIDAY

SSE Services ple

Contents

Company Information

Strategic Report

Directors' Report

Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
Independent Auditor's Report

Profit and Loss Account

Statement of Comprehensive Income
Balance Sheet

Statement of Changes in Equity

Notes to the Financial Statements

2to5

6 to7

9 to 12

13

14

15

16

17 to 43

Directors

Company secretary

Registered office

Auditors

Registered number

SSE Services plc
Company Information

B O'Regan
J Stewart
P Lawns

No.1 Forbury Place
43 Forbury Road
Reading

Berkshire

RG1 3JH

Emst & Young LLP
Glasgow

02366879

Page 1

SSE Services ple
Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

The Directors present their report for the year ended 31 March 2024.

This Strategic Report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of Section 414 of the Companies
Act 2006. Its purpose is to inform shareholders and help them assess how the Directors have performed their
duty to promote the success of SSE Services ple.

The Strategic and Financial Review sets out the main trends and factors underlying the development and
performance of SSE Services ple (the "Company") during the year ended 31 March 2024, as well as those
matters which are likely to affect its future development and performance.

Fair review of the business

The results of the year's trading, the financial position of the company and the transfer to reserves are shown in
the financial statements.

The profit and Joss account for the year ended 31 March 2024 is set out on page 13. The loss for the year, after
taxation, amounted to £129.0m (2023: £91.1m). The balance sheet at 31 March 2024, which is set out on page
15, shows net liabilities of £186.9m (2023: £338.1m).

During the year, SSE Services ple received a £360m capital contribution from its parent, SSE plc, as a result of a
waiver of amounts due to SSE plc. In addition to this, the Company transferred a £40m loan note due from
NEOS Networks Limited (a related party) to SSE ple in exchange for cash.

Prior to the repurchase of Enerveo Limited by the SSE Group ("Group") in March 2024, SSE Services ple
advanced cash of £13.3m to Enerveo using a Liquidity Funding Agreement ("LFA") dated June 2023.

All of the Transition and Managed Service Agreements ("TSA" or "MSA") that were in place during the year to
31 March 2024 expired with the exception of one TSA with NEOS Networks Limited that has been signed post
year end. This agreement covers operational services such as IT and property services. Overall, this will result in
a reduction in the future external revenue generated by the Company.

Financial performance

The Directors assess the financial performance of the Company based on ‘adjusted operating loss’. This
measure is used for internal performance management and is believed to be appropriate for explaining
underlying performance to users of the accounts. Adjusted operating loss is derived after excluding exceptional
items. During the year, the adjusted operating loss increased due to movement in the valuation of the defined
benefit pension scheme and a reduction in the Company's external revenue as TSA and MSA's ended throughout
the year. A reconciliation of the Company's reported to adjusted operating loss is shown below:

31 March 31 March

2024 2023

£m £m

Reported operating loss (129.8) (43.2)
Add back: Exceptional items - 0.1
Adjusted operating loss . (129.8) (43.1)

In the prior year the Company recorded total exceptional charges of £0.1m, related to costs of £6.5m in
connection to the sale of the Contracting and Rail business in June 2021, and a £6.4m exceptional credit related
to the reassessment of a separation cost provision associated with the disposal of SSE Energy Services.

Page 2

SSE Services ple

Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 March 2024 (continued)

Key Performance Indicators
The company's key financial and other performance indicators during the year were as follows:

Unit 2024 2023
Revenue £m 216 234
Reported operating loss £m (130) (43)
Net liabilities £m (187) (338)
Average employees : : Headcount 2,413 1,970

Company priorities in 2023/24 and beyond

The priorities for the Company are to continue to provide shared assets, services and employees for the benefit
of the overall SSE Group. The Company continues to be the main employing entity and asset holding entity for
shared service Corporate employees and assets that are utilised by and recharged to multiple businesses in the
Group. The Company manages the central corporate functions of the Group responsible for Group governance.
The Company is also, and will remain, the sponsoring employer of the SSE Southern Group of the Electricity
Supply Pension Scheme.

Principal risks and uncertainties
The Company transacts with other companies within the SSE plc Group ("SSE Group", "Group") and is a key
part of the Group's business and strategies.

The principal risk facing the Company is that the Group no longer supports the Company or chooses to alter the
current service company model approach to providing corporate services to the Group. However, the Directors
consider that the risk of this happening is low, as the Company remains central to the Group's operating model
due to the nature of the services it provides to Group companies. The principal risks and uncertainties faced by
the Group are set out in the Group's annual report on page 89.

The Directors of the Company acknowledge that they have responsibility for the systems of internal control and
risk management and for monitoring their effectiveness. The purposes of these systems are to manage, rather
than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, to provide reasonable assurance as to the
quality of management information and to maintain proper control over the income, expenditure, assets and
liabilities of the Company. No system of control can, however, provide absolute assurance against material
misstatement or loss. Accordingly, the Directors have regard to what controls, in their judgement, are
appropriate to the Company's businesses, to the materiality of the risks inherent in these businesses, and to the
relative costs and benefits of implementing specific controls.

Control is maintained through an organisation structure with clearly defined responsibilities, authority levels and
lines of reporting; the appointment of suitably qualified staff in specialised business areas; and continuing
investment in high quality information systems. These methods of control are subject to periodic r review as to
their implementation and continued suitability.

Page 3

SSE Services ple

Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 March 2024 (continued)

Section 172 (1) statement

Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors of the Company to act in the way they consider
good faith and would most likely promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its members as a whole.
In furtherance of this, section 172 requires a Director to have regard amongst other matters, to the:

+ likely consequences of any decisions in the long term;

+ interests of the Company’s employees;

* need to foster the Company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others;

* impact of the Company’s operations on the community and environment;

* desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct; and

+ need to act fairly as between members of the Company.

In discharging their section 172 duties, the Directors of the Company have regard to the factors set out above.
They also have regard to other factors which they consider relevant to the decision being made. Those factors,
for example, include the Company’s applicable legal obligations.

The Directors acknowledge that every decision taken will not necessarily result in a positive outcome for all of
the Company’s stakeholders. However, by considering the SSE Group’s, and therefore the Company’s, purpose
vision and values, together with its strategic priorities, and having agreed processes in place for
decision-making, they do aim to ensure that decisions are consistent and appropriate in all circumstances.

As is normal for large companies, authority for day-to-day management of the Company is delegated to senior
management, with the setting and oversight of business strategy and related policies the responsibility of the
Directors.

The Company is at the centre of the SSE Group, and so while there is no divisional Executive Committee with
delegated authority over the Company, both of the Company Directors are members of the Group Executive
Committee, where matters relevant to the Company are discussed. The Group Executive Committee reviews
health and safety, financial and operational performance and legal and regulatory compliance at every meeting,
in addition to other pertinent areas over the course of the financial year, including: the Group’s (and therefore
the Company's) strategy; key risks; stakeholder-related matters; diversity and inclusion; environmental matters;
corporate responsibility; governance, compliance and legal matters. This is done through the consideration and
discussion of reports which are ‘sent in advance of each meeting and through presentations to Executive
Committee.

The views of the Company’s stakeholders ‘are always considered where appropriate in decision making across
the SSE Group. Information is generally provided in a range of different formats including specific reports and
presentations on financial and operational performance, non-financial KPIs, risk, Environmental, Social and
Governance matters and the outcomes of specific pieces of engagement, with the intended outcome being a
rounded understanding of stakeholder issues and concerns.

Set out below are examples of how the Directors have had regard to the matters set out in section 172 (1) (a)-(f)
when discharging their section 172 duty and the effect of that on principal decisions taken.

Stakeholder engagement

The Company’s stakeholders are people, communities and organisations with an interest or concern in its
purpose, strategy, operations and actions, and who in turn, may be affected by them. This includes: employees;
communities and civil society; suppliers, contractors and partners; and internal and external customers. The
perspectives, insights and opinions of stakeholders are recognised as a key factor in the relevant operational,
investment and business decisions taken by the Company and its Directors, to ensure that as a whole they are
more robust and sustainable.

Page 4

SSE Services plc

Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 March 2024 (continued)

While there are cases where the Directors may judge it appropriate to engage directly with certain stakeholder
groups, the size and spread of both the Company’s stakeholders and those of the SSE Group, in which the
Company sits, means that stakeholder engagement takes place at many different levels. This includes at SSE
Group level, business unit level, company level and operational level. This holistic approach allows a broader
representation and deeper understanding of all stakeholder views and contributes towards a greater outcome for
business, environmental, social and governance matters than by working in isolation.

Details of the mechanisms which are used to engage with stakeholders across the SSE Group, in order to gain
understanding of the issues which they deem material are set out on pages 132 to 135 of the SSE ple Annual
Report 2024.

The views of Company employees are gathered at business unit level, where mechanisms include monthly KPIs,
an annual employee engagement survey and tailored business unit led engagement. This is supplemented by
SSE ple’s dedicated non-Executive Director for Employee Engagement who reports directly to the SSE plc
Board and provides feedback to the Managing Director of each business unit. People strategies and action plans
to address employee views are developed and overseen by the Directors in response to feedback received. John
Stewart, Director of the Company, is also the Group's Director of HR, aligning the decisions of the Group to the
Company.

Approved by the Board on 25 September 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

pint

John Stewart (Sep 25, 2024 10:20 GMT+1)

J Stewart
Director

Page 5

SSE Services plc

Directors’ Report for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

The Directors present their report and the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2024.

Directors of the company

The Directors, who held office during the year and to the date of approval of this report (except where otherwise
shown) were as follows:

G Alexander (resigned 1 December 2023)

B O'Regan (appointed 1 December 2023)

J Stewart

Principal activity

The principal activity of the Company is to act as SSE Group's main shared service provider, owning or leasing
the majority of the Group's shared property, transport and IT assets, and is the main employer of corporate and
shared employees across the Group.

In addition, the Company is also the sponsor of the Group's SSE Southern Group of the Electricity Supply
Pension Scheme. The Company is critical to the operations of SSE Group as a whole and as such it is essential
the Company operates within the Group's strategic framework.

Dividends
The Directors do not recommend payment of a dividend in the year (2023: nil).

Political and charitable donations
During the year the Company made no political or charitable donations.

Environmental matters .
The Company is exempt from making disclosures in line with the Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting
(‘SECR’) requirements as it is a wholly owned subsidiary of SSE plc. The consolidated disclosures of the Group
are available on pages 24-49 of the Group's 2024 annual report. :

Employment of disabled persons

The Company operates an equal opportunities policy. Full and fair consideration is given to the employment of
disabled persons having regard to their aptitudes and abilities.

Appropriate training is arranged for disabled persons, including retraining for alternative work within the
Company of employees who become disabled.

Page 6

SSE Services plc

Directors' Report for the Year Ended 31 March 2024 (continued)

Going concern

The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis which has been supported by the provision of a
parental letter of support from SSE ple. The Group letter of support confirms that the Group will provide
support to 31 December 2025 where required. The Directors are satisfied that the Group has the ability to
provide this support, should it be required.

In assessing the financial strength of the letter of support provided, the directors considered the cash and cash
equivalents balance of £1,035.9m at 31 March 2024, and the undrawn committed bank facilities of £2.75bn
maintained by the Group, including £1.0bn expiring in February 2025. The Directors have taken into account
the Group’s credit rating and the successful issuance of £1.1bn of long term funding in the 23/24 financial year
being a €750m 8 year Eurobond at 4.0% in August 2023 and a 20 year £500m Eurobond at a coupon of 5.5% in
January 2024. As well as taking account of the factors noted, the going concern conclusion is arrived at after
applying stress testing sensitivities to the Group’s cash flow and funding projections including removal of
proceeds from unconfirmed future divestments, negative and positive sensitivities on operating cash flows and
uncommitted capex and other adjustments.

Having reviewed the financial strength of the Group, the directors are satisfied that the Group, and the Company
itself, will remain funded for the Going Concern period through to 31 December 2025. The Directors have
therefore concluded it is appropriate for the financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.

Important adjusting events after the financial period

On 2 September 2024, Enerveo repaid the amounts due under the Liquidity Finance Agreement and Managed
Service Agreement (£13.3m and £17.1m respectively). Both amounts are shown as Debtors due from Group
undertakings given Enerveo Limited was brought into the SSE group before year-end. The Directors assessed
that at the Balance Sheet date, the entire amount was recoverable — this resulted in a £10.5m credit to the profit
and loss in respect of the reversal of the prior year provision against these balances.

Disclosure of information to the auditors

Each Director has taken steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of
any relevant audit information and to establish that the company's auditor is aware of that information. The
Directors confirm that there is no relevant information that they know of and of which they know the auditor is
unaware.

Reappointment of auditors

Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor of the Company and a
resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.

Approved by the Board on 25 September 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

bent

John Stewart (Sep 25, 2024 10:20 GMT+1)

J Stewart
Director

Page 7

SSE Services ple

Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities

The Directors are responsible for preparing the financial statements in accordance with applicable United
Kingdom law and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with international accounting standards
in conformity with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, and in accordance with United Kingdom
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law),
including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework (“FRS 101”). Under company law
the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.

In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to:

* select suitable accounting policies in accordance with LAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting
Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently;

make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable
and understandable information;

provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in FRS 101 is insufficient to
enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the company
financial position and financial performance;

state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards including FRS 101, have been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is appropriate to presume that the
company will not continue in business.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They
are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a strategic report and
Directors’ report, that comply with that law and those regulations.

Approved by the Board on 25 September 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

John Stewart (Sep 25, 2024 10:20 GMT+1)
J Stewart
Director

Page 8

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of SSE Services plc

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of SSE Services plc for the year ended 31 March 2024 which comprise
Profit and Loss Account, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of comprehensive income, the Statement of changes
in equity and the related notes 1 to 27, a summary of significant accounting policies. The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting
Standards including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice). ,

In our opinion, the financial statements:

* give a true and fair view of the state of the company's affairs as at 31 March 2024 and of its loss for the year
then ended;

+ have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice;
and

* have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities
for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the company in accordance
with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the
FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
requirements.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a
going concern for a period until 31 December 2025.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this
statement is not a guarantee as to the company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

Page 9

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of SSE Services plc (continued)

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial
statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained
within the annual report.

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise
explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial
statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of the other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

« the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

+ the strategic report and directors' report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of our knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of
the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006

requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

+ adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received
from branches not visited by us; or

* the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

* certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

* we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 8, the directors are
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair
view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company's ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or
have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Page 10

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of SSE Services plc (continued)

Auditor Responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
‘from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures
in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect irregularities, including fraud. The risk of not detecting
a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud
may involve deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through
collusion. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed
below. However, the primary responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those
charged with governance of the entity and management.
We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the company and
determined that the most significant are those that relate to the reporting framework (FRS 101 and
Companies Act 2006) and relevant tax compliance regulations in the UK. We also determined there was no
non-compliance with regulatory requirements, including the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem).

* We understood how SSE Services plc is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of
management and those responsible for legal and compliance procedures. We confirmed our enquiries
through our review of board minutes, regulatory correspondence and papers provided to the SSE pic Audit
Committee.

* We assessed the susceptibility of the company’s financial statements to material misstatement, including
how fraud might occur by meeting with management to understand where they considered there was
susceptibility to fraud. We also considered performance targets and their propensity to influence on efforts
made by management to manage earnings. We considered the programmes and controls that the company
has established to address risks identified, or that otherwise prevent, deter and detect fraud; and how senior
management monitors those programmes and controls at a group level.

* Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify noncompliance with such laws and
regulations. Our procedures involved journal entry testing, with a focus on manual journals and journals
indicating large or unusual transactions based on our understanding of the business and enquiries of legal
counsel and management. In addition, we completed procedures to conclude on the compliance of the
disclosures in the financial statements and accounts with all applicable requirements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the
Financial Reporting Council’s website at https://www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms
part of our auditor’s report.

Page 11

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of SSE Services ple (continued)

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the
company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

‘DocuSigned by:

Enmet ¥ Young LP

683F61CAEED0A4S...

Gillian Gilmour (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of Est & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor

Glasgow
26 September 2024

Page 12

SSE Services ple

Profit and Loss Account for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

2024 2023

Note £m £m

Revenue 4 215.6 233.7
Administrative expenses (344.6) (279.4)
Exceptional items 5 . - (0.1)
Other (losses)/gains 5 (0.8) 2.6
Operating loss (129.8) (43.2)
Interest receivable and similar income 9 9.3 2.2
Interest payable and similar expenses 10 (60.6) (62.5)
Loss before tax (181.1) (103.5)
Tax on loss 11 $2.1 12.4
Loss for the year (129.0) (91.1)

The above results were derived from continuing operations.

The notes on pages 17 to 43 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Page 13

SSE Services ple

Statement of Comprehensive Income for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

Loss for the year

Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or
loss

Remeasurements of post employment benefit obligations (net)

Total comprehensive loss for the year

The notes on pages 17 to 43 form an integral part of these financial statements.

Page 14

Note

11

2024 2023
£m. £m
(129.0) (1.1)
(88.6) 55.2
(217.6) (35.9)


SSE Services ple

* (Registration number: 02366879)
Balance Sheet as at 31 March 2024

31 March 31 March
2024 2023
Note £m £m

Fixed assets 5
Intangible assets - 12 116.6 230.8
Tangible assets : 13 132.3 125.5
Investment properties ¥ 15 144.8 152.0
Investments h ; 16 0.3 0.3
394.0 508.6

Current assets :
Trade and other debtors : 17 739.8 879.2
Assets held for sale ° 18 5.0 :
744.8 879.2

Current liabilities »
Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 19 (240.5) (378.3)
Net current assets . . 504.3 500.9
Total assets less current liabil ities 898.3 1,009.5

Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year

Amounts due to Group undertaxings 20 (1,020.0) (1,348.2)
Long term lease liabilities : 20 (85.9) (81.7)
Deferred tax liabilities : 11 (46.0) . (66.4)
a (1,151.9) (1,496.3)
Provisions for liabilities oe 21 (15.6) (25.8)
Net liabilities excluding pension asset (269.2) (512.6)
Net pension asset : , 23 82.3 174.5
Net liabilities a (186.9) (338.1)

Capital and reserves t
Called up share capital . 24 0.5 0.5
Share premium reserve : 23.2 23.2
Capital Contribution * 20 806.8 446.8
Profit and loss account ‘ (1,017.4) (808.6)
Shareholders’ deficit : (186.9) (338.1)

Approved by the Board on 25 September 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

bent

J Stewart
Director

The notes on pages 17 to 43 form an integral part of these financial statements.
a Page 15

SSE Services plc

I
Statement of Changes in Equity for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

Note

At 1 April 2022
Loss for the year
Other comprehensive income

Total comprehensive loss
Share based payment
transactions

At 31 March 2023

Note

At 1 April 2023
Loss for the year
Other comprehensive income

Total comprehensive loss
Capital contribution 20

Share based payment
transactions

At 31 March 2024

Share Share
capital premium

£m £m

0.5 23.2

0.5 23.2
Share Share
capital premium
£m £m
0.5 23.2

0.5 23.2

Profit and
loss
account
£m
(781.5)
(91.1)

55.2

(35.9)

8.8

(808.6)

Profit and
loss
account
£m
(808.6)
(129.0)

(88.6)

(217.6)

8.8

(1,017.4)

Capital
contribution
£m

446.8

446.8

Capital
contribution
£m

446.8

360.0

806.8

The notes on pages 17 to 43 form an integral part of these financial statements.

Page 16

Total
£m

(311.0)
(91.1)
55.2

(35.9)

8.8
(338.1)

Total
£m

(338.1)
(129.0)
(88.6)
(217.6)
360.0

8.8
(186.9)

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

1 General information

The Company is a public company limited by share capital, incorporated and domiciled in England & Wales.

2 Accounting policies

Summary of significant accounting policies and key accounting estimates
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

Basis of preparation

These financial statements were prepared in accordance United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law) including Financial Reporting Standard
101 Reduced Disclosure Framework ("FRS 101").

In preparing these financial statements, the Company has applied the recognition, measurement and disclosure
requirements of UK adopted International Financial Reporting Standards, but has made amendments, where
necessary, in order to comply with the Companies Act 2006 and has set out below where advantage of the FRS
101 disclosure exemptions has been taken.

The functional currency of the Company and the presentational currency of these financial statements is pounds
sterling. The financial statements have been presented in millions.

Summary of disclosure exemptions
In these financial statements, the Company has taken advantage of the exemptions available under FRS 101 in
respect of the following disclosures:

+ Accash flow statement and related notes required by IAS 7;

Comparative period reconciliations for share capital, tangible fixed assets and intangible assets required by
TAS 1, IAS 16 and IAS 36 respectively;

+ The effect of new, but not yet effective, IFRSs required by IAS 1;

+ Disclosures in respect of the compensation of key management personnel required by IAS 24;

+ Disclosures in respect of capital management required by IAS 1.

As the consolidated financial statements of SSE ple include the equivalent disclosure, the Company has also
taken advantage of the exemptions, under FRS 101, available in respect of the following disclosures:

* Certain disclosures required by IAS 36, Impairment of assets, in respect of the impairment of goodwill and
intangible assets with an indefinite useful life; and

* Certain disclosures required by IFRS 13, Fair value measurement, and the disclosures required by IFRS 7,
Financial instrument disclosures.

Employee share based payments have not been disclosed on the basis of materiality.

Page 17

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Consolidated accounts

The Company is a subsidiary of SSE plc and the financial statements of the Company are consolidated within
the consolidated financial statements of that company. Consolidated accounts have not been prepared as the
Company is availing itself of the exemption whereby, as a wholly owned subsidiary of an entity which prepares
consolidated accounts, it is not required to prepare consolidated accounts under section 400 of the Companies
Act 2006.

Going concern

The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis which has been supported by the provision of a
parental letter of support from SSE plc. The Group letter of support confirms that the Group will provide
support to 31 December 2025 where required. The Directors are satisfied that the Group has the ability to
provide this support, should it be required.

In assessing the financial strength of the letter of support provided, the directors considered the cash and cash
equivalents balance of £1,035.9m at 31 March 2024, and the undrawn committed bank facilities of £2.75bn
maintained by the Group, including £1.0bn expiring in February 2025. The Directors have taken into account
the Group’s credit rating and the successful issuance of £1.1bn of long term funding in the 23/24 financial year
being a €750m 8 year Eurobond at 4.0% in August 2023 and a 20 year £500m Eurobond at a coupon of 5.5% in
January 2024. As well as taking account of the factors noted, the going concern conclusion is arrived at after
applying stress testing sensitivities to the Group’s cash flow and funding projections including removal of
proceeds from unconfirmed future divestments, negative and positive sensitivities on operating cash flows and
uncommitted capex and other adjustments.

Having reviewed the financial strength of the Group, the directors are satisfied that the Group, and the Company
itself, will remain funded for the Going Concern period through to 31 December 2025. The Directors have
therefore concluded it is appropriate for the financial statements to be prepared on a going concern basis.

Adjusting events after the financial period

On 2 September 2024, Enerveo repaid the amounts due under the Liquidity Finance Agreement and Managed
Service Agreement (£13.3m and £17.1m respectively). Both amounts are shown as Debtors due from Group
undertakings given Enerveo Limited was brought into the SSE group before year-end. The Directors assessed
that at the Balance Sheet date, the entire amount was recoverable — this resulted in a £10.5m credit to the profit
and loss in respect of the reversal of the prior year provision against these balances.

Changes in accounting policy
There were no new standards, interpretations or amendments effective for the first time from 1 April 2023 that
have had a material effect on the financial statements.

Revenue recognition
Recognition

The Company earns revenue from the provision of corporate services relating to entities within the SSE Group
and third parties.. This revenue is recognised at a point in time in the accounting period when the services are
rendered at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for
fulfilling its performance obligations to customers.

Page 18

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Exceptional items

Exceptional items are those charges or credits that are considered unusual by nature and/or scale and of such
significance that separate disclosure is required for the financial statements to be properly understood. The
trigger points for exceptional items will tend to be non-recurring although exceptional charges may impact the
same asset class or segment over time.

Market conditions that have deteriorated significantly over time will only be captured to the extent observable at
the balance sheet date. Examples of items that may be considered exceptional include gains or losses on
disposal, material asset impairment charges, reversals of historic impairments, business restructuring costs and
reorganisation costs and provisions in relation to contractual settlements associated with significant disputes and
claims. Where gains or losses on disposal transactions have been determined to be exceptional within the
consolidated financial statements of the Group, any related costs incurred by the Company have also been
deemed to be exceptional for the purposes of these accounts.

Finance income and costs policy
Interest income and costs are recognised in the profit and loss account as they accrue, on an effective interest
method.

Tax

Taxation on the profit for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Taxation is recognised in the profit and
loss account unless it relates to items recognised directly in equity, in which case it is recognised in other
comprehensive income.

Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates enacted or
substantively enacted at the balance sheet date, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous years.
Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet liability method, providing for temporary differences between
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for taxation
purposes. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of
the carrying amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet
date. .

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where there is a legally enforceable right of offset within the same
tax authority and where the Company intends to either settle them on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle
the liability simultaneously. A deferred tax asset is recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future
taxable profits will be available against which the asset can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reduced to the
extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.

Tangible assets

Owned assets

Property, plant and equipment is stated in the statement of financial position at cost, less any subsequent
accumulated depreciation and subsequent accumulated impairment losses.

The cost of property, plant and equipment includes directly attributable incremental costs incurred in their
acquisition and installation.

Page 19

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Right of use assets

Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted
for any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities
recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any
lease incentives received. Where a modification to a lease agreement decreases the scope of the lease, the
carrying amount of the right of use asset is adjusted and a gain or loss is recognised in proportion to the decrease
in scope of the lease. All other modifications to lease agreements are accounted for as a reassessment of the
lease liability with a corresponding adjustment to the right of use asset.

Depreciation
Depreciation is charged so as to write off the cost of assets, other than land and assets under construction over
their estimated useful lives, as follows:

Years
Buildings Life of lease
IT hardware assets and miscellaneous equipment 3 to 15
Motor vehicles ‘ 4to 10

Investment property
Certain of the Company’s properties are held as investment properties for long-term rental to related parties.

Investment property is carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairments.

Depreciation is charged on investment properties to write-off cost, less residual values, on a straight-line basis
over the life of the estimated operational life. The estimated operational lives are as follows:

Freehold buildings: up to 40 years
Fixtures and fittings: up to 10 years

Intangible assets

Development assets

Expenditure on software development activities is capitalised as intangible assets if the project or process is
considered to be technically and commercially feasible and the Company intends to complete the project or
process for use or for sale. At the point that the asset becomes available for use, the carrying value of the project
is transferred to IT assets. Once in operation, amortisation will be charged over the expected useful life of the
asset. The asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected to arise.

Developed software assets

Expenditure on internally developed software assets and application software licences includes contractors’ fees
and directly attributable labour and overheads. Amortisation is charged to the profit and loss account on a
straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of these assets, which ranges from 3 to 15 years.

Page 20

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Impairment

The carrying amount of the Company's PP&E and intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, or where there are
indications that a previously recognised impairment loss has reduced. For tangible assets that have previously
been identified as exhibiting indications of impairment, the review of impairment will be performed annually
until there is sufficient evidence to confirm that any potential impairment loss has been appropriately
recognised, or until previously recognised impairment losses have been fully written back.

For assets subject to impairment testing, the asset’s carrying value is compared to the asset’s recoverable
amount. The recoverable amount is determined to be the higher of the fair value less costs to sell (FVLCS) and
the value-in-use (VIU) of the asset.

If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, an impairment charge will be recognised
immediately in the profit and loss account. Reversals of previous impairment charges are recognised if the
recoverable amount of the asset significantly exceeds the carrying amount.

Value in use (VIU) calculations require the estimation of future cash flows to be derived from the respective
assets and the selection of an appropriate discount rate in order to calculate their present value. The VIU
methodology is consistent with the approach taken by management to evaluate economic value and is deemed to
be the most appropriate for reviews of tangible assets. The methodology is based on the pre-tax cash flows
arising from the specific assets or underlying assets, and discounted using a pre-tax discount rate based on the
Company’s cost of funding and adjusted for any specific risks. The estimation of the timing and value of
underlying projected cash flows and the selection of appropriate discount rates involves management
judgement. Subsequent changes to these estimates or judgements may impact the carrying value of the assets.

The fair value less costs to sell methodology also uses a present value technique, unless there is a quoted price in
an active market for that asset. The methodology is based on the post-tax cash flows arising from the specific
assets or underlying assets, and discounted using a post-tax discount rate determined in the same manner as the
rates used in the VIU calculations, adjusted for the relevant taxation rate.

Trade debtors

Trade debtors are amounts due from customers for services performed in the ordinary course of business. If
collection is expected in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer), they are
classified as current assets. If not, they are presented as fixed assets.

Trade debtors are recognised initially at the transaction price. They are subsequently measured at amortised cost
using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment. A provision for the impairment of trade
debtors is established when there is objective evidence that the Company will not be able to collect all amounts
due according to the original terms of the debtors under the expected credit losses methodology for
provisioning.

Page 21

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Assets/liabilities held for sale

Non-current assets are classified as held for sale if their recoverable value is likely to be recovered via a sale or
distribution as opposed to continued use by the Company. In order to be classified as assets held for sale, assets
must meet all of the following conditions: there is a committment from management to sell; the sale is highly
probable; it is available for immediate sale; it is being actively marketed; and the sale is likely to occur within
one year.

Assets that qualify as held for sale and related liabilities are disclosed separately from other assets and liabilities
in the balance sheet prospectively from the date of classification. Non-current assets determined as held for sale
are measured at the lower of carrying value and fair value less costs to sell, no depreciation is charged in respect
of these assets after classification as held for sale.

Assets or groups of assets and related liabilities that qualify as held for sale are classified as discontinued
operations when they represent a separate major line of business or geographical area, are part of a single plan to
dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical area or are acquired exclusively with a view to
resale. Income and expenses relating to these discontinued operations are disclosed in a single net amount after
taxes in the income statement, with comparative amounts re-presented accordingly.

Trade creditors

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course of
business from suppliers. Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due within one year
or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if longer). If not, they are presented as non-current
liabilities.

Trade creditors are recognised initially at the transaction price and subsequently measured at amortised cost
using the effective interest method.

Provisions .

Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past
event, it is probable that the Company will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be
made of the amount of the obligation.

Provisions are measured at the Directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the obligation at the
reporting date and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.

Share capital

Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Equity instruments are measured at the fair value of the cash or other
resources received or receivable, net of the direct costs of issuing the equity instruments. If payment is deferred
and the time value of money is material, the initial measurement is on a present value basis.

Defined contribution pension obligation

The SSE Group operates a number of defined contribution pension schemes of which the Company's employees
may be members. The assets and liabilities of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group in
independently administered funds. The amounts charged represent the contributions payable to the schemes in
the year and are charged directly to the profit and loss account.

Page 22

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Defined benefit pension obligation

The Company operates a defined benefit scheme on behalf of its own employees and other group employees.
Pension scheme assets are measured using market values. Pension scheme liabilities are measured using the
projected unit actuarial method and are discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond
of equivalent term and currency to the liability. Any increase in the present value of liabilities within the defined
benefit pension scheme which is expected to arise from employee service in the year is charged to operating
profit. This cost is recharged to group companies on the basis of payroll cost in the year.

The expected return on the scheme's assets and the increase during the year in the present value of the scheme's
liabilities arising from the passage of time are included in other finance income. Actuarial gains and losses are
recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses. Pension scheme surpluses, to the extent that
they are considered recoverable, or deficits are recognised in full and presented on the face of the balance sheet.

Some of the Company’s employees are members of another group wide defined benefit pension plan. As there is
no contractual agreement or stated group policy for charging the net defined benefit cost of the plan to
participating entities, the net defined benefit cost of the plan is recognised fully by the sponsoring employer,
which is another member of the group. The Company recognises a cost equal to its contribution payable for the
period.

Share based payments

SSE ple, the ultimate parent of the Company, operates a number of All Employee Share Schemes as described
in the Remuneration Report of the Group. These schemes enable Group employees to acquire shares of the
ultimate parent company. The employees of the Company are entitled, where applicable, to participate in these
schemes. The Company has not been charged with the cash cost of acquiring shares on behalf of its employees,
this cost is borne by the ultimate parent company. Where the fair value of the options granted has been
measured, the Company has recognised the expense as if the share based payments related to the Company's
own shares.

The exercise prices of the sharesave scheme are set at a discount to market price at the date of the grant. The fair
value of the sharesave scheme option granted is measured at the grant date by use of an option pricing model.
The fair value of the options granted is recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the period that the
scheme vests. Estimates are updated at each balance-sheet date with any adjustment in respect of the current and
prior years being recognised in the profit and loss account.

The costs associated with the other main employee schemes, the share incentive plan and the deferred bonus
scheme, are recognised over the period to which they relate.

Page 23

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

The preparation of financial statements requires management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions
that affect the application of accounting policies and reported amounts of assets and liabilities, income and
expenses.

It should be noted that the impact of variation in some assumptions, judgements and estimates can have a
particularly material impact on the reported results. At 31 March 2024, management has applied its judgement
to the determination of the fair value of its investment properties. While the Company holds its investment
properties under the cost model, the fair value has been disclosed in line with IAS 40. See note 15 for details.

The assumptions in relation to the cost of providing post-retirement benefits during the year are based on the
Company’s best estimates and are set after consultation with qualified actuaries. While these assumptions are
believed to be appropriate, a change in these assumptions would impact the level of the retirement benefit
obligation recorded and the cost to the Company of administering the scheme. Further detail of the calculation
basis and key assumptions used, the resulting movements in obligations, and the sensitivity of key assumptions
to the obligation is disclosed at note 23.

4 Revenue

~ The analysis of the Company's turnover for the year from continuing operations is as follows:

2024 2023

£m =m

Rendering of services 178.7 192.4
Rental income from investment property 36.9 41.3
215.6 233.7

Page 24

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

5 Operating loss
Arrived at after charging/(crediting)

2024 2023

£m £m

Depreciation expense 44.0 41.4
Amortisation expense 18.3 18.1
Impairment : 22.4 16.2
Exceptional items - 0.1
Lease expense 2.2 8.4
Profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.5) (0.3)
Loss/(profit) on disposal of investment property 13 (2.3)

Exceptional items

In the prior year the Company recorded total exceptional charges of £0.1m, related to costs of £6.5m in
connection to the sale of the Contracting and Rail business in June 2021, and a £6.4m exceptional credit related
to the reassessment of a separation cost provision associated with the disposal of SSE Energy Services.

6 Auditors' remuneration

The Company incurred an audit fee of £127,530 in the year (2023: £94,854). The fee in both the current and
previous year was borne by another Group company.

Page 25

SSE Services plc

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

7 Staff costs

The aggregate payroll costs (including directors' remuneration) were as follows:

2024 2023

£m £m

Wages and salaries 85.3 : 74.6
Social security costs 11.8 9.2
Pension costs - 2.5 7.2
Share-based payment expenses 8.8 9.3
108.4 100.3

The average number of persons employed by the Company (including Directors) during the year, analysed by
category was as follows:

2024 2023
No. No.
Average employees 2,413.0 1,970.0

8 Directors’ remuneration

The total remuneration received by the Directors for qualifying and non-qualifying services during the year was
£1.8m (2023: £4.1m). The above value is for 3 Directors (2023: 2), of which, 1 Director was remunerated by
another Group company in the year. A value of services to the Company for these Directors cannot be
determined, therefore the above value reflects the remunerations received for services to the SSE Group as a
whole.

The aggregate of remuneration and amounts receivable under long term incentive schemes of the highest paid

Director was £0.9m (2023: £3.2m) including company pension contributions of £nil (2023: £0.3m) which were
made to a defined benefit scheme on their behalf.

9 Interest receivable and similar income

2024 2023

£m im

Net pension interest income 8.7 2.2
Interest receivable from Group companies 0.6 :
9.3 2.2

Page 26

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

10 Interest payable and similar expenses

Interest payable to Group companies

Lease obligations - unwind of discount rate
Foreign exchange (gains)/losses

Interest capitalised

11 Income tax

Tax credited in the profit and loss account

Current taxation
UK corporation tax
UK corporation tax adjustment to prior periods

Deferred taxation

Arising from origination and reversal of temporary differences
Arising from changes in tax rates and laws

Adjustment in respect of prior years

Deferred tax on pension scheme movements

Total deferred taxation

Tax credit in the profit and loss account

The differences are reconciled below:

Loss before tax

Corporation tax at standard rate of 25% (2023: 19%)

Decrease in current tax from adjustment for prior periods

Increase from effect of revenues exempt from taxation
(Decrease)/increase from effect of expenses not deductible in
determining taxable profit (tax loss)

Deferred tax expense/(credit) from unrecognised temporary difference
from a prior period

Deferred tax expense relating to changes in tax rates or laws

Total tax credit

Page 27

2024 2023
£m £m
59.5 59.0

5.8 5.5
(1.1) 0.3
(3.6) (2.3)
60.6 62.5

2024 2023
£m £m

(53.8) (29.3)
(7.4) (4)

(61.2) (30.7)

- 8.6
- 2.5

5.6 (0.7)

3.5 7.9

9.1 18.3

(52.1) (12.4)

2024 2023
£m £m

(181.1) (103.5)

(45.3) (19.7)

(7.4) (1.4)

- (0.1)
(5.0) 5.0
5.6 (0.8)

- 4.6
(52.1) (12.4)


SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

11 Income tax (continued)

Amounts recognised in other comprehensive income:
2024 2023
Tax Tax
Note Before (expense) Net of Before (expense) Net of
tax /benefit tax tax /benefit tax
£m £m £m £m £m £m
Remeasurements of post
employment benefit 23
29.5 (88.6) 72.8 (17.6) 55.2

obligations (net) (118.1) . SP NL

Page 28

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

11 Income tax (continued)

Deferred tax

Deferred tax movement during the year:

At 1 April Recognised in Recognised in At

2023 income equity 31 March 2024

£m £m £m £m
Pension benefit obligations (43.6) (6.5) 29.5 (20.6)
Accelerated tax depreciation (36.2) 12.2 - (24.0)
Provisions 10.9 (6.3) - 4.6
Share-based payment 5.6 1.4 - 7.0
Other items G.1) (9.9) - (13.0)
Net tax asset/(liabilities) (66.4) (9.1) 29.5 (46.0)

Deferred tax movement during the prior year:

At 1 April Recognised in Recognised in At

2022 income equity 31 March 2023

£m £m £m £m

Pension benefit obligations (16.9) (8.6) (18.2) (43.6)
Accelerated tax depreciation (26.9) (9.2) - (36.2)
Provisions 11.4 (0.5) - 10.9
Share-based payment 5.3 0.3 - 5.6
Other items (2.9) (0.2) - (3.1)
Net tax liabilities 30.0) (18.2) (18.2) (66.4)

Finance Bill 2023 introduced legislation, initially as a temporary measure but then being made permanent in the
Autumn Statement, to allow ‘Full Expensing' of 100% General Pool plant and machinery, alongside 50% for
Special Rate Pool plant and machinery. These changes significantly increase the deductions for Capital
Allowances on capital expenditure incurred from 1 April 2023.

Page 29

SSE Services plc

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

12 Intangible assets

Internally
generated
software
development Development
costs assets Total
£m £m £m
Cost or valuation :
At 1 April 2023 243.1 217.7 460.8
Additions - 63.6 63.6
Transfers 27.8 (35.1) (7.3)
Transfers to other SSE Group companies - (133.9) (133.9)
At 31 March 2024 270.9 112.3 . 383.2
Amortisation
At 1 April 2023 191.4 38.6 230.0
Amortisation charge 18.3 - 18.3
Impairment (1.9) 20.2 18.3
At 31 March 2024 207.8 58.8 266.6
Carrying amount
At 31 March 2024 63.1 53.5 116.6
At 31 March 2023 51.7 179.1 230.8

Historically, the Company held development assets for other SSE group companies. Upon completion, these
assets are transferred out.accordingly.

Page 30

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

13. Tangible assets

Cost or valuation

At 1 April 2023

Additions

Disposals

Transfers

Transfer to other SSE Group companies

At 31 March 2024
Depreciation

At 1 April 2023
Charge for the year
Removed on disposal
Impairment

At 31 March 2024
Carrying amount
At 3] March 2024

At 31 March 2023

IT assets
Land and Assets
and miscellaneous Motor under
buildings equipment vehicles construction Total
£m £m £m £m £m
45.6 32.6 176.4 18.0 272.6
0.5 - 35.5 12.8 48.8
(0.1) (2.8) (10.4) - (13,3)
- 12.4 1.0 (11.0) 2.4
- - - (1.6) (1.6)
46.0 42.2 202.5 18.2 308.9
15.0 28.3 103.5 03 147.1
45 11.1 23.9 - 39.5
(0.1) (2.7) (9.9) - (12.7)
- . 2.7 - - 2.7
19.4 39.4 117.5 0.3 176.6
___26.6 2.8 85.0 17.9 132.3
30.6 43 72.9 17.7 125.5

Page 31

SSE Services plc

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

14 Right of use assets

Included within property, plant and equipment (note 13) are the following right of use assets:

Cost or valuation
At 1 April 2023
Additions
Disposals

At 31 March 2024

Depreciation

At 1 April 2023
Charge for the year
Removed on disposal

At 31 March 2024
Carrying amount
At 31 March 2024
At 31 March 2023

15 Investment properties

Cost

At 1 April 2023
Disposals
Transfers

Classified as held for sale

At 31 March 2024
Depreciation

At 1 April 2023
Removed on disposal
Depreciation charge
Impairment

Classified as held for sale

At 31 March 2024

Motor vehicles

Land and and other
buildings equipment Total
£m £m £m
45.6 114.9 160.5
0.5 35.5 36.0
(0.1) (10.3) (10.4)
46.0 140.1 186.1
15.0 43.9 58.9
4.5 23.2 27.7
(0.1) (9.7) (9.8)
19.4 57.4 76.8
26.6 82.7 109.3
30.6 71.0 101.6

Page 32

31 March
2024
£m

311.8

(1.7)
5.0
(14.1)

301.0

159.8
(0.5)

1.4
Q@.1)
156.2

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

15 Investment properties (continued)

31 March
2024
£m

Carrying amount
At 31 March 2024 . 144.8
At 31 March 2023 : 152.0
Fair value at 31 March 2024 157.0

Fair value at 31 March 2023 182.0

Included within Investment properties is associated land that has a carrying amount of £9.8m and is not
depreciated.

Management has applied judgement in determining the fair value of the property disclosed above. The fair value
has been calculated based on a multiple of rent receivable from related parties under a ‘Parry's valuation’
discounted at the Company's incremental rate of borrowing. This methodology is consistent with prior years.

At 31 March 2024, two of the Company's Investment properties were classified as assets held for sale at their
carrying value. These properties are being actively marketed for sale with management's commitment, available
for immediate disposal and it is highly probable that the sale will complete within one year.

16 Investments

Subsidiaries &

Investments
Investments £m
Cost or valuation
At 1 April 2023 0.3
At 31 March 2024 , 0.3
Carrying amount
At 31 March 2024 0.3
At 31 March 2023 0.3

Page 33


SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

16 Investments (continued)

Details of the subsidiaries and investments as at 31 March 2024 are as follows:
Ye %

°
‘oO
incorporation Holding Holding pure
Undertaking 2024 2023
England &
SSE(SE) Quest Trustee Limited Wales 100-100 Dormant
“England &
SSE Trustees Limited Wales 100100 Dormant
Property
SSE OWS Glasgow Limited Scotland 100-100 investment
England & :
Electricity Pensions Trustee Limited Wales 6.84 74 Pension trustee
England & 3.85 3.85 Pension
Electricity Pensions Limited Wales . . Administration
England & Investment
Northmere Limited Wales 5.56 5.56 company
Implementation
Smart Energy Code Company frend & 0.32 0.34 of the Smart
Limited Energy Code

Registered address key

Reference Registered Office:

No.1 Forbury Place, Forbury Road, Reading, RG1 3JH

Inveralmond House, 200 Dunkeld Road, Perth, PH1 3AQ

Highdown House, Yeoman Way, Worthing, West, Sussex, BN99 3HH
4 More London Riverside, London, England, SE1 2AU

77 Gracechurch Street, London, England, EC3V 0AS

moOaOwD

17 Trade and other debtors

31 March
2024
£m
Trade debtors 6.7
Debtors due from Group undertakings 620.5
Debtors due from Group undertakings: greater than one year 1.2
Accrued income 1.2
Other debtors 56.4
Income tax asset . 53.8
739.8

Registered
address

A

A

31 March
2023
£m

17.3
728.1
1.2
Ll
102.2
29.3

879.2

During the year, the Company entered into an LFA with Enerveo Limited who, at the agreement date, was a

third party. £13.3m was advanced to Enerveo at the applicable rate of 7.25% per annum.

Page 34

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

18 Assets held for sale

Investment Properties held for sale

At 31 March 2024, two Investment properties have been reclassified from Non-Current Assets to Assets held for
sale at a total carrying value of £5m. These properties are being actively marketed for sale with management's
commitment, available for immediate disposal and it is highly probable that the sales will complete within one
year. There is no impact to the Profit and Loss for the year.

19 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

31 March 31 March
2024 2023
£m £m
Trade creditors 44.) 28.0
Accruals and deferred income 101.4 128.7
Amounts due to Group undertakings 30.2 168.5
Other creditors 31.7 24.5
Current portion of long term lease liabilities 33.1 28.6
240.5 378.3

20 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year
, 31 March 31 March
2024 2023
£m £m

Non-current loans and borrowings

Amounts due to Group undertakings 1,020.0 1,348.2
Long term lease liabilities : 85.9 81.7
1,105.9 1,429.9

Page 35

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

20 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year (continued)

The amounts disclosed.in the balance sheet as owed to Group undertakings and falling due after more than one
year are in respect of amounts advanced to the Company by its ultimate parent SSE plc. Interest is charged at

5.03% (2023: 4.78%).

During the year, SSE Services ple received a £360m capital contribution from its parent SSE ple as a result of a

waiver of amounts due to SSE ple.

The lease liability maturity is shown below:

Within one year
Between one and five years
After five years
Less: future finance charge

Present value of lease obligations

21 Provisions

At 1 April 2023

Additional provisions
Increase in existing provisions
Provisions used

Unused provision reversed

At 3] March 2024

Non-current liabilities

Page 36

31 March
2024
£m

33.9
87.2
13.8
(15.9)

119.0

31 March
2023
£m

29.3
16.9
19.6
(15.5)

110.3

Provisions
£m

25.8
2.7
0.9

(13.5)

(0.3)
15.6

15.6

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

22 Financial instruments

Summary fair values

The fair values of the primary financial assets and liabilities together with their carrying values are as follows:

2024
Carrying value
£m
Financial assets
Trade debtors 6.7
Receivables from Group

undertakings 621.7
Financial liabilities

Trade creditors 44.1
Amounts due to Group

undertakings 1,050.2

23 Pension Scheme

Defined benefit pension scheme

2024 2023 2023

Fair value Carrying value Fair value
£m £m £m

6.7 17.3 17.3

621.7 729.3 729.3

44.1 28.0 28.0
1,050.2 1,516.7 1,516.7

SSE Southern Group of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme

The Company is sponsor of the SSE Southern Group of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme (‘SSE
Southern’), one of the Group's two defined benefit pension schemes which provide benefits based on final

pensionable salary.

Actuarial valuations

Last formal actuarial valuation
Valuation carried out by

Value of assets based on valuation
Value of liabilities based on valuation
Valuation method adopted

Average salary increase

Average pension increase

Value of fund assets/accrued liabilities

Page 37

31 March 2022
Aon Hewitt
£2,395.6m
£2,475.2m
Projected Unit
RPI+0.25%
RPI

96.8%

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

23 Pension Scheme (continued)

The scheme was most recently valued on 31 March 2022. The scheme is subject to independent valuation at
least every three years when future benefit obligations are valued by actuarial methods on the basis of
appropriate assumptions. The valuation returned a deficit as at 31 March 2022 of £79.6m on a projected unit
basis.

The Group continues to pay deficit contributions which, along with investment returns from return-seeking
assets are expected to make good the shortfall by 31 March 2027. The next funding valuation will be carried out
as at 31 March 2025. As part of that process the Trustee and the Company will agree future contributions based
on the valuation.

The Group also pays contributions in respect of the current accrual, with some active members also making
contributions. Total contributions of approximately £28.2m are expected to be paid by the Company during the
year ending 31 March 2025, including deficit repair contributions of £15.6m. The deficit repair contributions
will be made annually until March 2027, increasing in line with inflation each year.

During the year ending 31 March 2024 the Group continued to pay deficit contributions of £12.7m.

At 31 March 2024, SSE Southern has a net surplus of £82.3m (2023: £174.5m), and unrecognised future
contributions of £46.8m (2023: £50.9m), subject to increases in line with inflation. The Company has assessed
that it has the right to recognise any current and future surplus on the scheme, therefore has not recognised a
liability for future unrecoverable contributions.

Other matters

On 16 June 2023 the High Court issued a ruling in respect of Virgin Media v NTL Pension Trustees II Limited
(and others) calling into question the validity of rule amendments made to defined benefit pension schemes
contracted-out on a Reference Scheme Test basis between 6 April 1997 and 5 April 2016. Amendments to these
pension schemes over this time required confirmation from the Scheme Actuary that the Reference Scheme Test
would continue to be met. In the absence of such a confirmation, the Rule amendment would be void. This
ruling could have wide ranging implications for many UK pension schemes and was subject to an Appeal ruling
on 25 July 2024, which dismissed the appeal against the High Court's 2023 ruling.

The Trustees of the SSE Southern Pension Scheme have not performed a detailed assessment over the impact of
this ruling.

Page 38

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

23 Pension Scheme (continued)
Risks & risk mitigation

Asset volatility

The liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if assets
underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. The scheme holds a proportion of growth assets (equities and
property) which, though expected to outperform ‘corporate bonds in the long-term, create volatility and risk in
the short-term. The allocation to growth assets is monitored to ensure it remains appropriate given the scheme's
long term objectives.

Changes in bond yields

A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed on the scheme's liabilities for accounting
purposes. However, this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the scheme's bond holdings and its
interest rate hedging.

Inflation risk

The majority of the scheme's benefit obligations are linked to inflation, and higher inflation will lead to higher
liabilities (although, in most cases, caps on the level of inflationary increases are in place to protect against
extreme inflation). However, this will be partially offset by inflation hedging in the scheme.

Life expectancy

The majority of the scheme’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the members, so an increase in the
life expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities. The sensitivity analysis disclosed is intended to
provide an indication of the impact on the value of the schemes’ liabilities of the risks highlighted.

Liability vs. asset risk
The risk that movement in the value of the scheme’s liabilities are not met by corresponding movements in the
value of the scheme's assets will expose the Company to movements in the overall funding surplus.

Page 39

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

23 Pension Scheme (continued)

Scheme assets
Changes in the fair value of scheme assets are as follows:

31 March 31 March
2024 2023
£m £m
Fair value at start of year . 1,799.1 2,390.2
Interest income 83.8 63.8
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest income (123.7) (597.6)
Employer contributions 27.1 52.1
Participant contributions 0.1 0.1
Benefits paid , (99.8) (109.5)
Fair value at end of year 1,686.6 1,799.1
Analysis of assets
The major categories of scheme assets are as follows:
31 March 31 March
2024 2023
£m £m
Equity instruments 166.2 60.0
Debt instruments 881.8 1,062.6
Property 87.4 135.1
Investment funds $51.2 541.4
1,686.6 1,799.1
Actual return on scheme's assets
31 March 31 March
2024 2023
£m £m
Actual return on scheme assets (40.0) (533.8)

The pension scheme has not invested in any of the Company's's own financial instruments or in properties or
other assets used by the Company.

Page 40

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

23 Pension Scheme (continued)

Scheme liabilities
Changes in the present value of scheme liabilities are as follows:
31 March 31 March
2024 2023
£m £m
Present value at start of year : 1,624.6 2,322.8
Current service cost , 8.9 17.1
Past service cost 1.0 29
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic
assumptions (15.9) (48.4)
Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions (39.6) (682.9)
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments 49.9 "+ 60.9
Interest cost 75.1 61.6
Benefits paid (99.8) (109.5)
Contributions by scheme participants 0.1 0.1
Present value at end of year 1,604.3 1,624.6

Principal actuarial assumptions
The significant actuarial assumptions used to determine the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the

balance sheet date are as follows:

31 March 31 March
2024 2023
% % 0
Discount rate 48 4.8
Future salary increases 3.4 3.5
Future pension increases 3.1 3.2
Inflation 3.1 3.2
Post retirement mortality assumptions
31 March 31 March
2024 2023
Years Years
Current UK pensioners at retirement age - male 22 22
Current UK pensioners at retirement age - female , 25 24
Future UK pensioners at retirement age - male 24 24
Future UK pensioners at retirement age - female 26 26

Page 41

SSE Services plc

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

23 Pension Scheme (continued)

Amounts recognised in the profit and loss account

Amounts recognised in operating profit
Current service cost

Past service cost

Administrative expenses paid

Recognised in arriving at operating profit

Amounts recognised in finance income or costs
Net interest income

Total recognised in the profit and loss account

Amounts taken to the Statement of Comprehensive Income

Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in demographic
assumptions

Actuarial gains and losses arising from changes in financial assumptions
Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts included in interest expense

Amounts recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income

Sensitivity analysis

31 March 31 March
2024 2023

£m £m

6.8 14.2

1.0 2.9

2.1 2.9

9.9 20.0
(8.7) (2.2)

1.2 17.8

31 March 31 March
2024 2023

£m £m
(15.9) (48.4)
(39.6) (682.9)
49.9 60.9

123.7 597.6
118.1 (72.8)

A sensitivity analysis for the principal assumptions used to measure scheme liabilities is set out below:

Increase/ Effect on

decrease in scheme

assumptions liabilities

2024 2024

Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 0.1% +/-0.1%
Rate of increase in pension payments 0.1% +/-1.2%
Discount rate 0.1% +/-1.3%
Longevity 1 year +/-3.5%

Page 42

Increase/
decrease in
assumptions
2023

0.1%

0.1%

0.1%

1 year

Effect on
scheme
liabilities
2023
+/-0.1%
+/-1.2%
+/-1.3%
+/-3.3%

SSE Services ple

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 March 2024

24 Share capital

31 March 31 March

2024 ~ 2023

Allotted, called up and fully paid: £m £m
Share capital . . 0.5 0.5
481,748,710 ordinary shares of £0.001 each 0.5 0.5

25 Commitments
Capital commitments

The total amount contracted for but not provided in the financial statements was £1,300,000.

26 Parent and ultimate parent undertaking

The Company's immediate and ultimate parent is SSE ple.

Relationship between entity and parents

The parent of the largest group in which these financial statements are consolidated is SSE ple, incorporated in
Scotland. The consolidated financial statements of the Group (which include the Company) are available from
the Company Secretary, SSE plc, Inveralmond House, 200 Dunkeld Road, Perth, PH1 3AQ or by accessing the
parent company's website at www.sse.com.

The address of SSE plc is:

Inveralmond House, 200 Dunkeld Road, Perth, PHI 3AQ

27 Adjusting events after the financial period

On 2 September 2024, Enerveo repaid the amounts due under the Liquidity Finance Agreement and Managed
Service Agreement (£13.3m and £17.1m respectively). Both amounts are shown as Debtors due from Group
undertakings given Enerveo Limited was brought into the SSE group before year-end. The Directors assessed
that at the Balance Sheet date, the entire amount was recoverable — this resulted in a £10.5m credit to the profit
and loss in respect of the reversal of the prior year provision against these balances.

Page 43

