ST MARS UNIVERSITY, TWNGENEIAND.

ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANGAL SUALEMENTS
3.18) ULVE2024)

Mt

A23 19/12/2024 #119
COMPANIES HOUSE

A‘company limited by guarantee and registered in England/and Wales under,number,

05977277,
Registered Office: Waldegrave Road, Strawberry HillaTwickenhamalW1'aSX
Registered Charity, Number:}1120192:

—


Contents

Administrative Information

Vice-Chancellor’s Foreword

Directors’ Report

Statement of Corporate Governance and Internal Control
Strategic Report

Statement of Responsibility of the Board of Governors
Independent Auditor's Report

Consolidated and University Statement of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated and University Statement of Changes in Reserves
Consolidated and University Balance Sheet

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

Statement of Accounting Policies

Notes to the Financial Statements

Appendix 1: Trade Union Facility Time Report

Appendix 2: Greenhouse Gas Emission & Energy Consumption Report

Pages

3-4
5-12
13-16
17-37
38
39-43
44

45

46
47
48-53
54-70
71

72-74

Administrative information: Year ended 31 July 2024

Address

St Mary’s University, Twickenham

Waldegrave Road

Strawberry Hill

Twickenham

TW1 4SX

Telephone 020 8240 4000
Facsimile 020 8240 4255
Website www.stmarys.ac.uk
Twitter X.com/YourStMarys
Chancellor

Cardinal Vincent Nichols

Board of Governors

Rt Rev Richard Moth (Chair)
Mr Benedict Andradi

Mr Paul Barber

Ms Laura Bryde (née Blackhall) (Appointed 9 August 2023)

Mr David Brambell

Ms Caitlin Finn (resigned 31 July 2024)
Dr Fiona Gatty

Professor Anthony McClaran

Ms Claire McDonnell

Dr Mary Mihovilovic

Ms Adeola Oke

Mrs Deborah Streatfield

Professor Dominic Tildesley

Esteban Jurado Traverso (Appointed 22 November 2023)

Dr Ann York (Appointed 22 November 2023)
Mr David James (Appointed 1 August 2024)

Company Secretary
Ms Elizabeth Bell (Appointed 28 October 2023)
Mr Andrew Browning (Resigned 27 October 2023)

Senior Leadership Team

Vice-Chancellor

Interim Provost & Chief Academic Officer

Deputy Vice-Chancellor & Chief Operating Officer
Pro Vice-Chancellor & Chief Financial Officer

Professor Anthony McClaran
Professor Sara Spear

Mrs Jo Blunden

Mr Richard Solomon

1|

Administrative Information (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Bankers
Barclays Bank Plc
Leicester

LE87 2BB

Santander UK pic
2 Triton Square
Regent's Place
London

NW1 3AN

External auditors
BDO LLP

2-City Place
Beehive Ring Road
Gatwick

West Sussex

RH6 OPA

Internal auditors
RSM UK LLP

Third Floor

One London Square
Cross Lanes
Guildford

Surrey

GU11UN

Vice-Chancellor’s Foreword: Year ended 31 July 2024

On behalf of the University, | am pleased to present our Annual Report and Financial Statements for 2023-24.
This year the University has once more demonstrated resilience and nimbleness in its ability to adapt and to
thrive in the face of the very difficult economic climate and the cost of living crisis. Looking back over the year,
there have been a number of significant changes and challenges, and above all, many successes to celebrate.

Changes

During 2023-24 plans for the proposed School of Medicine have progressed, with the General Medical Council
approving the University’s initial submission in Spring 2024. The University is now preparing its stage 2
application and plans are well underway for the development of a new building which will house the school.
New initiatives such as St Mary’s Online have further supported the University’s aim to lay a solid foundation for
sustainable growth. Extending the subject portfolio in areas such as in Computer Sciences, consolidating
academic partnerships and supporting international growth, have all been high on our agenda during this past
year.

To keep track of our trajectory and measure our year on year progress towards our strategic aims of Vision 2030,
we have mapped our Key Performance Indicators (KPts) to the five Pillars that support our strategic plan.
Notably, our KPIs now monitor progress through the Of regulatory landscape and the continuation, completion,
progression and graduate outcomes measures. During the 2024-25 academic year we will undertake a mid-year
review of Vision 2030 to ensure that it remains relevant and that it is updated and revised in the light of current
and future circumstances.

Challenges

The economic climate, inflation, annual tuition fees frozen until 2025, and the cost of living have all contributed
to the challenges faced by universities today. St Mary’s continues to monitor the impact of the cost of living on
students, and supports with hardship funds or flexible timetables, recognising that some students work part-
time. We are also aware of the ramifications for staff, and on staff recruitment. The University, along with the
rest of the sector, continues to grapple with the reat-terms fall in funding from domestic tuition fees. Whilst HM
Government has recently announced a modest increase in the Domestic Undergraduate tuition fee cap for 2025-
26, this is broadly offset by the sharp increase in Employers’ National insurance contributions. As yet there is no
long-term solution to the sector’s funding model.

For the year 2023-24, growth in terms of domestic student numbers remained a challenge. The University also
saw a small reduction in international recruitment after several years of significant growth. The challenges of
growth and rising cost pressures have resulted in a full year underlying’ operating surplus (or EBITDA) of £2.2m,
with a full year net deficit of £1.9m. We continue to remodel our financial projections and adjust expenditure
accordingly in the light of the economic situation.

Successes

This year’s Summer Graduations took take place at Westminster Cathedral in July 2024. It is always a great
honour and pleasure to be able to award our degrees in the Cathedral, as the Archbishop of Westminster,
Cardinal Vincent Nichols, is also Chancellor of the University. This year we awarded two honorary degrees: one
to Professor Jason Arday, an alumnus of St Mary’s and one of the youngest ever Professors at the University of
Cambridge; and the second award went to Toby Booth, also an alumnus of St Mary’s and currently Head Caach
for Welsh Rugby Union team The Ospreys.

This year our School of Education has once again retained its Ofsted Outstanding rating in all categories for
Primary and Secondary Initial Teacher Training. This cements the University’s place as one of the country’s
leading teacher training providers. St Mary’s has a proud history of training teachers and at our Spring
Graduations we were delighted to welcome back over S00 alumni to award them Honorary B. Ed degrees. The
event was incredibly moving, and we enjoyed hearing many stories from the past.

1 Excluding £0.6m of restructuring costs

Vice Chancellor’s Foreword (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

In October 2023 | was delighted to join Or Carole Murphy in a visit to the Vatican on Anti-Slavery Day. During
the visit we met Pope Francis as part of his General Audience and had the opportunity to share the important
work that is undertaken through the University’s Bakhita Centre to research and combat modern slavery.

We were delighted to see so many of our current and former students competing in the Olympic and Paralympic
games in Paris during the Summer. Our students and alumni between (hem won fuur medals. St Mary’s has a
history of success at recent Olympic and Paralympic Games. Athletes, alumni, and students from SMU have won
a Gold medal at every Games since Beijing 2008. In total the University has seen 51 athletes take part in the last
four Olympic and Paralympic Games, with some representing multiple events, winning 17 medals for their
nations prior to Paris 2024.

Acommitment to the excellence of our teaching and student support is at the heart of all that makes St Mary’s
special and so external markers of that excellence are always significant. In August 2023 the University gained
the excellent TEF outcomes of Gold for Student Experience and Silver for Student Outcomes, and Silver overall.
After the excellent NSS results in recent years, the focus was to maintain these high scores. The NSS results of
August 2024 demonstrate that this was achieved, with undergraduates giving a positivity rating of 89% for the
teaching at St Mary’s, and 92% for academic support. Following a significant improvement in the Graduate
Outcomes Survey results for 2020-21, published in July 2023, the University was able to maintain a strong
performance for 2021-22 (published July 2024) with 81% of graduate leavers in highly skilled employment or
further study. .

Earlier in June 2024, St Mary's saw its position in the Complete University Guide for 2024 rise by a further 14
places, now ranked 72nd out of the 130 institutions taking part. In September 2024, the Guardian Ranking saw
St Mary’s consolidate its position ranking at 74th overall. The Daily Mail league table was published for the
second time in September 2024 and the University ranked 68th out of the 129 universities taking part, a rise of
ten places. The Times and the Sunday Times Good University Guide 2024, published in September 2024, saw
the University rank 52nd overall. St Mary’s ranks 7th amongst Modern Universities, as defined by the TGUG, is
in the top 10 London Universities and tops both its UCAS Competitor Group and the Cathedrals Group for the
third year running.

Since becoming Vice-Chancellor in 2020 | have steadfastly supported the Vision 2030 aim to recognise, support
and nurture the equality, diversity and inclusion that are inherent in our mission and values. In April 2023 the
University received notification of having gained the Bronze Athena Swan Award and in January 2024 we were
delighted to receive confirmation that the University had been awarded the Race Equality Charter (REC) Bronze
award after a successful application to Advance HE.

St Mary’s has been ona long and exciting journey since its foundation in 1850. As we begin to plan for celebrating
our 175th anniversary in 2025, our journey continues, buoyed up by the achievements of the last twelve months.

27 November 2024

at . Ss ert

4|

we

Directors’ Report: Year ended 31 July 2024

Directors’ Report: Year ended 31 July 2024
The Governors, as Directors of the University, present the Directors’ Report for the year ended 31 July 2024.

Governors during the year
The current Board of Governors and details of those who served during the year 2023-24 are set out on page
one.

Clerk to the Board and Company Secretary

During the 2023-24 academic year the University’s Director of Strategic Planning, Elizabeth Bell, assumed the
role of Clerk and Company Secretary on an interim basis. She will remain in this post on a permanent basis from
1 August 2024.

Governors’ Indemnity
Throughout the financial year, the University purchased and maintained Governors’ indemnity insurance which
would indemnify Governors if proceedings were to be brought by third parties.

Public Benefit

The University is a registered charity under the terms of the Charities Act 2011. In preparing this statement of
public benefit, the Governors have had regard to the Charity Commission's guidance on the reporting of public
benefit and its supplementary public benefit guidance on the advancement of education. The University meets
its public benefit requirements by teaching a diverse curriculum and educating a broad range of students.

Key beneficiaries of the work of St Mary’s include:
© our current and prospective students.
e the local and broader community, mainly through engagement with St Mary’s volunteers.
e the wider academic community and public bodies nationally and internationally in respect of research
output; and
e Society as a whole and the national economy in respect of well-educated, employable graduates.

The University also takes into account its public benefit and Catholic ethos and identity when setting its fees and
developing its strategy for widening participation, key elements of which form a core of St Mary’s Access and
Participation Plan, which is approved by the Office for Students (OfS). Public benefit initiatives include the
bursaries the University offers to students and outreach activities focusing on students from lower socio-
economic groups. St Mary’s is committed to an extensive programme of activities that aim to raise aspirations
and improve access to higher education for those students from under-represented groups. This includes
activities for students on vocational courses, work with mature students, young people in care, and initiatives
to widen access through our strong reputation for sport.

Dividends
The University does not pay dividends; any surplus is retained by the University.

Disclosure of Information to Auditors

The Governors confirm that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the
University’s auditors are unaware. They have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as members of
the Board to make themselves aware of any refevant audit information and to establish that the University’s

auditors are aware of that information.

Political Donations
The University has not made any political donations during the year ended 31 July 2024 (2023: Nil).

Directors’ Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Statement of Corporate Governance Arrangements

The University has adopted the Committee of University Chairs (CUC) Higher Education Code of Governance
(2020 Version) published on 16 September 2020, which applies to our reporting for 2023-24 and subsequent
years. Set out below is a summary of how the University seeks to meet the requirements of these.

Element i - Accountability

The Board of Governors is collectively responsible and accountable for institutional activities and approves al!
final decisions of fundamental concern within its remit. It has a transparent scheme of delegation which is
updated as required setting out the roles and responsibilities between the Executive and the Board of Governors.
Minutes of meetings of the Board of Governors and other corporate statements are published on the
University’s website. Board members are expected to declare any interests they have outside of the University
and are required to declare any interests on an annual basis. The internal auditors carry out regular audits of
due diligence processes within the University and these are reviewed by the Audit Committee.

Element 2- Sustainability

The Board of Governors upholds the University’s mission, character and reputation and sets the values and
standards that underpin the University’s strategy and operation. It is involved in developing the University’s
strategic plan and receiving regular updates as to the progress that the University is making to achieve its aims.
The Board of Governors is responsible for ensuring that the regulatory requirements for the University are met.
It ensures that through the Academic Board and the Academic Scrutiny Committee it is provided with assurance
on academic standards and risks. The Board of Governors has continued to uphold the principle of academic
freedom with this principle being enshrined within the University’s articles of association. The Remuneration
Committee considers the emoluments of the Vice-Chancellor and other senior staff. The University have external
auditors to review the Annual Report and Financial statements and whose work is overseen by the Audit
Committee.

Element 3 - Reputation

Under the Board of Governors Regulations, Board members are required to act ethically and in line with the
‘Public Interest Governance Principles’ of public life. Systems are in place to deal with any instances where there
are any transgressions of these. The University Secretary maintains a register of members’ interests.
Stakeholders are engaged in strategic issues, and a student and two staff members sit on the Board of Governors.
The University has a whistleblowing process which includes an appeal stage to the Chair of the Audit Committee
where necessary.

Element 4 - Inclusion and Diversity
4

The Finance and Resources Committee approved and oversees a People Strategy for the University which
promotes equality and diversity and sets out clear KPIs. Progress towards meeting these KPIs is reported to both
the Committee and the Board of Governors. The University has policies and procedures in place which aim to
eliminate discrimination, these are considered by the University Executive Committee and the Senior Leadership
Team.

6 |

Directors’ Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Statement of Corporate Governance Arrangements (continued)
Element 5- Effectiveness

The University Secretary is responsible for advising Board members and keeping them briefed on compliance
with the governing instruments and Board regulations. All members of the governing body have access to the
University Secretary and the Board is responsible for the appointment (and removal) of the University Secretary.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for the appointment of new members to the Board and is responsible
for ensuring that the Board has a good skills balance and there is diversity of membership. An external review
of governance was completed in September 2023. This found that the standard of governance at the University
is good. The review also set out further enhancements to improve the effectiveness of the Board and the
University has implemented the majority of these over the past 12 months.

Element 6 - Engagement

The governance processes and structures are clearly visible to staff, students, and alumni through the
University’s website, and all are invited to engage with the governance of the University. The Board of Governors
regularly engages with staff and students and is kept updated by the Vice-Chancellor, the University Secretary,
and other members of the University Executive Committee of any significant issues that may arise. Procedures
are in place to ensure that assurance can be given to the governing body about any partnerships into which the
University may enter. As part of the strategic plan adopted by the Board of Governors, the pillars of Students,
People, and Partnerships are all intended to achieve engagement with the University’s stakeholders and
partners.

Financial Risk Management

The University’s operations expose it to a variety of financial risks that include the effects of price risk, credit
risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk. The University has in place a risk management programme that seeks to
limit the adverse effects on financial performance by regular monitoring and management of risks. The Board
has responsibility for managing financial risk and its policies are carried out by the University’s Chief Financial
Officer.

Price Risk

The majority of the University’s revenue is derived from student tuition fees. The University’s domestic tuition
fees are charged at the current £9,250 cap, which is in line with pricing across much of the University sector.
Whilst HM Government has recently announced a modest increase in the Domestic Undergraduate tuition fee
cap for 2025-26, this is broadly offset by the sharp increase in Employers’ National Insurance contributions. As
yet there is no long-term solution to the sector's funding model.

Credit Risk

The University is exposed to credit risk primarily in the collection of student tuition fees and accommodation.
The University closely monitors the collection of student debt and has rigorous debt collection policies and
procedures in place.

Liquidity Risk

The University is financed with the appropriate long-term and short-term finance to match liquidity
requirements, and it ensures that it has access to adequate cash reserves and/or lines of credit. The University’s
treasury policy is to maintain the majority of any surplus funds in short term deposits. These can be accessed at
any time with an immaterial penalty deduction from interest earned.

Cash Flow Risk

The University collects the majority of cash inflows via several large receipts throughout the year. Cash outflows
are broadly constant during the year. As a result, the University closely monitors cash flow with short and tong-
term cash flow forecasting and keeps surplus cash or credit and liquidity facilities on hand at all times to provide
adequate headroom.

Flows

Directors’ Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Post Balance Sheet Events
There were no significant Post Balance sheet events to be noted.
Existence of Overseas Branches

During 2014/15, the University incorporated a US subsidiary, “St Mary’s University London US Foundation”, a
charitable not-for-profit organisation which is currently non-trading.

Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

St Mary’s University is fully committed to creating an inclusive culture by promoting equality of opportunity and
respecting differences amongst its staff, students and other stakeholders. Our core values of inclusiveness and
Respect are at the heart of our approach to these objectives.

Our commitment and activity in relation to equality, diversity and inclusion (both in respect of staff and students)
stems beyond lega! compliance, and more centrally derives from the benefits of an inclusive and welcoming
place of work and study. There is much evidence that workplaces which are genuinely inclusive, underpinned by
a welcoming and equitable ethos and values-based leadership, benefit hugely in terms of staff engagement,
wellbeing and performance.

Annual ED! report

The University is under a tegal duty (as part of the Public Sector Equality Duty) to review and publish equality
data each year. As part of our regular equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) activity, this annual report
summarises the data for staff and informs the base for the future development of our EDI agenda, equality
charters action plans, and the People Strategy.

We are pleased to report that key achievements this year in respect of staff equality, diversity, and inclusion
include:

Athena Swan - Awarded Athena Swan Bronze Award in April 2023. Since then, a Gender Equality Steering Group
has been established delivering action including:

e Recognising the Chair and committee members activities in the workload allocation model

e Updating appraisal training to include guidance for lime managers in supporting the development of
their staff

e Providing EDI data analysis on applications for academic promotion

e® Running REF look ahead events in faculties and introducing research mentoring.

Race Equality Charter (REC) - The University was awarded the Race Equality Bronze Award in January 2024. The
assessment panel recognised that “the University’s application signals the commitment of its journey towards
race equality, establishing a framework from which further advancement can continue.” The Self-Assessment
Team is now working with department heads and heads of service to monitor the implementation of the action
plan. ED! microaggression and bystander training for the Senior leadership team has been delivered as well as
re-tension anti racism training for the middle management and programme leads in preparation for working on
implementation of the charter action plan.

Disability Confident - As a Disability Confident Employer Level 2 employer the working group has recently
reviewed with HR the process for Occupational Health Assessments and commented on the consultation of the
University’s Hybrid working Guidance.

8 |

Directors’ Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Annual EDI report (continued)

LGBTQ+ Inclusion - In autumn 2023, we launched a LGBTQ+ Inclusion Project, where we will create an institution
wide approach to improving LGBTQ+ Inclusion for St Mary’s staff and students. As part of the project, a student
survey was undertaken in February and March 2024 and 141 students completed the survey. 49% of those who
took part in the survey identified as part of the LGBTQ+ community. They were asked questions around:

© Their motivations behind attending SMU
© Experience on campus
© Discrimination prevalence and reporting

The survey results are now being analysed with a view to making recommendations for the University and the
Students Union.

The EDI Staff Board chaired by our Director of Human Resources, is tasked with the strategic management of
the Staff EDI Programme within St Mary’s University. It sets the Staff ED! agenda, overseeing implementation
and monitoring progress and reports to the University Executive Committee. It is made up of staff from across.
the University, including the EDI staff network leads. The staff networks are key to operational delivery of the
People Strategy and engaging staff in this work. The network leads work closely with the Student Union to ensure
collaboration and promotion of activity to students as well as staff as relevant. The networks also provide
consultation to senior leadership on HR strategy development and best practice for addressing EDI-related issues
on campus.

Gender & Ethnicity Pay Gap Reporting

The latest joint Gender and Ethnicity Pay Gap report, which was approved by the University Executive Committee
and Finance and Resources Committee in March and has been published on the University’s external website in
line with legal requirements.

We continue to see a Gender Pay Gap Mean in favour of males (though decreased by c. 2% from 2022). Our
median gender pay gap increased to 10.79%. The fact that 71% of quartiles 1 & 2 (lower quartiles) are female
invariably affects the median hourly rates for males and females. The female median hourly rate is in Quartile
2, and the male median hourly rate is in Quartile 3. There is a much smaller mean and median gender pay gap
in favour of males for academic staff than for all staff, which is broadly in line with the HE sector data.

Our detailed analysis in this year’s report has demonstrated that while reporting on differences in pay is crucial
to our EDI ambitions, the gaps we see are symptoms of a greater systemic problem to be addressed at St Mary’s
— overrepresentation of women and BAME colleagues in the lowest pay quartile and underrepresentation of
both groups (much more so the latter) in the highest pay quartile. This trend in our gender pay gap is common
across the sector.

Our Athena Swan and Race Equality Charter (REC) project teams are making good use of our pay gap reporting
data to inform their work creating multi-year action plans to address these inequalities at the University.

Engagement with Employees
People Strategy
Vision 2030 outlines our approach and forms the guiding structures for our supporting strategies, operating

pians, and team and individual targets. One of the Vision 2030 pillars and its objectives sets the strategic
direction for our People Strategy. It is:

gt

Directors’ Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Engagement with Employees (continued)
Developing our people

We seek ta empower our staff ta reach their full potential by developing a supportive, inclusive, collaborative
and inspiring working environment. We want our staff and leadership to reflect and encompass the diversity of
our student body and the wider community.

Our People Strategy was refreshed this year to ensure alignment with our Vision 2030 and to reflect the changing
workforce environment post Covid.

Recent successful deliverables include:

e Implementing changes to Academic Promotion Procedure to meet Athena Swan Objectives to create a
pipeline of female talent to help address the University’s gender pay gap and under representation in
senior roles.

e Successful launch of the Family Friendly micro site and revised the University’s maternity processes to
support carers returning to work in line with Athena Swan objectives.

Strategic systems and data improvements, to better enable workforce planning.
implementation of Topdesk for Payroll and HR Helpdesk inboxes and development of over 100 self-
service pages on Topdesk.

e  SMA4U event brought together more than 180 staff members for a celebration and exploration of our
staff benefits, staff networks, wellbeing, and EDI initiatives. The event also featured a variety of
presentations on topics such as breast health, menopause, and hightights of our Employee Assistance
Program and Family Friendly Hub. Over 90% of participants rated SM4U as either ‘Outstanding’ or
‘Excellent’.

«The launch of four Apprenticeship Programmes, with 25 participants has contributed to the cultivation
of leadership and management skills of staff at varying levels within the organisation — from
Administrators to Senior Leaders and responded to the results from the Staff Engagement survey
providing a new opportunity for career development.

e Developed our own Learning management system - SMILE (St Mary’s Integrated Learning
Experience). This is a platform that all substantive staff will use to access their training, both essential
and developmental.

Staff Engagement

The Staff Engagement Survey 2023 recorded a participation rate of 70% and overall engagement score of 72%,
which is in line with HE! benchmarks. We responded at an organisational and local level to the results. A short
staff pulse survey was run in May 2024 to explore whether progress had been made on our organisational
priorities. The participation rate of 70% and overall engagement score of 75%, is a 3% increase in our 2023
engagement score and 2% above HEI benchmark. These are good results of which we can be proud. Themes
surveyed included Culture and Values, Equality Diversity and Inclusion, Reward and Recognition, and Leadership.
Alt themes showed an increase in favourable scores from 2023.

Trade Union Engagement
.

The Trade Union (Facility Time Publication Requirements} Regulations 2017 took effect from 1 April 2017. Under
these Regulations, the University collects and publishes information about how much time and cost is
attributable to trade union facility time regarding those employees who are trade union representatives. These
disclosures relating to the year from 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024 are included as an appendix to the Annual
Report and Financial Statements.

10 |

Directors’ Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Engagement with suppliers, customers and others

Our strategic approach to suppliers is to build strong, mutually beneficial relationships. St Mary’s University
seeks to promote the development of these relationships to foster our commitment to achieving value for
money while maintaining compliance with the Public Contracts Regulations 2015. The ability to encourage
supplier relationships effectively is an important factor in the decision to enter into or remain within such
contracts, alongside other standards as described in the Procurement Strategy, which is reviewed and approved
periodically. St Mary’s University is an active member of key national collaborative procurement consortiums,
which carry out supplier workshops and conferences to enhance customer/supplier relationships.

Greenhouse gas emission & energy consumption

We set out our report on Green House Gases (GHG) for the period from 1 August 2023 to 31 July 2024 in
accordance with the Companies and Limited Liability Partnerships (Energy and Carbon Report) Regulations.

The University has continued to invest against its commitment to reduce carbon emissions over time. All our
capital projects include measures to improve energy efficiency and reduce carbon emissions. A key initiative this
year has been the completion of the wider refurbishment of M Block to form new computer facilities. An
opportunity has been taken to move the heating system away from gas to air source heat pumps, incorporate
10Kw of solar photovoltaic panels on the roof, introduce more localised heating and cooling controls and install
full LEO lighting systems.

tnvestment has also been made in 15 Waldegrave Park residential accommodation in the form of a complete
refurbishment incorporating new condensing boilers, secondary glazing to the sash windows, improved
insulation and LED light fittings.

We have continued to improve control systems across the campus with the zoning of the B-G buildings into
three zones for better boiler management, installation of local heating controls to all of the eight Victorian
residential building.

Fluorescent lighting continues to be replaced with LED across the campus with the most notable upgrade being
the large sports Performance Hall and a full replacement of lighting to the Drama Production Studio. Remote
lighting control improvements have also been made to the Teddington Lock all weather pitch floodlighting
enabling us to closer control the lights when the pitch is not in use.

Within year we have also replaced the remainder of our fleet of diesel vehicles with fully electric equivalents
utilising grants from Transport for London to part fund the move.

An updated Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) audit was undertaken across the estate, and we
continue to use this as a guide for ongoing investment with financial requests being put into the Capital
Development Board to support this important initiative.

2023-24 saw a further reduction in our gas and electricity usage from the previous period reducing our Scope 1

and 2 emissions. This will be primarily due to cumulative impact of our ongoing improvements as can be seen in
the graph below.

Directors’ Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Greenhouse gas emission & energy consumption (continued}

St Mary's University, Twickenham
Total Scope 1 & 2 carbon emissions in Kg COe

$000,000

2.500.060,

2.011000 "

« =
3

% 1 suc.coe
g

1,099,000
500,000,
a

2018/19 2019/20 2020/21 2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
Financial year

We have adopted the widely accepted approach defined in the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and our results
are summarised below with further details presented in Appendix 2.

Scope 1 (Direct emissions) reflects GHG emissions from activities owned or controlled by the University such as
vehicles and gas for heating on our premises. Our total Scope 1 emissions were 1,221,146 KgCOe (PY: 1,331,395
KgCOe)

Scope 2 (Energy indirect) includes GHG emissions, our electric vehicles and electricity purchased on Campus, the
Exchange and other sites. Our total Scope 2 emissions were 649,152 KgCOe (PY: 691,186 KgCOe).

Scope 3 (Other indirect) represents GHG emissions relating to business travel by students and staff,
procurement, water and waste. Our total Scope 3 emissions were 1,803,330 KgCOe (PY: 1,863,897 KgCOe).

The overall GHG emissions were 3,674 tCOe (PY: 3,886 tCOe). The GHG emission intensity ratio per Staff FTE is
5.61 tCO2e based on a total of 655 staff FTE, whilst it is 0.61 tCO2e per student FTE based on a total of 5,985
student FTE in 2023-24.

Identification of Information Excluded from the Directors’ Report

The review of performance during the year and position at year end, principal risks and uncertainties, analysis
of KPls, and future developments in the business are presented in the Strategic Report, on pages 17-37.

Signed on behalf of the Board of Governors

Bishop Richard Moth
27 November 2024

12 |

Statement of Corporate Governance and Internal Control:
Year ended 31 July 2024

The University presents its Statement of Corporate Governance and Internal Control covering the year 1 August
2023 to 31 July 2024 and up to the date of approval of the financial statements.

Corporate Governance and Internal Control
The conduct of the University’s affairs is governed by the Articles of Association, incorporating the Instrument
and Articles of Government, approved by the Privy Council.

The University has adopted the voluntary Higher Education Code of Governance published by the Committee of
University Chairs published in 2020.

Internal Audit of governance

The annual internal audit opinion for governance was that the University has an adequate and effective
framework for governance. This opinion was informed through internal audit assignments throughout the year
and our internal auditors’ attendance at Audit Committee.

Articles of Association
The current Governing Articles of Association of the University were approved on 25 August 2016 by the Privy
Council.

The Board of Governors

The Board of Governors is responsible for the University’s long-term mission, objectives and strategies for
providing overall financial and organisational control. Governors’ endeavour at all times to conduct their
business in accordance with the ‘Nolan’ Principles of Public Life.

The composition of the University’s Board of Governors is set out in the Articles of Association. Ouring the year
ended 31 July 2024, the Board has consisted of not more than twenty-four members being:

© Ex officio: The Chair (nominee of the Archbishop of Westminster), the Director of the Catholic Education
Service (or nominee) and the Vice-Chancellor.

@ Up to six Governors carrying the nomination of the Catholic Education Service and six Governors
carrying the nomination of the Archbishop of Westminster.
Up to six co-opted Governors.
Two staff Governors and one Student Governor.

It is the Board's intention that it should not normally have more than 18 members.

Recommendations for appointment to the Board are made by the Nominations and Governance Committee.
Governors are normally appointed for three years (renewable for up to nine years) while the student Governor
(the President of the Students’ Union) is appointed for one year.

The University Secretary maintains a register of financial and personal interests of the Governors and detailed
records are available for inspection through the University Secretary.

All Governors are able to take independent professional advice in furtherance of their duties and have access to
the University Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that all applicable procedures and
regulations are complied with. The appointment, evaluation and removal of the University Secretary are matters
for the Board of Governors as a whole.

Transparency

In the interests of transparency and accountability a number of major documents relating to the governance of
the University are published on the University website including meeting minutes, the Articles of Association,
the Board’s Standing Orders, detailed information on the process for the appointment of Governors, a Scheme
of Delegation, Terms of Reference, and the Board Handbook.

13 |»

Statement of Corporate Governance and Internal Control (continued):
Year ended 31 July 2024

Oversight of Corporate Governance, Risk Management and Statutory and Regulatory Responsibilities

The Audit and Risk Committee of the Board of Governors provides much oversight of the University’s corporate
governance and risk management. This is through reports to the Committee from the internal auditors, and from
the University’s risk management group from which a report is received at every meeting of the Audit and Risk
Committee. The Roard of Governors in turn has consideration of the minutes of the Audit and Risk Committee
as a standing item. The Board also receives updates on corporate governance matters from the University
Secretary and the Vice-Chancellor. The Board also approves the Terms of Reference of its Committees on an
annual basis.

The Board and its Committees also ensure that the University complies with its statutory and regulatory
responsibilities. The Academic Scrutiny Committee and the Academic Board, together with the Board of
Governors, provide much of the oversight of compliance with OfS’s ongoing conditions of registration. The
Finance and Resources Committee oversees compliance with the University’s statutory obligations in relation to
health and safety, and equatity and diversity.

Ensuring regularity and propriety in the use of public funding

Consideration of the management accounts of the University is a standing item for both the Board of Governors
and the Finance and Resources Committee. Oversight of the use of public funding is also provided through the
Academic Scrutiny Committee and the Academic Board, both of which have responsibilities for the University’s
academic activities. The Internal Auditors may also conduct audits of the University’s processes for handling
such monies with these reports being considered by the Audit Committee. The Finance and Resources
Committee also reviews and approves the University's TRAC returns.

Committees

The Board of Governors conducts its business through several committees. The terms of reference for each
committee are approved by the Board and subject to annual review and are also available to view on the
University’s website. During the year ended 31 July 2024, the Board’s committees were as follows:

Audit and Risk Committee

The Audit and Risk Committee meets at least four times a year and consists of at least three non-staff Governors;
up to two additional members with appropriate experience may be co-opted if appropriate. While senior
executives may attend meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee, they are not members of it. Both the external
and internal auditors have independent access to the Committee and vice versa.

The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for the consideration of internal and external audit
recommendations, advising the Board on the appointment of internal and external auditors and monitoring
adherence to regulatory requirements. In addition, the Committee reviews the University’s annual financiat
statements together with the accounting policies. The Committee also receives reports on data quality, provides
oversight of management implementation plans and considers reports from external bodies as they affect the
University’s business.

Finance and Resources Committee
The Finance and Resources Committee consists of up to five Governors (four non-staff Governors and the Vice-
Chancellor) and meets at least three times a year.

The Finance and Resources Committee recommends to the Board inter alia the University’s annual revenue and
capital budgets and monitors performance in relation to the approved budgets. It recommends and approves
policies and procedures in relation to Human Resources matters. It advises on infrastructure matters including

Information Technology and Estates strategies and the monitoring of major corporate projects. It also has
oversight of health and safety.

14 |

i
K

Statement of Corporate Governance and Internal Control (continued):
Year ended 31 July 2024

Committees (continued)

Academic Scrutiny Committee

The Academic Scrutiny Committee consists of five governors (three non-staff governors, an academic staff
governor, a student governor, and the Vice-Chancellor}. The Academic Scrutiny Committee scrutinises and
challenges the Academic Board and the Senior Management Team on the quality and enhancement of the
academic experience and student outcomes.

Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee is comprised of up to five Governors. It determines the remuneration of senior
staff, including that of the Vice-Chancellor.

Nominations and Governance Committee

The Nominations Committee comprises the Chair, the Vice-Chair, the Chief Executive of the Catholic Education
Service or nominee, the Vice-Chancellor and one other Governor. The Committee considers nominations for
vacancies in the Board of Governor’s membership under the Articles of Association and undertakes its duties
with reference to the national guidance and good practice. It also considers the chairing and membership of
committees and the efficiency and effectiveness of governance.

Scope of Responsibility

The Board of Governors is ultimately responsible for the University’s internal control system and for reviewing
its effectiveness. The Board has delegated to the Vice-Chancellor the day to day responsibility for maintaining
a sound system of internal control that supports the policies, aims and objectives of the University whilst
safeguarding the public funds and assets, in accordance with the responsibilities set out in the Terms and
Conditions of Funding between the University and Office for Students (OfS). The Vice-Chancellor is also
responsible for reporting to the Board any material weaknesses or breakdowns in internal control.

The Purpose of the System of Internal Control

The interna! control system is based on an ongoing process designed to identify the principal risks to the
achievement of the University’s aims and objectives, evaluate the extent of those risks, and manage them
efficiently, effectively and economically. However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement or loss.

The Risk and Control Framework

There is a formal ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks facing the
University and that the process and associated procedures have been in place and operational throughout the
year, notably through the regular review and updating of the Strategic Risk Register. The Strategic Risk Register
details strategic and recurrent risks and covers governance, management, quality of service, and reputational,
operational, regulatory and compliance as well as financial risks together with the range of mitigating controls
in place and the early warning indicators for each risk. The Strategic Risk Register is under continuous review by
senior managers and Governors and the Risk Management process itself is reviewed by internal audit on an
annual basis. This process enables the University to ensure that it is able to monitor and manage risks in an
ever-changing environment.

The key elements of the University’s system of risk assessment and internal control, which is designed to
discharge the responsibilities set out above, include the following:

* the University has a Risk Management Group chaired by the Chief Financial Officer with a membership
consisting of senior managers. The group generally meets at least four times a year and reports to the
University Executive Committee, the Senior Leadership Team, and the Audit and Risk Committee;

e risk assessment procedures are embedded in ongoing operations across the University. Heads of
academic and administrative departments regularly contribute to the identification and mitigation of
risks that are incorporated into the Strategic Risk Register, Emerging Risk register and Opportunities
register;

ID|ece

Statement of Corporate Governance and Internal Control (continued):
Year ended 31 July 2024

The Risk and Control Framework (continued)

e heads of academic and administrative departments have clearly defined responsibilities for ongoing
monitoring of the internal control environment, as well as identification and implementation of
improvements;

* acomprehensive short and medium-term planning process, supplemented by detailed annual income,
expenditure, capital and cash flow budgets;

e regular reviews of academic performance and monthly reviews of financial results involving variance
reporting and updates of forecast outturns;

e clearly defined and formalised requirements for approval and control of expenditure, with investment
decisions involving capital or revenue expenditure being subject to formal, detailed appraisal and
review according to approval levels set by the Board of Governors; and

© comprehensive Financial Regulation, detailing financial controls and procedures approved by the Board
of Governors.

The University also uses a professional Internal Audit team whose annual programme is approved by the Audit
and Risk Committee. The University’s Internal Audit service operates to the Chartered Institute of Internal
Auditors (CHA) Internal Audit Code of Practice and is informed by the content of the University’s Strategic Risk
Register. The internal auditors provide the Board’s Audit and Risk Committee with a report on internal audit
activity within the University, opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the University’s internal control
system, and regular reports to the Audit Committee.

Based on the programme of work undertaken, the Annual Report of the Internal Auditors to the Board’s Audit
and Risk Committee indicates an adequate and effective framework for risk management, governance, internal
control and economy, efficiency and effectiveness, albeit with further enhancements identified to ensure that
it remains adequate and effective.

The internal audit programme for 2023-24 did not identify any significant internal control weaknesses during
the reviews undertaken during the year. However, the University will maintain its focus on addressing the issues
raised by its internal auditors and is committed to a culture of continuous improvement in this area.

Review of effectiveness
On behalf of the Board of Governors, the Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the
systems of internal control. During 2023-24 the University has:

© continued to review and embed its risk management policy into the decision-making processes of the
University;

@ reported to the Board, including providing an annual monitoring return on risk management; and
continued the strategy that the Internal Audit service adapts audit planning arrangements,
methodology and approach to conform to the latest professional standards.

The Board receives periodic reports from the Audit and Risk Committee (including copies of the minutes of the
Audit Committee meetings) and arrangements are in place to ensure regular reports from managers on their
actions to manage the risks in their areas of responsibility. The Board’s review of the effectiveness of the internal
control system is informed by the work of the Internal Auditors, senior staff, and managers and by any comments
made by the External Auditors in their management letter or other reports.

16 |

Strategic Report: Year ended 31 July 2024

The Governors present their Strategic Report for the University for the year ended 31 July 2024.

History and Incorporation Status

St Mary's University, Twickenham (“St Mary’s” or “the University”) was founded in 1850 by the Catholic Poor
Schools Committee to meet the need for teachers to provide an education for the growing numbers of poor
Catholic children. Since then, it has diversified its portfolio of programmes, but its original mission is still very
much in evidence and about a third of our students are on either initial teacher training programmes or
continuing professional development for serving teachers.

In 2006 the University was incorporated as a company limited by guarantee, company registration number
05977277 and registered as a charity on 23 July 2007, charity registration number 1120192. It commenced
trading on 1 August 2007 following the transfer of the net assets and undertakings from the then registered
charity, registration number 312935. At this time the legal objects of the University were clarified, and these
are still informed by its original foundation.

On 23 January 2014 St Mary’s gained University title and the Privy Council approved the name of the institution
to be “St Mary’s University, Twickenham”.

Mission and Purpose

We are an inclusive Catholic University seeking to develop the whole person and we empower our community
to have a positive impact on the world.

Competitive and Regulatory Environment and Financial Context

St Mary’s continues to face a challenging domestic and international recruitment climate. New visa restrictions
on family members, the increased cost of living, and a sector-wide decline in deposits paid, point to a dip in
overall international students coming to the UK in autumn 2024. Despite this difficult external environment, St
Mary's has maintained a broadly stable number of international students joining the University. The UK home
market remains very competitive, with higher-tariff institutions holding on to applicants and limiting the pool of
clearing students available.

Portfolio and markets
Application levels across the sector are being maintained by high demand for STEM subjects, an area where St

- Mary’s has a limited albeit increasing portfolio. The continued expansion of courses such as Computer Science

and Occupational Therapy is pivotal to shifting our portfolio to meet future market demand, as is the further
enhancement of the St Mary’s reputation and brand identity, through flagship projects such as the Medical
School.

Widening the sources of academic income beyond our traditional St Mary’s core offering remains a priority,
and this year we have seen the successful launch of the St Mary’s Online platform, with our first cohorts
enrolling earlier this year.

A sector-wide slump in UK demand for education courses has put further pressure on other areas of the
portfolio to deliver stronger returns. While PGCE numbers have stabilised this cycle, demand is still down
compared to the levels seen in the recent past.

The future reduction in Foundation Year fees (2025/26 cycle) will continue to put further pressure on the
University to find innovative ways to bring in income and improve efficiency.

Access

We have made significant structural and operational changes and have developed an ambitious approach to
widening access and improving outcomes, which we plan to consolidate, develop, and expand in the coming
years. Despite the disruptive impacts of 2 years of Covid-related upheaval, the worst cost of living crisis in 40
years, and against a backdrop of sector-wide decline in student mental health and wellbeing, we have made

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Access (continued)

clear progress in nine of our thirteen previous APP (Access and Participation Plan) targets, with particular success
in relation to disabled and mature students. However, we recognise that we have further work to do, particularly
in relation to closing ethnicity gaps, especially where this intersects with other demographic factors, such as
gender, prior qualifications, and socioeconomic status.

Regulation

The regulatory environment in the UK continues to increase the burden on institutions, with smaller universities
such as St Mary’s finding it especially resource intensive. The Of$ roll-out of Data Futures brings the promise of
greater transparency and data efficiency but is also putting a significant strain on resources. Not becoming
overwhelmed by the regulatory burden will require institutions to have robust and efficient data systems that
will automate much of the work.

Vision 2030

In July 2021, the Board approved Vision 2030, an updated strategic direction for the University. This was
intended to build on the previous strategic plan Vision 2025 and is available on the University website.

The aims of Vision 2030 are an expression of the University’s Catholic ethos and, in particular, St John Henry
Newmans idea that higher education should be about developing the whole person and that all knowledge is
interconnected.

Vision 2030 is built around creating a transformational experience for our students as our staff support them to
succeed. Being a welcoming and supportive University, open to people of any faith and none, is a continuing
expression of the nature of a Catholic University. Our new strategic plan is focused around the following five key
pillars:

*® Achieving Student Success. We want our students to develop into independent problem solvers and
socially responsible individuals. Our focus on student centred learning will enhance student retention,
attainment and progression, and we will continue to deliver a vibrant student experience. Graduate
employability is important to St Mary’s: through the applied nature of our programmes and through
placement opportunities we will ensure that our students are prepared for the world of work.

* Developing our People. We will seek to empower our staff to reach their full potential by developing a
supportive, inclusive, collaborative and inspiring working environment. We want our staff and our
leadership to reflect and encompass the diversity of our student body and the wider community we serve.

e Extending our impact through Growth. We need to keep growing to ensure our financial sustainability
and to continue building our diverse and vibrant community. We will build on areas of strength and offer
a range of delivery methods to ensure our University is accessible for all students regardless of
background, location or circumstance.

«  €xpanding our reach through Partnerships. Through our partnerships we will enhance student
experience and create opportunities for growth. By building international partnerships we can offer our
students and staff the chance to learn through experiencing other cultures and societies and become
truly global citizens. We will be a trusted partner both locally and internationally, forming and building
upon relationships with other Universities, further education colleges, the Church, other faith
communities, sporting and civic organisations within London and beyond.

© Enhancing our sense of space. We will develop and improve our Strawberry Hill campus sustainably,
keeping it safe and environmentally friendly. As a University with a civic mission, we will play an
increasingly active role in the life of our local communities. As part of a world-wide faith-based
community, we will always think globally, conscious of our interconnectedness and duty of care to each
other and our planet.

a

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Vision 2030 (continued)
These pillars will be essential in guiding St Mary’s to a secure future.

Our four core values define St Mary’s and underpin all we do as a University. These values are unchanged and
remain at the heart of Vision 2030:

e — Inclusiveness. We celebrate differences and welcome diversity, recognising that everyone is born with
a unique identity. St Mary’s is a place where all students and staff can reach their full potential and
make a positive contribution to society.

e Generosity of Spirit. Across the University there’s a strong sense on encouragement, collegiality,
empathy, helpfulness and service to others.

e Respect. We respect all and treat everyone as we ourselves would want to be treated.

‘© Excellence. We strive to be the best at everything we do. We set high standards and seek continuous
improvement in all our practices and work.

Vision 2030 Key Performance indicators

To support advancement in our Vision 2030, we have built KPis into our strategic plan. These have been
developed to ensure St Mary’s is continually seeking to improve on all measures. They will enable a greater focus
and scrutiny across a wide range of key performance areas. These include Student continuation, Degree
completion, Progression to professional employment or further study, Student satisfaction, Student Numbers
(overall and international students), Staff Turnover, Research income, Revenues from Strategic Partnerships,
Enterprise income, and sustainability.

Section 172 Statement

This statement is intended to set out how the Governing Body of the University has fulfilled its duty to promote
the success of the University under Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 and considered the interests of the
University’s stakeholders when making decisions.

Purpose of the University

The University’s purpose is to be a Catholic Higher Education provider attracting students of all faiths and none.
The Catholic ethos of the University inspires the development of an institution in which students want to study,
employees want to work, and with which people and other institutions want to partner. The Governing Body is
responsible for ensuring that this is done in a sustainable manner, underpinned by the values and ethos of the
University.

The University’s long-term success relies on increasing the number of students studying at the University both
at the undergraduate and postgraduate level and recruiting them both domestically and internationally. To
attract students, the University offers courses that have the necessary academic rigour; meet the market’s
needs; and that provide a stepping stone for students’ career development either outside or within academia.

To underpin the University’s long-term success there is a need for careful financial management, excellent
relationships with employees and the members of the University, strong partnerships with third parties such as
other institutions, and close working relationships with suppliers.

The Governing Body is responsible for ensuring that the University is successful in fulfilling its purpose and
continues to go from strength to strength in the coming years.

9] age

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

University Stakeholders
The University has a variety of stakeholders. These are considered to be:

The Students of the University.
The University’s Employees.

@ The Catholic Church, including the Archdiocese of Westminster and the Catholic Education Service
which have particular responsibilities within the University’s governance arrangements.

e Institutional Partners of the University. ;

e Suppliers of Goods and Services to the University.

Key Decisions During 2023/2024

Support for the creation of a Medical School

As part of the effort to meet the targets set out in the University’s Strategic plan, Vision 2030, in 2022-23 the
Board agreed that the University should pursue the creation of a Medical School. During 2023-24 the Board
approved the University’s initial submission to the General Medical Council (‘GMC’) for approval to deliver
Medical Education. In May 2024 the University received the GMC’s unconditional approval to proceed to the
self-assessment stage of the authorisation process, and we are currently on-track to admit our first cohort of
students in 2026.

In 2023-24 the Board also approved a proposal to redevelap the R Block in order to house the Medical School.
The Centenary Building will offer a modern multi-functional space that can be used by medical students and
student on other Allied Health programmes during their studies. The University expects to begin this work
during the 2024-25 academic year.

Approval of new Access and Participation Plan

In June 2024 the Board reviewed and approved the University’s new Access and Participation Plan which will
take effect from September 2025. The plan provides a comprehensive view of the actions and interventions
that the University will take in order to ensure equality of access and outcomes. ,

Engagement with employees

Please refer to the section “Engagement with Employees” in the Directors’ report on pages 9 and 10.

Engagement with suppliers, customers and other

Please refer to the section “Engagement with suppliers, customers and others” in the Directors’ report on page
11.

20 |

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Development and performance in the year against key strategies

The 2023-24 academic year marked a period of substantial development and transformation for the University.
Key milestones included the introduction of a new Senior Academic Management structure, alongside revised
Faculty, School, and administrative support structures. Additionally, the governance structure was reviewed and
implemented, with updated terms of reference and membership for the eleven committees reporting to
Academic Board. To support these changes, the Provost Group was strengthened, integrating Executive Faculty
Deans with corporate responsibilities for Academic Partnerships, Research, and the Student Experience. Subject
leads were appointed to these strategic areas, fostering a collaborative approach to institutional priorities.

As an institution committed to excellence in learning, teaching, and research, Academic Strategy remains a
cornerstone of St Mary’s Mission, Vision and Values. The University has continued to grow and diversify its
academic offer, refining pedagogical and assessment practices while making advances in Research. Following
extensive consultations with Senior Academic Management, the University’s new Academic Strategy is nearing
completion and is expected to be presented to the Academic Board for approval in November 2024.

The Academic Board also approved a revised Workload Allocation Management (WAM) Framework, which will
guide the development and implementation of a new academic workload allocation platform. The St Mary's
WAM is designed to ensure equitable and transparent distribution of academic workloads across the institution.
A dedicated project team, supported by the Workload Planning Steering Group, has been working to implement
a more adaptable University-wide system with enhanced capabilities for data capture and effective resource
planning. The new platform is scheduled to go live in March 2024.

St Mary’s is proud of its continued outstanding results in the 2024 National Student Survey (NSS). The University
achieved significant improvements across all key areas, ranking in the top five nationally for Learning
Opportunities, Academic Support, and Organisation and Management. Additionally, St Mary’s secured a top ten
position for Teaching on My Course and Student Voice. In London, St Mary’s was recognised as the leading
institution for Academic Support and Organisation and Management, and it ranked within the top five in four
other categories. These achievements were further validated by the Complete University Guide (CUG) 2025,
where St. Mary’s rose 16 places, ranking in the top ten nationally and second in London for student satisfaction.
The University also experienced substantial growth in the Guardian University Guide, climbing 30 places in the
Past two years.

The University’s Access and Participation Plan (APP) for the 2020-21 to 2024-25 period had been approved and
in response to the OfS’s new regulatory requirements, the University developed and submitted a new APP for
the period beginning 2025-26, which placed greater emphasis on addressing risks to equality of opportunity,
implementing targeted intervention strategies, rigorously evaluating impact and increasing financial investment.
The revised plan sets higher expectations for the inclusion of student groups, data utilisation, intervention
specificity and the rigour of impact assessments. In recognition of our commitment to Widening Participation,
St. Mary’s was awarded the 2024 London Higher Award for Outstanding Widening Participation or Outreach
Initiative of the Year for its "Get Set for Success" programme.

We were proud to have been awarded a gold rating from the Office for Students (OfS) in the 2023 Teaching
Excellence Framework (TEF) assessment, which recognises the University’s exceptional student experience. The
Gold rating signifies that the student experience at St. Mary’s is typically outstanding. Additionally, the University
received an overall silver rating for teaching and learning quality and a Silver rating for student outcomes,
acknowledging the very high standard of these areas. The TEF ratings are vatid for four years.

Ouring the 2023-24 academic year, the University prioritised the implementation of the St Mary’s Student
Retention Strategy. This new strategy outlines a three-year roadmap aimed at improving student retention and
completion rates, which will be crucial for the next TEF assessment in 2026-27. To support this strategy, we
reviewed and streamlined key processes related to attendance monitoring, personat tutoring, support for
students at risk, and the management of “ghost” students. These efforts resulted in the approval of the St Mary’s
Attendance and Student Engagement Policy and the Personal Tutoring and Students at Risk Policy, both

21]...

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Development and performance in the year against key strategies (continued)

of which will come into effect in the 2024-25 academic year. Oversight of student retention, including for our
academic partners, will remain a key focus in the coming year.

The Sehuul uf Education maintained its Ofsted Outstanding rating for the third consecutive time across all
categories for Primary and Secondary Initial Teacher Training. This achievement reinforces the University’s
position as one of the country’s leading teacher training providers. Following an Ofsted monitoring visit to assess
our Apprenticeship provision, the University was commended for making good progress in all areas, including
the assessment of our School Chaplaincy Apprenticeship programme. Since then, the School of Education has
expanded its apprenticeship provision to include a Senior Leader Apprenticeship in both Leading innovation and
Change (MA) and in a Catholic Context (MA).

The Schaal of Law was delighted to have partnered with Support Through Court, a national charity dedicated to
providing free practical and emotional help to people who cannot afford vital legal services or access legal aid.
Students from St Mary’s will have the opportunity to gain practical work experience through the partnership,
allowing them to provide legal support to those going through the court system.

Looking ahead to the new academic year, several strategic priorities have been outlined in the University’s
Academic Strategy and Faculty Growth Plans. The University has in recent years established a small number of
franchise partnerships, and has invested across the institution to manage the quality and effectiveness of these
arrangements. The level of underlying quallty risk in these collaborations is generally more pronounced than
with on-campus students. These risks have been managed pro-actively by the University; the oversight and
management of these collaborations will continue to be a major area of focus for the University. The University
is also looking to increase student numbers through enhanced branding and marketing strategies, as well as
extending our reach through internationalisation and diversification of our programme portfolio. Additionally,
following the recruitment of a new Dean of Education and Outcomes, we will focus on achieving key metrics and
‘improving student retention and continuation. Leveraging Faculty Research Centres, we aim to produce
impactful research and enhance enterprise and external engagement for the benefit of our students and the
local community. Furthermore, we will explore opportunities for greater efficiency in academic workload
allocation and portfolio review to ensure our students receive the best value and academic experience.

International Engagement, Student Recruitment and Admissions

This was the first full year of International Engagement, Student Recruitment and Admissions (iESRA) operating
as a distinct unit. Following a period in an interim role, Kristen Pilbrow was appointed as Director of IESRA in
September 2023. Since then, the department has continued to coordinate closely with Marketing and
Communications on student recruitment initiatives while incorporating new strands of work to do with
partnerships and internationalisation.

The UK Student Recruitment team expanded its efforts this year to offer postgraduate Open Evenings and a
virtual Open Day as well as eight on-campus Open Days and Experience Days aimed at undergraduate enquirers
and offer-holders. In addition to this, they ran regular webinars and campus tours for a variety of audiences. The
focus was on revitalising on-campus events to showcase St Mary’s vibrant social offering while creating a tailored
experience based on students’ academic course. This was achieved by increasing representation from student
societies, the Students’ Union and Sport St Mary’s and by introducing Faculty-specific talks to Experience Days.
The events were well-received, with attendance at Experience Days up by 32% overall from 2023 and attendance
at our June 2024 Open Day up by 30%.

Off campus, the Student Recruitment team invested in the design of the University’s UCAS stands to present a
more eye-catching proposition to applicants. The team attended 28 UCAS and UK Unisearch fairs, substantially
increasing our lead pool compared to the previous year. They also added two postgraduate fairs to their
recruitment schedule.

22 |

nena nS Coweta a

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

International Engagement, Student Recruitment and Admissions (continued)

Our very active Schools and Colleges team attended 129 HE and careers fairs at partner institutions and delivered
159 incoming and outgoing visits. Their activities include institutions in the UK and the Republic of treland, which
promises signs of increased enrolments for 2024-25. Schools and Colleges joined forces with the University’s
Widening Participation team to deliver valuable services to learners in FE colleges, sixth forms, faith-based
institutions and schools. This work is informed by St Mary’s Access and Participation Plan. This year, the team
built on its work with faith-based institutions to develop a student recruitment strategy specifically for Catholic
institutions, working with the School of Education in its approach to Catholic Multi-Academy Trusts.

The Schools and Colleges team also took responsibility for hiring, training and managing the University’s pool of
Student Ambassadors. These important roles benefit our recruitment efforts and our work with feeder
institutions by creating a group of talented students who gain meaningful employment experience while
representing the University at events and during Clearing.

Our international team actively recruited from India, the USA, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh, Nepal, Nigeria,
Ghana, Thailand, Vietnam, Japan, Turkey, the UAE, Norway and Spain this year. They were pleased to be able to
promote our new MSc Computer Science and BA Business Management Top-up Year offerings for January 2024,
as well as our new MBA programme for September 2024. This course was launched by a delegation including
the Dean of the Faculty of Business and Law and the Director of !ESRA that travelled to India in October 2023. In
separate trips, senior academics from Computer Science and Allied Health also went to India and Pakistan to
meet stakeholders and recruit students. .

In avery challenging time for the sector, St Mary’s has seen international student recruitment fall less than our
competitors while increasing work on UKVI compliance. Compliance initiatives this year included the addition of
the Enrol platform to our international Admissions procedures, signing the Agent Quality Framework pledge and
redrafting our agent contracts to reflect best practice in the sector. Our incoming study abroad programme is
another area of international strength, with the numbers of students on our semester-long and summer
programmes having returned to pre-pandemic levels.

Our Admissions team increased its work with domestic partners Regent College, The Language Gallery and The
Elizabeth School this year, supporting the partnerships pillar of Vision 2030, as well as working with new Faculty-
specific partners to admit students on specific courses. They also supported the University’s safeguarding
priorities by enhancing the protocols for teacher training applicant referencing and for DBS applications.

Marketing and Communications

The Marketing and Communications team completed its first academic year with its broadened remit, taking
responsibility for internal communications alongside brand and visual identity, PR, digital, and marketing. The
new permanent Director of Marketing and Communications, Beth Hayes, joined in February from UCAS. The
department continues to work closely with the International Engagement, Student Recruitment and Admissions
directorate, with regular meetings and reporting structures.

September 2023 saw the formal launch of the MySMU app to students and staff. The app offers a new interface
for students to access key services and mark attendance at teaching sessions. Download rates were high at
launch, with 5598 registered users. The priority for the year ahead for the app is a successful launch to new
students in Sept 2024 and rolling out to applicants to assist with their journey joining St Mary’s.

The start of the academic year also saw the development and launch of the international communications
toolkit. This was developed following consultation and research on the key internal communications systems
colleagues use. The toolkit provides advice, guidance and systems to empower staff to run their own internal
communications initiatives. This system has allowed the internal communications team to serve in an advisory
role on day-to-day initiatives and prioritise work on higher profile campaigns such as the NSS and new student
induction.

23 [046

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Marketing and Communications (continued)

The web team this year undertook two main projects - the redevelopment of the homepage and of the
staff/student websites. The refresh, which launched in February, saw improvements to the look and feel of the
homepage and other key wehsite sections, bringing the visual identity in line with current website design
standards. The updates also brought enhanced adaptability, empowering the team to make more fundamental
changes to the design quicker and more cost effectively.

Allied to the homepage review, the digital team also overhauled the staff and student website landing pages.
These changes gave each site a unique visual identity to make distinct from the main university website and
reordered content, following a user experience audit to prioritise high value content and save users’ navigation
time finding key services.

Following a review of pre-application communications in the previous year, a similar exercise was undertaken
for post-offer communications this year. This review considered the different channels available, messaging and
USPs and the priorities of applicants. This included additional messaging around cost of living and the generation
of additional student testimonial content.

The department also began work on longer term brand strategy and audience identification and segmentation.
Utilising new large data sets, the team will be looking at how we reach new audiences and frame University
courses to effectively communicate with prospective students. This work has already begun with the annual
clearing campaign, utilising new digital channels and locations to reach new audiences.

Related to this, the department has started work on reviewing the St Mary’s brand proposition to ensure we are
effectively communicating the unique higher education experience at the University. A large-scale piece of brand
perception research has been undertaken, speaking to people who both know and don’t know the University
from a range of backgrounds and stakeholder groups. The outputs of this research will inform the development
of the University’s brand strategy and proposition to ensure we are being as effective as possible in all marketing
and communications activity.

Research

Research has continued to serve as an important vehicle in enabling St Mary’s to enhance its sense of place,
develop its people, establish partnerships, and generate impact as we work towards addressing the pillars of
Vision 2030 that will help realise the University’s long-term growth and success.

We have worked towards enhancing our sense of Place through research by bringing external groups,
communities, and organisations onto our campus. The University’s focus on Catholic social thought is an
important thread within our research activity; prominent examples of this include the Bakhita Centre for
Research on Slavery Exploitation & Abuse and the Centre for the Art of Living & Dying Well. Each of the
University’s faculties have hosted international conferences and symposia, with these fora enabling St Mary's to
place itseff at the heart of dialogue and debate to address challenges and issues concerning society. Such
international conferences and symposia include, but are not limited to, (i) a two-day symposium on ‘Faith and
Education: contemporary issues in global historical perspective’ (Faculty of Education, Theology and The Arts) at
which 35 national and international delegates attended and presented; (ii) 2 two-day international conference
between Association for Psychosocial Studies and Association for Psychoanalysis Culture and Society was hosted
by St Mary's (Faculty of Business and Law) including over 100 international presenters, and; (iii) the ISAK 2024
XVII World Conference on Kinanthropometry (Faculty of Sport, Technology and Health Sciences) featuring
international keynotes, invited speakers, symposia, discussion panels and poster displays spread across three
days.

Our staff are being enabled to develop their personal and professional selves and achieve their full potential as
People through their research endeavours. This year, research pursuits and achievements have seen staff
enhance their profiles and in turn that of St Mary’s in being recognised through appointment to the Home
Office’s Biometrics and Forensic Ethics Group by the Home Secretary, making invited contributions to All Party

24 |

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Research (continued)

Parliamentary Groups, providing evidence to the Joint Committee on Human Rights, briefing shadow cabinet
ministers, being appointed as board members of South London Partnership, and being invited to contribute to
the UK Committee on Research Integrity.

We also continue to make use of research to foster partnerships both inside and outside of academia. Outside
of academia, our continued partnerships with FIFA and UEFA are beginning to bear fruit with co-authored
articles now publicly available, whilst we have established new partnerships with Surrey County Cricket Club and
anticipate renewing our long-term partnership with The Royal Ballet Company. Within academia, we have
established collaborations with multiple Universities across Europe as part of EU Horizon funded projects to
investigate and support mental health.

Strategically, St Mary's positions itself as a University which undertakes applied research and strives to do
research that ‘makes a difference’. The implementation of our REF2029 strategy, that was written this last year,
has helped shine a light on such research impact as we identify potential future impact case studies, with
particular areas of strength being our programmes and projects on death and assisted dying, confession,
concussion, and mental health. Looking ahead, we will prioritise allocation of research funds to support such
impactful programmes as part of both our wider mission to ‘make a difference’ and to strengthen our long-term
REF preparations.

Although research has been utilised to realise considerable progress in enhancing the university's sense of Place,
to develop its Peaple, and generating Impact, the year 2023-24 has seen a downturn in externally generated
research income. Although funding successes have been realised and applications and activity for external
funding remaining healthy (e.g., AHRC, Marie Curie, Research England Development Fund, UKRI Future Leaders,
Nuffield Health, Church of England, Templeton Foundation, Autism Science Foundation), some of the larger
funding successes of recent years have not been replicated over the last 12 months. However, with newly
established large-scale multi-year projects now launching (e.g., Reconnected, Mentupp) that will generate
healthy research income, in combination with the progress that has been made this year to help strengthen our
sense of Place with funders, professional organisations, religious groups, and charities, we anticipate that
research income in future years will return to the levels expected in Vision 2030 targets.

Finally, research serves as an important contributor to student success. The results from the most recent
postgraduate research experience survey showed the overail satisfaction of postgraduate researchers at St
Mary’s is very high (91%) and in the top quartile globally, and also in the top quartile for quality of supervision
(91%), development of research skills (94%), and opportunities for professional development (88%). Whiist there
is scope to improve the sense of community for our postgraduate research students and their access to working
spaces, the overall scores from this survey endorse the quality of environment that we are creating for our
research students. The quality of supervision and success of our PhD programme is illustrated in 24 successful
doctoral completions through 2023-24. Our doctoral programmes continue to grow, with over 180 students
registered acrass all doctoral programmes and this number due to surpass 200 in 2024-25 on the basis of
applications received and offers made.

Knowledge Exchange, Engagement and Innovation

This past year we have increased our provision of short courses and CPD offerings. These have spanned
accredited skills-related courses and community-focused entertainment-education courses, including Eating
Well; Inflammation and the Gut; Muslim Studies; and Sikh Studies. We have also sought to engage with local
communities by offering re-skilling and up-skilling courses, with two new accredited courses having been
developed in health and wellbeing. The Health Coaching Level 3 and Reflexology Level 3 courses provide
opportunities to develop businesses and careers in these areas and expand the portfolio of existing healthcare
practitioners. Looking forward, we will further grow our offerings in health and wellbeing.

The School of Education continues to provide CPO for Primary and Secondary school teachers in Science, Physical
Education, Modern Foreign Languages, and Primary Literacy. For Maths teachers this has been delivered

Wo:

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Knowledge Exchange, Engagement and Innovation (continued)

through the involvement of our academic staff in Maths Hubs, including development of a toolkit for teachers
acting as Maths mentors. CPD training in developing Catholic school leaders has been delivered to educators in
the U.K. through local Catholic school groups, and internationally in South Africa, Mauritius and Uganda.
Furthering our CPD otter, we have built on work the University has previously undertaken on stalker awareness
training to develop a proposal for this training in the criminal justice sector in London. This has resulted in a
successful award and seen us deliver stalker awareness training to several hundred frontline professionals.

We have pursued and achieved wider public engagement through open public talks on diverse subjects ranging
from the rising tide of non-religious people in America to the benefits of exercise in older adults. These talks
have been delivered using traditional in-person events to local AgeUK Richmond members and using online
platforms that has enabled our academic staff to engage with global audiences. Our engagement and knowledge
sharing with AgeUK Richmond has devetoped into a joint research project that explores food enjoyment and
quality of life in older adults.

We have made use of our research expertise to engage with parliament and share knowledge with professional
organisations and the wider public via mainstream media. For example, the increasing global popularity of
women’s football and associated debate around equality and inclusion led to research conducted at St Mary’s
on football boot design and fit which revealed inequalities and potential health consequences for women players
being discussed by the UK government’s Women and Equalities Committee, mainstream media and European-
level sporting bodies. Other examples include contributions to debates and presentations on the role of religion
in civic society, politics and faith, sports injury recovery, and technology and science’s role in promoting equality,
diversity and inclusion. Such discourse has been with public bodies including the Local Government Association,
All Party Parliamentary Group events, the International Federation of Association Football, and the Association
for Science and Education.

The Exchange has continued to deliver a vibrant programme of public engagement involving lectures, music
events and live performances covering topics such as female health, social history, science, and drama. The
Exchange has developed several new collaborations, one such collaboration has been with the Richmond Arts
and Ideas Festival whose festival opening was hosted at The Exchange, giving rise to opportunities for
interactions with new audiences and local arts and creative communities. We also incorporated the FEAST
event, which was a collaboration between The Entrepreneurial Refugee Network and St Mary’s staff and
students, into the festival programme. FEAST celebrated food as a means to break down boundaries between
cultures, and visitors to our campus for this event explored refugee stories through their food at a street-food
market run by refugees to the UK, as well as through live performances of music, art and the spoken word.

We have continued to strengthen our relationship with the South London Partnership (SLP), which has seen the
University’s Director of Research being invited to sit as a board member on the newly established SLP Board.

We have delivered consultancy work to local businesses based upon our staff expertise. In one case, we used
our academic expertise, specialist equipment and facilities to validate their product for application in a new
commercial market. For another business, we analysed complex data sets to improve the data modelling behind
the business flagship App. Collectively, these projects have seeded work in developing a Knowledge Transfer
Partnership (KTP) application based on data science with an existing commercial collaborator.

Strategically, we continue to seek to increase use of our specialist equipment and facilities as a means of
engaging with local communities and organisations and generate income, and we have seen new interactions
with our campus as a result of this. For example, we have hosted the St Bernadette Relic Tour, providing an
opportunity for members of the public to interact with the relics exhibited in our chapel, as well as engage with
the Catholic heritage of the University, explore the wider campus, and meet and converse with academics and
students. The number of businesses and organisations using our sports facilities has continued to grow, be that
commercially to deliver specialist services, or for community sports clubs and activities.

26 |

rl Rt A A Ag en nS at meme

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Commercial and Community

From 1 January 2024, the University established a more focused department for the University’s commercial
and community business. This comprises Conferences and Events, The Exchange, Twickenham and our Short
Courses offer to the wider community. Local stakeholder and civic engagement is being emphasised with
particular reference to the London Borough of Richmond-upon-Thames and the University’s involvement in the
development of its new local plans.

Our membership of the South London Partnership has been revitalised along with wider local groups. Pillar
‘Enhancing our sense of space’ of Vision 2030 sets out the need for St Mary’s to develop its contribution to its
local and regional place and to make its facilities available.

Anew delivery structure for conferences and events means that there will be a sharper focus on weddings and
events throughout the year; a new relationship with FilmFix, a location agent for film production companies that
can use our heritage and other sites for production companies; increased emphasis on improving margin in our
summer school business.

Our new eSports Arena has come on stream and also offers opportunities for additional commercial income in
future years.

Development

With the impending establishment of the School of Medicine, St Mary’s has started re-investing in fundraising
and alumni activities. tn June, Caroline Glen joined the University as Director of Development, bringing a wealth
of expertise and experience from her previaus role at the Duke of Edinburgh’s Awards Scheme.

The Development Office has helped to raise funds for a variety of research, education and welfare projects
across the University, with notable success for projects in the Bakhita Centre for Research on Slavery,
Exploitation and Abuse, and philanthropic support from Santander Universities UK making a difference in our
employability and entrepreneurship work with students. The Development Office continued to develop its
alumni relations programme with regular monthly e-communications and a printed Simmarian magazine. We
also welcomed several alumni groups back to campus during the year.

Over 800 alumni, who were awarded a Certificate in Education prior to 1980, received an honorary Bachelor of
Education in March 2024, with 300 attending a graduation ceremony. In the early 1980s, a bachelor’s degree
became a requirement for new teachers in the UK, replacing the Certificate in Education. There has since been
a movement across the higher education sector to award the thousands of individuals who achieved
certifications prior to 1980 with an honorary Bachelor of Education. We are proud to be part of this movement
and celebration.

National Student Survey and League Tables

This year’s NSS, which surveys graduating students on their University experience, found that St Mary's had
improved across all seven of the key themes, ranking in the top five nationally for Learning Opportunities,
Academic Support, and Organisation and Management and top ten for Teaching on My Course, and Student
Voice. The University also ranked first in London for Academic Support and Organisation and management, and
top five in four other categories.

St Mary’s climbed into the top 50 of the Good University Guide league table in the 2023 edition. The University’s
position of 45th overall, fourth amongst modern Universities, and eighth in London, are its highest ever positions
in that league table. The Good University Guide also rated SMU in the top five for Teaching Quality and top ten
for Student Experience. In 2024 we consolidated our recent ascent within this league table, being ranked 52nd
nationally in the Good University Guide.

Wiese

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

National Student Survey and League Tables (continued)

SMU has also retained its Ofsted Outstanding rating for its third consecutive inspection, cementing the
University’s place as one of the country’s leading teacher training providers.

Graduate Prospects

For the second year running St Mary’s has recorded excellent results for the latest Graduate Outcomes Survey.
The percentage of students progressing into graduate careers {or further study)? has now exceeded both the
sector average and the London average far two years in succession. The University’s graduates experience one
of the best levels of general employment (or further study) in the UK: 98% of our graduates are in general
employment or further study.

Already a strong performer in the percentage of full-time First Degree graduates progressing to positive
destinations, the latest data has seen the University retain a progression rate for full-time First Degree graduates
significantly in excess of the 60% OfS minimum threshold.

With an 85.0% progression rate to “positive destinations”, St Mary's postgraduate students have exceeded the
OfS minimum threshold of 70% and the internal St Mary’s KPI for 2023-24.

Student Retention

The University continues to work hard to make progress against KPIs relating to student retention. Although the
annual retention cycle is ongoing, as of 1 September 2024 the University has recorded an overall reduction in
First Degree retention rates on the previous year, in part due to lower retention rates in some of our
collaborative partnership arrangements. However, the revised retention strategy, introduced in 2022-23, has
delivered some notable improvements in retention rates for 2023-24 at Faculty, School and Course level.

Student Numbers

Totai Full Time Equivalent (FTE) undergraduate, postgraduate and franchise partner student numbers for the
year ended 31 July 2024 was 5,985 FTE.

The University’s partnership strategy under Vision 2030 has resulted in a notable increase in the number of off-
campus students. The University actively manages the quality risks inherent in some of these collaborations,
and the recent rate of growth in off-campus students is unlikely to continue over the next few years.

The table overleaf shows undergraduate, postgraduate and franchise partner FTE numbers over the past five
years.

? Fifteen months after graduation.

28 |

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Student Numbers (continued)

Student numbers FTE - 2019/20 to 2023/24

Undergraduate (St Mary’s) 8 Postgraduate (St Mary's} ‘@ Partnership students
7000
6au0
sono
341
Au0U
3000
2000

3129
1600

2019/20' 2020/21 ' 2021/22" 2022/23 '? 2023/24

Year

(1) The classification of prior year student numbers has been refined to present off-campus partnership student numbers separately.
{2} 2022-23 has been revised as data was also based on estimated data due to delays in HESA return process.

Figures are taken from HESA data from 2019/20 to 2023/24..

2) eud:

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Financial performance in the year

2024 2023
lotal income: lotal income:

£58,792k £57,647k

Total expenditure: Total expenditure:
£61,739k £57,288k

EBITDA: EBITDA
£2,223k £4,762k

Deficit: Surplus:
(£1,948k) £359k

*EBITDA Excludes £0.6m of restructuring costs

The University’s statutory net deficit for the year is £1.9m, a decline of c. £2.3m compared with the prior year
when the University reported a modest bottom line surplus. Ihe results include a £0.6m one-off provision to
recognise the expected cost of a Mutual Resignation Scheme (a form of voluntary severance) launched in July
2024. The University has sought to get ahead of the deteriorating financial climate facing the sector, a
deterioration which was becoming increasingly evident to the University during the third quarter of the 2023-
24 financial year. The scheme was offered to staff in this context, and also in response to lower than expected
student recruitment in autumn 2024. On an underlying basis allowing for restructuring costs, the University’s
net statutory deficit for the year is £1.3m.

On an underlying basis (excluding the €0.6m restructuring charge), EBITDA (‘Earnings Before Interest, Tax,
Depreciation and Amortisation’) for 2023-24 was £2.2m (2022: £4.8m). This represents an operating margin of
3.8% (2023: 8.3%). This is below the University’s budget for the year, and is largely due to disappointing levels
of recruitment of on-campus students during the year, and the number of off-campus students taught by
franchise partners also being below budget; it also reflects the high levels of investment which the University is
making in growth initiatives such as the School of Medicine, St Mary’s Online and in marketing and branding

This year statutory income has increased by £1.1m and overall costs have increased by £4.5m. The year-on-year
increase in income reflects additional revenues from new partnership arrangements and additional grant
income, however we have experienced relatively subdued Tuition Fee growth. The increase in costs largely
reflects the impact of higher inflationary pressures on our Operating costs (especially staff costs and utilities),
together with focused investment around the development of a School of Medicine and additional marketing
expenditure. The University’s cost base was nevertheless well controlled and operating costs were c.£0.7m
under budget.

30 |

i
i

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Financial performance in the year (continued)

income

Breakdown of Income in 2024 (%) Breakdown of Income in 2023 (%)
0%

16%. 7

2%

= Funding body grants ® Funding body grants

"Tuition fees and education contracts ® Tuition fees and education contracts
® Research grants and contracts # Research grants and contracts

# Other income @ Other income

* Donations '* Donations

Total income for 2024 was £58.8m (2023: £57.6m), a £1.1m increase 2% on the prior year.

Tuition fees have seen an increase of £0.5m representing a 1.1% rise. This growth is primarily attributed to the
successful recruitment of overseas undergraduate students in September 2023, as well as an expansion of our
off-campus student body through partnership organisations (however off-campus tuition fees have risen by less
than originally budgeted for 2023-24, with a significant fall-off against budget during the fourth quarter). As a
teaching intensive University, 74% (2023:75%) of our income was generated through tuition fees. In addition,
the University welcomed its first cohorts to its new portfolio of online PGT courses in the Spring of 2024 and
welcomed its first cohorts of Computer Science students, at both Undergraduate and Postgraduate levels in
September 2023.

Other income saw an increase of £0.6m as the University maintained its focus on expanding ancillary income.

However, this growth was naturally more subdued compared to the previous financial year, which followed the
return to face-to-face teaching and more normal campus activity.

31 [+ 3


Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Financial performance in the year (continued)
The proportion of income derived from non-tuition fee sources has remained stable at 26%, reflecting a 1%
increase from the previous year. The University continues to prioritise its initiatives to diversify income streams

and enhance the percentage of revenue generated fram non-tuition fee sources.

Operating Expenditure

Breakdown of costs of 2024 (%) Breakdown of costs in 2023 (%)}

= Staff costs [including restructuring costs) @ Staff costs {Including restructuring costs)

© Academic departments © Acadernic departments

# Academic services Academic sorvices

w Premises = Premises

« Residences, catering and conference = Residences, catering and conference

# Research grants and contracts # Research grants and cantracts

& Administration and central services ‘8 Administration and central services

‘# Depreciation, interest and other finance costs @ Depreciation, Interest and other finance costs

Expenditure in the year totalled £61.7m, an increase of £4.5m, (7.7%) from the prior year. This rise in costs has
been primarily driven by significant inflationary pressures and the cost of living challenges experienced over the
last 24 months. In response to these external factors, the University has implemented robust cost control
measures to effectively manage both staff-related and non-staff expenditures.

Staff costs were £41.5m, representing 71% of turnover (2023: £36.7m, 67%). Significant increases in the
contributions Universities have been required to make to the Teachers’ Pension Scheme have impacted staff
costs in 2023-24, and the impact will be far greater in 2024-25 because the change only took effect in April
2024. The proportion of staff costs relative to turnover may not be directly comparable to those of other higher
education institutions. This is primarily due to the University’s decision to manage nearly all services in-house,
whereas many other Universities commonly outsource substantial components of their estates, security, and
catering operations. Consequently, these outsourced services are categorised as non-staff costs in their financial
statements.

Continued vigilance over non-staff costs was maintained, partially to mitigate residual risks associated with the
financial impact of student recruitment but also to navigate the challenges presented by increasing inflationary
pressures and the increase in pension contributions to the Teachers’ Pension Scheme. Throughout the year, the
University has also prioritised investments in new business development initiatives, including the planned
establishment of a new School of Medicine, the development of St Mary’s Ontine, and the enhancement of
marketing capabilities. Collectively, these factors contributed to an increase in other operating expenses of 8%,
rising from £13.9m to £15.0m

32 |

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Capital investment expenditure

The University continued its commitment to increasing its investment in the St Mary’s campus and facilities with
expenditure across a wide number of projects. The total Capital Expenditure amounted to £8m (2023: £4.5m).
This investment encompasses the ongoing ‘Student Heart’ project (Phase 2), which involves extensive
remodelling of key areas on campus utilised by students. Additionally, there has been continued investment in
the refurbishment of student accommodation and the establishment of a new E-Sports Arena state-of-the-art
facility designed to immerse students and professionals in the world of gaming, training, and research. In
September, the University opened its new conference centre, “1850”, a new multi-purpose venue for both staff
and students.

Cash flow, financing and balance sheet

2024 2023

Net operating cash inflow: Net operating cash inflow:

£2,678k £2,214k

Cash and short-term deposits: Cash and short-term deposits:
£11,796k £13,781k

Cash days: Cash days:
76 96

Net assets: Net assets:
£108,240k £110,188k

During the year the University generated net cash inflow from operating activities of £2.7m, an increase of £0.5m
to that in 2022-23 (£2.2m inflow), reflecting the operating surplus after adjusting for non-cash items. Total cash
and cash equivalents decreased in the year by £2.0m to £11.8m (2023: £13.8m), reflecting the operating cash
inflow offset by the increase in Capital Expenditure.

The University’s Cash Days’ KP! has decreased year-on-year to 76 days but remains well in excess of our target
level. The University’s liquidity position has become more robust over the course of the past few years, both in
terms of the increase in the level of cash reserves, the additional loan capital received at the start of 2020-21
and the continued unused £2m ‘evergreen’ overdraft facility and £3m revolving credit facility. The revolving
credit facility has not been utilised to date; in large part its purpose remains to provide the University with
additional ‘headroom’ in order to reduce our liquidity risk.

Total net assets decreased to £108.2m (2023: £110.2m), which reflects the Net Deficit for the year, as well as
the application of an Asset ceiling adjustment of £12.9m (2023: £9.6m) on the below-the-line actuarial gain on
pensions which was recorded in comprehensive income. Despite the challenges faced by the higher education
sector in general, our external borrowing remained low and has decreased from £3.4m to £2.4m, following loan
repayments of £1.0m during the year. With continued strong cost controls in place, we have not utilised our
overdraft or revolving credit facilities.

Taxation
The majority of the University’s activities are not subject to corporation tax. The income generated from the
core activities of the University, in relation to teaching and learning are exempt from corporation tax. Any profits

made by the University’s subsidiary company, Strawberry Hill Enterprises Limited, are paid to the University
through the gift aid scheme, thereby maximising tax efficiencies available.

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Financial performance in the year {continued)
Reserves and Investment Policy

The Board is aware of the challenges the HE sector is facing in the modern environment and continues to be
focused on the need for efficient management of resources and sound investment decision making to ensure
continued financial sustainability.

The investment of funds is governed by the Treasury Management Policy. The Policy ensures that the majority
of any surplus funds are deposited in holdings with a range of banks, the credit ratings of which are reviewed
from time to time to ensure that the University’s investments are secure.

Pensions

Whilst there was an underlying actuarial gain on the defined benefit scheme of £12.9m (2023: £9.6m) arising
from changes in actuarial assumptions, no gain was recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income as
the University continued to apply an Asset ceiling. The University is currently making annual payments in order
to reduce the deficit under the most recent comprehensive actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2022. The
University does not participate in the Universities Superannuation Scheme (‘USS’).

Future Prospects
Changes in the external environment and St Mary’s responses

There continues to be a competitive recruitment environment for both domestic and international students,
and it is widely acknowledged that the sector's funding model is in urgent need of reform. Government policies
and rhetoric in recent years have undermined the attractiveness of the UK for many international students, and
the sector has been required to absorb unsustainable increases in pension contributions and, going forward, a
substantial hike in Employers’ National Insurance contributions. Compared to the sector at large, St Mary’s is in
a relatively strong position to respond to these challenges with prudent financial planning, a refreshed course
portfolio, and a continuing focus on activities, improvements and enhancements to bolster student completion
rates and reduce attrition. The University continues to explore opportunities to build on its strengths,
undertaking refurbishment and upgrade works to the physical campus and in the digital sphere.

The importance of widening access to university education for students from non-traditional backgrounds
continues to be high on the agenda for universities and policymakers alike. Although significant progress in this
area has been made, there are many challenges for universities in securing access for students from
disadvantaged backgrounds. Whilst St Mary's performs reasonably well on measures of participation, there is a
need to address some of the challenges identified by the OfS in order to maximise student opportunity.
Increasing emphasis is being placed not just on ensuring that students from disadvantaged groups can go to
university but also ensuring that these students can achieve their full potential. The University’s Access and
Participation Plan sets out a series of ambitious targets concerning this. Good progress has been made but the
University’s pian is ambitious and we continue to strive to provide equality of opportunity for all our students.

The University continually reviews its portfolio of programmes to ensure that it meets student demand. The
University also continues to develop and grow its Allied Health offer and move into new areas such as Computer
Science and Occupational Therapy. Following the awarding of Research Degree Awarding Powers (RDAP) in April
2021 the University is expanding its Doctoral and Postdoctoral programmes under the St Mary’s banner across
a number of specialisms in its portfolio.

Having recently completed our major Student Heart estates project, the next major campus improvement

project is expected to be the construction of a new Centenary Building to support the expansion of our Allied
Health portfolio and the establishment of the new School of Medicine.

34 |

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Future Prospects (continued)
Future financial forecasts

The near-term financial outlook for St Mary’s has deteriorated for a number of reasons, most of which apply to
large parts of the Higher Education sector: {i) on-campus student enrolment in autumn 2024 is below planning
assumptions; (ii) in the context of elevated quality risks, off-campus partnership student numbers are also
expected to be significantly below previously budgeted levels, and will likely be subject to a greater degree of
volatility and uncertainty than in previous years; (iii) many components of ancillary income are impacted by the
reduced level of on-campus students; (iv) a substantial increase in the costs of the Teachers’ Pension Scheme;
(v) the forthcoming reduced tuition fee cap applying to many Foundation Year programmes; and (vi) a very
substantial increase in the level of Employers’ National Insurance contributions.

These factors will be off-set significantly (but not entirely) by cost saving measures already taken and by future
cost mitigation measures currently being planned, and the University expects to make additional cost savings in
the region of £5m p.a. during the course of 2024-25.

Over the next two years, the University expects to record subdued levels of underlying operating surplus/EBITDA
in comparison to recent years, and to report moderate bottom-line deficits. In the outer years of our five-year
planning horizon, we expect growth projects such as our expansion into Computer Science, the School of
Medicine, SMU Online and other international initiatives to begin delivering meaningful financial contributions.
Accordingly, we currently expect that we will be approaching a break-even bottom line result in 2026-27 and
that we will return to reporting bottom-line surpluses by 2027-28, by when our operating profitability will be to
a level in the vicinity of our 10% target.

Financing, treasury and liquidity

The University has (and will continue to benefit from) a strong Balance Sheet. The University currently has one
of the lowest levels of borrowing (relative to income and net assets) in the UK higher education sector. We do
anticipate increased levels of borrowing over the next couple of years, but only to support the construction of a
new Centenary Building to accommodate the establishment of our School of Medicine and the expansion of our
Allied Health provision. Even then, our leverage will remain prudent in comparison to the wider sector, and total
borrowings are expected to remain well under 20% of total income and very modest in relation to Net Assets.

At £13.2m, the University has robust levels of on-balance sheet liquidity. Furthermore, we retain a £2m
evergrecn overdraft facility and a £3m Revolving Credit Facility (‘RCF’} which has never been drawn. We are
currently finalising a replacement RCF with a five-year term and an increased £5m facility size. The University’s
strong Balance Sheet and low levels of liquidity risk provides a resilient financial anchor to support St Mary’s
future development.

35]. as

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024:

Risk Management and Principal Risks and Uncertainties

The Risk Management Process

The University’s Risk Management Process, based on sector hest practice, is overseen hy the Audit and Risk
Committee and inciudes a Risk Management Policy and Procedure, and Strategic Risk, Emerging Risk and
Opportunities registers. Further information on the University’s Risk Management Framework can be found in
the Statement of Corporate Governance and Internal Contro! on pages 13-16.

Principal Risks & Uncertainties

The University’s Strategic Risk Register is aligned to the aims and objectives set out in Vision 2030. The most
significant risk based on the level of residual risk after mitigating actions and controls is considered to be student
recruitment; we are seeing continued changes in the recruitment market, including the expansion of Russell
Group institutions, changing application and clearing patterns, and changes in the behaviour of applicants.
However, a number of other risks remain a high priority for management, particularly related to student
retention, staff retention, the management of our academic partnerships, the challenges involved in a successful
launch of the new Medical School, and the need to develop improved business models and the focused student
value proposition required to promote the long-term prosperity of the institution in the context of an evolving
external policy environment.

Going Concern

The key factors impacting any organisation’s ability to continue in operation for the foreseeable future are
capital adequacy, operating profitability and adequate levels of liquidity.

The University retains substantial lines of credit, including a £2m ‘evergreen’ overdraft facility and a £3m five-
year term revolving credit facility, both undrawn at the present time. We are currently finalising a replacement
RCF with a five-year term and an increased £5m facility size.

The University’s overall liquidity position of £13.2m, including £1.4m current investment in a highly liquid ESG
bond fund with low levels of market risk, is approximately three times the OfS’ 30 days’ liquidity mark and
continues to provide a strong financial anchor for the University as we continue to develop plans and diversify
the University’s income streams in line with our Vision 2030 strategic plans. If the University’s un-drawn
overdraft facility (£2m) and revolving credit facility (E3m) are taken into account, available liquid resources cover
over 4 months of total expenditure.

The underlying? operating surpius/EBITDA in the year to 31 July 2024 is £2.2m, a moderate decrease on the prior
year. A net deficit of £1.9m follows two successive years of reporting a net surplus. With an ongoing focus on
improving our operating efficiencies and business models, the University is confident that it will be able further
to improve its operating profitability over the next few years and generate the levels of cash flow required to
unlock the greater levels of investment which will promote the University’s long-term success in line with our
strategic aims outlined on page 17.

3 Excluding £0.6m of restructuring costs.

36 |

Strategic Report (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Going Concern (continued)

Our planning process, including financial projections, has taken into consideration the current economic climate
and its potential impact on the various sources of income and planned expenditure. Student recruitment in
autumn 2024 has fallen somewhat short of our target, however we expect to be able to off-set this in part by
accelerating new growth initiatives and by significant efficiency improvements during the course of 2024-25.

We have undertaken various stress scenarios, simulating a range of adverse scenarios using reasonable
assumptions. Considering the existence of the University’s other lines of credit, the increased strength of the
University’s liquidity position is such that it should be able to navigate the foreseeable future even under the
adverse scenarios which have been modelled. After reviewing the group's forecasts and projections for the
period to 31 July 2026, we have a reasonable expectation that we have adequate resources to continue in
operational existence for the foreseeable future.

We consider that there are no material uncertainties that call into doubt our ability to continue in operation.

Accordingly, our Board of Governors has assessed that it is appropriate to prepare the St Mary’s financial
statements on the going concern basis.

Signed on behalf of the Board of Governors on 27 November 2024.

a

Bishop Richard Moth Professor Anthony McClaran
Governor (Chairman) Governor (Vice-Chancellor)

37 [oye

Statement of Responsibility of the Board of Governors of St Mary’s
University: Year ended 31 July 2024

The members of the Board, who are also the directors of the University for the purposes of company law, are
responsible for preparing the strategic report, the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable !aw and regulations.

Company law requires the members of the Board to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under
that law the members of the Board have elected to prepare the group and University financial statements in
accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting
Standards and applicable law). Under company law the members of the Board must not approve the financial
statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the University
and of the surplus of income over expenditure of the group and University for that period.

In preparing these financial statements, the members of the Board are required to:

e — select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

e@ state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

© prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that
the University will continue in operation.

The members of the Board are also required to give a report in the financial statements which includes the legal
and administrative status of the University. The members of the Board are responsible for keeping adequate
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the University’s transactions and disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006, its Articles of Association, the Accounts Direction as
issued by the Office for Students (OfS) and the Statement of Recommended Practice: Accounting for Further and
Higher Education. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the University and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Members of the Board are responsible for ensuring that the funds from the OfS, Research England and the
Department for Education are used only in accordance with the Terms and Conditions of Funding with the OfS
and any other conditions that the Funder may prescribe from time to time. Members of the Board must ensure
appropriate financial and management controls are in place to safeguard public and other funds and to ensure
they are used properly. In addition, members of the Board are responsible for securing economical, efficient and
effective management of the University’s resources and expenditure, so that the benefits that should be derived
from the application of public funds by the Regulator are not put at risk.

Financial statements are published on the University’s website in accordance with legislation in the United
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements, which may vary from legislation
in other jurisdictions. The maintenance and integrity of the University’s website is the responsibility of the
members of the Board. The members of the Board' responsibility also extends to the ongoing integrity of the
financial statements contained therein.

BBs.

0 ee RN N= ne

Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of St Mary’s University: Year
ended 31 July 2024

Opinion on the financial statements
In our opinion, the financial statements:

® = give a true and fair view of the state of the Group’s and of the University’s affairs as at 31 July 2024 and
of the Group’s and the University’s income and expenditure, gains and losses, changes in reserves and
of the Group’s cash flows for the year then ended;

@ have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and

‘e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements of St. Mary’s University, Twickenham (“the University”) and its
subsidiaries (the “Group”) for the year ended 31 July 2024 which comprise Consolidated and University
Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and University Statement of Changes in Reserves, the
Consolidated and University Balance Sheet and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and notes to the
financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework
that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including
Financial Reporting Standard 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of treland
(United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) “ISAs (UK)”) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s responsibilities for the
audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence

We are independent of the Group and the University in accordance with the ethical requirements that are
relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the Governors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group and the University’s ability
to continue as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are
authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the Governors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information
The Board of Governors is responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditor's report thereon.

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent
otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

39 Jo

ve

Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of St Mary’s University
(continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Other information (continued)

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial
statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.
Other Companies Act 2006 reporting
In aur opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

e the information given in the annual report, which includes the directors’ report and the strategic report
prepared for the purposes of company law, for the financial year for which the financial statements are
prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

e the strategic report and the directors’ report, which are included in the annual report have been
prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Group and the University and its environment obtained
in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’
report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006
requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

¢ adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for cur audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or
the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
certain disclosures of board members’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Opinion on other matters required by the Office for Students (“OfS”) and UK Research and Innovation
(including Research England)

In our opinion, in all material respects:

* Funds from whatever source administered by the University for specific purposes have been properly
applied to those purposes and managed in accordance with relevant legisiation.

e Funds provided by the OfS, UK Research and Innovation (including Research England have been applied
in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.

© The requirements of the OfS’s Accounts Direction (OfS 2019.41) have been met.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the OfS requires us to report
to you if, in our opinion:
The University’s grant and fee income, as disclosed in note 7 to the accounts, has been materially
misstated.
® The University’s expenditure on access and participation activities for the financial year, as has been
disclosed in note 10 to the accounts, has been materially misstated.

40 |

.

Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of St Mary’s University
(continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Responsibilities of the Board of Governors

As explained more fully in the Statement of Responsibility of the Board of Governors, the Board of Governors
(who are also the directors of the University for the purposes of company law) are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such
internal control as the Board of Governors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the Board of Governors are responsible for assessing the Group and the
University’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Board of Governors either intend to liquidate the
Group or the University or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Extent to which the audit was capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures
in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities,
including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is
detailed below:

Non-compliance with laws and regulations

Based on:
© Our understanding of the Group and the sector in which it operates;
e Discussion with management and those charged with governance;
e Obtaining and understanding of the Group’s policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws
and regulations; and
e Direct representation from the Accountable Officer

We considered the significant laws and regulations to be UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice with the
Accounts Directions OfS 2019.41 and UK tax legislation.

The Group is also subject to laws and regulations where the consequence of non-compliance could have a
material effect on the amount or disclosures in the financial statements, for example through the imposition of
fines or litigations. We identified such laws and regulations to be compliance with the Office for Students
Ongoing Conditions of Registration.

Our procedures in respect of the above included:
e Review of minutes of meeting of those charged with governance for any instances of non-compliance
with laws and regulations;
e Review of correspondence with regulatory and tax authorities for any instances of non-compliance with
laws and regulations;
e Review of financial statement disclosures and agreeing to supporting documentation; and
e Review of legal expenditure accounts to understand the nature of expenditure incurred.

Al |e ag.

Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of St Mary’s University
(continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements (continued)
Fraud

We assessed the susceptibility of the financial statements to material misstatement, including fraud. Our risk
assessment procedures included:
e — Enquiry with management and those charged with governance, Audit Committee, and internal audit
regarding any known or suspected instances of fraud;
Obtaining an understanding of the Group’s policies and procedures relating to:
o Detecting and responding to the risks of fraud; and
© Internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud.
« — Review of minutes of meeting of those charged with governance for any known or suspected
instances of fraud;
* Discussion amongst the engagement team as to how and where fraud might occur in the financial
statements; and
e Performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may
indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud.

Based on our risk assessment, we considered the areas most susceptible to fraud to be posting of inappropriate
journal entries to manipulate results, management bias in accounting estimates and revenue recognition,
particularly other income.

Our procedures in respect of the above included:

* Testing a sample of journal entries throughout the year, which met a defined risk criterion, by agreeing
to supporting documentation. We also selected a sample of journals on an unpredictability basis which
are not meeting the defined risk criteria and agreed these back to supporting documentation;

* = Assessing significant estimates made by management for bias, including assessment on impairment of
tangible and intangible assets, valuation of pension liability and useful lives of depreciable assets; and

e — Testing a sample of other income by agreeing to the underlying documentation.

We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team
members and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations
throughout the audit.

Our audit procedures were designed to respond to risks of material misstatement in the financial statements,
recognising that the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not
detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate concealment by, for exampie, forgery,
misrepresentations or through collusion. There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures performed and
the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the events and transactions reflected in
the financial statements, the less likely we are to become aware of it.

A further description of our responsibitities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial

Reporting Council’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities . This description forms part of our
auditor’s report.

42 |

Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of St Mary’s University
(continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the University’s Board of Governors
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the University and the
Board of Governors as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

‘OocuSigned by:

Paula Willock

‘8F75FEDC3101467...
Paula Willock (Senior Statutory Auditor)

For and on behalf of BDO LLP, Statutory Auditor
Gatwick, UK

[Date] 16 December 2024

BDO LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales (with registered number 0C305127).

43 |r age

Consolidated and University Statement of Comprehensive Income:

Year ended 31 July 2024
Company Registration number: 05977277

Notes

income

Funding body grants

Tuition fees and education contracts
Research grants and contracts
Other income

Investment income

Donations

Total Income

DU SWN we

Expenditure

Staff costs

Restructuring costs

Other operating expenses
Depreciation

Interest and other finance costs al
Total Expenditure

© © oO

wn
Nn

(Deficit) / surplus before other gains
Gain on disposal of fixed assets
(Deficit) / surplus before tax

Taxation
(Deficit) / surptus for the year

Actuarial gain in respect of pension schemes 21
Total comprehensive (expenditure) / income for the year
Represented by:

Restricted comprehensive expenditure

Unrestricted comprehensive income
Revaluation reserve comprehensive expenditure

All activities are continuing.

Consolidated

2024

£'000_

[ (2,948))
, l
1,000 |
case

2023
£'000

3,639
43,005
1,032
8,962
$71
438

38,345
93
13,876
4,745
229

University
2024
£'000

3,987
43,227
860
8,964
647
216
57,301

40,804
588
14,468
5,088
155
61,103

(3,202)
1,000

(2,202)

(2,202)

(2,202)

(74)
879
(3,008)
(2,203)

2023
£'000

3,639
43,005
1,032
8,353
551
438
57,018"

2

£

244

244

{8)
2,044
(1,792)
244

The statement of Accounting Policies and notes on pages 48 to 70 form part of these financial statements.

44 |

Year ended 31 July 2024
Company Registration number: 05977277 _

Notes Income and
expenditure
account -
: . Restricted |
Consolidated . £000.
Balance at 1 August 2022 191
Surplus/(Deficit) from the statement of comprehensive 421
Income
Actuarial gain in respect of pension schemes 21 -
Release of restricted funds spent in year (429)
Transfers between revaluation and income and expenditure
reserve :
Total comprehensive (expenditure) / income for the year (8)
Balance at 1 August 2023 183
Surplus/(Deficit} from the statement of comprehensive
income 193
Actuarial gain in respect of pension schemes 21 -
Release of restricted funds spent in year (267)

Transfers between revaluation and income and expenditure
reserve -

Total comprehensive {expenditure} / income for the year {74)
Balance at 31 July 2024

University

Balance at 1 August 2022 192
Surplus/(Deficit} from the statement of comprehensive 421
income

Actuarial gain in respect of pension schemes 21 -
Release of restricted funds spent in year (429)

Transfers between revaluation and income and expenditure

reserve -
Total comprehensive (expenditure) / income for the year ery
Balance at 1 August 2023 184
Surplus/{Deficit) from the statement of comprehensive 193
Actuarial gain in respect of pension schemes 21

Release of restricted funds spent in year (267)

Transfers between revaluation and income and expenditure
reserve -

Total comprehensive (expenditure) / income for the year (74)
Balance at 31 July 2024 . . 110

Income and
expenditure
account -

Unrestricted

43,715
(62)

429

1,797

45,879

(2,141)

267

3,014

47,019

42,934

a7)

Aza

1,797

044
44,978

(2,401)

267

3,008

874
45,852

Consolidated and University Statement of Changes in Reserves:

Revatuation
Reserve

(1,797)

(1,797)
64,126

(3,014)

43,014)
62,112

65,785

(1,792)
(1,792)

63,993

(3,008)

(3,008)
60,985

Total

£'000

The Statement of Accounting Policies and notes on pages 48 to 70 form part of these financial statements.

4S |e ane

Consolidated and University Balance Sheet: Year ended 31 July 2024

Company Registration number: 05977277

Non-current assets
Fixed Assets
Heritage Assets
Intangible Assets

Current assets

Stock

Trade and other receivables
Investment

Cash at bank and in hand

Less creditors: amounts falling due within one year
Net current assets

Total assets less current liabilities

Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year

Provisions and liabilities
Pension Provision
Other Provisions

Total net assets

Restricted reserves
Restricted Reserve

Unrestricted reserves

Income and expenditure account reserve
Revaluation reserves

Tota! Reserves

The statement of Accounting Policies and notes on pages 48 to 70 form part of these financial statements.

Consolidated
2024 2023
Notes €£'000 £'000

21,863) 18,838
v | anasl {20;809)
4,117 8,029'

l
[146,073 118,241

7 (7,134) (7,283)
21 : -
18 (697) {770}

(697)! 770)

108,240 110,188:

109) 183
47,019) 45,879
I 108,240] 110,188

University
2024
£'000

106,640
455
4,371
111,466

2s
9,203
1,435
10,280
20,944

(17,627)
3,317

114,783

(7,134)

(697)
(697)
106,952

110

45,857
60,985
106,952

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Governors on 27 November 2024

and were signed on its behalf by:

Bishop Richard Moth
Governor (Chairman)

Governor (Vice-Chancellor)

46 | -

2023
£'000

105,628
4ss
3,619
109,702

25
4,005
1,420

12,745
18,194

(10,688)
7,506

117,208

(7,283)

(770}
(770)
109,155

184

44,978
63,993
109,155

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: Year ended 31 July 2024

Company Registration number: 05977277

Cash flow from operating activities
(Deficit) / surplus for the year
Adjustment for non-cash items
Depreciation

Amortisation

{Gain) / toss on investments
Increase in stock

Increase in debtors

increase / (decrease) in creditors
Decrease in provisions

Pension costs less contributions payable

Capital grants released to income

Surplus on disposal of fixed assets

Adjustment for investing or financing activities
Interest payable

Interest receivable

Net cash inflow from operating activities

Cash flows from investing activities

Payments made to acquire fixed assets and intangible assets
Proceeds from disposal of fixed assets

Government capital grants received

Interest income

Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid
Repayments of amounts borrowed

Decrease in cash and cash equivalents in the year

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year

Consolidated
2024 2023

£'000 _ £'000

359

4,259
486

27

1

(401)
(1,487)
(94)
(67)
(527)

(4,528)
138
571

(3,819)

(229)
(1,025)

(i1go}] (4,254)
f
I aaasy (2,859)

16,640
13,781

The Statement of Accounting Policies and notes on pages 48 to 70 form part of these financial statements.

47 |r age

Statement of Accounting Policies: Year ended 31 July 2024

Legal Structure

St Mary’s University, Twickenham is a private company limited by guarantee incorporated and registered in England
and Wales under number 05977277. Copies of financial statements are available at its registered office Waldegrave
Road, Strawberry Hill, Twickenham, TW1 4SX.

A. Basis of preparation
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice (SORP):.
Accounting for Further and Higher Education (2019) and in accordance with FRS 102.

St Mary’s University, Twickenham is a public benefit entity and therefore has applied the relevant public benefit
requirement of the applicable accounting standards.

B. Going concern
The key factors impacting any organisation’s ability to continue in operation for the foreseeable future are capital
adequacy, operating profitability and adequate levels of liquidity.

The University retains up to £9m of additional credit facilities whilst still maintaining one of the lowest levels of
gearing or leverage in the sector. These facilities include a £2m ‘evergreen’ overdraft facility and a £3m five-year
term revolving credit facility, both undrawn at the present time.

The University’s overall liquidity position of £13.2m, including £1.4m current investment in a highly liquid ESG bond
fund with low levels of market risk, is approximately three times the OfS’ 30 days’ liquidity mark and continues to
provide a strong financial anchor for the University as we continue to develop plans and diversify the University’s
income streams in line with our Vision 2030 strategic plans. If the University’s un-drawn overdraft facility (£2m) and
revolving credit facility (£3m) are included, available liquid resources cover over four months of total expenditure.

Operating profit in the year to 31 July 2024 is £2.3m, a decrease on the prior year. With an ongoing focus on improving
our operating efficiencies and business models, the University is confident that it will be able further to improve its
Operating profitability over the next few years and generate the levels of cash flow required to unlock the greater
levels of investment which will promote the University’s long-term success in line with our strategic aims outlined on
page 19.

Our planning process, including financial projections, has taken into consideration the current economic climate and
its potential impact on the various sources of income and planned expenditure. Student recruitment in autumn 2024
(has fallen somewhat short of our target however), we expect to be able to off-set this by accelerating new growth
initiatives and efficiency improvements. We have undertaken various stress scenarios, simulating a range of adverse
scenarios using reasonable assumptions. Considering the existence of the University’s other lines of credit, the
increased strength of the University’s liquidity position is such that it should be able to navigate the foreseeable
future even under the adverse scenarios which have been modelled. After reviewing the group's forecasts and
projections for the period to 31 July 2026, we have a reasonable expectation that we have adequate resources to
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.

We believe that there are no material uncertainties that call into doubt our ability to continue in operation.
Accordingly, our Board of Governors has assessed that it is appropriate to prepare the St Mary’s financial statements
on the going concern basis.

C. Parent company disclosure exemptions
In preparing the separate financial statements of the parent company, advantage has been taken of the following
disclosure exemptions available in FRS 102:
* —nocash flow statement has been presented for the parent company; and .
* no disclosure has been given for the aggregate remuneration of the key management personnel of the
parent company as their remuneration is included in the totals for the group as a whole.

4B |v age

Statement of Accounting Policies (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

D. Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements include St Mary’s University, Twickenham (St Mary’s) and its subsidiary (the
“Group”) for the financial year ended 31 July 2024.

In the University’s financial statements, the investment in the subsidiary is accounted for at cost less impairment.
Pp

The consolidated financial statements do not include the income and expenditure of the Students’ Union as the
University does not exert control or dominant influence over policy decisions.

E. Income recognition
Fee income is stated gross of any expenditure which is not a discount and credited to the Statement of
Comprehensive Income over the period in which students are studying. Where the amount of the tuition fee is
reduced, by a discount for prompt payment, income receivable is shown net of the discount. Bursaries and
scholarships are accounted for gross as expenditure and not deducted from income.

Government grants including funding body block grants and Government research grants are recognised within the
Statement of Comprehensive Income over the periods in which the Group recognises the related costs for which the
grant is intended to compensate. Where part of a Government grant is deferred it is recognised as deferred income
within creditors and allocated between creditors due within one year and due after more than one year as
appropriate.

Capital grants relating to expenditure on tangible fixed assets are recognised in income over the expected useful life
of the asset.

Grants and donations from non-government sources, including research grants from non-government sources, are
recognised within the Statement of Comprehensive Income when the Group is entitled to the income and
performance related conditions have been met. Income received in advance of performance related conditions being
met is deferred on the Balance Sheet and released to the Statement of Comprehensive Income in line with such

conditions being met.

Investment Income is derived from deposits held in short term money market products managed on behalf of the
University by an external fund manager, and is recorded as income in the period in which it arises.

Donations with no restrictions are recorded within the Statement of Comprehensive Income when the Group |s
entitled to the income. Donations and endowments with restrictions are classified as restricted reserves with
additional disclosure provided within the notes to the accounts.

F. Accounting for retirement benefits
The three principal pension schemes for the Group's staff are the Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS), the Wandsworth
Council Pension Fund, and Aviva.

¢ TPS is a multi-employer scheme for which it is not possible to identify the assets and liabilities attributable
to the Group due to the mutual nature of the scheme. The scheme is underwritten by Central Government
and the Group has no further obligation to make contributions to the scheme. Therefore, this scheme is
accounted for as a defined contribution retirement benefit scheme.

® Wandsworth Council Pension Fund is a defined benefit scheme with funds held in separate trustee
administered funds. The scheme is valued every three years by professionally qualified independent
actuaries. :

e Aviva is a defined contribution scheme.

Contributions to the Group's defined contribution pension schemes are recognised as an expense in the Statement
of Comprehensive Income in the periods during which services are rendered by employees.

Statement of Accounting Policies (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

F. Accounting for retirement benefits (continued)
A net difference between the fair value of the assets held in the Group's defined benefit pension scheme and the
scheme's liabilities measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit method and is recognised on the Group's
Balance Sheet as a pension asset or liability as appropriate. The carrying value of any resulting pension scheme asset
is restricted via an “asset ceiling” to the extent that the Group is not able to recover the surplus either through
reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.

G. Employment benefits
Short term employment benefits such as salaries and compensated absences are recognised as an expense in the
year in which the employees render service to the Group. Any unused benefits are accrued and measured as the
additional amount the Group expects to pay as a result of the unused entitlement.

H. Operating leases

Costs in respect of operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Any lease premiums or
incentives are spread over the minimum lease term.

|. Foreign currency
items included in the financial statements of the University and its subsidiary are measured using the currency of the
primary economic environment in which the entity operates being the ‘functional currency’. The consolidated
financial statements are presented in ‘sterling’, which is the functional and presentation currency of the University
and its subsidiary.

Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies at the foreign exchange rate
at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet
date are retranslated to the functional currency at the foreign exchange rate at that date. Foreign exchange
differences arising on translation are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

J. Tangible fixed assets
Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost, or deemed cost, less accumulated depreciation and accumulated
impairment losses. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable to bringing the asset to the
location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management.

The Group took advantage of the option afforded under FRS 102 and elected to measure land, buildings and site
infrastructure at deemed cost, being the fair value at the date of transition to FRS 102.

The costs in relation to fixed assets after initial purchase or construction are capitalised to the extent that they
provide incremental future benefits to the Group. The carrying amount of a replaced part is derecognised. Repairs
and maintenance are charged to income during the period in which they are incurred.

The Group does not capitalise fixed assets with an initial cost of under £1,000 as these are not considered material.

K. Intangible assets
Intangible assets are amortised using the straight-line method over the remaining estimated economic life of the
assets. They are subject to periodic impairment reviews as appropriate. The estimated useful life of these assets is
normally four years.

L. Depreciation
Freehold land is not depreciated as it is considered to have an indefinite useful life. Depreciation on other assets is
charged so as to allocate the cost of assets less their residual value aver their estimated useful lives, using the straight-
line method. The estimated useful lives range as follows:

Freehold buildings 50 years
Site infrastructure 10 years
Furniture, fittings, equipment and vehicles 5S years
Computers 4 years

50 |

Statement of Accounting Policies (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

L. Depreciation (continued)
Where parts of a fixed asset have different useful lives, they are depreciated as separate components. Freehold
buildings have been split into: sub-structure, roof, other structure, fit-out and fittings, mechanical, electrical and
heaters/boilers.

The assets' residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted prospectively if
appropriate, if there is an indication of a significant change since the last reporting date.

Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are
recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

No depreciation is charged on assets in the course of construction,

M. Heritage assets
Heritage assets are initially recognised at cost, and subsequently stated at their revalued amount. Revaluations are
performed with sufficient regularity to ensure that the carrying amount does not differ materially from fair value.
Revaluation gains or losses are taken to the revaluation reserve. Heritage assets are not depreciated as their jong
economic life and high residual value mean that any depreciation would not be material.

N. Impairment of assets

Assets that are subject to depreciation or amortisation are assessed at each reporting date to determine whether
there is any indication that the assets are impaired. Where there is any indication that an asset may be impaired,
the carrying value of the asset (or cash-generating unit, CGU, to which the asset has been allocated) is tested for
impairment. An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset's carrying amount exceeds its
recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset's (or CGU's) fair value less costs to sell and
value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are
separately identifiable cash flows (CGUs). Non-financial assets that have been previously impaired are reviewed at
each reporting date to assess whether there is any indication that the impairment losses recognised in prior periods
may no longer exist or may have decreased.

O. Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the Statement of Comprehensive Income in the period to which

they relate.

P. Stock
Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable vatue, being the estimated selling price less costs to complete
and sell. Cost is measured using the purchase price.

Q. Financial liabilities and equity
Financial liabilities and equity are classified according to the substance of the financial instrument's contractual
obligations, rather than the financial instrument's legal form.

R. Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet comprise cash at bank and in hand, short term deposits which have
an original maturing date of less than three months and overdrafts.

S. Short term investments
Short term investments are carried as fair value which is taken to be the price that would be received at the sale of
the asset in an orderly transaction between market participants.

T. Debt instruments

Debt instruments which are basic financial instruments are initially recorded at transaction price. Subsequently, they
are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

SL Jove re

Statement of Accounting Policies (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

U. Short-term debtors and creditors
Debtors and creditors with no stated interest rate and receivable or payable within one year are recorded at
transaction price. Any losses arising from impairment are recognised in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.

Vv. Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets
Provisions are recognised in the financial statements when:
« the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event;
e itis probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation; and
e  areliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.

The amount recognised as a provision is determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate
that reflects risks specific to the liability.

A contingent liability arises from a past event that gives the Group a possible obligation whose existence will only be
confirmed by the occurrence or otherwise of uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the Group.
Contingent liabilities also arise in circumstances where a provision would otherwise be made but either it is not
probable that an outflow of resources will be required or the amount of the obligation cannot be measured reliably.
Acontingent asset arises where an event has taken place that gives the Group a possible asset whose existence will
only be confirmed by the occurrence or otherwise of uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the
Group. Contingent assets and liabilities are not recognised in the Balance Sheet but are disclosed in the notes.

W. Taxation
The University is considered to satisfy the tests set out in Paragraph 1 Schedule 6 of the Finance Act 2010 and
therefore it meets the definition of a charitable company for UK corporation tax purposes.

Accordingly, the University is potentially exempt from taxation in respect of income or capital gains received within
categories covered by Chapter 3 Part 11 of the Corporation Tax Act 2011 or Section 256 of the Taxation Chargeable

Gains Act 1992, to the extent that such income or gains are applied exclusively to charitable purposes. Subsidiary
companies are liable to corporation tax.

The University is partially exempt in respect of Value Added Tax (VAT), so that it can only recover a minor element of
VAT charged on its inputs. Irrecoverable VAT on inputs is included in the costs of such inputs and added to the cost
of tangible fixed assets as appropriate, where the inputs themselves are tangible fixed assets by nature.

xX. Reserves
Reserves are allocated between unrestricted and, if applicable, restricted reserves whereby the donor has designated
a specific purpose and therefore the University is restricted in its use of these funds.

Y. Agency Arrangements
The Group acts as an agent when collecting funds on behalf of students, for instance funds collected for scholarships
or support funding. Funds collected on behalf of students are not recognised in the Statement of Income but are
recognised on the Balance Sheet. The Group retains and recognises in revenue a commission for administering
scholarship funding to students. Funds on behalf of students are shown in note 26.

Z. Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty
In preparing these financial statements, the directors have made the following judgements:

e Determine whether leases entered into by the Group either as a lessor or a lessee are operating or jease or
finance leases. These decisions depend on an assessment of whether the risks and rewards of ownership
have been transferred from the lessor to the lessee on a lease by lease basis.

e Determine whether there are indicators of impairment of the Group's assets. Factors taken into
consideration in reaching such a decision include the economic viability and expected future financial
performance of the asset.

e That an asset ceiling should be applied to the net pension asset at the year-end as the asset is not
recoverable either through reduced contributions or refund from the scheme.

52 |

Statement of Accounting Policies (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

Z. Judgements in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)

e = The University has entered into a number of franchise partnerships with third parties to provide education
services to students. Determining whether the University is acting as a principal or as an agent in these
arrangements requires judgement and the consideration of ail relevant facts and circumstances. Where the
University is exposed to the significant risks and rewards associated with the provision of the education
services the University recognises the full amount of fees invoiced to the student as its revenue and the
amount passed onto the delivery partner is included in operating expenses. Where the University is not
exposed to the significant risks and rewards associated with the education services the University recognises
as revenue the fees retained net of the payment to the partner of the collaborative provision fees. If the
University had determined that it was acting as principal in its major franchise partnerships contracts,
Tuition Fees recognised would have been £13.4m higher and operating costs recognised would also have
been £13.4m higher. Such a gross-up would have no impact on the operating surplus, the net deficit of the
University, net assets or cashflow.

In preparing these financial statements, the directors have identified the following sources of estimation uncertainty:

e Tangible fixed assets are depreciated over their useful lives taking into account residual values, where
appropriate. The actual lives of the assets and residual values are assessed annually and may vary depending
on a number of factors. In re-assessing asset lives, factors such as product life cycles and maintenance
programmes are considered.

«= The critical underlying assumptions in relation to the estimate of the pension defined benefit scheme
obligation such as standard rates of inflation, mortality, discount rate and anticipated future salary
increases. Variations in these assumptions have the ability to significantly influence the value of the liability
recorded and annual defined benefit expense. Further details are given in note 21. °

e@ = Strawberry Hill Trust liability. The University has an obligation to make annual payments to Strawberry Hill
Trust for the ongoing maintenance of Strawberry Hill House until 31 July 2025. The future payments are
discounted at a rate of 5.0% (2023: 5.0%), based on the interest rate of University’s Santander loan which is
approximated as the average cost of capital of the University. This obligation will vary should Strawberry Hill
Trust receive funding exceeding £80k per annum or should the University’s weighted average cost of capital
change. Further details are given in note 18.

53 |e age


Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

1 Funding body grants.

Recurrent Grant

Office for Students (OfS)

Research England

Specific Grants

Special initiatives - OfS/Research England

Deferred capital grants released in year
Buildings

2 Tuition fees and education contracts

Full time home and EU students
Full time international students
Part time students

Non credit bearing course fees

3 Research grants and contracts

Research councils, charities, government and industry

4 Other income

Residences, catering and conferences
Other services rendered
Other income

Consolidated
2024
£'000

i 3,987] 3,639

Consolidated
2024
£'000

Consolidated
2024
£'000

| 0

i 860}

Consolidated
2024
£'000

2023
£'000

527

2023
£000

30,889
8,158
3,385

573

43,005.

2023
£'000

7,328

217
1417
8,962

University .
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
1,989 1,645
1,010 944
$29 $23
460 $27
3,987 3,639
University
2024 2023
£'000 £000
31,661 30,889
7,854 8,158
3,186 3,385
526 573
43,227 43,005
University
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
860 1,032
860 1,032
University
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
6,406 6,526
$11 217
2,047 1,610
8,964 | _ 8,353

54} +


Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

5 Investment income

Consolidated
“2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Bank interest 712i $71
712, 571 |
6 Donations
. Consolidated
2024 ~ 2023
. _£'000 £'000

Donations with restrictions
Unrestricted donations

7 Grant and fee income
The source of grant income and fee income , included in notes 1 to 4 above is as follows:

Consolidated

2024 2023

£'000 £'000

Grant income from the OfS 1,333
Grant income from other bodies 2,527
Fee income for research awards (exclusive of VAT) 739
Fee income from non-qualifying courses (exclusive of VAT) 526} 573
Fee income for taught awards (exclusive of VAT) 41,898 - _.41,693.
t 48,520) 46,865

Grant income from the Of excludes £750,000 (2023: £676,000) Access Participation student premium funding allocated to support

successful student outcomes and Disabled students’ premium.

8 Staff
Consolidated _

(a) Staff costs 2024 2023

£'000 £'000
Salaries 30,570
Social security costs 3,204
Other pension costs 4,571
Redundancy and severance costs 93

41,458) 38,438

University
2024 2023
£'000 £'000_.
647 s51
6a7 SSL
University.
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
193 421
22 17
216 438
University
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
2,900 1,333
2,398 2,527
798 739
573
41,693
46,865
_ University
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
32,642 30,513
3,362 3,199
4,800 4,564
588 93
41,392 38,369

Included in other pension costs are £278,410 (2023: £525,715) in respect of the defined benefit schemes and €4,528,703 (2023: £4,045,537)

in respect of the defined contribution schemes,

55|Page

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

8 Staff (continued)
- :
({b) Emoluments of the Vice-Chancellor ° 2024 2023"
£'000 £000.
Basic salary 218
Performance related pay and other bonuses is
Medical insurance 4

Other taxable benefits 54

a ae

Remuneration for senior leadership roles within the University, including that of the Vice-Chancellor, is determined by the Remuneration
Committee. This Committee is led by the Vice-Chair to the Board of Governors; the Vice-Chancellor is not a member of the Committee. To
assist the Committee with its decision making, the Committee considers guidance from the Committee of University Chairs, analysis of senior
leadership pay within the University, and external benchmarking including the UCEA Senior Staff Remuneration Survey.

Ouring the year ended 31 July 2024, Professor Anthony McClaran’s basic salary was £227k. Employers national insurance regarding Vice-
Chancellor amounted to £40k (2023: £41k}. The Vice-Chancellor received £58k (2023: £54k) additional pension compensatory allowance. The
Vice-Chancellor was awarded £11k of performance-related bonus for the year to 31 July 2024, to be paid during 2024-25. During the year
ended 31 July 2024, the Vice-Chancellor received £15k of performance-related bonus for the year ended 31 July 2023.

St Mary's Vice-Chancellor salary as a multiple of median staff pay for 2023-24 was 5.9 (2022-23: 5.8) compared with a sector average in 2023
of 6.9 (2021-22: 6.9). Remuneration of the Vice-Chanceltor as a multiple of median staff total remuneration was 6.3 (2022-23 6.8). Vice-
Chancellor salary was 1.36% lower than comparable Vice-Chancellor pay in relevant benchmarking groups fram the UCEA senior
remuneration survey data.

Consolidated

(c) Basic salary of other higher paid staff excluding employers 2024 2023
national insurance and pension contributions: - - . Number Number.

£100,000-£104,999
£110,000-£114,999
£115,000-£119,999
£120,000-£124,999
£130,000-£134,999
£135,000-£139,999
£140,000-£144,999
£145,000-£149,999
£150,000-£154,999
£215,000-£219,999
£225,000-£229,999

PPRuNe

ms

Emoluments to the Vice-Chancelior are included in the above table for 2023-24 and are disclosed in note 8(b) for both years.:

56 |:

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

8 Staff (continued)

(d) Key management personnel:

Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the
University and Group. Staff costs includes compensation paid to key management personnel. The senior officers set out on page 1 are all
included in Key management personnel.

Key management personnel were paid total compensation for the year ended 31 July 2024 of £823,000 (2023: £796,000).

{e) Emoluments of the Governors:

The total emoluments of all Governors in the year amounted to £430,000 (2023: £379,000} which includes pension contributions of £23,000
(2023: £18,000). These emoluments are in respect of the Vice-Chancellor and staff Governors in their capacity as members of staff. No other
Governors received remuneration. The employer pension contributions to the defined benefit scheme amounted to £nil (2023: £14,000). No
other payments were made or benefits transferred to Governors with respect to long term incentive schemes.

Total full-time equivalents
(f) Average weekly number of persons (inciuding senior post-
holders) employed by the University during the year, expressed as 2024 2023
full-time equivalents:

Number Number

Academic schools and research
Academic support services
Estates, catering and conferences
Central services

(g) Severance payments

During the year the University paid £614k in compensation for loss of office being paid to 39 employees (2023: £93k to 6 employees).

(h) Access and Participation - staff expenditure Consolidated
2024 2023
- £'000
Access Investment : 69)

Financial Support

Disability Support (excluding expenditure included in the two categories above)
Research and Evaluation


Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

9 Anatysis of other operating expenditure by activity

Academic departments

Academic services

Premises

Residences, catering and conference
Research grants and contracts
Administration and central services

Other operating expenses include:

Auditors’ remuneration

External audit - remuneration with respect to audit services
External audit - Tax compliance

External audit - Tax advice

External audit - Other compliance

Internal audit

Operating lease rentals - property

Operating lease rentals - other

10 Access and Participation expenditure

Access Investment
Financial Support
Disability Support
Research and Evaluation

\ Consolidated University. :
~ =" 2024 2023 2024 2023
£'000_ _ -. £000. —-£:000 _ £'000,
2,033 2,173
2,132 1,963
3,520 2,803
1,004 1,029
532 650
5,247 4,840
14,468 "13,457.
83 80
7
18 1
7 13
74 62
416 438
a7 34,

Consolidated

2024 2023
£'000 £'000
423
749
332
48
T 7629) “S52

£733k of these costs are already included in the overall staff costs figures included in the financial statements, see note 8.

The University's published Access and Participation Plan is available at:

ionptans.officeforstu

11 Interest and other finance costs

Bank loans

Consolidated University
2024 20235 "2024 2023
£'000 £000 £'000 £'000 .
F ass} 229 155. 229

r 185} 229 155 229)

58|[Fage

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

12 Tangible fixed assets
. Furniture
Freehold Land Buildings Site Heritage couipment and *Ssets under Total
Infrastructure Assets construction
Consolidated vehicles
£'000 £'000 . £000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 |
Cost or Vatuation — —
At 1 August 2023 39,219 87,413 4,583 455 12,366 828 144,564
Additions - - - + : 7,041 7,041
Transfers to completed - 2,589 : - 1,481 (4,069) -
Disposals (955) (697) - - . (82) = (1,735)
At 31 July 2024 38,264 89,005 4,583 455 13,764 3,800 149,870
Cost 5,838 43,773 874 455 13,769 3,839 68,548
Valuation 32,426 45,232 3,709 - : = 81,367
38,264 89,005 4,583 45S 13,764 3,800 149,915
Depreciation
At 1 August 2023 = 26,166 2,055, < 9,751 - 37,972
Charge in year - 3,602 229 - 782 - 4,614
Disposals - (215) + - (82) * (298)
At 31 July 2024 ; - 29,553 2,284 ~ 10,451 ~ 42,288
Net book values
At 31 July 2024 38,264 59,452 2,299 455 3,313 107,582
_At 31 July 2023 39,219 60,947 2,528 455 2,615 106,593
Site Heritage . Furniture Assets under
Freehold Land Buildings Infrastructure ‘Assets equipment and construction Total
m vehicles
University
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000 €'000 €'000 €'000
Cost or Valuation
At 1 August 2023 39,219 86,423 4,583 4ss 12,084 833 143,602
Additions : - - - - 7,036 7,036
Transfers to completed : 2,589 = - 1,481 (4,069) -
Disposals {955) 697) - - (48) - (4,700)
At 31 July 2024 ~ 38,264 88,320 4,583 455 13,517 3,800 148,938
Cost 5,838 43,273 874 455, 13,517 3,800 67,756
Valuation 32,426 45,047 3,709 : + - 81,187
38,264 88,320 4,583 455 13,517 3,800 148,938
Depreciation
At 1 August 2023 - 25,978 2,055 - 9,488 - 37,519
Charge in year . 3,581 229 - 778 4,588
Disposals : : (215) - - (48) - (263)
At 31 July 2024 . 29,341 2,284 ~ 10,218 E 41,844
Net book values .
At31 July 2024 38,264 58,979 2,299 455 3,299- 3,800 107,095
At 31 July 2023 39,219 60,453 2,528 4sS 2,596 833 106,083

Buildings, Land and Site Infrastructure underwent a one-time revaluation to fair value upon transition to FRS 102. The fair vatue has been adopted as

‘deemed cost’.

59|{Paga

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

13 Heritage Assets

The Group holds a collection of artwork, furniture and other heritage assets. There have been no additions, disposats, or impairment of such assets in
the current or previous periods; the Group’s policy is to maintain its current holdings of heritage assets with no future acquisitions or disposals
anticipated. The Group will carry out restoration and maintenance as required on an ad hoc basis,

The Group commissioned a valuation of heritage assets as at 31 July 2014 at fair value, with the revaluation gain taken through the revaluation reserve;
the valuation was undertaken by independent valuer Hector Paterson & Co Ltd. The Governors do not consider there to have been any material
changes in the valuation of the heritage assets.

14 Intangible Assets

Consolidated and University

Assets under
Software construction Total
_ £'000 £'000 £'000
Cost or Valuation ~
At 1 August 2023 5,468 541 6,009
Additions 2 1,252 1,252
Transfers to completed oe 1,088 (1,088) - 1
At 31 July 2024 6,556 705 7,261
Amartisation
At 1 August 2023 2,390 - 2,390 °
Charge in year 500 - _ 500.
At 31 July 2024 2,890 2 2,890
Net book values
At 31 July 2024 3,666 70S 4,371
At 31 July 2023 3,078 S41 3,619

The principal component within intangible Assets is the University's student record system (SITS). The investment cost of £5.5m is classified as an
intangible asset (software). The carrying value of the SITS system at the year-end was £2.7m (2023: £3.1m). Intangible assets are amortised using the
straight-line method over the remaining estimated economic life of the assets.

15 Investments

Subsidiaries

The University holds all the issued share capital of Strawberry Hill Enterprises Limited, a company registered in England and Wales, the principal activity
of which is the organisation of functions and conferences. The profits of the company are transferred to the University through a Gift Aid arrangement.
The University’s interest in the company at 31 July 2024 was 2 ordinary shares, at a cost of £2 (2023: £2).

During 2014-15 the University incorporated a US subsidiary, “St Mary's University London US Foundation", which is currently non-trading. The US
subsidiary is wholly owned by the University.

Assoclates

The University entered into an agreement with Geoptic Infrastructure Investigations Limited in May 2020 with 166 issued shares (16.6% of
shareholding). Geaptic Infrastructure Investigations Limited is a spinout company from the University of Sheffield, the University of Durham and St
Mary's University incorporated in May 2020, whose primary purpose is to provide cosmic ray imaging services to the civil engineering sector using
specialist techniques. The company issued it's second annual report for the period ended 31 March 2023 in December 2023. .


Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

16 Trade and other receivables

Consolidated
2024 2023
£'000 £'000

Amounts falling due within one year:

Tuition fees and payment plans 1,444
Other debtors 639
Prepayments and accrued income 1,518
Amounts due from subsidiary company “
3,601
Other debtors includes amounts owing from the Student Union (£6,480).
17 Creditors
Amounts falling due within one year Consolidated
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Trade creditors 726
Social security and other taxes 993
Other creditors 4,019
Accruals and deferred income 3,586
Deferred capital grants - current 460

Bank loans - current 1,025

Amounts falling due after one year: Consolidated
2024 2023
£'000 £'000

Bank loans - non current 1,325: 2,350
Deferred capital grants - non current 5,869 4,933

j 7134] 7,283

Alt bank loans are unsecured and are repayable as follows:

Consolidated
2024 2023

In one year or less
Between one and two years |

1,025
Between two and five years 875
In five years or more 450
Total greater than one year 2,350,
Total 3,375

University | -
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
4,800 1,444
876 524
2,792 1,464
735 577
9,203 4,009
University
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
3,155 718
989 970
5,081 3,970
6,596 3,545
786 460
1,025 1,025
17,632 10,688
University
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
1,325 2,350
5,809 4,933
7,134 7,283
University
2024 2023
£'000 . £'000
1,025 1,025
425 1,025
675 875
225 450
1,325 2,350
2,350 3,375

61} Page

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

17 Creditors (continued)

Bank debt consists of the following loans:

A £4,500,000 loan from Santander for the building of the Sports Block Building. The loan, which was taken out in July

2010, is repayable at a fixed rate of 4.95% over 20 years. At 31 July 2024, the amount outstanding was £1,350,000
(2023; £1,575,000).

A £4,000,000 unsecured loan from Barclays for general corporate purposes in the context of the uncertainties
presented by the COVID-19 pandemic. The loan, which was taken out in August 2020, is repayable over 5 years at a
floating rate. At 31 July 2024, the amount outstanding was £1,000,000 (2023: £1,800,000).

The Santander loan is unsecured but the Bank has the capacity to secure the loan on the main University site or other
assets of the University in the event that certain financial criteria are not met.

The loans are subject to certain banking covenants. Regular financial reporting procedures are in place to monitor
compliance. The interest charged on the loans is expensed in the period to which it relates.
18 Provisions for liabilities and charges

Consolidated and University Pension

Lease _Dilapidation Tota!
Enhancement sahil; oe
Provision £000 Liability Provision Provisions
rowision £'000 £'000 £'000
Balance at 1 August 2023 198 137

Charged in the year
Utilised in the year

Released in the year
Balance at 31 July 2024 .

7
(80)

Pension Enhancement Provision

The Group pays enhanced pension entitlements to staff who have taken early retirement under a reorganisation
programme which ended in 1989/90. The assumptions for calculating the pension enhancement provision are as follows:

Discount rate 4.5%
Inflation 5.25%

in addition to the enhanced pensions which are being provided above, the University also provides enhanced pension
contributions to a further 14 former employees. OfS is providing the Group with additional funds each year to meet these
contributions. The costs of these payments have been recognised as a liability in the financial statements of OfS indicating
OfS's expectation that they will be meeting these costs in future. They have not been recognised as a liability in the
Group's balance sheet. Were OfS’s position to change, the estimated cost to the Group of meeting these pension
payments would be £337,433 as at 31 July 2024 (2023: £372,185).

62] ©


Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

18 Provision for liabilities and charges (continued)

Strawberry Hill Trust Lease Liability

This represents the discounted value of future payments due to Strawberry Hill Trust.

The University has an obligation to make annual payments to Strawberry Hill Trust for the ongoing maintenance of
Strawberry Hill House. The payments are discounted using 2 discount rate of 5% (2023: 5.0%).

Dilapidation provision

The dilapidation provision relates to the estimated cost of restoring leased properties to their contractually agreed
condition at the end of the lease term.

19 Financial Instruments
The Group's and University’s financial instruments may be analysed as follows:

Group Group
2024 2023
£'000 £'000
Financial Assets OT
Financial Assets measured at

1,420

Information regarding the group's exposure to and management of credit risk, liquidity risk, market risk, cash flow interest
rate risk, and foreign exchange risk is included in the Directors’ report.

20 Reserves
The University is Limited by Guarantee and as such does not have share capital or shareholders.

Income and expenditure account (unrestricted)
This reserve contains unrestricted equity which can utilised to further the University objectives. As the University is not for
profit, this reserve cannot be distributed by way of dividend.

Income and expenditure account (restricted) .
Restricted Reserves relate to donations made with conditions attached requiring the funds to be used for specific
Purposes.

Revaluation Reserve

This reserve is used to record increases in the fair value of land and buildings and decreases to the extent that such
decreases relates to an increase on the same asset.


Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

“21 Pensions —
The three principal pension schemes for the University's staff:
* Teachers' Pension Scheme (TPS) for academic staff.
* Aviva for non-academic staff.
* Wandsworth Council Pension Fund (WCPF) for non-academic staff.

Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The HEI is a member of the Teachers’ Pension Scheme Engtand and Wales (TPS) for academic and related staff.

TPS is a statutory, contributory, defined benefit scheme, governed by the TPS Regulations 2014. TPS is an unfunded scheme
to which both the member and employer make contributions, as a percentage of salary - these contributions are credited to
the Exchequer. Retirement and other pension benefits are paid by public funds provided by Parliament. The Government
Actuary, using normal actuarial principles, conducts a formal actuarial review of the TPS in accordance with the Public
Service Pensions (Valuations and Employer Cost Cap) Directions 2014 published by HM Treasury every four years. The aim of
the review is to specify the level of future contributions. Actuarial scheme valuations are dependent on assumptions about
the value of future costs, design of benefits and many other factors. The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS was carried out
as at 31 March 2020. The valuation report was published by the Department for Education on 26 October 2023. The key
elements of the valuation and subsequent consultation are:

* employer contribution rates set at 28.6% of pensionable pay (including a 0.08% administration levy)

* total scheme liabilities (pensions currently in payment and the estimated cost of future benefits) for service to the
effective date of £262.0 billion and notional assets (estimated future contributions together with the notional investments
held at the valuation date) of £222.2 billion, giving a notional past service deficit of £39.8 billion. The next valuation result is
due to be implemented from 1 April 2024. The employer’s pension costs paid to TPS in the year to 31 July 2024 amounted to
£3.5m (2022 23: £3.1m)}. A copy of the valuation report and supporting documentation is on the Teachers’ Pensions
website. Under the definitions set out in FRS 102, the TPS is an unfunded multi-employer pension scheme. The HEI has
accounted for its contributions to the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme. The HEI has set out above the
information available on the scheme. There were no outstanding or prepaid contributions at either the beginning or the end
of the financial year.

Aviva Scheme

Aviva scheme is a defined contribution scheme. The default employers’ contribution rates for the University's support staff
increased from 4% to 6% from April 2019, with the maximum employers’ contribution rate remaining at 12% of pensionable
salaries for the year ended 31 July 2024, resulting in salary expense of £988,000 (2023: £925,000).

Wandsworth Council Pension Fund

The London Borough of Richmond upon Thames pension fund , merged with the Wandsworth council Pension Fund on 1
October 2016. The University as an admitted body of the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames Pension Fund became
an admitted body of the Wandsworth Council Pension Fund as of that date. It is a funded defined benefit scheme, with the
assets held in separate trustee administered funds.

The latest comprehensive actuarial valuation of the Fund was performed on 31 March 2022 by a qualified independent
actuary. The following adjustments have been made to measure the defined benefit obligation at reporting date:

The total contribution made for the year ended 31 July 2024 was £706,000 (2023: £717,000) of which employer's.
contributions totalled £589,000 (2023: £594,000) and employee's contributions totalled £117,000 (2023: £123,000).

Currently, support staff contributions range from 5.5% to 12% of salary and are determined on a monthly basis by reference
to earnings bandings. The University currently contributes 20.9% of staff salary. The employer contributions expected to be
paid into the scheme during the year ended 31 July 2024 is £534,000.

The principal assumptions used by the actuary were:

2024 2023

_ % %
Price increases

RPI inflation 3.20 2.85

Salary increases 3.20 3.2

Pension increases (CPI) 2.85 2.85

Discount rate 5.05 5.15

64 (Tage

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

21 Pensions (continued)

The post retirement mortality tables adopted are the S3PA tables with a multiplier of 110% for males and 110% for
females. These base tables are then projected using the CMI 2023 Model, allowing for a long-term rate of improvement of
1.25% per annum. The assumed life expectations from age 65 are:

Retiring today
Retiring in 20 years

The University's share of total plan assets at fair value were:

“Equities
Bonds
Property
Cash
Multi-asset fund
_Total market value of assets

Analysis of the amount shown in the balance sheet

Total market value of assets

Asset ceiling adjustment

Total adjusted market value of assets
Present value of scheme liabilities

Net pension asset / (liability) as at 31 July

Analysis of the amount charged to staff costs income

and expenditure

Employer service cost
Total operating costs

Analysis of the amount that is credited to other finance income

in the income and expenditure account

Net interest on pension liabilities
Net interest on pension liabilities

Males Females
20.7 years 23.3 years
22.0 years 24.7 years

2024 Proportion 2023 Proportion

£'000 % £'000 %

24,705 58 21,966 $8

6,210 15 5,903 1s

5,458 13 §,151 13

1,917 4 1,639 4

4,336_ 10 3,930 10
42,626 38,589

2024 2023

£'000 £'000

42,626 38,589

(12,854) {9,611)

29,772 28,978

(29,772) (28,978)

2024 2023

£'000 £'000

289 505

289 505

2024 2023

€'000 £'000

The total return on fund assets for the year was £4,707,000 (2022-23 (£1,325,000)}. Under FRS 102, a net pension asset
can only be recognised when the University has the right to recover this through refund or a reduction in future
contributions. The Directors have judged that the asset is not recoverable and the asset value has been reduced to an

‘asset ceiling’ such that the net pension position is zero.

Re-measurement of the net assets/(defined liability)

Return on fund assets in excess of interest
Other actuarial losses on assets

Change in financial assumptions

Change in demographic assumptions
Experience gain on defined benefit obligation
Changes in effect of asset ceiling
Re-measurement of the net assets

2024
£'000

2,736 —

(483}
7
147
(2,471)

2023
£'000
52
68
9,631
1,053
(3,998)
(6,806)

65 | Page


Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

21 Pensions (continued)

Reconciliation of defined benefit obligation 2024 2023
- - . - £000 _ __. £'000_.
Opening present value of defined benefit obligation 28,978 35,036

Movement in the year

Current service cost : 289 505
Interest cost 1,461 1,174
Actuarial gains 483 (9,631)
Change in demographic assumptions (71) (1,053)
Experience loss on defined benefit obligation (147) 3,998
Estimated benefits paid (1,338) (1,174)
Contributions by members 117 123
Closing present value of the defined benefit obligation . 29,772 28,978
Reconciliation of fair value of plan assets , 2024 2023
_ __ £1000 £'000

Opening fair value of employer assets 38,589 37,675
Movement in the year .

Interest on assets 1,971 1,273
Return on assets less interest 2,736 52
Administration expenses ‘s 68
Contributions by members (38) (22)
Other actuarial losses 117 123
Contributions by employer 589 594
Estimated benefits paid (1,338) (1,174)
Settiment prices received / (paid) — “2,
Closing fair value of employer assets 42,626 38,589

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

22 Cash and cash equivalents

Consolidated ; University
2024 2023 * 2024 "2023
€'000 - £'000

£'000 £'000

Cash at bank and in hand
Deposit accounts
Total Cash and cash equivalents

814
12,967
13,781

811
11,934
12,745

Analysis of net debt

At 31 July Other non At 31 July
2023 Cash flows cash changes 2024
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash 814 37 - 851
Cash equivalents 12,967 (2,022) - 10,945)
13,781 (1,985) - 41,796
Borrowings
Debt due within one year (1,025) 1,025 (1,025) (1,025)
Debt due after one year 2,350) =. 1,025 (2,325)
(3,375) 1,025 | (2250
Total 10,406 ‘(960) -1 9,046)

23 Operating lease commitments
The group and the University had minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as set out below:

Consolidated and University

2024 2023
€'000 £'000
Annual commitments under operating leases were as follows:
Commitments which expire within 1 year 548) $50
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 2,134) 1,682
Later than 5 years + -
Total commitments at 31 July { 1,682| 2,232
24 Capital commitments
No provision has been made for the following capital commitments at 31 July 2024.
Consolidated University
2024 2023 ~—~—~C«OASS~S*~*~«ODS
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Commitments contracted 2,221 2,561 2,221
Authorised but not contracted _§,279 7,435 5,279
Total commitments at 31 July 7,500 9,996 7,500

67 | Page

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

25 Contingent Liabilities

The University has an obligation to repay a £475,000 grant received from Sports England for the construction of the Sports
Block if the Sports Block is ever sold.

26 Agency Arrangements
This includes amounts collected and disbursed on behalf of the Department for Education
Consolidated

2024 2023

£'000 £'000
Balance at 1 August (255)
Funding council grants (1,244)
Clawbacks
Disbursed to students
Balance at 31 July

27 Related party transactions

Grants were paid to St Mary's Students Union amounting to £407,250 (2023: £385,000), an organisation in which Caitlin
Finn, a member of the University Board of Governors, is the Student Union President.

At 31 July 2624 Trade Debtors outstanding (VAT inclusive} from the Student Union in relation to recharges amounted to
£6,480 (2023: £17,501).

Salaries and wages recharged to the Student Union amounted to £329,810 (2023: £286,097).

In July 2029, the Holy See, by a Decree of the Congregation for Catholic Education, transferred the Faculties of Theology and
Philosophy from Heythrop College to St Mary's University with governance being transferred from the Society of Jesus to
the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of England and Wales. In November 2019, Mater Ecclesiae College (MEC) was established
at St Mary's University. Mater Ecclesiae Coltege will remain the only faculties in the UK with the ability to confer
ecclesiastical degrees — qualifications recognised throughout the Catholic Church. We receive a £50k plus VAT for
educational services in this arrangement.

28 Post Balance Date Events

There were no significant Post Balance Sheet events to be noted.


Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

29 US Supplementary schedule

We have an obligation as part of our participation in the US Federal Loans program to include Supplemental Information which complies with
Federal Register/Vol. 84, No. 184 / Monday, September 23, 2019 / Rules and Regulations. The data below is prepared using UK GAAP and
does not include any adjustments that would be required to comply with US GAAP.

[05 Regulations cna 8 ao es 7
[Expendable NetAsseis

Expendable Not Assets

[Reference
ee | cn tooo
mn A Eo ec I A
restrictions |& Revaluation reserve
‘Statement of Financial Position - Related party recelvable | Secured and Unsecured related ||
and Related party note disclosure receivable
‘Statement of Financial Position - Related party receivable Poof ot
and Related party note disclosure ~
aa i
equipment, net Assets I
[Note 12 Tangible Fixed Assets Note of the Financial Statements - Statement of Financial _| Net Book Values of Tangible pe
I"
Implementation H .

Consolidated Balance Sheet ‘Statement of Financial Position - Net assets with donor IGE - restricted reserve
- restrictions

a | | |
Unsecured related party
recelvable 5

Note 12 Tangible Fixed Assets ‘Statement of Financial Position - Property, Plant and

Position - Property, plant and equipment - pre- Assets - pre-implementation
tt,

Note of the Financlat Statements - Statement of Financial | Net Book Values of Tangible

Position - Property, plant and equipment - post- Assets - post-implementation

implementation with outstanding debt for original purchase |with outstanding debt for original
purchase

Net Book Values of Tangible

Assets - post-implementation

Note 12 Tangible Fixed Assets

‘Note of the Financial Statements - Statement of Financial
Position - Property, plant and equipment - post-
implementation without outstanding debt for original without outstanding debt for
purchase original purchase

INote 12 Tangible Fixed Assets ‘Note of the Financial Statements - Statement of Financial _| Assets Under Construction
Position - Construction in progress

Not applicable Statement of Financial Position - Lease right-oF-use assets, | Not applicable
inet

Note of the Financial Statements - Statement of Financial | Not applicable
Position - Lease right-of-use asset pre-implementation

Note 32 Tangible Fixed Assets

Note of the Financial Statements - Statement of Financial
Position - tease right-of-use asset post-implementation

Statement of Financial Position -Post-employment and __| Pension Provision
pension liabilities

Statement of Financiat Position - Nate Payable and Line of
credit for long-term purposes (both current and long term)
land Line of Credit for Construction in process

‘Statement of Financial Position - Note Payable and Line of

Note 22 Cash and Cash Equivalents

Borrowings - Debt due within one
year + debt due after 1 year

‘Borrowings - Incurred pre july

Note 22 Cash and Cash Equivalents

Credit for long-term purposes (both current and long term)
land Line of Credit for Construction in process,

‘Statement of Financial Position - Note Payable and Line of
credit for long-term purposes (both current and long term)

Nate 22 Cash and Cash Equivalents

2019

F Borrowings - incurred Post luly
12019 to finance Work tn Progress.

land Line of Credit for Constructian In process
‘Statement of Financial Position - Note Payable and Line of
credit for long-term purposes (both current and long term)
land tine of Credit for Construction in

Not applicable Statement of Financial Position - Lease right-of-use asset |, Nat applicable
fiability q
Not applicable ‘Statement of Financial Position - Lease right-of-use asset | Not applicable

fiability pre-implementation

Line of Credit for Construction In
process

Note 22 Cash and Cash Equivalents

uy
yg
a

69|Page

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued): Year ended 31 July 2024

29 US Supplementary schedule (continued) :

Statement of Comprehensive tncome | Statement of Activities - Total Operating Expenses (Total

[Statement of Comprehensive income [Statement of Activities - Non-Operating (Investment return | Actuarial galn In respect of
appropriated for spending), Investments, net of annual pension Schemes and Net
spending gain {loss}, Other components of net periodic Investment {loss}
pension costs, Pension-related changes other than net
periodic pension, changes other than net pertodic pension,
Change in value of split-interest agreements and Other gains]
(loss) - (Total from Statement of Activities prior to

Statement of Activitles - [investment return appropriated | Investment ( Income )/ Expense
for spending) and Investments, net of annual spending, gain
toss}

[Statement of Comprehensive Income | Statement of Activities . Pension rélated changes other —_| Pension-related changes other
than periodic pension than net pertodic costs

Modified Net Assets

i = [restrictions ~ - restrictions
donor restrictions

Notes [Statement of Financial Position - Goodwill [intangible assets aa 3.639 |

INote 16 Trade and other receivables | Statement of Financlal Position - Related party receivable | Secured and Unsecured Amounts
land Related party note disclosure ldue from Subsidiary Company
INote 16 Trade and other receivables _ | Stotement of Financial Position - Related party receivable | Unsecured Amounts due from
land Related pany note disclosure ISubstdtary Company
Statement of Financial Position - Total Assets [Total assets saga T 129,050]

INot applicable |. Note of the Financial Statements - Statement of Financial | Not applicable
Position - Lease right-of-use asset pre-implementation

Not applicable | Statement of Financial Position - Lease right-af-use asset | Not applicable } [|

Itability pre-implementation

Note 14 intangible Assets ‘Statement of Financial Position - Goodwill [intangibte assets | | See 3619

Note 16 Trade and other receivables | Statement of Financiat Pasition - Related party receivable | Secured and unsecured amounts
jand Related party note disclosure due from Subsidiary Company

'|Note 16 Trade and other receivables | Statement of Financial Position - Related party receivable | Unsecured Amounts due from
jend Related party note.disclosure Subsidiary Company.

[Fier income Ratio i

‘Statement af Activities - (Net assets released fram Total income less Investment
restriction), Total Operating Revenue and Other Additions income add Gains on disposal of
land Sale of Fixed Assets, gai Assets

70}.


Appendix 1

Trade Union Facility Time Report: For the year ending 31 March 2024

Table 1
Relevant Union Officials

Table 2 .
Percentage of time spent on facility time
Percentage of time

Table 3
Percentage of pay bill spent:on facility time
_Publication requirement

Total cost of facility time _ 18979
Total pay bill £38,779,802

Percentage of the total pay bill spent on facility time, |, 0.05%
calculated as: (total costs of facility time + total pay
bill) x 100

Table 4

Paid trade union activities

[ Publicationrequirement Figure
Time spent on paid trade union activities as a .
percentage of total paid facility time hours calculated

as: (total hours spent on paid trade union activities by
relevant union officials during the relevant period +
total paid facility time hours) x 100

Tlirage

Appendix 2

Greenhouse gas emission & energy consumption: For the year ending 31 July 2024

Our University is committed to reducing carbon emissions. This report is prepared in accordance with the Companies
and Limited Liability Partnerships (Energy and Carbon Report) Regulations.

The data presented in the table below show our Green House Gas (GHG) emissions for the period from 1 August 2023
to 31 July 2024. We have adopted the widely accepted approach defined in the GHG Protocol Corporate Standard,
with the equivalent terms from ISO 14064-1 shown in brackets.

Scope 1 (Direct emissions)

This includes emissions from activities awned or controlled by the University that release emissions into the
atmosphere. We are reporting on the emissions of fuel used for estates vehicles, rotary mowers, and gas used for
heating etc on premises. Within year we have also replaced the remainder of our fleet of diesel vehicles with fully
electric equivalents utilising grants from Transport for London to part fund the move.

Methodology: The litres of fuel was calculated as the overall value of fuel purchased divided by the average price/litre
of diesel or petrol. The average price was calculated from weekly fuel price statistics published by the Government.
The conversion factor was based on ‘Conversion factors 2024 published by Department for Environment, Food &
Rural Affairs (DEFRA).

Scope 2 (Energy indirect)

This includes emissions released into the atmosphere associated with our consumption of purchased electricity, heat,
steam and cooling.

Methodology: Electricity usage is based on mileage used for our electric vehicles, whilst other electricity usage retates
to those on Campus, the Exchange and other sites. The kWh used by electric vehicles was calculated from the overalt
mileage, converted into kWh based on ‘Conversion factors 2024’ published by DEFRA.

Scope 3 (Other indirect)
This includes emissions relating to business travel by students and staff, procurement, water and waste.,

Staff travel: this includes average weekly commuting to work as well as business travel.

e Student travel: this includes weekly commuting to Campus, Sports Fixtures and other social events.

e Procurement: we have analysed financial data an Food, Drinks, Housekeeping and Short-term Maintenance
{Repairs and Maintenance).

e Water usage: as stated in utility bills.

« Waste usage: a total of all type of waste generated on site.

Methodology: We have applied the latest DEFRA 2024 conversion factors for water usage, waste usage, and students
and staff travel data collected using surveys where possible; this included mode of transport, distance travelled and
types of travel expenditure.

Appendix 2 (continued)

Following government guidance, the total emissions are presented in the table below:

¢ ion fact | GHG emmission |,
conversion factor (KgCOe)

|
fitres 844 2.10 1,771
litres 0 2.51
litres 3,309 2.66 8,800
[Total Scope 1 rs 1,221,146

Amount Conversion factor GHG emmission
ud " (Kgcoe)

Electricity 3,132,257 648,61
Battery Electric Vehicle 9,600]  ——s—s0.06f —S——~—=SS A
otal Scope 2 Ss Cr!

c ion fact GHG emmission
‘onversion factor (kgCOe) |

Student commute
Bus

Train

‘Car

Student travel to sports

Student travel to teaching

Water supply
Water treatment

Wa

ter
Waste 24.28
Total Scope 3 1,803,330

Overall total GHG emission in tCOe: 3,674 (2023: 3,886)
Intensity Ratios
Our GHG emission intensity ratio:

- per Staff FTE is 5.61 (tonnes CO2e / staff FTE) based on a total of 655 FTE.
- per Student FTE is 0.61 (tonnes COZe / student FTE) based on a total of 5,985 FTE.

73|rage

Appendix 2 (continued)

Energy Efficiency Action

The University has continued to invest against its commitment to reduce carbon emissions over time. All our capital
projects include measures to improve energy efficiency and reduce carbon emissions. A key initiative this year has
been the completion of the wider refurbishment of M Block to form new computer facilities. An opportunity has
been taken to move the heating system away from gas to air source heat pumps, incorporate 10Kw of solar
photovoltaic panels on the roof, introduce more localised heating and cooling controls and install full LED lighting
systems.

Investment has also been made in 15 Waldegrave Park residential accommodation in the form of a complete
refurbishment incorporating new condensing boilers, secondary glazing to the sash windows, improved insulation
and LED light fittings.

We have continued to improve control systems across the campus with the zoning of the B-G buildings into three
zones for better boiler management, installation of local heating controls to ail of the eight Victorian residential
building.

Fluorescent lighting continues to be replaced with LED across the campus with the most notable upgrade being the
large sports Performance Hall and a full replacement of lighting to the Drama Production Studio. Remote lighting
control improvements have also been made to the Teddington Lock all weather pitch floodlighting enabling us to
closer control the lights when the pitch is not in use.

Within year we have also replaced the remainder of our fleet of diesel vehicles with fully electric equivalents utilising
grants from Transport for London to part fund the move.

An updated Energy Savings Opportunity Scheme (ESOS) audit was undertaken across the estate, and we continue to
use this as a guide for ongoing investment with financial requests being put into the Capital Development Board to
support this important initiative.

2023-24 saw a further reduction in our gas and electricity usage from the previous period reducing our Scope 1 and
2 emissions. This will be primarily due to cumulative impact of our ongoing improvements as can be seen in the graph
below.

St Mary's University, Twickenham
Total Scope 1 & 2 carban emissions in Kg COe

BLOGG
2808 00H

PRT

ogee

hettte

1g ga0)
Saunt
5

2018/19 = 2019/20, 2020/2! = 2022/22 2022/23, 2023/24
ta z

We endeavour to continue our journey to reducing carbon emission over future years through detailed planning in
our capital investment projects.

74\¢ bee

St MarysUniversityaLWickentiam)
,
piwickenham am

ea oyzors2 1071000


