Stagecoach Devon Limited
Financial statements for 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Registered number: 03142135

A

A21 22/01/2025 #303
COMPANIES HOUSE

WEDNESDAY

Strategic report
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

The directors present their strategic report on the Company for the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2024.
Review of the business ‘
Stagecoach Devon Limited (‘the Company”) is a public transport operator, operating predominantly local bus services
in Devon. The Company also operates the Falcon coach service providing connections to Bristol city centre and the
airport under contract. The Company operates a fleet of 326 (2023: 314) buses and employs 1,144 (2023: 1,056) people.

Results and performance
The growth in revenue reflects recovering passenger demand across our services as pandemic-related restrictions have
eased and confidence has returned.

The results of the Company for the period ended 27 April 2024 show a loss on ordinary activities before taxation of
£2,108,000 (2023: loss £6,827,000) and revenue of £63,072,000 (2023: £51,336,000). The Company has net assets of
£21,049,000 (2023: £23,469,000).

The Company's business is built on a commercial formula of low fares, investment and high customer service which
has maintained our presence in the region.

Business environment

The Company operates predominantly local bus services, and carried around 70,000 (2023: 92,000) passengers a day.
These services are mainly operated on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market. We also operate tendered
services, including school contracts, on behalf of local authorities and other public bodies. The Company works closely
with local authorities, passengers and other stakeholders. The Company benefits from being part of the UK Bus
(regional operations) Division of Stagecoach Group Limited (“the Group"), a nationwide public transport operator.

Business culture

We are committed to conducting business in a socially responsible way and we believe this to be consistent with our
business objectives and strategy. Indeed, by taking a responsible approach towards the environment and the wider
community, we believe we will enhance our objective to deliver organic growth.

Our services are central to delivering economic growth, social equity and objectives around improved air quality and
decarbonisation. This is reflected in the continued government investment in buses, in particular, as we transition to a
net zero future. Bus services continue to benefit from a supportive policy environment from national and local
government.

Strategy

The Company’s absolute focus remains safety and operational excellence, which underpin our delivery of high quality
public transport services. Providing good value travel and investing in our people, fleet and new technology is essential
to enhancing our customers’ experience. We also continue to take steps to improve the efficiency of our operations
and maintain close control of costs.

1 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Strategic report (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Future outlook

Bus services continue to benefit from a supportive policy environment from national and local government. In England,
Bus Recovery Grant (BRG) funding expired at the end of June 2023 and has been replaced by an enhanced operating
Bus Service Operators Grant Plus (‘BSOG+") from July 2023, The Department for Transport has announced that
BSOG+ will continue, albeit at a reduced rate, from April 2024 to March 2025 at the earliest.

Further funding has also been allocated to local authorities to support commercial and tendered bus services over the
same period. Since its launch in January 2023, the £2 bus fare cap scheme has driven an increase in bus patronage,
particularly from existing bus users, and the scheme has now been extended until December 2024. During the year,
the Department for Transport launched the second phase of the Zero Emission Bus Regional Areas (“ZEBRA2")
Programme in England, with up to £129m of funding available to support the introduction of zero emission buses.

We remain positive on the long-term outlook for the Company. Public transport delivers the sustainable connectivity
people need to access work, education, healthcare, shopping, leisure, and meeting family and friends. We are focused
on further rebuilding profitability and adapting our services to meet new and emerging travel patterns. Whilst the recent
General Election may lead to some change in the detail of transport policy, there is broad cross-party support for the
role that buses play in delivering government objectives on social equity and inclusion, economic development and
levelling-up, and in transport decarbonisation.

We have worked closely with local and national government in maintaining bus services through the pandemic and into
recovery. We anticipate that this close partnership will be a continuing feature of transport policy, including through an
expansion of bus service franchising, and we are engaging closely with national and local policy-makers to maximise
the opportunities that this will offer. We are confident that our strong financial position and our continuing momentum
means that we can deliver further benefits to our customers, employees, investors and wider stakeholders.

Principal risks and uncertainties
The management of the business and the execution of the Company's strategy are subject to a number of risks.-

The management and reporting of risk is undertaken at the Group level, rather than at an individual business unit tevel.

The principal risks and uncertainties of Stagecoach Group Limited, which includes those of the Company, are discussed
in the Group’s 2024 Annual Report (paragraph 1.4.5 of the Strategic Review), which does not form part of this report.

Key performance indicators (KPI's)

The directors of Stagecoach Group Limited manage the Group's performance on a divisional basis. For this reason,
the Company's directors believe that analysis using KPI's for the Company is not necessary or appropriate for an
understanding of the development, performance or position of the business of the Company. The development,
performance and position of the UK Bus Division of Stagecoach Group Limited, which includes the Company, is
discussed in the Strategic Review (paragraph 1.4.6) of the Group’s 2024 Annual Report which does not form part of
this report.

2 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Strategic report (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Financial risk management

The Company's activities expose it to a variety of financial risks including the effects of changes in interest rates, credit
risk and commodity prices. The effects of changes in interest rates and commodity prices are managed at a Group level
by a central Group treasury function. The Company has implemented policies which require appropriate credit checks
to be performed on potential customers before sales are made. All credit checks are performed centrally by Stagecoach
Services Limited, a fellow Group company. .

Section 172 statement .

The Directors believe that in the decisions taken during the year ended 27 April 2024, they have acted, both individually
and together, in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for
the benefit of its members as a whole. In doing so, the Directors have had regard to, amongst other things, the matters
set out in section 172(1)(a-f) of the Companies Act 2006.

Recognising their duty to have regard to stakeholders, the Board engages with, and receives updates from various
stakeholders. The views of and impact of the Company’s activities on those stakeholders are an important consideration
for the Directors when making relevant decisions.

Due to the number and distribution of both the Company’s stakeholders and the Stagecoach Group, generally our
stakeholder engagement takes place at an operational and group level. The culture and values upheld when engaging ;
with stakeholders are consistent across the Group, whichever company is communicating with stakeholders.

From the perspective of the Board, as a result of the group governance structure, the matters that it is responsible for
considering under section 172(1) of the Companies Act 2006 have been considered to an appropriate extent by the
Stagecoach Group Limited Board in relation to both the Group and the Company. To the extent necessary for an
understanding of the development, performance and position of the Company, an explanation of how the Board of
Directors of Stagecoach Group Limited has considered the matters set out in section 172 (for the Group and for the
Company) is summarised on pages 36-37 of the Group's 2024 Annual Report, which does not form part of this report.

Employees

From the perspective of the Directors, as a result of the Group governance the Group Directors have taken the lead in
carrying out the duties of a director in respect of the Company’s employees, including engaging with them, having regard
to their interests and the effect of that regard (including on the principal decisions taken by the Company during the
financial year). The Directors have also considered relevant matters where appropriate. An explanation of how the
Group Directors have carried out these responsibilities for the Company is set out on pages 36-37 of the Group's Annual
Report, which does not form part of this report.

Other stakeholders

Similarly, from the perspective of the Directors, as a result of the Group governance structure, the Group Directors have
taken the lead in carrying out the duties of a directors in respect of the Company’s other stakeholders. The Directors
have also considered relevant matters where appropriate. An explanation of how the Group's Directors have had regard
to the need to foster the Company's business relationships with suppliers, customers and others, and the effect of that
regard, including on the principal decisions taken by the Company during the financial year, is set out for both the Group
and Company on pages 36-37 of the Group's Annual Report, which does not form part of this report.

3 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Strategic report (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

By order of the Board

Brew Dagulb

BM Dingwall
Director

One Stockport Exchange
20 Railway Road
Stockport

United Kingdom

SK1 3SW

25 October 2024

4 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED

Registered number: 03142135

Directors’ report
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

The directors present their report on the affairs of the Company, together with the audited financial statements and
independent auditor's report, for the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024 (52 week period ended 29 Aprit 2023).

Results and dividends
The growth in revenue reflects recovering passenger demand across our services as pandemic-related restrictions have
eased and confidence has returned.

The results of the Company for the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024 show a loss on ordinary activities before taxation
of £2,108,000 (2023: loss £6,827,000) and revenue of £63,072,000 (2023: £51,336,000). The loss for the financial
period amounted to £1,340,000 (2023: loss £5,469,000). This amount has been appropriated as follows:

Note 2024 2023

£000 £000

Loss for the financial period {1,340) (5,469)
Dividend to parent company 7 - (2,000)
Transferred to reserves (1,340) (7,469)

Future developments
Future developments have been discussed in the strategic report on page 2.

Financial risk management
Financial risk management has been discussed in the strategic report on page 3.

Directors
The directors who held office during the period under review and up to the date of approval of these financial
statements were:

BM Dingwall

PA Knight

CL Stockton-Jones Resigned 03 July 2023
SD Greer Appointed 03 July 2023
RM Cox Resigned 31 August 2023
Employees

Human resources are key to the Company’s business and the Company's relationship with its employees is fundamental
to achieving its objectives. We aim to recruit and retain the best employees in our sector, which allows us to deliver
good customer service. The Company invests significantly in the training and development of our people. We have
strong, long-established working relationships with trade unions and work in partnership with them on a range of issues
including training and development, occupational health matters, pensions and other employee benefits, as well as
areas such as new vehicle design and uniforms.

5 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Directors' report (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Employees (continued)

The Company recognises its obligations to give disabled people full and fair consideration for all vacancies within the
statutory medical requirements which have to be met for certain grades of staff. Wherever reasonable and practicable,
the Company will retain newly disabled employees and at the same time provide fair opportunities for the career
development of disabled people. Refer to s.172 disclosure in the Strategic Report on page 3 for further details on the
directors' engagement with employees.

Business relationships
The directors have had regard for the need to foster the Company's business relationships with suppliers, customers
and others. Details of these activities are included as part of the s.172 disclosure in the Strategic Report.

Energy and carbon reporting

Energy and carbon reporting for Stagecoach Group Limited, which includes the energy and carbon emissions figures
for the Company, are disclosed in Stagecoach Group Limited’s 2024 Annual Report (paragraph 1.7.2 of the Strategic
Report), which does not form part of this report.

Statement of corporate governance arrangements

The Group is a large private company owned by Inframobility UK Bidco Limited, a company managed by DWS
Infrastructure, a long-term infrastructure investment management business, we follow The Wates Corporate
Governance Principles for Large Private Companies issued by the Financial Reporting Council (“The Wates Principles”).
The principles can be found at https://www.frc.org.uk. We reported our corporate governance arrangements with
reference to the Financial Reporting Council's UK Corporate Governance Code which is summarised on pages 41-43
of the Group’s 2024 Annual Report, which does not form part of this report.

For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024, the Company has prepared the financial statement in accordance with
The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018 (the “Reporting Regulations’). In complying with these
requirements, the Company has elected not to apply a code because for the period ended 27 April 2024, Stagecoach
Group Limited, has applied the Wates Principles, which was applied throughout the Group.

Reflecting the structure of the Group, a number of corporate governance matters are reserved for the board of
Stagecoach Group Limited. The principal responsibilities include agreeing the overall strategy and investment policy, to
approve major capital expenditure, to monitor performance and risk management procedures of senior management,
to ensure there are proper internal controls in place and to consider major acquisitions or disposals.

The Executive Directors of the Group maintain day-to-day contact and meet regularly face-to-face or in video
conferences with senior management and Directors of the Company. The Company’s managing director reports to the
Chief Operating Officer and is supported by his or her own management team. The Chief Operating Officer reports to
the Chief Executive Officer. To the extent necessary for an understanding of the corporate governance arrangements
applied across the Group, an explanation of is summarised on pages 41-43 of the Group's 2024 Annual Report, which
does not form part of this report.

6 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Directors’ report (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Donations
Donations to charitable organisations amounted to £539 (2023: £500).

The Company does not make political contributions and accordingly there were no payments for political purposes
during the period (2023: £Nil).

Going concern

These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. In applying the going concern basis, the
Directors have taken into account the recent trading performance of the Company. The Company is in a net current
liabilities and net assets position as at 27 April 2024. The directors have also considered the Company's cash position
and forecast cash flows for a period of 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements, arising from
the services to be rendered.

The Directors have received confirmation from Stagecoach Group Limited, the Company's intermediate parent
company, that Stagecoach Group Limited will provide financial support to the Company, if required, to assist the
Company in meeting its liabilities as and when they fall due, to the extent that resources are not otherwise available to
the Company to meet such liabilities. Stagecoach Group Limited has confirmed that it has the ability to provide such
support and will provide the support, as appropriate, for a period of 12 months from the date of approval of these
financial statements. In applying the going concern basis, the Directors have also considered the past practice of
Stagecoach Group Limited in providing financial support to the Company and its fellow subsidiaries.

The Directors, having taken account of Stagecoach Group Limited’s current intention, Stagecoach Group Limited's past
practice, recent trading performance, and available liquidity have a reasonable expectation that the Company will
continue to operate as a going concern for a period of 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements.

Refer to note 1(a) for further details on the going concern basis.

Directors’ responsibilities statement
The directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic Report, the Directors’ Report and the financial statements in
accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period. Under that law the directors
have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), Financial Reporting Standard 101. Under
company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the profit or loss of the Company for that period.

7 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Directors’ report (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Directors’ responsibilities statement (continued)

In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:

¢ — select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting
Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently;

* make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

e present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable
and understandable information;

e provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in FRS 101 is insufficient to
enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the company
financial position and financial performance;

* prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Company will not continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and
enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of
fraud and other irregularities.

Independent auditors and disclosure of information to auditors

Each director, as at the date of this report, has confirmed that insofar as they are aware there is no relevant audit

information of which the Company's auditors are unaware, and they have taken ail the steps that they ought to have
_ taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the

Company's auditors are aware of that information.

The auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution concerning their
re-appointment will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting of Stagecoach Group Limited.

Indemnification of directors and officers

The Company maintains Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance in respect of legal action that might be brought
against its directors. The Company has indemnified each of its directors and other officers of the Company against
certain liabilities that may be incurred as a result of their offices.

8 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Directors’ report (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

By order of the Board

Breer Dagull

BM Dingwall
Director

One Stockport Exchange
20 Railway Road
Stockport

United Kingdom

SK1 3SW

25 October 2024

9 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED

Registered number: 03142135

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF STAGECOACH DEVON
LIMITED
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Stagecoach Devon Limited for the period ended 27 April 2024 which
comprise the Income Statement, the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income, the Balance Sheet, the Statement of
Changes in Equity and the related notes 1 to 20, including material accounting policy information. The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards
including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion the financial statements:

¢ give a true and fair view of the company's affairs as at 27 April 2024 and of its loss for the period then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice;
and .

*® have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard,
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting
in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions
that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern for
a period 12 months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant
sections of this report. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a
guarantee as to the company’s ability to continue as a going concern.

Other information
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and

our auditor's report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report.

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise
explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

10

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF STAGECOACH DEVON
LIMITED (CONTINUED)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Other information (continued)

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit or otherwise appears to
be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required
to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required
to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

« the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial period for which the financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

« the strategic report and directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit,
we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us
to report to you if, in our opinion:

« adequate accounting records have not been kept or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from
branches not visited by us; or

« the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or
¢ certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

«we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out on pages 7 and 8, the directors are responsible
for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such
internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are ‘free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to continue as a
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of
accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.

11

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF STAGECOACH DEVON
LIMITED (CONTINUED)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.

Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individuaily or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Explanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line
with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect irregularities, including fraud. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate
concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion. The extent to which our
procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below. However, the primary responsibility
for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with governance of the entity and management.

* We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the company and
determined that the most significant include compliance with applicable health & safety, environmental and data
protection regulations, competition and consumer protection laws, labour regulations and employee rights laws.

+ We understood how Stagecoach Devon Limited is complying with those frameworks to the extent that could
materially impact the financial statements by making enquiries of management, internal audit, those responsible
for legal and compliance procedures and the Company Secretary. We corroborated our enquiries through our
teading of board minutes, papers provided to the Group Audit Committee and correspondence received from
regulatory bodies.

+ We assessed the susceptibility of the company’s financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud
might occur by meeting with management within various parts of the business to understand where they considered
there was susceptibility to fraud. We also considered performance targets and their influence on efforts made by
management to manage earnings or influence the perceptions of analysts. Where this risk was considered to be
higher, we performed audit procedures to address each identified fraud risk. These procedures included testing
manual journals and were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free from
fraud or error.

+ Based on this understanding, we designed our audit procedures to identify non-compliance with such laws and
regulations. Our procedures included a review of board minutes to identify any non-compliance with laws and
regulations and enquiries of senior management.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting
Council's website at https:/Avww. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

12

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF STAGECOACH DEVON
LIMITED (CONTINUED)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted
by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as
a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Cent ‘ung uw

Julie Cavin (Senior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Ernst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor
Edinburgh

Date: 25 October 2024

13

Income statement
For the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2024

Note
Revenue 2
Operating costs
Gross loss
Other operating income 3
Operating loss
Finance income 4
Loss on ordinary activities before exceptional items and taxation 5
Exceptional items 6
Loss on ordinary activities after exceptional items and before taxation
Tax on loss on ordinary activities . 10

Loss for the financial period

The results for both periods arise wholly from continuing operations.

The accompanying notes form an integral part of this income statement.

1
14. STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED

52 week 52 week
period period
ended ended

27 April 29 April

2024 2023
£000 £000
63,072 51,336
(71,220) (65,106)
(8,148) (13,770)
5,882 6,909
(2,266) (6,861)
443 34
(1,823) (6,827)
(285) -
(2,108) (6,827)
768 1,358
(1,340) (5,469)

Registered number: 03142135

Statement of other comprehensive income
For the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2024

Note
Loss for the financial period
Other comprehensive (expense)/income:
Actuarial (loss)/gain on retirement benefit obligations 17

Other comprehensive (expense)/income
Other comprehensive (expense)/income for the period, net of tax

Total comprehensive loss for the period

52 week
period ended
27 April 2024

£000

(1,340)

(1,080)

(1,080)
(1,080)
(2,420)

The accompanying notes form an integral part of this statement of other comprehensive income.

15 | STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED

52 week
period ended
29 April 2023

£000

(8,469)

5,115
5,115
5,115

(354)

Registered number: 03142135

Balance sheet
As at 27 April 2024

2024 2023
Note £000 £000
Non-current assets
. Intangible assets 41(a) - 3
Tangible assets 11(b) 25,934 28,961
Right of use assets 11(c) 1,141 1,349
Retirement benefit assets 17 6,809 7,368
33,884 , 37,681
Current assets
Stocks 12 705 570
Trade and other receivables 13 . 4,969 3,684
Cash at bank and in hand 231 640
5,905 4,894
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 14 (14,838) (14,757)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 15 (264) (33)
(15,102) (14,790)
Net current liabilities (9,197) (9,896)
Total assets less current liabilities 24,687 27,785
Non-current liabilities .
Trade and other payables ; 14 (1,048) (1,266)
Provisions for liabilities and charges 15 (2,590) (3,050)
(3,638) (4,316)
Net assets ‘ 21,049 23,469
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 16 150 150
Contribution reserve 174 174
Profit and loss account 20,725 23,145
Total shareholders’ funds 21,049 , 23,469

The financial statements and accompanying notes on pages 14 to 45 were approved by the board of Directors on 25
October 2024 and were signed on its behalf by:

Breer Dupld

BM Dingwall
Director

The accompanying notes form an integral part of this balance sheet

16 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Statement of changes in equity
For the 52 weeks ended 27 April 2024

Called up

share capital

At 30 April 2022

Loss for the financial period
Other comprehensive income for
the period

Total comprehensive expense for
the period
Dividends

At 29 April 2023

Loss for the financial period

Other comprehensive expense for
the period

Total comprehensive expense for
the period

At 27 April 2024

£000

150

150

Reference for called up share capital in note 15.

Profit
and loss
account

£000

25,499
(5,469)

5,115

(354)
(2,000)

23,145
(1,340)

(1,080)

(2,420)
20,725

The accompanying notes form an integral part of this reconciliation.

17. STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED |

Contribution
teserve
£000

174

Total
shareholders’
funds

£000

25,823
(5,469)

5,115

(354)
(2,000)

174

23,469
(1,340)

(1,080)

(2,420)
21,049

Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies

The principal accounting policies, all of which have been applied consistently throughout the 52 week period to 27 April
2024 and the preceding reporting period, are:

a) Basis of accounting

The Company is a private company limited by shares, incorporated and domiciled in the UK registered in England. The
address of the Company's registered office is shown on page 9 and a description of the Company's principal activities
are set out on page 1. The registered number is 03142135.

These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with Financial
Reporting Standard 101, ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (FRS 101) and the Companies Act 2006 (the Act).

The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have been applied in the preparation of these financial
statements, in accordance with FRS 101:

« Paragraphs 45(b) and 46-52 of IFRS 2, Share-based payments

e Paragraph 38 of IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements with regards to comparative information
requirements in respect of paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1, paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 Property, plant and
equipment and paragraph 118(e) of IAS 38 Intangible assets

e IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’

e Paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38A, 38B-D, 111 and 134-136 of IAS 1, Presentation of financial statements

« IAS 7, Statement of cash flows

« Paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8, Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors

e Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, Related party disclosures

e The requirements in IAS 24, Related party disclosures, to disclose related party transactions entered into
between two or more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is party to the transaction is
wholly owned by such a member

e Paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurements

" The Company has notified its shareholders in writing about, and they do not object to, the use of the disclosure
exemptions used by the Company in these financial statements. The financial statements are prepared in Sterling
which is the functional currency and presentational currency of the entity, and rounded to the nearest £'000.

Going concern

These financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis. In applying the going concern basis, the
Directors have taken into account the recent trading performance of the Company. The Company is in a net current
liabilities and net assets position as at 27 April 2024. The directors have also considered the Company's cash position
and forecast cash flows for a period of 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements, arising from
the services to be rendered. The Directors have received confirmation from Stagecoach Group Limited, the Company’s
intermediate parent company, that Stagecoach Group Limited will provide financial support to the Company, if required,
to assist the Company in meeting its liabilities as and when they fall due, to the extent that resources are not otherwise
available to the Company to meet such liabilities.

18 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

a) Basis of accounting (continued)

Going concern (continued)

Stagecoach Group Limited has confirmed that it has the ability to provide such support and will provide the support, as
appropriate, for 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements. In applying the going concern basis,
the Directors have also considered the past practice of Stagecoach Group Limited in providing financial support to the
Company and its fellow subsidiaries.

The Directors, having taken account of Stagecoach Group Limited’s current intention, Stagecoach Group Limited’s past
practice, recent trading performance, and available liquidity have a reasonable expectation that the Company will
continue to operate as a going concern for a period of at least 12 months from the date of approval of these financial
statements.

The Group going concern assessment performed by Stagecoach Group Limited (the “parent”) was performed using
financial forecasts for the period to 1 November 2025 and considering a wide range of downside scenarios. Further
detail of the Group's going concern assessment is included in the financial statements of Stagecoach Group Limited

i) New accounting standards adopted during the period
New standards, amendments to standards and interpretations that are mandatory for the first time for the financial
period beginning 30 April 2023, do not have any significant effect on the financial statements and are listed below.

International Accounting Standards and Interpretations Effective for annual
periods beginning on or
after
IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 01 January 2023
Amendments to IAS 12 Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a
Single Transaction 01 January 2023
Amendments to JAS 8, Definition of Accounting Estimates 01 January 2023
Amendments to IAS 1 and IFRS and IFRS Practice Statement 2, Disclosure of
Accounting policies 01 January 2023
Amendments to IAS 12 Income taxes: International Tax Reform — Pillar Two Modet
Rules 01 January 2023

19 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

a) Basis of accounting (continued)

ii) Other new standards

The International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) and the International Financial Reporting Interpretations
Committee ("IFRIC”) have issued the following standards and interpretations with an effective date for financial years
beginning on or after the dates disclosed below and therefore after the date of these financial statements:

International Accounting Standards and Interpretations Effective for annual
periods beginning on or
after
Amendments to IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements
+ Non-current Liabilities with Covenants
+ Deferral of Effective Date Amendment :
+ Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-Current 01 January 2024

Amendments to IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows and IFRS 7 Financial Instruments:

Disclosures: Supplier Finance Arrangements 01 January 2024
Amendments to IFRS 16, Leases — Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback 01 January 2024
Amendments to IAS 21 — Lack of exchangeability 01 January 2025*

* Not yet adopted by the UK Endorsement Board.

b) Intangible fixed assets

Intangible assets arising as part of a business combination are capitalised separately from goodwill at fair value at the
date of acquisition if the asset is separable or arises from contractual or legal rights and its fair value can be measured
reliably. Assets are subsequently measured at fair value less accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment
losses. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment
whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. The useful economic life is as follows:

Software 5 years
Amortisation is recorded within operating costs.

¢) Tangible fixed assets

Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working
condition for its intended use. Land and buildings and other fixed assets are shown at cost, net of depreciation and any
provision for impairment as set out in note 11(b). Depreciation is provided at rates calculated to write off the cost or
valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, as follows:

Freehold buildings 10 to 50 years

Leasehold land and buildings 10 to 50 years .
Public service vehicles (PSVs), depending on type 7 to 16 years

Plant and equipment and furniture and fittings 3 to 10 years

Freehold land is not depreciated.

20 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

d) Leases

The Company leases many assets including properties, office and plant equipment. Rental contracts are typically made
for a fixed period of 6 months to 100 years. Certain leases have extension options which the Company may choose to
exercise.

For contracts that convey the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for
consideration, the Company recognises lease liabilities to make lease payments, and right-of-use assets representing
the right to use the underlying asset.

Effect of lease extensions and break clauses on lease terms

Options to extend leases and break clauses are included in a number of the Company's leases. These are used by the
Company to maximise flexibility in managing its assets and operations to meet passenger demands. The Company
considers all the circumstances that create an economic incentive to exercise an extension option or not utilise a break
clause. An extension option or the periods after a break clause are only included in a lease term if the lease is
reasonably certain to be extended or if the break clause is reasonably certain not to be utilised.

For leases of properties, the Company considers the likely value of future rentals and anticipated changes in services
operated from the property when considering whether it is reasonably certain to extend a lease or not to utilise a break
clause.

Measurement of lease liabilities
Liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured at present value. Lease liabilities include the net present value of
the following lease payments:

e Fixed lease payments, less any lease incentives receivable;

e Amounts expected to be payable by the Group under residual value guarantees;

« The exercise price of a purchase option if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise that option;

« Payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Group exercising that option;

« Payments to be made under reasonably certain extension options;

« Variable lease payments that are based on an on index or rate, initially measured using the index or rate at
the commencement date.

The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be readily determined,
the Group's incremental borrowing rate is used, being the rate that the Company would have to pay to borrow the funds
necessary to obtain an asset of similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment with similar
terms, security and conditions. Incremental borrowing rates are determined for each internal reporting period and
applied to the leases entered into during each such period.

To determine the incremental borrowing rate, the Company:

* uses recent third party financing received by the individual lessee as a starting point, adjusted to reflect
changes in financing conditions since the third party financing was received;

« makes adjustments to the rate to reflect the terms and conditions specific to the lease. These will include
adjustment for items such as the lease term and the right-of-use asset being leased.

21 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

d) Leases (continued)

Measurement of lease liabilities (continued)

The Company is exposed to potential future increases in variable lease payments for some properties based on an
index or rate, which are not included in the lease liability until they take effect. When adjustments to lease payments
based on an index or rate take effect, the lease liability is reassessed and adjusted against the right-of-use asset. There
are no leases with other forms of variable payment.

Lease payments are allocated between principal and finance cost. The finance cost is charged to the income statement
over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for
each period.

Contracts can contain lease and non-lease components. For all property leases, the Company has separated lease
and non-lease components. For all other leases, the Company has elected not to separate lease and non-lease
components but instead accounts for these as a single lease component. Non-lease components for properties are
excluded from the projection of future lease payments and are treated as a separate expense on a straight-line basis
within operating costs.

Lease terms are negotiated lease by lease resulting in a wide range of terms and conditions. The lease agreements
do not generally impose any financial covenants. The principal restriction on assets held under lease or hire purchase
agreements is a restriction on the right to dispose of the assets during the period of the agreement.

Right-of-use assets
Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the following:

¢ the amount of the initial measurement of the lease liability;

° any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received;
* any initial direct costs; and ;

«  dilapidation provisions.

Right-of-use assets are generally depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the asset's useful life and the
lease term. If the Company is reasonably certain to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated
over the underlying asset's useful life.

Short-term leases and low-value assets

Payments associated with short-term leases of equipment and vehicles and all leases of low-value assets are
recognised on a straight-line basis as an expense in the consolidated income statement. Short-term leases are leases
with a lease term of 12 months or less. Low-value assets have a capital value, when new, of less than £4,500 and
comprise principally |T equipment and small items of office equipment.

e) Fixed asset investments
Fixed asset investments are shown at cost less any provision for impairment.

22 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

f) Stocks

Stocks of parts and consumables are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value after making due allowance
for obsolete or slow moving items. Cost is determined using the first-in, first-out ("FIFO") method for fuel stocks and
average cost method for all other stocks.

g) Taxation

Tax, current and deferred is calculated using tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet
date. Corporation tax is provided on taxable profit at the current rate applicable. Tax charges and credits are accounted
for through the same primary statement as the related pre-tax item. Deferred income tax is provided in full, using the
liability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying
amounts in the financial statements.

Deferred income tax is measured at the rates that are expected to apply in periods in which the temporary differences
reverse based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.

Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against
which the temporary difference can be utilised.

Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax
regulation is subject to interpretation. Management estimates amounts relating to uncertain tax treatments based on
the applicable law and regulations, historic outcomes of similar audits and discussions, independent, external specialist
advice and consideration of the progress on, and nature of, current discussions with the tax authority.

Where management determines that a greater than 50% probability exists that the tax authorities would accept the
positions taken in the tax return, amounts are recognised in the financial statements on that basis. Where the amount
of tax payable or recoverable is uncertain, the Company recognises a liability or asset based on either: management's
judgement of the most likely outcome or, when there is a wide range of possible outcomes, a probability weighted
average approach.

h) Revenue

Revenue represents fare, concessionary income, contract revenues, fuel sales, commissions, engineering sales and
lost property receipts receivable in respect of the period. The directors regard the Company's business activities, which
are carried out wholly in the United Kingdom, as being of one class.

Commercial passenger revenue

Commercial passenger revenue primarily relates to ticket sales for travel on the Company's transport services.
Passenger revenue is recognised in the income statement in the period in which the related travel occurs. This can
involve some estimation — for example, revenue from the sale of season tickets and travelcards, that entitle individuals
to use certain of our services during a specified period of time, is deferred within liabilities and recognised in the income
statement over the period covered. The recognition of season ticket and travelcard income is recorded on a straight-
line basis over the applicable period. ,

23. STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)
h) Revenue (continued)

Concessionary revenue

In the UK, the Company receives concessionary revenue from public bodies, such as local authorities, for transporting
certain qualifying individuals free of charge to the passenger. Although the revenue is received from a party other than
the person receiving the service, the Company accounts for such revenue in accordance with IFRS 15, Revenue from
Contracts with Customers, with the performance obligation being the provision of the free travel to those eligible.
Amounts that are receivable from government bodies in respect of travel by individuals on the Company’s transport
services is recognised in the income statement in the period in which the related travel occurs.

Tendered and school revenue

Other amounts that the Company receives from government bodies to pay for the operation of transport services they
consider to be socially desirable are included in revenue and recognised in the income statement in the period that the
relevant payment relates to. This includes tender and school revenue receivable to financially support certain bus
services the Company operates in the UK.

Contract revenue

Revenue receivable from government bodies and others to the Company for operating transport services under contract
is recognised in the income statement in the period that the contracted services relate to. In general, the revenue in
respect of any particular period can be clearly determined from the contract. Where there is a contingent element to
contract revenue (for example, where additional amounts are payable or receivable based on the punctuality of transport
services and/or other operational measures), revenue is recognised based on the applicable operational measures
when the amount of revenue can be reliably estimated and it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount
of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur.

Other revenue and income

Revenue that is incidental to the Company's principal activity of providing transport services is reported as other
revenue. Such revenue is recognised as the service is provided, the amount of revenue can be reliably estimated and
it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur. This may
include income undertaking maintenance work on other operators’ vehicles and selling fuel to other transport operators.

Contract liabilities

A contract liability is the obligation to provide services for a customer for which the Company has received consideration
(or an amount of consideration is due) from the customer. If a customer pays consideration before the Company
provides the services, a contract liability is recognised when the payment is made or the payment is due (whichever is
earlier). Contract liabilities are recognised as revenue when the Company performs under the contract. Customers
include individuals, corporations and public bodies who pay the Company for transport services. Contract liabilities
include amounts in respect of unexpired season tickets and other tickets giving the holder a right to travel on the
Company's services after the balance sheet date.

24 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

i) Other operating income

Revenues incidental to the Company’s principal activity are reported as other operating income, and are recognised in
the income statement in the period in which they are earned. income from other sources is reported as other operating
income. These other sources include COVID-related grant income, selling advertising space on vehicles and premises
that the Company operates and property rental.

j) Lease obligations

Assets acquired under leases are recorded in the balance sheet as an asset (at the equivalent of the purchase price)
and as an obligation to pay future lease rentals. Obligations from leases within creditors represent the total of the capital
payments outstanding at the balance sheet date. Future finance charges are not included.

The interest element of lease obligations is charged to the income statement over the period of the lease.

k) Pension costs and other post retirement benefits
The Company participates in a defined benefit scheme, the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme, and a defined
contribution scheme.

"In respect of the defined benefit scheme, obligations are measured at discounted present value whilst scheme assets
are recorded at market value. The recognised net asset is limited to the present value of economic benefits available
in the form of any future refunds from the plan or reductions in future contributions to the scheme. An economic benefit
is available to the Company if it is realisable during the life of the scheme or on settlement of the scheme liabilities.
The operating and financing costs of the defined benefit plan is included within operating profit and is disclosed
separately in the notes to the financial statements; service costs are spread systematically over the working lives of
employees and financing costs are recognised in the periods in which they arise. Actuarial gains and losses are
recognised immediately in the statement of other comprehensive income. Mortality rates are considered when
retirement benefit obligations are calculated.

Past service costs and adjustments are recognised immediately in income, unless the changes to the pension plan are
conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period (the vesting period), in which case the past
service costs are amortised using a straight-line method over the vesting period.

A full actuarial valuation is undertaken triennially for the scheme and updated annually using independent actuaries
following the projected unit credit method. The present value of the scheme obligations is determined by discounting
the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of high quality corporate bonds which have terms to maturity
equivalent to the terms of the related obligations. Experience adjustments and changes in assumptions which affect
actuarial gains and losses are reflected in the actuarial gain or loss for the period.

For defined contributions schemes, the Company pays contributions to a separately administered pension scheme.

Once the contributions have been paid the Company has no further obligations. The Company's contributions to defined
contribution schemes are charged to the income statement in the period to which the contributions relate.

25 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

1) Grants

Grants from government are recognised where there is reasonable assurance that the grant will be received, and the
Company will comply with all attached conditions. Government grants relating to costs (or net losses) are deferred and
recognised in the income statement over the period necessary to match them with the costs (or net losses) they are
intended to compensate. Government grants relating to the purchase of property, plant and equipment are recorded as
liabilities and are credited to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the expected lives of the related assets.
Government grants received in excess of the amounts recognised in the income statement are held as deferred grant
income within trade and other payables.

Bus Service Operators Grant (“BSOG’) and Bus Service Operators Grant Plus ("BSOG+") are recognised as other
operating income. Other grants are credited to the profit and loss account as the expenditure is expensed.

COVID-19 related grants are government grants receivable in light of the ongoing COVID-19 situation. The amounts
principally reflect grants receivable under the COVID-19 Bus Services Support Grant ("CBSSG") scheme and the Bus
Recovery Grant ("BRG’).

Under the CBSSG scheme, grant income may be claimed by operators of local bus services to close the shortfall of
revenue earned by them during the period affected by COVID-19 and the costs incurred by them in that period. The
estimation of the grant income involves significant uncertainty).

Under Bus Recovery Grant (“BRG’) support, funding was allocated to operators with reference to revenue and mileage
operated. Income is recognised in the income statement in the same period in which the related shortfall of revenue
over costs is incurred to the extent there is reasonable certainty that: (a) the Company will comply with the conditions
attaching to the grant and (b) the grant will be received and retained by the Company, taking account of the potential
adjustments to grant payments as a result of any reconciliation process.

m) Share based payments

The Group previously issued equity-settled and cash-settled share based payments to certain employees. All of the
Group's equity-settled and cash-settled share based payments were wound up on 20 May 2022, following the change
of control of the Company, with the final accounting for the payments included in financial statements for the period
ended 29 April 2023.

n) Cash flow statement

The Company is not required to prepare a cash flow statement under IAS 7, as it is a wholly owned subsidiary
undertaking of Stagecoach Group Limited whose consolidated financial statements, which are publicly available, include
a consolidated cash flow statement in which the cash flows of the Company are included.

26 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

SELZPLEO Jequinu pasaysibey Q3LIWIM NOAZG HOVOOSROWLS = Zz

“Kuedwog ay) JO SSO] paulejay BAe|NWUND ay} SI JUNIE sso] PUB Od By,

“Auedwoo juased ay} Aq spew uaaq aney jeu} SjusW}SaAu! AyINba sjuasaidas aAJasey UONNqUJUCD
“LOL Sug Budope Auedwo ayy 0} Joud apew suonnguyuod jeydeo sjuaseidas junoooe jeyded
“‘Kuedwosd ay} jo [eyIdeo a:eys panss! ay} Jo anjea jeulwou ay) sjuesaiday [eyided aseys dn payed

“sjunodo0e aAlesSal JO JaquuNu e sey Auedwod aut
sanuasay (d

“poday jenuuy
¥Z0Z $,dNoJS ay} JO | aJOU Ul Passnosip ae paywi7 dnolg yoeooabe}s jo Adyod syuswinujsul |eOueUy ay) JO Sjle}ep |IN4

“ASNOaUEYNUIS SANIjiqel| By) ayes pue sjesse ay} as!}ea2 0} 10
‘siseq Jeu & UO a]aS 0} UONUA}U! Ue SI aJay) pue sjUNOWe pasiuBode. Oy) }aSyO 0} JY6U |eBa] ajqeadioyua Ajjuaund e st
as9y} ‘}! AjuO pue ‘} Jaays souR|eq ay) UI payodal jUNOWe Jeu ay) pUe Jasyo ae saNi|iqel| |eOUeUy pue syasse jeloueUly

“somed payejas 0} pue Woy anp seouejeq pue sailed pulyy
JOJO pue syueg YM SjusweBbueWe Buloueuy ‘sejqeded pue sajqenieoal Jayjo pue apes) Se YONS saniiqel| pue sjasse
feloueuy yo uoNuBooa By} Ul INSeJ yeY) SUONDeSUe. JUSWNNSU! jeIOUeUY ISeq OJUI paJajUa AjUO sey AUedWOD ay,

"s}S09 uoNOesue. aiqeynquye Ajoadp snid ‘sBulmouog pue sued} JO aSed aU} UI
pue anyen sey ye Ajjeniul pasiuBooa ave sanuiqel eroueuy jy ‘UoNUBooa, jew! ye Saniigel| j|eIOUeUY sj Jo UOHedyIsse|o
ay} souluuajep Auedwog ay, ‘ayeldosdde se ‘abpay aaqoaye ue u! sjuewnjsu! Buibpey se payeubisep seajeauep
se Jo ‘sBulmoiog pue sueo| ‘ssoj Jo yyO1d YBnosy) anjea se} ye SaNigel| (BIOUeUY Sse paylssejo ave saniiqel| jeroueUly

“JU@WNASUI BY} JO SUOISIAOId JeN}DeWUOD ay) oO} AUed e
sewooeq Auedwog ey} ueyM jeays eouejeg s,AuedWwog au) ul pesiuBbooe: ae saniiqel jeloueuy pue sjasse jeloueuly

“Joy JUOWaINSeeW puUe UONUBOSeY :sjUusUNJ}SU|
Jetoueul4, 6E Sy Jepun Ajdde yeu) esou) ese sjuawNsut jeloUBUY JO} SMOj}|O} Jey) Add BuUNODIE ay} JO euNsOjosIp ay

sjuawnuyjsut jeoueuis (0

(panunuos) saiojod Bununossy 4,

702 tidy 22 papue pouiad yaem ZG auy 104
(panuguos) sjuawe}e}s jeloueuy ay} 0} Se}

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024 .

1 Accounting policies (continued)

q) Critical accounting policies and estimates

Preparation of the financial statements in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101, ‘Reduced Disclosure
Framework’ requires Directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual outcomes could differ from those estimated.

The Directors believe that the accounting policies and estimation techniques discussed below represent those that
require the greatest exercise of judgement.

The Directors have used their best judgement in determining the estimates and assumptions used in these areas but a
different set of judgements could result in material changes to the Company's reported financial performance and/or
financial position.

The critical accounting policies summarised below cover the policies regarded by the Directors as critical to the
Company’s reporting in general.

i)

ii)

28

Pensions

The determination of the Company's pension benefit obligation and expense for defined benefit pension
schemes is dependent on the selection by the Directors of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating
such amounts. Those assumptions include the discount rate, the annual rate of increase in future salary levels
and mortality rates. The Directors’ assumptions are based on actual historical experience and external data.
While we believe that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or significant
changes in assumptions may materially affect the pension obligation and future expense.

Taxation

The Company's tax charge is based on the pre-tax profit for the period and tax rates in force. Estimation of the
tax charge requires an assessment to be made of the potential tax consequences of certain items that will only
be resolved when agreed by the relevant tax authorities. Assessment of the likely outcome is based on historical
experience, professional advice from external advisors, and the current status of any judgemental issues.
_ However, the final tax cost to the Company may differ from the estimates.

Goodwill and impairment

In certain circumstances, IFRS requires property, plant, equipment and intangible assets to be reviewed for
impairment. When a review for impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to
the net present value of the expected future cash flows of the relevant cash generating unit (“CGU”) or net
realisable value, if higher. The discount rate applied in determining the present value of future cash flows is
based on the Company’s estimated weighted average cost of capital with appropriate adjustments made to
reflect the specific risks associated with the CGU. Forecasts of cash flows for this purpose are consistent with
management's plans and forecasts.

The forecast of future cash flows and the estimation of the discount rate involve a significant degree of

judgement. Actual results can differ from those assumed and there can be no absolute assurance that the
assumptions used will hold true.

STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

q) Critical accounting policies and estimates (continued)

iv)

vy)

Property, plant and equipment

Property, plant and equipment, other than land, are depreciated on a straight-line basis to write off the cost or
valuation less estimated residual value of each asset over their estimated useful lives. Useful lives are
estimated based on a number of factors, including the expected usage of the asset, expected deterioration and
technological obsolescence. If another depreciation method (for example, reducing balance) was used or
different useful lives or residual values were applied, this could have a material effect on the Company's
depreciation charge and net profit.

COVID-19 support schemes

Under CBSSG and BRG, grant income may be claimed by operators of local bus services in England to close
the shortfall of revenue earned by them during the period affected by COVID-19 and the costs incurred by them
in that period. Estimating the amount of CBSSG and BRG receivable for the period ended 27 April 2024 involves
significant estimation uncertainty. The extent to which certain costs are eligible for inclusion in claiming bus
support grant income and how certain costs should be determined for the purposes of the schemes remains
subject to reconciliation processes. That creates estimation uncertainty in determining the Group’s bus support
grant income. In the period ended 27 April 2024, the Company has recognised bus support scheme grant
income of £0.899m (2023: £3.393m), being the amount in respect of which the Company considers there to be
reasonable certainty that: (a) the Company will comply with the conditions attaching to the grant and (b) the
grant will be received and retained by the Company, taking account of the potential adjustments to grant
payments as a result of the schemes’ reconciliation processes.

Full details of CBSSG and BRG are discussed in note 1 of the Stagecoach Group 2024 Annual Report.

1) Dilapidations

A dilapidations provision is recognised when there is future obligation relating to the maintenance of leasehold assets.
Provisions for dilapidations are recognised on a lease by lease basis and are based on the Company's best estimate
of the future expected repair costs required to restore leased assets to the condition required at the end of their

respective lease terms.

S) Trade and other payables
Trade and.other payables are generally not interest bearing and are stated at amortised cost which approximates to
nominal value due to creditors days being relatively low.

29

STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

1 Accounting policies (continued)

t) Trade receivables

Trade receivables are recorded at their original amount less provision for expected credit losses. The Company has
elected to apply the simplified version of the expected credit loss model permitted by IFRS 9 in respect of trade
receivables. The lifetime expected credit losses are assessed for all balances. The Company has established a
provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience by division and is adjusted for specific forward-
looking factors.

The carrying amount of the receivable is reduced through the use of a provision account and movements in the provision
are recognised in the income statement within operating costs and other income. When a previously provided trade
receivable is uncollectable, it is written off against the provision.

Adjustments to this policy may be made in specific circumstances. At each reporting date, the Company assesses
whether trade receivables are credit-impaired. This includes a review of whether the customer is in significant financial
difficulty, the probability that the customer will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and any default or
delinquency in payments.

u) Cash and cash equivalents

For the purposes of the balance sheet, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits held at call with
banks and other short term highly liquid investments with maturities at the balance sheet date of twelve months or less
that are available for meeting short-term cash commitments and subject to no significant penalty for early withdrawal.

2 Revenue

Due to the nature of the Company’s business, the origin and destination of revenue (the United Kingdom) is the same
in all cases. As the Company predominantly sells bus services to individuais, it has few customers that are individually
“major”. Its major customers are typically public bodies that subsidise or procure transport services - such customers
include local authorities and transport authorities.

2024 2023

£000 £000

Commercial passenger revenue 30,374 30,058
Concessionary revenue 16,730 11,231
Tendered and school revenue : 11,758 7,654
Contract and other revenue 4,210 2,393
63,072 51,336

30 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

3° Other operating income

2024 2023
£000 : £000
Government grant income . 5,595, 6,187
Gain on disposal of investments - 21
Advertising income 252 265
Other miscellaneous revenue 35 436

5,882 6,909"

Government support grants in the form of BSOG, BSOG+, CBSSG and BRG are reported as other operating income.

4 Finance income

2024 2023

Note £000 £000

Net finance credit on pension liability 17 (551) (97)
Lease interest expense 67 63
Unwinding of other provision discount 4. -

(443) (34)

5 Loss on ordinary activities before taxation

The loss on ordinary activities before taxation for the period is stated after charging: :
2024 2023

£000 £000
Redundancy costs 285 10
Loss on sale of tangible fixed assets other than property 129 223
Depreciation
- owned 3,354 3,537
- right-of-use assets 270 252
Amortisation of intangible asset ; 2 2
Rentals payable on low-value and short-term leases 236 253

No auditors’ fees have been settled directly by the Company. Audit fees of £19,643 (2023: £19,643) were paid by a
fellow subsidiary undertaking on behalf of the Company in respect of audit work performed in the UK.

6 Exceptional items
During the current period, the Company closed two outstations at Bude and Tavistock incurring redundancy costs of,

£285,000.

31 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

7 Dividends
2024 2023
£000 £000

Interim dividend paid to parent company: £Nil per ordinary share (2023:
£1.33) -* 2,000

8 Staff costs

The average monthly number of persons employed by the Company (including executive directors) during the’ period

was:
2024 2023
Number Number
Operations 1097 1,010
Administration and supervisory 47 46
1,144 1,056
2024 2023
Note £000 £000
The aggregate remuneration comprised:
Wages and salaries 35,760 30,300
Social security costs 3,482 2,941
Pension costs . 17 2,732 2,359
41,974 35,600
9 Directors’ remuneration
2024 2023
£000 £000
Emoluments of directors (including pension contributions) 220 472

The above details of directors’ emoluments include an apportionment of the emoluments of RM Cox, PA Knight, SD
Greer and CL Stockton-Jones (2023: BM Dingwall, RM Cox, PA Knight, M Watson and CL Stockton-Jones) which are
paid by fellow Group undertaking, Stagecoach Services Limited with the exception of BM Dingwall which are paid by
Stagecoach Holdings Limited.

No part of the remuneration of BM Dingwall is directly attributable to the Company in the current period.

The highest paid director in the period received £170,000 (2023: £283,000).

32 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

9 Directors’ remuneration (continued)

The number of directors who were members of pension schemes during the period was as follows:

Defined contribution scheme

2024
Number
4

2023

Number

Contributions made to defined contribution schemes in respect of the highest paid director were £25,000 (2023:

£34,000).

10 Tax on loss on ordinary activities

a) Tax recognised in the income statement :

Note
Current tax:
Amounts receivable from fellow group undertaking in respect of losses
Adjustments in respect of prior periods

Total current tax credit
Deferred tax:

Origination and reversal of timing differences
Adjustments in respect of prior periods

Total deferred tax 15(a)

Total tax reported in the income statement

33. STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED

2024
£000

(354)
(32)

(386)

(381)
(1)
(382)

(768)

2023
£000

(1,112)
134

(978)

(374)
(6)
(380)

(1,358)

Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

10 Tax on loss on ordinary activities (continued)

b) Factors affecting the tax credit for the period

The tax assessed for the period is lower (2023: lower) than the standard rate of
corporation tax in the UK of 25.00% (2023: 19.49%). The differences are
explained below:

Loss on ordinary activities before tax

Loss on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in the
UK of 25.00% (2023: 19.49%)

Effect of:

Non tax deductible expenditure and other permanent differences

impact of excess pension contributions where pension in surplus

Treatment of intercompany transactions

Impact on current year movement (differential in rates 19.5% - CT to 25% - DT)
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods

Total tax reported in the income statement

c) Factors that may affect future tax charges

2024 2023
£000 £000
(2,108) (6,827)
(527) (1,331)

40 28
(130) (41)
(119) (60)
. (82)
(32) 128
(768) (1,358)

The deferred tax balances have been calculated with reference to the enacted UK corporation tax rate as at balance

sheet date of 27 April 2024 of 25%.

11 Non-current assets
a) Intangible assets

The movement in the period is summarised below:

Cost
At beginning of period
At end of period

Accumulated depreciation
At beginning of period
Charge for period

At end of period

Net book value
At beginning of period

At end of period

34 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED

Software costs
£000

12
12

(9)
(3)

(12)

Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

11 Non-current assets (continued)

b) Tangible assets

The movement in the period is summarised below:

Plant and
equipment
Freehold and
land and furniture
buildings PSVs and fittings Total
£000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
Beginning of period 10,807 53,907 4,136 68,850
Additions 214 - 37 251
Disposals - (837) (21) (858)
Intercompany transfers - 2,109 41 2,150
End of period 11,021 55,179 4,193 70,393
Accumulated depreciation
Beginning of period (1,218) (35,001) (3,670) (39,889)
Charge for period (226) (2,953) (172) (3,351)
Disposals . - 705 21 726
Intercompany transfers : (1,904) (41) (1,945)
End of period (1,444) (39,153) (3,862) (44,459)
Net book value
Beginning of period 9,589 18,906 466 28,961
End of period . 9,577 16,026 331 25,934

There is no right of use assets included in the above.

Freehold land amounting to £1,408,000 (2023: £1,408,000) has not been depreciated.

35 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

11 Non-current assets (continued)

c) Right of use assets

The movement in the period is summarised below:

Leasehold land and

buildings
£000

Cost ©
Beginning of period 2,184
Additions (2)
Modifications 64
Disposals (95)
End of period 2,151
Accumulated depreciation
Beginning of period . (835)
Charge for period (270)
Disposals 8S
End of period (1,010)
Net book value
Beginning of period 1,349
End of period 1,144

Cash outflows of £241,000 in relation to leases and related interest have taken place during the 52 week period to 27
April 2024 (52 week period to 29 April 2023: £305,000).

The income statement includes the following depreciation charges and other costs relating to leases:

Note 2024 2023
£000 £000

Depreciation
Land and buildings 11(c) 270 252
Total depreciation for right-of-use assets 270 262
Expense relating to short-term leases 5 227 240
Expense relating to low-value assets 5 9 13
Lease costs included within operating profit , 506° 505
Interest expense included in finance costs 4 87 . 83
Lease costs included within profit before tax 573 568

36 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

12 Stocks
2024 2023
£000 £000
Spares, consumables and fuel 705 570

In the opinion of the directors, the difference between the replacement cost of these stocks and their balance sheet
value is not material.

The cost of stock recognised as an expense and included in operating costs during the period amounted to £12,948,000
(2023: £11,383,000).

13 Trade and other receivables

2024 2023
Amounts falling due within one year: £000 £000
Trade debtors 215 193
Prepayments 252 211
Contract assets 859 931
Government grant receivable 1,381 1,216
Intercompany group relief receivable 567 1,112
Amounts owed by group undertakings . 1,695 21

4,969 3,684
Amounts owed by group undertakings due within one year accrue no interest and are repayable on demand.

Contract assets represent amounts that have been earned by the Company prior to the balance sheet date which
remain un-invoiced at the balance sheet date.

37, STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

14 Trade and other payables

2024 2023

£000 £000
Amounts falling due within one year: .
Lease liabilities 262 275
Amounts owed to group undertakings 9,209 9,885
PAYE and NIC payable 974 944
Pension creditor 294 287
Accruals : 2,508 2,101
Fixed asset creditors 7 -
Contract liabilities 860 942
Government grants repayable 49 323

Other creditors 605 :

14,838 14,757

Amounts falling due after more than one year:

Lease liabilities 984 4,150
Government grants repayable : 64 116
1,048 1,266

Amounts due to fellow group undertakings within one year accrue no interest and are repayable on demand.

Contract liabilities represent amounts advanced by customers in respect of which the Company has not yet met the
performance obligations to allow the recognition of the balance as revenue. These mainly relate to the season tickets
held by passengers which cross over the year end date and concessionary payments received by the Company in
“respect of services that had yet to be performed.

The contract liabilities as at 27 April 2024 are expected to be recognised as revenue in the year to 27 April 2024. The
contract liabilities at the previous balance sheet date were predominately recognised within revenue in the subsequent
year.

Changes in the contract liabilities relating to customer contracts at each year-end principally reflect changes in the
volume of season tickets purchased in advance of the respective year-end dates.

38 = STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

15 Provisions for liabilities and charges

2024 2023
Note £000 £000
Current:

Dilapidations 15(b) 264 13
Litigations 18(c) 5 20
264 33

Non-current:
Deferred tax liability . 15(a) 2,253 2,635
Dilapidations 15(b) 337 415
2,590 3,050
Total provisions 2,854 3,083

a) Deferred tax

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against
current tax liabilities and where the deferred taxes relate to the same fiscal authority. The offset amounts are as follows:

Deferred tax to be recovered after more than 12 months: 2024 2023
. £000 £000

Deferred tax liability 2,253 | 2,635
Net deferred tax liability 2,253 : 2,635
The movement in deferred tax during the period was: 2024 2023
Note £000 £000

At beginning of period ‘ 2,635 3,015
Credited to income statement 10(a) (382) (380)
At end of period : 2,253 2,635
Deferred tax included in the balance sheet comprises: 2024 2023
£000 £000

Accelerated capital allowances 2,338 2,706
Other short term temporary differences {85) (71)
Net deferred tax liability 2,253 2,635

39 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED ‘Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

15 Provisions for liabilities and charges (continued)

The amount of deferred tax recognised in the income statement by type of temporary difference is as follows:

2024 2023

Note £000 £000

Accelerated capital allowances (368) (379)

Other short term differences (14) (1)

Deferred tax credit 10(a) (382) (380)
b) Dilapidations

2024 2023

£000 £000

At start of period . 428 265

Provision created in period 173 428

Provision utilised in period - (265)

Total dilapidations provision at end of period 601 428

2024 2023

£000 £000

Current: 264 13

Non-current: 337 415

Total dilapidations provision at end of period 601 428

The provision is in respect of dilapidations for the Company's leased properties: Plymouth Road, Tavistock £18,000;
Langsford Park, Tavistock £246,000; Riverside Road, Barnstaple £322,000 and Vaughan Parade, Torquay £15,000.
These provisions are expected to be utilised over the terms of the leases.

c) Litigations

2024 2023
Current £000 £000
At start of period 20 699
Provision utilised in period (20) (679)
Litigations provision at end of period - 20

The provision comprises of the Company's employments tribunals of £20,000 and it was utilised over the period to April
2024. Provision in respect of the road traffic incident £649,000 was utilised during the prior period.

40 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

16 Called up share capital

2024 2023
£000 _ £000
Authorised
1,500,000 (2023: 1,500,000) Ordinary shares of £0.10 each 150 150
Allotted, called up and fully paid
1,500,000 (2023: 1,500,000) Ordinary shares of £0.10 each 150 150

Ordinary shares have the following rights, preferences and restrictions:
The ordinary shares carry a right to vote all general meetings of the Company, a right to share in any dividend issued,
and a right to share in a distribution of capital of the Company.

17 Retirement benefit obligations

The Company participates in the Main Section of the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme ("SPS"), a defined benefit
occupational pension scheme.

|n addition, the Company contributes to defined contribution schemes for certain employees. Contribution costs of
£2,702,000 (2023: £2,329,000) were recognised by the Company. At 27 April 2024 there was a creditor of £294,000
(2023: £287,000) in relation to these contributions.

The Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme ("SPS”)

The Stagecoach Group Pension scheme is a defined benefit scheme. The Main Section of the scheme (in which the
Company participates) closed to future accrual in April 2017. As the scheme is fully funded on a technical provisions
basis, the Company, together with a number of other participating companies within the Group headed by Stagecoach
Group Limited, no longer makes contributions to the Scheme. The Company accounts for its portion of the retirement
benefit obligation, based on its historic share of contributions to the scheme and the proportion of its members.

In the consolidated financial statements of Stagecoach Group Limited, the scheme as a whole is accounted for as a
defined benefit scheme. The consolidated financial statements of Stagecoach Group Limited provide further details of
the scheme.

A full actuarial valuation of the scheme is normally carried out'every three years. With the agreement of the employer,
the Trustees conducted an out-of-cycle valuation as at 31 October 2022 to recognise and align the new investment and
funding strategies. This valuation was completed on 31 May 2023. No additional or deficit recovery contributions were
required.

The management and reporting of the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme is undertaken at Group level. A sensitivity

analysis of significant actuarial assumptions is included within note 23 of the Group’s 2024 Annual Report, which does
not form part of this report.

41 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

17 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

The amounts recognised in the balance sheet were determined as follows:

Equities
Private equity
Bonds

Cash
Property

Fair value of plan assets
Present value of obligations

Surplus before tax
Withholding tax provision on recoverable surplus

Retirement benefit surplus net of withholding tax

2024 2023
£000 £000
1,024 1,485
509 649
43,726 46,368
936 352
3,371 4,229
49,566 53,083
(40,487) (41,748)
9,079 11,335
(2,270) (3,967)
6,809 7,368

At 27 April 2024, 92.2% (2023: 90.8%) of scheme assets were quoted on a recognised stock exchange or held in

cash or assets readily convertible to cash and therefore considered to be liquid.

The amounts recognised in the income statement were as follows:

Administration cost
Interest income

Total defined benefit income
Defined contribution cost

Total income statement charge

The impact of the income statement charge can be analysed as follows:

Note

Total included in staff cost
Total included in interest receivable and similar charges

42. STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED

2024

£000
30

(554)

(521)
2,702

2,181

2024
£000
2,732

(551)

2,181

2023
£000
30

(97)

(67)
2,329

2,262

2023

£000

2,359
(37)

2,262

Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

17 Retirement benefit obligations (continued)

The amounts recognised within the Statement of Other Comprehensive Income were as follows:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Actual return on assets lower than discount rate (3,291) (3,481)
Experience losses arising on benefit obligations (1,103) (3,135)
Changes in assumptions underlying the present value of the scheme
liabilities 1,617 14,599
(Charged)/credited to other comprehensive income (2,777) 7,983
Withholding tax credit/(charge) on distribution of recoverable surplus 1,697 (2,868)
Total (charged)/éredited to other comprehensive income (1,080) - 5,115

The movement in the surplus recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit plan during the period
under IAS 19 is as follows:

2024 2023

£000 £000

Surplus at the beginning of the period 7,368 2,041
Credited to income statement 522 67
Recognised in statement of comprehensive income (2,778) 7,983
Employers’ contributions : 145
Surplus at end of period 5,112 10,236
Movement in withholding tax provision on recoverable surplus 1,697 (2,868)
Surplus net of withholding tax at end of the period 6,809 7,368

The movement in fair value of the plan assets during the period under IAS 19 is as follows:

2024 2023

£000 £000

At beginning of period 53,083 57,319

Remeasurement - return on plan assets. (3,291) (3,481)
Interest income 2,527 1,761
Employers’ contributions - 145

Administration costs (30) (30)
Benefits paid (2,723) (2,631)
At end of period 49,566 53,083

43 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED , Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

17 Retirement benefit obligations (continued) -

The movement in the present value of obligations recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the defined benefit
plan during the period under IAS 19 is as follow:

2024 2023

£000 £000

At beginning of period 41,748 54,179
Interest cost on benefit obligations 1,976 1,664
Actuarial loss - experience on benefit obligations 1,103 3,135
Actuarial gain - changes in assumptions : (1,617) (14,599)
Benefits paid (2,723) (2,631)
At end of period : 40,487 41,748

The principal actuarial assumptions used were as follows:

27 April 29 April

2024 2023

% %

Rate of increase in pensionable salaries Nia Nia
Rate of increase of pension payment 2.5 25
Discount rate : 5.3 49
Rate of inflation (RPI) 34 3.0
Consumer Price Index (CPI) 2.6 2.5

The life expectancy assumptions used for each scheme are periodically reviewed. The weighted average life
expectancies announced at period end were:

27 April 29 April

2024 2023

Years Years

Current pensioner aged 65 - male 19.7 19.6
Current pensioner aged 65 - female 21.9 21.9
Future pensioner at 65 (aged 45 now) - male 20.5 20.4
Future pensioner at 65 (aged 45 now) - female 23.2 23.1

18 Guarantees and other financial commitments

a) Lease commitments
The Company has commitments of £39,000 (2023: £42,000) for short-term leases and £Nil (2023: £ Nil) of low-value
assets as at 27 April 2024.

b) Contingent liabilities

The Company, together with certain other Group undertakings, is a member of a group for VAT purposes, and
technically stands liable in the event of default by any other Group undertaking.

44 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

Notes to the financial statements (continued)
For the 52 week period ended 27 April 2024

148 Guarantees and other financial commitments (continued)

c) Cross guarantees

The Company is subject to a cross corporate guarantee in relation to the Stagecoach Group Limited banking
arrangements with the Bank of Scotland. There have been no instances where this guarantee has been called upon
during the period and none are expected in the future.

19 Related party transactions

The Company has taken advantage of the exemptions granted under IAS 24 by not disclosing details of sales and
purchases with other members of the group headed by Stagecoach Group Limited. Details of amounts due to and from
fellow group undertakings are disclosed in aggregate in notes 13 and 14.

The fellow group undertaking Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited is a 37.5% owned joint venture of Stagecoach Group
Limited. For the period ended 27 April 2024, Stagecoach Devon Limited included revenue relating to operating
contracts on behalf of Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited to a value of £3.433m (2023: £2.060m) and costs relating
to operating contracts on behalf of Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited of £3.200m (2023: £2.175m). As at 27 April 2024,
the Company has a receivable of £Nil (2023: £52,000) and a payable of £616,000 (2023: £122,000) with Scottish Citylink
Coaches Limited. These balances are all due to be settled within one year and do not accrue interest as they represent
trading balances due to be settled between the Company and Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited.

20 Ultimate parent company

The Company's immediate halding Company is Stagecoach Bus Holdings Limited, registered in Scotland (registered
number SC176671). Its ultimate holding company is Pan-European Infrastructure Ill, SCSp ("PEIF fll’), an infrastructure
fund managed and advised by DWS Infrastructure. PEIF It! is not under the control of any single party or, parties acting
in concert.

The parent undertaking of the smallest group of which the company is a member, and for which consolidated financial
statements are expected to be prepared, is Stagecoach Group Limited, a company registered in Scotland with registered
number $C100764 and registered address at 10 Dunkeld Road, Perth, Perthshire, United Kingdom, PH1 5TW.

The parent undertaking of the largest group of which the company is a member, and for which consolidated financial
statements are expected to be prepared, is Inframobility UK Topco Limited, a company registered in England with
registered number 13919225 and registered address at One Stockport Exchange, 20 Railway Road, Stockport, United
Kingdom, SK1 3SW.

45 STAGECOACH DEVON LIMITED Registered number: 03142135

