C) Star
Star Academies

(A Company Limited by Guarantee)

Annual Report and Financial Statements

Year ended 31 August 2024

f num

Company Registration Number:

Contents

Page
Reference and Administrative Details 2
Trustees’ Report 3-19
Governance Statement 20-28
Statement on Regularity, Propriety and Compliance 29
Statement of Trustees’ Responsibilities 30
Independent Auditor’s Report on the Financial Statements 31-34
Independent Reporting Accountant’s Report on Regularity 35-36
Statement of Financial Activities incorporating Income & Expenditure Account 37
Balance Sheet 38-39
Statement of Cash Flows 40
Notes to the Financial Statements, incorporating:
Statement of Accounting Policies 41-45
Other Notes to the Financial Statements 46-72
Abbreviations
STAR — Star Academies SSF — Star Salford Academy
TIBHS — Tauheedul Islam Boys’ High School SBG — Bacup & Rawtenstall Grammar School
TIGHS — Tauheedul Islam Girls’ High School and Sixth OMA -The Olive School, Manchester
Form College SRA - Star Radcliffe Academy
OBL — The Olive School, Blackburn CPI - Consumer Price Index
OHA — The Olive School, Hackney DfE — Department for Education
EBB — Eden Boys’ School, Bolton ESFA — Education and Skills Funding Agency
EGC — Eden Girls’ School, Coventry FRS — Financial Reporting Standard
EGW — Eden Girls’ School, Waltham Forest GAG - General Annual Grant
EBP — Eden Boys’ School, Preston TPS — Teachers’ Pension Scheme
EBM — Eden Boys’ School, Birmingham LGPS — Local Government Pension Scheme
EGS — Eden Girls’ School, Slough LCPF — Lancashire County Pension Fund
HLA — Highfield Leadership Academy WYPF — West Yorkshire Pension Fund
LLA - Laisterdyke Leadership Academy WMPF — West Midlands Pension Fund
OBO - The Olive School, Bolton SCR - Standard Contribution Rate
OPR — The Olive School, Preston SERPS — State Earnings-Related Pension Scheme
OBI - The Olive School, Birmingham LIGHT — Light Trust
TLA - Tong Leadership Academy SHINE — Shine Charity
MEG - Eden Girls’ Leadership Academy, Manchester SCITT - School-Centred Initial Teacher Training
MEB - Eden Boys’ Leadership Academy, Manchester NPQ - National Professional Qualification
PTH — Thornbury Primary Leadership Academy SLDT - School-Led Development Trust
PHC — High Crags Primary Leadership Academy RDEP — Regional Director Executive Principal
PBA — Barkerend Primary Leadership Academy
PBL — Bay Leadership Academy
SLA — Small'Heath Leadership Academy
SBE — Eden Boys’ Leadership Academy, Birmingham
East
SVA — The Valley Leadership Academy
PSH — The Olive School, Small Heath .
$GB ~ Eden Girls’ Leadership Academy, Birmingham
SBR — Eden Boys’ Leadership Academy, Bradford
PRA — Rainbow Primary Leadership Academy
SST — Starbank School
SOU — Oulder Hill Leadership Academy
Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 1 of 72

Members

Trustees

Chief Executive and
Accounting Officer

Senior Management
Team

Company Name

Principal and
Registered Office

Company Registration
Number

Independent Auditor

Bankers

Solicitors

Star Academies

Annual Report and Financial Statements

Oo | Star

Reference and Administrative Details
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Kamruddin lsap Kothia OBE DL (Chair)

Faruk Dasu (Light Trust)

Martin Ainscough CBE DL

Harry Catherall

Dame Julia Cleverdon DCVO CBE

Mohamed Isap

The Rt Hon. Lord Charles Shuttleworth KG KCVO
The Rt Hon. Jack Straw

Kamruddin lsap Kothia OBE DL (Chair)

Dr Carol Costello # (resigned 31 August 2024)
Dr Juliette Jo Cox (appointed 12 May 2024)
Faruk Dasu #

Harry Devonport (resigned 31 August 2024)
Mark Hageman

Mohamed Isap

Kevin Jaquiss #

Fiona Jordan (resigned 31 December 2023)
Peter McKee

Sir Mufti Hamid Patel CBE

Imraan Patel

Gareth Stevens

The Rt Hon. Jack Straw

# Members of the Audit and Risk Committee

Sir Mufti Hamid Patel CBE

Executive Director: Capital & Infrastructure — David Holland
Executive Director: People & Projects — Dr Kathryn Chorlton
Executive Director: Education — Lisa Crausby OBE

Executive Director: Education — Hafez Lukman Ahmed
Chief Financial Officer — Abrar Hussain

Star Academies

Shadsworth Road, Blackburn, Lancashire, BB1 2HT

07353849 (England and Wales)

Beever and Struthers, Chartered Accountants, Suite 16b, The Beehive Drive,
Shadsworth Business Park, Blackburn, BB1 2QS

Lloyds Bank, Church Street, Blackburn, Lancashire, BB2 JQ

Hill Dickinson, 1 St Paul’s Square, Liverpool, Merseyside, L3 9SJ

Page 2 of 72

O Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

The trustees present their annual report together with the financial statements and auditor’s report of the
charitable company for the year 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024. The annual report serves the purposes of
both a trustees’ report, and a directors’ report under company law.

The trust operated 33 schools (10 primary, 22 secondary and 1 all-through schools across the Lancashire, Greater
Manchester, West Yorkshire, Midlands and London areas). These academies had a combined pupil number of
22,910 in the school census in May 2024.

Structure, Governance and Management

Constitution

The trust is a company limited by guarantee and an exempt charity. The charitable company’s memorandum and
articles of association are the primary governing documents of the academy trust. The trustees of Star Academies
are also the directors of the charitable company for the purposes of company law. The charitable company is
known as Star Academies.

Details of the trustees who served during the year are included in the Reference and Administrative Details on
page 2.

Members’ Liability

Each member of the charitable company undertakes to contribute to the assets of the charitable company in the
event of it being wound up while they are a member, or within one year after they cease to be a member, such

amount as may be required, not exceeding £10, for the debts and liabilities contracted before they ceased to be
amember.

Trustees’ Indemnities

In accordance with normal commercial practice, Star has purchased insurance to protect trustees and officers
from claims arising from negligent acts, errors or omissions occurring whilst on trust business. The insurance
provides cover up to £5,000,000 on any one claim as shown in note 12 to the accounts.

Star Academies:
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 3 of 72

\

O | Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Method of Recruitment and Appointment or Election of Trustees

Trustees are appointed in accordance with the Articles of Association. They are appointed for four years and
may be re-appointed.

In selecting new trustees, the trust seeks to identify people who are willing to commit their time and skills for
the advancement of the purposes of Star, adding value to the leadership of the trust and ensuring good
governance is secured.

Policies and Procedures Adopted for the Induction and Training of Trustees

Following appointment, all new trustees receive an introduction to their role from the Chair and Chief Executive.
This introduction includes the opportunity for tours of school sites and meeting members of a school’s Senior
Leadership Team.

The trust has an annual development and support programme for trustees. The trust’s Head of Governance and
Assurance ensures new trustees receive sufficient support and information to enable them to discharge their
role. All trustees are required to sign and adhere to the Code of Conduct held by the trust.

Organisational Structure

The trustees are responsible for the general control and management of the trust. The trustees give their time
freely and receive no remuneration or other financial benefits, other than the trust Chief Executive who also
serves as a trustee. The trustees are the directors of the charitable company for the purposes of company law.

The trustees meet termly and are responsible for all decisions taken in relation to the activities provided by Star.
The trustees have established an Audit and Risk Committee that meets termly to ensure the independent
checking of financial controls, systems, transactions and risks.

The trust has delegated some decision making to additional trustee committees and the Local Accountability
Boards at its schools. The trust has a clear scheme of delegation regarding the delegation of these decisions; this
also details the decisions that have been delegated to management to ensure the day-to-day operational
capacity of the trust.

As a multi-academy trust, Star a Central Office to support its academies in relation to their business support and
academic standards. The trust Chief Executive is the Accounting Officer.

The trust has no subsidiaries.
Arrangements for Setting Pay and Remuneration of Key Management Personnel

The trust has a Nomination and Remuneration Committee that has responsibility for agreeing the pay of the
Chief Executive and Senior Leadership positions. The Committee is supported in its role for Chief Executive pay
by external specialists who have been engaged for this task. Senior Leadership Team pay is set by reference to
benchmarking and comparison of pay with other roles in the sector.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements . Page 4 of 72

Oo | Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024
Trade Union Facility Time

The Trade Union (Facility Time Publication Requirements) Regulations 2017 came into force in April 2017, which
put in place provisions in the Trade Union Act 2016 requiring relevant public sector employers to publish
specified information related to facility time provided to trade union officials.

In line with the regulations, Star Academies is required to publish the following information for the period 1 April
2023 to 31 March 2024 relating to trade union officials and facility time:

Relevant Union Officials:

Number of employees who were relevant union officials during the relevant period 21
Full-time employee number 19.27
Percentage of working hours spent on facility time:

0% . 8

1to 50% 12

$1 to 99% (e)

100% 1
Percentage of the pay bill spent on facility time:

Total cost of facility time £38,598

Total pay bill £115,187,749

Percentage of pay spent on facility time 0.03%
Paid trade union activities:
Time spent on paid trade union activities as a percentage of total paid facility time hours 0%

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 5S of 72

O | Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Related Parties and other Connected Charities and Organisations

Light Trust is a non-operational Foundation Body, is a Member of Star Academies and can appoint further
Members. .

Shine Charity is not a connected charity to Star Academies. Shine Charity delivers Star Academies corporate
social responsibility programme. It aims to:

e Empower young people to make a difference to their communities - local, national and international

© — Equip young people with the skills and knowledge to lead social action, contribute to issues they care about
and shape decisions that affect them

e Help employers fulfil their corporate social responsibility, connect charities with young people and maximise
the community impact of schools

Engagement with Employees (including disabled persons)

Star Academies have taken the following actions this year to introduce, maintain and develop arrangements
aimed at engaging with its employees:

Star Academies uses a broad range of internal communications channels for employee engagement.
Regular communications include weekly and monthly staff bulletins and a termly magazine. Online
channels, including Microsoft Teams, are used for communications and collaboration, alongside more
informal tools such as email, instant messaging and MS Teams/Skype. An annual programme of staff
events and training take place via a range of mediums, including physical events, eLearning platforms,
webinars and video conferencing. The Trust also has a comprehensive suite of policies and procedures
on matters that affect employees during their employment and has an annually updated training and
development plan which enables managers and employees to be trained on their effective
implementation.

We have a Trade Union Recognition Agreement with recognized trade unions in the education sector
and consult employees and their representatives so that their views can be considered when making
decisions which affect their interests, at a Trust level through the Joint Consultation & Negotiating
Committee (JCNC), which meets on a termly basis during the academic year.

In addition, at an individual school level we consult on issues that affect all staff at that establishment,
for example, where a restructure proposal has been implemented in the previous 12 months, as well
as when schools join the Trust under an Academisation order. We apply the statutory timescales
required for consultation which are dependent upon the number of employees affected. Our intention
is always to seek to reach a consensus with employees and their representatives wherever possible
about proposals that affect them.

We encourage the involvement of employees in the Trust’s performance, through a performance
management appraisal cycle, which seeks to align employee’s targets with the aims and objectives of
the Trust. Schools and Central Trust Teams apply Key Performance Indicators to measure their
performance against a range of targets set at Trust and National levels. In teaching a professional
development framework has been introduced called ‘Teach like a Star’. We celebrate outstanding
employee contributions through an annual awards ceremony and regularly recognise outstanding
individual employee contributions through an employee recognition scheme, known as Star Letters.

We achieve a common awareness on the part of all employees of the factors affecting the performance
of the Trust through effective communication channels as set out above. We also undertake an annual
employee engagement survey which measures staff feedback against a number of areas of the Trust’s
activity, including the effectiveness of its leadership.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 6 of 72

© | Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

e Promoting equality of opportunity is at the heart of the Trust’s mission. The Trust builds equality
considerations into its employment policies from the outset, it has a policy on the fair recruitment and
selection of candidate for roles with the Trust and guarantees an interview to any disabled applicant
who meets the essential requirements of the role. We have an equality statement within all of our
recruitment advertisements. Equal Opportunities monitoring information that is voluntarily provided
at the application stage is anonymised and used by the Trust to measure diversity within the application
pool and workforce to ensure that we are meeting our obligations under the Equality Act 2010.

e Recruiting managers are trained to apply the Trust’s equality principles. The Trust and its schools have
a range of policies and procedures to advance equality of opportunity between people who share a
protected characteristic and those who do not. These include our governance and accountability
framework, our equalities and related policies and training for staff and local governors.

Engagement with Suppliers, Customers and others in a business relationship with the Trust

Star Academies has an established Procurement Department and procedures in place. This includes the holding
and maintenance of a contracts database and corresponding three-year procurement plan.

Key developments during 2023/24:

* Compliance with the 3-year plan with procurement activities completed as per plan without
challenge.

« Large procurement of a new management information system completed.

« Continued consistent approach to contract management including documentation and oversight with
a focus on management information.

e Spend analysis of the Trust’s annual spend to ensure aggregate compliance and refinement of the
three-year procurement plan.

e Enhanced focus on social value return through supplier tendering, engagement and rebates.

e Review of policies and processes in line with the new Procurement Act 2023 including training of
relevant individuals.

Contract oversight, undertaken by the Procurement Department or Contract Managers, requires accountability
meetings with Supplier account managers for performance discussions including monitoring of contract KPIs.
This relationship building engagement also allows Star to seek quick resolutions to any issues that are presented
and build trust between the parties. Accountability meeting frequency is dependent upon the risk and value
associated with a contract and can range anywhere between monthly and annually. These contract meetings
have continued to ensure a high level of service quality which is reinforced by the number of contract extensions
that have been secured. During 2023-2024, the Trust retendered or extended the following contracts:

e Extensions to a range of Estates Frameworks
e Extension of the trust catering contract
e Bay leadership academy swimming pool tender

e Renewal of the Trust Agency PSL including streamlining of suppliers & enhanced contract
management arrangements

e = Cleaning services at The Valley & Thornbury Leadership Academy
e DBS checks

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 7 of 72

© Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

e Digital transformation consultancy (learning management system & digital warehouse)
e Employee health plans & benefits

e = Trust electricity supply

e Trust gas supply

e Meter Operator Contracts/Data Collection metres
e Fire risk assessment

e Health & safety auditing

e Hygiene services

e Extensions to the trust LED and PV frameworks

«© Legal services

e Mental health practitioner services

e = Trust MIS

e Occupational health services

e Public relations

e Risk management software (4 policies)

e School transport (Lancashire)

e = Star Salford leisure facilities management

° The Valley leisure facilities management

¢ — Student uniforms

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 8 of 72

Oo | Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Objectives and Acti

les

Objects and Aims

Star Academies (Star) is a high-achieving, not-for-profit multi-academy trust operating a diverse network of
schools, It is a values-based organisation that works to improve the life chances of young people in areas of
social and economic deprivation to help them succeed at the highest levels of education, employment and the
professions.

The trust firmly believes that every child and every community is unique. It works hard to make sure that each
and every pupil in its schools — regardless of their faith, race, gender, background or starting point — achieves
their potential and is able to progress with an education or career path of their choice.

Objectives, Strategies and Activities

Star’s Corporate Strategy 2022-27 sets out an ambitious programme for the further development of the trust.
The strategy recognises that our journey since incorporation in 2010 has been exceptional, combining rapid
growth with an unswerving commitment to excellence.

The Corporate Strategy forms the foundation of the trust’s planning framework. It is complemented by school
5-year plans along with 5-year plans for specific trust-wide service areas. These set out the medium-term
priorities that schools and trust-wide services must deliver if the trust’s overall aims and objectives are to be
achieved. In turn, these 5-year plans are developed in detail within school and a Star Central Annua! Operating
Statements. These statements set out the priorities for each year that will take the trust towards its medium-
term goals.

Our ambition is for all Star pupils to enjoy a broad, rich and transformative education that empowers them to
overcome disadvantage, lead fulfilling, independent lives, and contribute positively to society. To achieve our
vision, our Corporate Strategy identifies how we will:

e develop resilient learning environments characterised by high challenge and high support

® ensure that ambition and high aspirations are consistently encouraged and rewarded

® maintain a pervasive culture of excellence, knowledge-rich curricula, first class pedagogy and operational
rigour

«provide high-quality evidence-based intervention at the point of need for any pupil who requires it

*® maximise opportunities provided by digital technology to prepare future leaders and innovators

® create a pipeline of expertise, attracting, and developing the best people to deliver the best outcomes

ebuild powerful, ethical and principled partnerships to maximise impact on pupils’ experiences and schools’
performance

* spearhead a national drive to improve standards across the education sector by developing and
disseminating strongly evidenced good practice in both secular and faith-based education

® spur social mobility in areas of economic deprivation, enabling young people’s success at the highest levels
of education and professional employment

Public Benefit

In setting the objectives, and planning the activities, the trustees have given careful consideration to the Charity
Commission’s general guidance on public benefit and to its supplementary public benefit guidance on advancing
education.

The key public benefit delivered by Star is the development of a high-quality education provided within its
schools, to the public benefit of all children local to these schools.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 9 of 72

Oo | Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Strategic Report
Achievements and Performance

Star is the sponsor of choice for an increasing number of primary and secondary schools. Star’s growth as a multi-
academy trust is not only seen in its increased number of schools; the trust’s outward facing work also enables
it to influence many more teachers, children and young people.

As a founder member of the National Institute of Teaching, and an accredited provider of four teaching school
hubs, the trust is well placed to deliver high-quality support to teachers and leaders at all stages of their
professional journey.

Star’s partnership with Eton College is a further powerful indicator of our commitment to innovation. Alongside
plans for academic sixth form colleges in educational ‘cold spots’ to spur achievement and counter economic
disadvantage, the Eton Star Partnership is committed to researching and disseminating best practice to inform
the work of the wider sector.

Ofsted inspected ten Star schools in 2023-24. All inspections had positive outcomes testifying to the hard work
of school leaders and teachers, supported by the central team. Many of which will completed using the new
methodology for ‘ungraded’ inspections. Star remains agile, and regards inspection as a mirror on everyday
practice rather than an end in itself, and as a lever for improvement.

All Star’s faith designated schools inspected to date have secured ‘outstanding’ judgements in their section 48
inspections, and the trust continues to work assiduously to ensure that this position is maintained.

The outcomes achieved by Star in the 2023-24 academic year are summarised below.
Educational Excellence

The successful implementation of a focused strategy to improve educational outcomes and attainment in our
primary and secondary schools has yielded positive results, with trust performance in both phases significantly
exceeding national averages in 2024. Improved performance dashboard reporting has given the central team a
real-time view of pupil performance throughout the year, which has enabled intervention to be precisely
directed to those pupils requiring it. Schools have been provided with multi-step plans to secure the best
possible results and have implemented these with the support of the trust’s education directors and RDEPs.

Across Star primary and secondary schools, an infrastructure has been built and maintained that provides a well-
sequenced knowledge-rich curriculum, and enables consistency of expectations and delivery. This has been
achieved through the appointment of curriculum excellence fellows and subject improvement leads. Curriculum
excellence fellows have exemplified the curriculum in their subjects and developed resources for learning and
assessment, and subject improvement leads have provided bespoke support in the core subjects. Curriculum
plans have been further developed and subject-specific training and masterclasses, delivered virtually, have
helped teachers to improve their pedagogy. The development of Star’s secondary curriculum portal has enabled
ready access to lesson plans and resources for subject teachers.

A world-class book culture is at the heart of Star’s provision. Our associated Reading Strategy has had substantial
impact, with 80% of secondary pupils now securing a level of fluency that enables their full access to the
curriculum. This equates to around 2,000 more Star pupils being able to read fluently within the 18-month period
since baseline testing took place.

The Teach Like A Star strategy has been strengthened through the use of Steplab, a tool that enables precise
targeting of support to teachers at all stages of their career. Teachers have mastered a range of techniques to
support pupils’ engagement and progress. The strong focus on inclusion has been maintained with the
refinement of adaptive strategies to enable the learning of pupils with special educational needs. Through
instructional coaching, leaders have ensured that the techniques modelled during weekly practice clinics have
been translated within their classrooms.

‘Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 10 of 72

O | Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

The SEND team has devised a multi-faceted strategy in response to the rising number of children with social,
emotional and/or mental health (SEMH) needs. This has included the recruitment of an SEMH specialist and
development of a toolkit to support the migration of existing In-School Inclusion Centres to a new organisational
model that triages pupils’ needs and provides more bespoke support through in-School Inclusive Provision (ISIP).
The trust’s approach recognises the deep-rooted links between behaviour and SEMH needs.

A new behaviour policy, Behave Like A Star, has been implemented. It focuses on relationships and places a
stronger emphasis on proactive interventions for vulnerable pupils. The rate of suspensions and repeat
suspensions in Star’s secondary schools has reduced significantly year-on-year as a result of this approach.

Good attendance is a necessary precondition of effective learning. Star's free schools continue to have some of
the highest rates of attendance in the country. The Star Attendance Hub, operating from Eden Boys’ School, _
Birmingham, has successfully delivered five sessions to support a wide range of schools in the West Midlands,
in partnership with the DfE.

At the start of the academic year, the trust launched its Faithful Stars and Rising Stars frameworks, ensuring high
quality SMSC is embedded in all its faith schools. The frameworks codify the trust’s character development
provision with clear descriptions of the requirements and actions for leaders and teachers.

Operational Excellence

Star’s work to enhance educational provision and outcomes continues to be enabled by efficient and effective
operations. Star employs around 3,100 staff.

Local accountability boards continue to fulfil an essential role. In 2023-24, a programme of new regional
governance events were launched to recognise the valued contribution of governors. The events were attended
by over 120 governors.

Close working between human resources and education teams has enabled the trust to better understand and
address the challenges schools face. Joint working has secured strong implementation of policies to support and
manage staff, leading to a reduction in staff sickness absence. The governance and assurance team has also
successfully refocused school support for complaints. By implementing a risk-informed approach, the trust has
improved responsiveness and reduced escalation to outside agencies. The careful tracking of complaints enables
lessons to be learnt and acted upon.

The launch of Star’s Talent Strategy signals a continuing commitment to recruit and retain the best staff,
encouraging them to pursue a career journey that maximises their individual potential. A new suite of
exceptional induction and CPD programmes has been created and delivered across Star to postholders including
principals, senior leaders, school business managers and heads of year. In accordance with its aim to nurture
talent and build career journeys, Star has appointed its first degree apprentices to work within the central team.
These colleagues are making a valuable contribution to project management and gaining a secure foothold on
Star’s career ladder whilst completing their studies.

Star’s move to a new management information system (MIS) signals the trust’s commitment to remaining at the
forefront of the education sector. Procurement and project initiation around the migration from SIMS to
Bromcom has been successful with positive feedback from suppliers and key stakeholders. Meanwhile, extensive
commercial negotiations, contractual improvements and further supplier investment have underpinned
improved service levels and extension of the catering contract and new broadband contract. Star has procured
anew energy broker and subsequently entered into improved utilities contracts, which are generating significant
cost savings for the trust. The focused review of historic performance data is helping to identify where further
cost savings can be achieved in the future.

The trust’s applications for funding to carry out improvements to school estates have been successful. Eight new
design and technology rooms have been delivered during the year and the trust’s fifth solar power photovoltaic
(PV} installation. A further successful funding application has enabled Salix Finance to provide Star Academies

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements . Page 11 of 72

O Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

with a grant of up to c. £1.2 million to carry out two low-carbon heating projects, including connection to a
Bradford district heating scheme and for air source heating. The trust is working on the implementation of the
Df€’s Connect the Classroom initiative, through which Wi-Fi networks are being upgraded.

The Df€ has approved bids to replace two school buildings that are no longer fit for purpose — Eden Girls’ School,
Waltham Forest and The Valley Leadership Academy. These rebuilds will support the delivery of the curriculum
and whole-school management.

Throughout the year, Star’s Capital and Estates team has overseen the delivery of a School Condition Allocation
(SCA) programme in excess of £3 million. This programme has enabled Star school environments to be well-
maintained and aspirational. Work also progressed towards the opening of Star Radcliffe Academy and The Olive
School, Manchester in temporary accommodation in September 2024. These schools’ permanent sites are on
track for completion.

A Strong Star Community

The strength of the Star community was indicated in the biennial pupil and parent engagement surveys, which
revealed increased satisfaction amongst pupils and parents in both primary and secondary phases — with many
schools achieving significant increases since 2022. All schools have identified areas for relative improvement and
are implementing a set of associated actions.

Star schools have raised a phenomenal £618,008.57 during the academic year for charitable causes including
people suffering from poverty in the communities in which Star schools are located. In addition to financial
donations, the trust’s Winter Gift Programme saw schools distribute over 3,000 hot meals, donate 10,000 items
to food banks and give 1,500 toys and gift hampers to people in need in their neighbourhoods.

The trust’s commitment to its communities has been realised through further development of the Star
Community Hub model. Funding has been secured from a philanthropic foundation to support Star’s mission to
extend the reach and impact of community hubs in every Star school. The funding will enhance the enrichment
opportunities available to children and young people, as well as providing much needed advice and support for
their families. Programme delivery in 2023-24 included two successful arts projects — focused on Bacup and
Rawtenstall Grammar School and Bay Leadership Academy — which have fostered relationships between schools
and local performance artists, and enabled many more pupils to develop their creative talents.

Star maintains a strong reputation. During the academic year, 650 positive media articles mentioned Star
Academies or a Star school and there has been an impressive 28% growth in Star Academies social media
followers. Star’s free schools continue to be over-subscribed, and full first cohorts have been recruited to join
Star Radcliffe Academy and The Olive School, Manchester when they open their doors for the first time in
September 2024.

Star's outward facing approach has been maintained, characterised by innovative partnerships focused on
researching, adopting, incubating and disseminating best educational practice. In collaboration with other
successful, large trusts, Star has spearheaded the first year of the Al in Schools Initiative (AISI) that aims to equip
leaders with the skills, knowledge and resources to harness artificial intelligence as a tool for teaching, learning
and management. The Eton Star Partnership is now firmly established as a ‘think and do tank’ — alongside
planning for the opening of sixth form colleges, the partnership published its first research project, delivered its
inaugural conference and hosted its maiden annual retreat convening national educational thinkers to explore
solutions to the most pressing issues facing the sector.

Star has welcomed an extensive number of external visitors who have been keen to observe the trust’s practice.
These have included civil servants, charitable organisations and senior staff from other trusts. Star has
contributed to numerous leadership programmes, including SW100, Inspiring Leaders and 21st Century MAT.
The trust has hosted visitors from Australia’s Grattan Institute think-tank, and has featured in its recent
international research reports around the benefits of multi-academy establishments and the importance of
reading. .

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 12 of 72

a) Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

As a founder partner of the National Institute of Teaching (NIoT), Star has played a pivotal role in the delivery of
NPQ programmes, for which the NloT has been judged outstanding by Ofsted. In addition, Star hosted two trust
leaders for their five-day immersion activity as part of their participation in the NloT’s School Trust CEO
programme.

Star’s three existing teaching school hubs have been reaccredited and a fourth — serving Birmingham South —
has joined the family. The Star Teaching School Hub Network, along with the Star Attendance Hub in
Birmingham, give Star the capacity to directly influence and support sub-regional practice.

Key Performance Indicators

2023-24 was a busy and successful year in which ten Star schools received Ofsted inspections (seven graded and
three ungraded). Highlights include Tong Leadership Academy receiving a ‘good’ overall judgement for the first
time in its history, and three schools — The Olive School, Small Heath, Eden Girls’ Leadership Academy,
Birmingham, and Eden Boys’ Leadership Academy, Bradford — being judged ‘outstanding’ in their first
inspections since opening or joining the trust. A further three schools — Tauheedul Islam Boys’ High School, Eden
Girls’ School, Slough and Eden Boys’ School, Preston — retained their ‘outstanding’ judgements

During the year, three schools — Eden Boys’ Leadership Academy, Manchester, Eden Girls’ Leadership Academy,
Manchester, and Eden Boys’ School, Birmingham — were all judged to have an ‘outstanding’ faith provision in
their Section 48 faith inspections.

At 31 August 24, Star had 33 schools. Of these 3 schools who had been open at the start of the financial year
had not been inspected since joining Star. Eighteen were ‘outstanding’ (60% of 30 schools), and twenty-eight
were ‘good’ or ‘outstanding’ (93% of 30 schools).

During the year, three schools — Eden Boys’ Leadership Academy, Manchester, Eden Girls’ Leadership Academy,
Manchester, and Eden Boys’ School, Birmingham — were all judged to have an ‘outstanding’ faith provision in
their Section 48 faith inspections. .

Star schools aim to keep salary costs between 70% and 75% of their total income. This has been achieved during
2023-24. .

The Board of Trustees agree a set of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) at its strategy meeting each October. A
progress update is provided at each termly meeting of the Board of Trustees. The KPls agreed for the 2023-24
academic year were:

KPI 1: Standards (Secondary) - Progress 8 of pupils across Star Academies to be in the top 10% of schools nationally
KP] 2: Standards (Secondary) - E-Bacc APS of all pupils across Star Academies to be in the top 10% of schools nationally
KPI 3: Standards (Secondary) - % of pupils achieving 9-5 E&M to be in the top 10% of schools nationally

KPI 4: Standards (Secondary) - % of disadvantaged pupils achieving 9-5 E&M to be in the top 10% of schools nationally
KPI 5: Standards (Secondary) - Progress 8 for disadvantaged pupils to be in the top 10% of schools nationally

KPI 6: Standards (Primary) - % at the expected standard or higher in RWM at KS2 in all Star Academies to be in the top 10%
of schools nationally

KPI 7: Standards (Primary) - % at the expected standard or higher in RWM at KS2 in all Star Academies to be in the top 10%
of schools nationally

KPI 8: Standards (Primary) - % of disadvantaged pupils at the expected standard or higher in RWM at KS2 to be in the top
10% of schools nationally

KPI 9: Standards (Secondary) - % of disadvantaged pupils at the higher standard in RWM at KS2 to be in the top 10% of
schools nationally

KPI 11: Pupil Absence (Primary) - Overall pupil absence in all Star Academies to be in the best 10% of schools nationally

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 13 of 72

O | Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

KPI 12: Persistent Absence (Primary) - % of pupils persistently absent in all Star Academies to be in the best 10% of schools
nationally

KPI 13: Pupil Absence (Secondary) - Overall pupil absence in all Star Academies to be in the best 10% of schools nationally

KPI 14: Persistent Absence (Secondary) - % of pupils persistently absent in all Star Academies to be in the best 10% of
schools nationally

KP} 15: Suspensions (Secondary) - Reduce the rate of pupils subject to one or more suspensions to under 2%
KPI 19: Destinations - % of KS4 and post 16 leavers who continue in education employment or training
KPI 20: Ofsted - All schools to be Good or Outstanding within four years of joining the trust
KPI 21: People - % of staff providing a positive response to stakeholder survey
KPI 22: Financial Management: Annual surplus as a % of turnover
KPI 24: Growth - Total number of schools
KPI 25: Growth - Total number of pupils across Star Academies
KPI 26: Pupil engagement - % of pupils providing a positive response in our annual stakeholder survey
KPI 27: Parental engagement - % of parents/carers providing a positive response in our annual stakeholder survey
KP! 28: Star Central effectiveness: % of schools providing a positive response to services provided by Star Central
KPI 29: Fundraising activity - Fund raising to exceed a total of £1million by 2027
The Trust met 19 of the 24 reportable KPIs, with targets not achieved in Attendance and Pupil engagement which
is in-line with national trends and action plans have been focused upon these areas for 2024-25.
Going Concern

After making appropriate enquiries, the Board of Trustees has a reasonable expectation that the academy trust
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. For this reason, it
continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements. Further details regarding the
adoption of the going concern basis can be found in the Statement of Accounting Policies.

Promoting the success of the company

The Directors have promoted the success of the company for the benefit of its members as a whole and in doing
so have given regard to:

e the likely consequences of any decision in the long term all decisions are taken with a view of
maintaining or improving the long term educational, operational and financial performance of the
Academy -

« the interests of the company’s employees — refer to page 6

e the need to foster the company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others — refer
to page 7
e the impact of the company’s operations on the community and the environment — refer to page 12 -A

Strong Star Community and SECR on page 18

e the desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct — Refer
to Governance Statement on page 20 detailing the Academic and Institute Board’s purpose of
maintaining high standards

e the need to act fairly as between members of the company

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 14 of 72

O | Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Financial Review
During the year ended 31 August 2024 Star has received income of £201,702K (2023: £174,979K) comprising:

¢ GAG funding for TIBHS, TIGHS, The Olive Schools in Birmingham, Blackburn, Bolton, Preston, Small
Heath and Hackney; the Eden Boys' Schools in Bolton, Birmingham, Birmingham East, Preston, Bradford
and Manchester; the Eden Girls' Schools in Coventry, Waltham Forest, Slough, Birmingham and
Manchester; and Highfield Leadership Academy, Laisterdyke Leadership Academy, Tong Leadership
Academy, The Valley Leadership Academy, Small Heath Leadership Academy, Barkerend Primary
Leadership Academy, High Crags Primary Leadership Academy, Rainbow Primary Leadership Academy
Thornbury Primary Leadership Academy, Oulder Hill Leadership Academy, Starbank School, Bay
Leadership Academy, Star Salford and Bacup & Rawtenstall Grammer School;

« Capital grants towards the purchase of sites for the schools and the related fit out costs at the
permanent sites;

* School Condition Allocation covering all Trust schools; and
« School Capital Improvement funding for Bacup & Rawtenstall Grammar School.
e Transfer of funds and assets relating to Bacup & Rawtenstall Grammar School

- Over the year, Star expended £188,796K (2023: £167,922K) resulting in net income of £12,906K (2023: £7,057K)
leading to reserves carried forward of £504,686K (2023: £492,549K). Of which, a surplus of £35,119K (2023:
£34,372K) relates to restricted funds to be spent in future periods, a pension deficit of £3,790K (2023: £4,446K),
and £468,876K (2023: £458,579K) which relates to the restricted fixed asset fund which is being carried forward
and will be spent in line with the Capital Grant programme. The £10,297K increase in restricted fixed asset fund
is largely attributable to Bacup & Rawtenstall Grammar School transferring across to Star Academies. Star has
an unrestricted fund carried forward of £4,481K (2023 £4,044K) which will be used within the Academies
Charitable objectives.

During the year, the Accounting Officer has been working with the Central Management team, the business
managers and Star's internal and external auditors to implement efficient and quality financial management
systems. These systems are continuously under review and will be implemented at each school as they open.

In summary, as evident in this year’s figures, the trust has continued growth through additional year groups
taken on by its existing schools. The 2022-27 Corporate Strategy remains ambitious with the trust continuing to
aim for further growth year on year.

Reserves Policy

The amount of reserves held are stated in the Financial Review noted above. The level of reserves held at each
school at 31 August 2024 is considered to be sufficient and in line with the trust’s reserves policy. The trust
needs to hold reserves for a number of reasons, examples of which are listed below:

¢ contingency fund to deal with minor adjustments to operational expenditure from some budget
headings;

¢ aplanned accumulation of funds to pay for some major construction work or project and any ICT refresh
projects required;

® expenditure held over to the following year to withstand variations in the Jevel of funding to the trust
to balance out variations in funding levels; and

« potential restructures within schools in future years

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 15 of 72

a) Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

In order to achieve this sustainability moving forward, the trust has implemented a 2% in year reserves policy,
which all schools should strive to achieve. Any excess cash at the end of the financial year is invested in line with
the Treasury Management Policy.

As noted above, the restricted general reserves carried forward is a surplus £31,329K (2023: £29,926K). This is
after accounting for the pension deficit reserve of £3,790K (2023: £4,446K). Excluding the pension deficit reserve
and designated funds, the total restricted and unrestricted general funds as at 31 August 2024 are £39,600K
(2023: £38,416K).

The Board of Trustees ensure that the Reserves Policy is in accordance with the requirements laid down in the
Academy Trust Handbook 2023 by the ESFA. The Department for Education expects trusts to use their allocated
funding for the full benefit of current pupils. If trusts have a substantial surplus, they must have a clear plan for
how it will be used to benefit their pupils. It is the trust’s policy to have reserves which can be used for future
education purposes in line with the development plans.

In 2016 Star received a £50K legacy known as “The Gibson Humanities Trust” to be used only for specific areas
of expenditure within HLA. This legacy can be used for such purposes up to a period of SO years at which point
certain restrictions will be removed and any balance can be used for the general benefit of HLA. As at 31 August
2024, £50K is held as a designated restricted fund.

Investment Policy

The trust has adopted a low-risk strategy to investment. As at 31 August 2024 the trust was holding excess cash
reserves of £30,000K (2023: £27,000k) in a 7 month savings account to optimise the return on these reserves.
The 7-month account is managed by the trust’s central finance team. Star and the schools within have no other
investments other than short term deposits received on cash balances.

The trust’s central finance team is currently reviewing this strategy with a view to generate a greater return
through low-risk investment.

Principal Risks and Uncertainties

The academy trust continues to develop and embed the system of internal control, including financial,
operational and risk management which is designed to protect the academy trust's assets and reputation.

Reviews of the risks faced by Star are conducted and systems established to mitigate those risks. Star has
identified the major risks it faces and has documented these within its Risk Registers. The trust operates
Strategic, Executive and Operational Risk Registers. The Executive Risk Register is reviewed termly by its trustees.
The trustees are also fully appraised between meetings of any issues that may impact upon the management of
risk.

The Audit and Risk Committee has ongoing responsibility for the monitoring of risks and has engaged RSM as its
Internal Auditors to ensure maintained compliance. An Internal Audit Plan was agreed and undertaken in 2023-
24. Further details around the focus of this work are included within the Governance Statement.

These reviews provided recommendations for where the trust could strengthen some of its systems and internal
controls which have been implemented throughout the year. Further reviews will continue into 2024-25 to help
identify any other areas in which the trust may be able to implement an improved control environment.

Outlined below is a description of the principal risk factors which may affect the academy trust. Not ali factors
are within the academy trust's control. Other factors besides those listed below may also adversely affect the
academy trust.

1. Government Funding
The academy trust has considerable reliance on continued Government funding through the ESFA. In 2023-
24, 97% (2022/23: 97%) of the academy trust's revenue was ultimately publicly funded including inherited

‘

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 16 of 72

O Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

assets, and this level of requirement is expected to continue. There can be no assurance that government
policy or practice will remain the same or that public funding will continue at the same levels or in the same
terms.

This risk is mitigated in a number of ways: :
¢ Funding is derived from a number of direct and indirect contractual arrangements
« By ensuring that the academy trust is rigorous in delivering high quality education and training

e Considerable focus and investment is placed on maintaining and managing key relationships with
the ESFA

2. Management Override

The day-to-day operations of the academy trust are overseen by the CEO Sir Muti Hamid Patel CBE and
members of the Executive team. They are able to authorise expenditure to levels that are documented
within the Financial Handbook of the trust and have control of many aspects of the trust.

This risk is mitigated in a number of ways:
e The Board reviews management accounts at regular intervals
* The Managers of each establishment are qualified professionals, who will be resistant to override
3. Estate

The trust oversees a significant estate to accommodate its schools and Star Central requirements. Through
the employment of direct professionals within Star Central, Estate Managers for our schools and the use of
external professionals through service level agreements the trustees have ensured a comprehensive
framework of risk management support.

All school statutory health and safety compliance checks are recorded within the trust’s Computer Aided
Facilities Management (CAFM) system, and these are monitored on a weekly basis. Compliance levels are
reported to the trust’s Policy and Resources Committee, current compliance levels are high, and any areas
of concern are swiftly addressed. Specific risks as they arise are prioritised.

Fundraising

The trust has a nominated senior leader who is responsible for ensuring that charitable giving by pupils, staff
and families is appropriate and only allows fundraising activities if:

© The charity is registered with the UK’s Charity Commission
e The charity and the cause demonstrates no political, religious or cultural discrimination

e The charity’s values are consistent with fundamental British values of democracy, rule of law, individual
liberty and mutual respect, and tolerance of those with different faiths and beliefs

e There is no compulsion for pupils, staff and families to participate in any fundraising activities

e If the monies raised are to be split across a number of charities the basis of the split must be notified in
advance of the fundraising activity

e Pupils and staff organising fundraising are adequately inducted on the appropriate procedures
e Learning is not disrupted by the fundraising

e All charitable giving is entered onto the Charitable Giving Record, which is reviewed and approved by
the nominated senior leader and then submitted to Star Central for an assurance overview

« Evidence is sought to ensure charitable funds have been appropriately spent

‘

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 17 of 72

© Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting

UK Greenhouse gas emissions and energy use data for the period 1 September 2023 2023/24 2022/23
to 31 August 2024 .
Energy consumption used to calculate emissions (kWh) 31,303,697 27,172,571

Scope 1 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e

Gas consumption 3,741.18 3,165.86
Owned transport — mini-buses , 15.53 16.81
Total Scope 1 3,756.71 3,182.67

Scope 2 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e

Purchased electricity

Scope 3 emissions in metric tonnes CO2e

84.48 70.27

Business travel in employee-owned vehicles
Total gross emissions in metric tonnes CO2e 3,841.19 + 3,252.94
Intensity ratio Tonnes CO2e per pupil 0.17 0.16

Quantification and reporting methodology

The trust has followed the 2019 HM Government Environmenta! Reporting Guidelines. The trust has also used the
GHG Reporting Protocol — Corporate Standard and have used the 2020 UK Government's Conversion Factors for
Company Reporting.

key measures taken to improve energy efficiency

We have invested in LED lighting across the trust

We are investing in PV across several schools
We are completing an audit on the Building Management Systems to help optimise and reduce energy consumption
Intensity measurement

The chosen intensity measurement ratio is total gross emissions in metric tonnes CO2e per pupil, the recommended
ratio for the sector. :

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 18 of 72

O Star

Trustees’ Report
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Plans for Future Periods

Star will seek to grow as a multi-academy trust and continue to work with communities across the country within
five geographical clusters (Lancashire, Greater Manchester, West Yorkshire, West Midlands and London) to open
free schools and manage sponsor-led academies. Within these schools the trust will work to ensure the high
performance of its students and that the schools meet the needs of those communities.

Partnership working will continue in localities to support the successful opening of schools with approval in the
Free Schools Programme. Meanwhile, work will continue to identify schools who may be keen to transfer to Star
and whose ethos is a suitable match.

Star’s plans for the next phase of development to 2027, outlined in our corporate strategy, represent an
ambitious vision for extending educational excellence, playing a significant role within a self-improving
education system and enhancing social mobility. Star will take intelligent decisions to embed optimum quality,
never underestimating the challenges this will bring, but relishing the journey. We welcome the review of the
national curriculum, will contribute to the process and make any adaptations necessary that arise from this key
piece of work. . :

Funds Held as Custodian Trustee on Behalf of Others

Star holds no funds on behalf of others.

Auditor
Insofar as the trustees are aware:
e there is no relevant audit information of which the charitable company’s auditor is unaware; and

e the trustees have taken all steps that they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of thatinformation.

Beever and Struthers are willing to continue in office and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the
Annual General Meeting.

The Trustees’ Report, incorporating a Strategic Report, was approved by order of the Board of Trustees, as the
company directors, on 11 December 2024 and signed on the Board’s behalf by:

Kamruddin Isap Kothia OBE DL

Chair of Trustees

11 December 2024

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 19 of 72

a) Star

Governance Statement
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Scope of Responsibility

As trustees, we acknowledge we have overall responsibility for ensuring that Star Academies has an effective
and appropriate system of control, financial and otherwise. However, such a system is designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.

As trustees, we have reviewed and taken account of the guidance in DfE’s Governance Guide and the Academy
Trust Governance Code.

The Board of Trustees has delegated the day-to-day responsibility to the Chief Executive, as Accounting Officer,
for ensuring financial controls conform to the requirements of both propriety and good financial management
and in accordance with the requirements and responsibilities assigned to it in the funding agreement between
Star Academies and the Secretary of State for Education. They are also responsible for reporting to the Board of
Trustees any material weaknesses or breakdowns in internal control.

Governance

The information on governance included here supplements that described in the Trustees’ Report and in the
Statement of Trustees’ Responsibilities.

The Members have formally met once during the year. Attendance during the year at meetings of the Members
was as follows: -

Meetings attended | Outofapossible |

P|
=]
m
3
>
®

Kamruddin Isap Kothia OBE DL (Chair)

Faruk Dasu (Light Trust)

Martin Ainscough CBE, DL

Harry Catherall

Mohamed Isap

The Rt Hon Lord Charles Shuttleworth KG, KCVO
Rt Hon Jack Straw

Dame Julia Cleverdon DCVO, CBE

1
i

!

l

RR R » |

l

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 20 of 72

O Star

Governance Statement
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

The Board of Trustees have formally met four times during the year. It has maintained effective oversight of
funds through the receipt of monthly management accounts by all Trustees. In addition to this the Trustees have
a Policy and Resources Committee to whom they have delegated the monitoring of termly budgets.

Attendance during the year at meetings of the Board of Trustees was as follows: -

Trustee a | Meetings attended : | Out of a possible

Harry Devonport

Mark Hageman

Mohamed Isap

i

Kevin Jaquiss

Fiona Jordan

Peter McKee
Sir Mufti Hamid Patel CBE

Imraan Patel

Rt Hon Jack Straw

Gareth Stevens

Or Jo Saxton CBE

Conflicts of Interest

The trust uses GovernorHub to record and maintain a register of interests and other statutory declarations. This

information is shared with the trust finance team to enable any potential conflict of interests. Trustees are

reminded within every meeting to ensure the register is kept up to date and to declare any additional conflict of

interests. Our Conflict of Interest Policy is included within our Governance Handbook.

Meetings

Where Trustees have tendered apologies during the year this has been due to work commitments.

During the year one Trustee reached the end of their term of office, and a further trustee was appointed.

The Board of Trustees approve their annual workplan in their Strategy meeting, which is their first meeting of

each academic year. The workplan discharges their responsibilities in line with statutory and regulatory
- requirements and is in line with its scheme of delegation.

Trustee meetings are provided with comprehensive yet focused reports and performance information to allow

them to undertake their responsibilities, providing effective challenge, scrutiny and accountability for the Trust.

A Trustee Effectiveness survey was undertaken during the year with regards to meeting format, information

provision and impact. Survey results were positive.

Governance Reviews

The Trust, within its Audit Plan included a compliance review with the Academy Trust Handbook — for both

Governance and Finance. This demonstrated compliance to statutory and regulatory requirements.

The Board commenced an External Review of Governance (ERG) in 2023-24, this has included a review of the

Trust's Governance Framework documentation and will continue with further elements early in 2024-25
including an observation of a Board of Trustee meeting. The review is due to report in December 2024 and its

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 21 of 72

O Star

Governance Statement
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

findings will follow on with a phased approach to further reviews to provide the trust with an ongoing
programme of assurance.

The Audit and Risk Committee is a sub-committee of the main Board of Trustees. Its purpose is to assist the
decision making of the Board, by enabling more detailed consideration to be given to the best means of the
Board of Trustees’ responsibility to ensure regulatory compliance, financial probity and manage risk. The
appointed Internal Auditors are RSM.

Attendance at meetings in the year was as follows: -

or . = : =

Kevin Jaquiss (Chair)

Deborah Hale (independent) |

The Policy and Resources Committee is a sub-committee of the main Board of Trustees. Its purpose is to assist
the decision making of the Board, by enabling more detailed consideration to be given to the best means of the
Board of Trustees’ responsibility to ensure sound management of the Trust’s business resources, including
proper planning, monitoring and probity.

Attendance at meetings in the year was as follows: -

Trustee
Mohamed Isap (Chair)
Carol Costello

Imraan Patel
Sheraz Akhtar (Co-opted) 3

The Academic Board is a sub-committee of the main Board of Trustees. Its purpose is to assist the decision
making of the Board, by enabling more detailed consideration to be given to the best means of the Board of-
Trustees’ responsibility to ensure high standards in the quality of teaching and learning within Trust schools.
The Committee is supported by 2 Committee Advisors who have no voting rights with regards to decisions.

Attendance at meetings in the year was as follows: -

Harry Devonport (Chair) |
Sir Mufti Hamid Patel CBE

Cath Hitchen (Co-opted)

Rt Hon Jack Straw 2

The Nomination and Remuneration Committee is a sub-committee of the main Board of Trustees. Its purpose is
to assist the decision making of the Board, by enabling more detailed consideration to be given to the oversight
of Governance for the Trust.

Attendance at meetings in the year was as follows: -

Kamruddin Isap Kothia OBE DL (Chair)

Harry Devonport
Mohamed Isap

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 22 of 72

a) Star

Governance Statement
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

The Faith and Character Education Committee — is a sub-committee of the main Board of Trustees. Its purpose is
to assist the decision making of the Board, by enabling more detailed consideration to be given to the oversight
of the Faith and Character Education for the Muslim faith schools within the Trust. The Committee is supported
by 6 Committee Advisors who have no voting rights with regards to decisions.

Attendance at meetings in the year was as follows: -

Trustee ; 7 _ _ __ ; __ ia

: Meetings attended | Out of a possible |

Faruk Dasu (Chair) 3
Sir Mufti Hamid Patel CBE 3

The Eton Star Partnership Board is a sub-committee of the main Board of Trustees. Its purpose is to assist the
decision making of the Board, by enabling more detailed consideration for key decision-making in relation to the
Eton Star Partnership.

Attendance at meetings in the year was as follows: -

Trustee I Meetings attended : [ “Out of a possible |

Peter McKee (Chair)
Sir Mufti Hamid Patel CBE
Harry Devonport

Tom Arbuthnott (Co-opted)
Simon Henderson (Co-opted)

Janet Walker (Co-opted)
Bruce Powell (Co-opted)

ray

Star Academies .
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 23 of 72

oO Star

Governance Statement
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Review of Value for Money

As Accounting Officer, the Chief Executive has responsibility for ensuring that the trust delivers good value in
the use of public resources. The Accounting Officer understands that value for money refers to the educational
and wider societal outcomes, as well as estates safety and management, achieved in return for the taxpayer
resources received.

The Accounting Officer considers how the trust’s use of its resources has provided good value for money during
each academic year, and reports to the Board of Trustees where value for money can be improved, including
the use of benchmarking data or by using a framework where appropriate. The Accounting Officer for the
Academy Trust has delivered improved value for money during the year by:

Improving educational standards
The Accounting Officer has improved value for money in improving educational standards in the following ways:

e Continuing to refine the education model to be applied across all trust schools aimed at:
- maximising pupil performance in public examinations
= securing intellectual and academic rigour in student development
- ensuring an emphasis on leadership and personal development
- ensuring that the model maximises efficiency in the deployment of teaching and other
resources.

e Refreshing the Quality Assurance framework so that it is focused on areas of greatest risk. This has
ensured that resources are carefully targeted on addressing underperformance and maximising
improvement. Additional freedoms and flexibilities are provided to high performers to encourage
innovation and free up resource to target on areas of risk and need.

¢ Delivering high quality Continuing Professional Development (CPD) to individual and groups of schools
focusing on common areas of improvement and interest aimed at improving the quality of leadership
and teaching in the school group.

e Investing in high quality on-boarding and induction for sponsored academies joining the trust during
the academic year. Experience has shown that investment in these activities as a sponsored academy
joins the trust pays both short and long-term dividends in accelerating educational and operational
performance.

Robust governance and oversight of Multi Academy Trust finances

The trust has established robust guidance within the trust's Financial Management Handbook. The trust has
continued to maintain procedures to ensure segregation of duties, uniformity and consistency across all schools
within the trust. The trust benefits from the provision of suitably qualified finance staff including the Chief
Financial Officer. The Chief Financial Officer and their team hold regular meetings with all schools within the
trust.

The Trust Senior Management Accountant provides high level support to the schools through meetings and visits
with the school-based Finance Business Partner team. The Finance Business Partners have accountability for two
to four schools and complete regular compliance and health checks reviewing key policies, systems and
procedures, with reports presented on compliance to the Principal as well as the Senior Management
Accountant.

RSM have been commissioned as the Internal Auditors for the trust, with a series of internal audits carried out —
during 2023-24. The internal audit reports highlighted the strong practices in place at the schools as well as a
number of low-risk recommendations. Any recommendations from the internal audits have been actioned at
both school level and across the trust. The internal audit reports were presented to both Local Accountability
Boards (previously Local Governing Bodies) for schools as well as the Audit & Risk Committee for the trust. A 3-

Star Academies :
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 24 of 72

Oo Star

Governance Statement
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

year internal audit plan is in place to cover a vast programme of areas during a period of growth for the MAT.
The trust also receives support throughout the year from its external auditors on compliance and accounting
practices.

The Local Accountability Board (previously Local Governing Body) of each school receives detailed financial
information for their termly meetings and the Local Accountability Board is consulted with prior to the approval
of the budget plan annually. They are mindful of the need to balance expenditure against income to ensure the
sustainability of their respective schools and to ensure the trust remains a ‘going concern'. The Members of the
trust meet annually to review and scrutinise the annual accounts and our external auditors' management report
and to approve the annual accounts.

The Policy and Resources Committee acts on behalf of the Board of Trustees by ensuring sound management of
the trust's business resources and provides detailed financial monitoring at their termly meetings.

The Chief Financial Officer reports back the financial position at a school and trust level to the Accounting Officer,
ona monthly basis. In addition, a formal monthly report is prepared for the trustees.

Better Purchasing

The trust ensures a continual focus on best value for money and clearly understands the importance of the
efficient and effective use of its resources. Our schools and trust promote fair competition through quotations
and tenders, in accordance with its financial regulations, to ensure that goods and services are secured in the
most economic and effective way. Where possible, the trust has secured single supplier contracts, through
competitive tender, for areas where a single supplier is appropriate for our schools i.e. insurance, payroll, |CT
software licences and internal audit. This has considerably reduced the cost of this provision to schools.

Budget holders review and sign off every purchase order request and regularly challenge these for efficiency and
effectiveness. In turn the Local Accountability Boards regularly reviews the functions of the school, challenging
how and why services are provided as appropriate. At wider trust level, the Policy and Resources Committee
monitor centralised purchasing contracts ensuring best value is achieved and procurement practices are robust
and compliant. Benchmarking exercises are carried out for cost comparisons and to ensure value for money.

Maximising income generation

The trust is mindful of the need to generate additional funds to maximise income generation. As more of our
schools move into their permanent sites, the trust has begun to introduce plans to utilise the premises to
generate lettings income as well as to ensure the community benefits from the extended services provided by
carefully vetted voluntary and community support groups as well as providing an income stream for the schools.

The schools ran a number of fundraising events earlier in the academic year, both for charity arid to generate
income for their respective schools. The income generated for the schools is used to help support the wider
curriculum and give further opportunities to all children that are not possible through the schools’ budget
allocation.

Reviewing controls and managing risks

Business Continuity Plans, Risk Management Policies and Risk Registers have been devised at both the trust and
school level. These have been approved by Local Accountability Boards with the Risk Register reviewed termly.

The Principal and Finance Business Partner review budget monitoring reports, considering expenditure against
each budget cost centre monthly and address any significant variances against budget. These budget monitoring
reports are submitted to the central finance team for scrutiny. Local Accountability Boards also review and
checks these reports on a termly basis and monthly reports are provided to the Board of Trustees.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 25 of 72

Oo Star

Governance Statement
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

The Board of Trustees reviews and approves the financial regulations and scheme of delegation detailing the
finance related systems and procedures and other key financial policies. There is full segregation of duties within
each school office.

Investment in Trust’s Estate

The trust continues to invest in the trust’s estate by effectively using core GAG and additional capital funding
such as School Conditions Allocation (SCA) to ensure the trust’s estate is safe, well-maintained, and complies
with regulations. The trust has a well-established Central Capital and Estates team led by the Executive Director:
Capital & Infrastructure. This team leads on the management of the trust’s estate, health and safety, and
maintenance and enhancement of the trust’s buildings and infrastructure. The team works closely with site staff
at each of the trust’s schools to ensure that each building is safe and well maintained. An independent review
of each site is completed on a cyclical basis to evidence that compliance is being maintained. The team also leads
on the trust’s School Capital Improvement programme by using regular condition surveys that have been
completed to prioritise investment across the trust’s estate.

Lessons Learned

Service level agreements and contracts are kept under review to continually look at best value and efficiency
savings. There is a greater emphasis on centrally procured contracts by calling off existing frameworks, to ensure
full compliance and best value for money is achieved. A three-year procurement strategy has been developed
by the Procurement Manager and has been reviewed and approved by the Trust Accounting Officer and the
Policy and Resources Committee.

The Purpose of the System of Internal Control

The system of internal control is designed to manage risk to a reasonable level rather than to eliminate all risk of failure
to achieve policies, aims and objectives. It can, therefore, only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance of
effectiveness. The system of internal control is based on an on-going process designed to identify and-prioritise the
risks to the achievement of trust policies, aims and objectives, to evaluate the likelihood of those risks being realised
and the impact should they be realised, and to manage them efficiently, effectively and economically. The system of
internal control has been in place in Star Academies for the period 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 and up to the
date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.

Capacity to Handle Risk

The Board of Trustees has reviewed the key risks to which the trust is exposed together with the operating, financial
and compliance controls that have been implemented to mitigate those risks. The Board of Trustees is of the view
that there is a formal on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the academy trust's significant risks
that has been in place for the period 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 and up to the date of approval of the annual
report and financial statements. This process is regularly reviewed by the Board of Trustees.

The Risk and Control Framework

The academy trust’s system of internal control is based on a framework of regular management information and
administrative procedures including the segregation of duties and a system of delegation and accountability. In
particular, It includes: -

* comprehensive budgeting and monitoring systems with an annual budget and periodic financial reports
which are reviewed and agreed by the Board of Trustees

e regular reviews by the Policy and Resources Committee of reports which indicate financial performance
against the forecasts and of major purchase plans, capital works and expenditure programmes

e — setting targets to measure financial and other performance

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements . Page 26 of 72

O Star

Governance Statement
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

e clearly defined purchasing (asset purchase or capital investment) guidelines

e identification and management of risks

The Board of Trustees has decided to appoint RSM as their internal auditors, following a competitive
procurement process.

The internal auditor’s role includes giving advice on financial matters and performing a range of checks on the
academy trust’s financial systems. In particular, the checks carried out in the current period included:

e Academy Trust Handbook — Compliance Framework

e Budget Management and General Ledger — Month end controls
¢ Data Quality Processes — Census Returns

« Payroll and Human Resources Processes

e Procurement Arrangements

e Health and Safety Framework

« = Staff Wellbeing Framework

e Follow up of prior year’s Internal Audit Recommendations

Ona termly basis, the internal auditor reports to the Board of Trustees, through the Audit and Risk Committee
on the operation of the systems of control and on the discharge of the Board of Trustees’ financial
responsibilities.

On an annual basis the auditors prepare a summary report to the committee outlining the areas reviewed, key
findings, recommendations and conclusions to help the committee consider actions and assess year on year
progress. The schedule of work was undertaken as planned, and their annual report determined ‘The
organisation has an adequate and effective framework for risk management, governance and internal control’,
the highest opinion attainable. ;

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 27 of 72

O Star

Governance Statement
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Review of Effectiveness .

As accounting officer, the Chief Executive has responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of
internal control. During the year in question the review has been informed by: -

e the work of the Internal Auditor

e the financial management and governance self-assessment process or the school resource
management self-assessment tool

e the work of the executive managers within the academy trust who have responsibility for the
development and maintenance of the internal control framework.

e the work of the External Auditor

The accounting officer has been advised of the implications of the result of their review of the system of internal
control by the Audit and Risk Committee and a plan to address identified weaknesses and ensure continuous
improvement of the system is in place.

Conclusion

Based on the advice of the Audit and Risk Committee and Accounting Officer, the Board of Trustees is of the
opinion that the academy trust has an adequate and effective framework for governance, risk management and
control.

Approved by order of the members of the Board of Trustees on 11 December 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

ri

Kamruddin Isap Kothia OBE DL Sir Mufti Hamid Patel CBE
Chair of Trustees Accounting Officer
Star Academies

Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 28 of 72

O | Star

Statement on Regularity, Propriety and Compliance
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

As Accounting Officer of Star Academies, | have considered my responsibility to notify the Academy Trust Board
of Trustees and the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) of material irregularity, impropriety and non-
compliance with terms and conditions of all funding, including for estates safety and management, under the
funding agreement between the academy trust and the Secretary of State for Education. As part of my
consideration, | have had due regard to the requirements of the Academy Trust Handbook 2023, including
responsibilities for estates safety and management.

| confirm that | and the Academy Trust Board of Trustees are able to identify any material irregularor improper
use of all funds by the Academy Trust, or material non-compliance with the terms and conditions of funding
under the Academy Trust's funding agreement and the Academy Trust Handbook 2023.

| confirm that no instances of material irregularity, impropriety or funding non-compliance have been discovered
to date. If any instances are identified after the date of this statement, these will be notified to the Board of
Trustees and ESFA.

Sir Mufti Hamid Patel CBE
Accounting Officer
11" December 2024

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 29 of 72

oO Star

Statement of Trustees’ Responsibilities
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

The trustees (who act as governors of Star Academies and are also the directors of the charitable company for
the purposes of company law) are responsible for preparing the Trustees’ Report and the financial statements
in accordance with the Annual Accounts Direction published by the Education and Skills Funding Agency, United
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice) and applicable law
and regulations.

Company law requires the trustees to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under company taw,
the trustees must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the charitable company and of its incoming resources and application of resources,
including its income and expenditure, for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the trustees are
required to:

e select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently

e observe the methods and principles in the Charities SORP 2019 and the Academies Accounts Direction
2023 to 2024

e make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent

e state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards (FRS 102) have been followed, subject to any
material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements

*® prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that
the charitable company will continue in business.

The trustees are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the charitable company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position
of the charitable company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies
Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of thecharitable company and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The trustees are responsible for ensuring that in its conduct and operation the charitable company applies
financial and other controls, which conform with the requirements both of propriety and of good financial
management. They are also responsible for ensuring grants received from ESFA/DfE have been applied for the
purposes intended.

The trustees are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information
included on the charitable company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and

dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Approved by order of the members of the Board of Trustees on 11'* December 2024 and signed on its behalf by:
foal

Kamruddin Isap Kothia, DL
Chair of Trustees

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 30 of 72

O | Star

Independent Auditors’ Report on the Financial Statements to the Members
of Star Academies

For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Star Academies “the academy trust” for the year ended 31 August
2024, which comprise the Statement of Financial Activities (including Income and Expenditure Account), the
Balance Sheet, the Cash Flow Statement and the related notes. The financial reporting framework that has been
applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 “The
Financia! Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:

e give a true and fair view of the state of the academy trust’s affairs as at 31 August 2024 and of its
incoming resources and application of resources, including its income and expenditure for the year then
ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, the Charities
SORP 2019 and the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024 issued by the Education & Skills Funding
Agency.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's responsibilities for the
audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the academy trust in accordance
with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the
FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the trustees' use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the academy’s ability to continue as a
going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for
issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the trustees with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial
statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The trustees (who are also the directors of the academy for the
purposes of company law) are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the financial statements:
does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do
not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements our responsibility is to read the other information and,
in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or
our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such
material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a
material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based
on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 31 of 72

O | Star

Independent Auditors’ Report on the Financial Statements to the Members
of Star Academies

For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

e the information given in the trustees’ report, which includes the directors’ report and the strategic
report prepared for the purposes of company law, for the financial year for which the financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

e the strategic report and the directors’ report included within the trustees’ report have been prepared
in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the academy and its environment obtained in the course of
the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report included
within the trustees’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which Companies Act 2006 requires
us to report to you if, in our opinion: :

e = Inthe light of the knowledge and understanding of the academy and its environment obtained in the
course of the audit, we have identified material misstatements in the trustees’ report; or

e® adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or

e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

e certain disclosures of trustees’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

e we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of trustees

As explained more fully in the Trustees’ Responsibilities Statement set out on page 30, the trustees (who are
also the directors of the academy for the purposes of company law) are responsible for the preparation of the
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as
the trustees determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the trustees are responsible for assessing the academy’s ability to continue
as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis
of accounting unless the trustees either intend to liquidate the academy or to cease operations, or have no
realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures
in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities,
including fraud. The specific procedures for this engagement and the extent to which these are capable of
detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below:

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements : Page 32 of 72

O | Star

Independent Auditors’ Report on the Financial Statements to the Members
of Star Academies

For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

The extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities including fraud
Our approach to identifying and assessing the risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including
fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, was as follows:

e the engagement partner ensured that the engagement team collectively had the appropriate
competence, capabilities and skills to identify or recognise non-compliance with applicable laws and
regulations.

¢ we identified the laws and regulations applicable to the academy through discussions with trustees and
other management, and from our knowledge and experience of the academy sector.

« we focused on specific laws and regulations which we considered may have a direct material effect on
the financial statements or the operations of the academy, including the Companies Act 2006, the
Charities Act 2011, and the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024 and Academy Trust Handbook
2023, both issued by the Education and Skills Funding Agency.

« we assessed the extent of compliance with the laws and regulations identified above through making
enquiries of management and inspecting legal correspondence.

e identified laws and regulations were communicated within the audit team regularly and the team
remained alert to instances of non-compliance throughout the audit.

We assessed the susceptibility of the academy’s financial statements to material misstatement, including
obtaining an understanding of how fraud might occur, by:

e ~=making enquiries of management as to where they considered there was susceptibility to fraud, their
knowledge of actual, suspected and alleged fraud.

e considering the internal controls in place to mitigate risks of fraud and non-compliance with laws and
regulations.

To address the risk of fraud through management bias and override of controls, we:

© performed analytical procedures on material balances for which robust, substantive analytical
procedures have been undertaken to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships.
tested journal entries to identify unusual transactions.
investigated the rationale behind significant or unusual transactions.

There are inherent limitations in our audit procedures described above. The more removed that laws and
regulations are from financial transactions, the less likely it is that we would become aware of non-compliance.
Auditing standards also limit the audit procedures required to identify non-compliance with laws and regulations
to enquiry of the directors and other management and the inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence,
if any.

Material misstatements that arise due to fraud can be harder to detect than those that arise from error as they
may involve deliberate concealment or collusion.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial
Reporting Council’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our
auditor’s report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the academy’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the academy’s members
those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the academy’s
members as a body for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 33 of 72

O | Star

Independent Auditors’ Report on the Financial Statements to the Members
of Star Academies
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Mark Bradley BA FCA (Senior Statutory Auditor)
For and on behalf of Beever and Struthers

Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
Suite 16b

The Beehive Lions Drive

Shadsworth Business Park

Blackburn

BB1 20S

17 December 2024

Star Academies .
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 34 of 72

O | Star

Independent Reporting Accountant’s Assurance Report on Regularity to Star
Academies and the Education and Skills Funding Agency

For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

In accordance with the terms of our engagement letter dated 7 Apri! 2022 and further to the requirements of
the Education and Skills Funding Agency (ESFA) as included in the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024,
we have carried out an engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the expenditure disbursed and
income received by Star Academies during the period 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 have been applied
to the purposes identified by Parliament and the financial transactions conform to the authorities which govern
them.

This report is made solely to Star Academies and ESFA in accordance with the terms of our engagement letter.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to Star Academies and ESFA those matters we are required
to state in a report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume
responsibility to anyone other than Star Academies and ESFA, for our work, for this report, or for the conclusion
we have formed. : :

Respective responsibilities of the Star Academies’ accounting officer and the reporting accountant
The accounting officer is responsible, under the requirements of Star Academies’ funding agreement with the
Secretary of State for Education dated 1 November 2011 and the Academy Trust Handbook, extant from 1
September 2023, for ensuring that expenditure disbursed and income received is applied for the purposes
intended by Parliament and the financial transactions conform to the authorities which govern them.

Our responsibilities for this engagement are established in the United Kingdom by our profession’s ethical
guidance and are to obtain limited assurance and report in accordance with our engagement letter and the
requirements of the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024. We report to you whether anything has come
to our attention in carrying out our work which suggests that in all material respects, expenditure disbursed and
income received during the period 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 have not been applied to purposes
intended by Parliament or that the financial transactions do not conform to the authorities which govern them.

Approach

We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Framework and Guide for External Auditors and
Reporting Accountant of Academy Trusts issued by ESFA. We performed a limited assurance engagement as
defined in our engagement letter.

The objective of a limited assurance engagement is to perform such procedures as to obtain information and
explanations in order to provide us with sufficient appropriate evidence to express a negative conclusion on
regularity.

A limited assurance engagement is more limited in scope that a reasonable assurance engagement and
consequently does not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters
that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a positive
opinion.

Our engagement includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the regularity and propriety of
the Academy Trust’s income and expenditure.
The work undertaken to draw our conclusion includes:

e Review that the activities are in keeping with the Academy Trust’s framework and charitable objectives;
and

© Testing undertaken on a sample basis to review whether the Academy Trust’s expenditure is in
accordance with the Funding Agreement; and

e Other testing in accordance with the guidance issued in the Academies Accounts Direction 2023 to
2024.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 35 of 72

O | Star

Independent Reporting Accountant’s Assurance Report on Regularity to Star
Academies and the Education and Skills Funding Agency

For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Conclusion

In the course of our work, nothing has come to our attention which suggests that in all material respects the
expenditure disbursed and income received during the period 1 September 2023 to 31 August 2024 has not
been applied to purposes intended by Parliament and the financial transactions do not conform to the
authorities which govern them.

Mark Bradley BA FCA (Reporting Accountant)
For and on behalf of Beever and Struthers

Suite 16b

The Beehive Lions Drive
Shadsworth Business Park
Blackburn

BB1 2QS

17 December 2024

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 36 of 72

a) Star

Statement of Financial Activities for the Year Ended 31 August 2024
(including Income and Expenditure Account and Statement of Total
Recognised Gains and Losses)

For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

: Restricted Restricted
Unrestricted General Fixed Asset Total

Funds Funds Funds 2023/24
Notes
£000 £000 £000 £000
Incoming and endowments from:
Donations and capital grants 3 59 652 9,092 9,803
Transfer from single academy trust 31 499 - 11,892 12,391
Charitable activities:
Funding for the Academy Trust’s
educational operations 4 - 177,556 - 177,556
Teaching school hubs 4 . 779 . 779
Other trading activities 5 184 - : 184
Investments 6 989 - - 989
Total 1,731 178,987 20,984 201,702
Expenditure on:
Charitable activities:
Academy Trust’s educational .
operations 7 59 175,217 12,741 188,017
Teaching school hubs 7 - 779 - 779
Total 7 59 175,996 12,741 188,796
Net income/(expenditure) 1,672 2,991 8,243 12,906
Transfers between funds 19 (1,235) (819) 2,054 -
Other recognised gains/ (losses):
Actuarial gains (losses}/gains on defined
benefit pension schemes 19,28 - (769) - (769)
Net movement in funds 437 1,403 10,297 12,137
Reconciliation of funds
- Funds brought forward at 1 Sept 2023 19 4,044 29,926 458,579 492,549
Funds carried forward at 31 August 2024 19 4,481 31,329 468,876 504,686

Total
2022/23

£000
17,028

156,555

595
193
608

174,979

167,305
617

167,922

7,057

8,673

15,730

476,818

492,549

The Statement of Financial Activities includes all gains and losses in the period and therefore a statement of total recognised

gains and losses has not been prepared.
All of the Academy Trust’s activities derive from continuing operations during the above two financial periods.

The comparative Statement of Financial Activities is shown in note 2.

Star Academies

Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 37 of 72

O Star

Balance Sheet
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Notes 2024 2024
£000 £000
FIXED ASSETS
Intangible Assets 13 -
Tangible Assets 14 453,720
453,720
CURRENT ASSETS
Investments 15 30,000
Debtors 16 17,351
Cash at Bank and in Hand 22,961
70,312
LIABILITIES
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 17 (15,532)
NET CURRENT ASSETS 54,780
TOTAL ASSETS LESS CURRENT LIABILITIES 508,500
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 18 (24)
NET ASSETS EXCLUDING PENSION LIABILITY 508,476
Defined Benefit Pension Scheme Liability 28 (3,790)
TOTAL NET ASSETS 504,686
FUNDS OF THE ACADEMY TRUST:
Restricted Funds
Fixed asset funds 19 468,876
Restricted income funds 19 35,119
Pension reserve 19 (3,790)
Total Restricted Funds 500,205
Unrestricted income funds 19 4,481
TOTAL FUNDS 504,686

Star Academies
Annual! Report and Financial Statements

2023
£000

27,000
25,625
24,338

76,963

(16,168)

2023
£000

436,237

436,237

60,795

497,032
(37)
496,995
(4,446)

492,549

458,579
34,372
(4,446)

488,505

4,044

492,549

Page 38 of 72

O Star

Balance Sheet
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

The financial statements on pages 37 to 72 were approved by the Board of Trustees and authorised for issue on
11" December 2024 and are signed on their behalf by

ee

Kamruddin Isap Kothia OBE DL
Chair of Trustees
Company number: 07353849

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 39 of 72

a) Star

Statement of Cash Flows
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Notes
Cash flows from operating activities
Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 23
Cash flows used in investing activities 24
Change in cash and cash equivalents in the reporting period
Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 September 2023 25
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 August 2024 25

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements

2024
£000

5,259
(6,636)

(1,377)

24,338

22,961

2023
£000

4,931

(5,469)

(538)

24,876

24,338

Page 40 of 72

O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

1, Statement of Accounting Policies

A summary of the principal accounting policies adopted (which have been applied consistently, except where
noted), judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty, is set out below.

Basis of Preparation

The financial statements of the Academy Trust, which is a public benefit entity under FRS 102, have been
prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with the Financial Reporting Standard Applicable in
the UK and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102), the Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement of
Recommended Practice applicable to charities preparing their accounts in accordance with the Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (Charities SORP 2019 (FRS 102)), the Academies
Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024 issued by ESFA, the Charities Act 2011 and the Companies Act 2006.

Going Concern

The trustees assess whether the use of going concern is appropriate i.e. whether there are any material
uncertainties related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the company to
continue as a going concern. The trustees make this assessment in respect of a period of at least one year from
the date of authorisation for issue of the financial statements and have concluded that the Academy Trust has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and there are no material
uncertainties about the Academy Trust’s ability to continue as a going concern, thus they continue to adopt the
going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
Income \ .

All incoming resources are recognised when the Academy Trust has entitlement to the funds, the receipt is
probable and the amount can be measured reliably.

e Grants

Grants are included in the Statement of Financial Activities on a receivable basis. The balance of income
received for specific purposes but not expended during the period is shown in the relevant funds on the
balance sheet. Where income is received in advance of meeting any performance-related conditions, there
is not unconditional entitlement to the income and its recognition is deferred and included in creditors as
deferred income until the performance-related conditions are met. Where entitlement occurs before
income is received, the income is accrued.

General Annual Grant is recognised in full in the Statement of Financial Activities in the year for which it is
receivable and any abatement in respect of the period is deducted from income and recognised asa liability.

Capital grants are recognised in full when there is an unconditional entitlement to the grant. Unspent
amounts of capital grant are reflected in the balance in the restricted fixed asset fund. Capital grants are
recognised when there is entitlement and are not deferred over the life of the asset on which they are
expended.

The academy trust is benefiting from the ESFA’s Free School Building Programme for the construction of
Eden Girls’ School, Waltham Forest, The Valley Leadership Academy, The Olive School, Manchester and Star
Radcliffe Academy. The funding for the programme is not recognised as a capital grant until there is
unconditional entitlement from costs being incurred, and the development occurring on a site where the
trust controls (through ownership, lease or licence) the site where the development is occurring. The
expenditure is capitalised in assets under construction until the project is complete.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 41 of 72

O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

1. Statement of Accounting Policies (continued)
As prescribed by the Academy Accounts Direction 2023 to 2024, Start-up grants have been apportioned in
line with the expenditure being incurred.

¢ Donations

Donations are recognised on a receivable basis (where there are no performance-related conditions) where
the receipt is probable and the amount can be reliably measured.

© Legacies

Legacies are recognised ona receivable basis (where any conditions attached to the legacy are either within
the control of the Academy Trust or have been met) where the receipt is probable and the amount can be
reliably measured.

e =©Other Income

Other income, including hire of facilities, is recognised in the period it is receivable and to the extent the
Academy Trust has provided the goods or services.

e = Transfer on Conversion

Where assets and liabilities are received by the trust on conversion to an academy, the transferred assets
are measured at fair value and recognised in the balance sheet at the point when the risks and rewards of
ownership pass to the trust. An equal amount of income is recognised as transfer on conversion within
Donations and capital grant income to the net assets received.

e Transfer of existing academies into the academy trust

Where assets and liabilities are received on the transfer of an existing academy into the academy trust, the
transferred net assets are measured at fair value and recognised in the balance sheet at the point when the
risks and rewards of ownership pass to the academy trust. An equal amount of income is recognised for the
transfer of an existing academy into the academy trust within Donations and capital grant income to the
net assets acquired.

« Donated fixed assets

"Where the donated good is a fixed asset, it is measured at fair value, unless it is impractical to measure this
reliably, in which case the cost of the item to the donor is used. The gain is recognised as income from
donations and a corresponding amount is included in the appropriate fixed asset category and depreciated
over the useful economic life in accordance with the academy trust's accounting policies

Expenditure

Expenditure is recognised once there is a legal or constructive obligation to transfer economic benefit to a third
party, it is probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required in settlement and the amount of the
obligation can be measured reliably. Expenditure is classified by activity. The costs of each activity are made up
of the total of direct costs and shared costs, including support costs involved in undertaking each activity. Direct
costs attributable to a single activity are allocated directly to that activity. Shared costs which contribute to more
than one activity and support costs which are not attributable to a single activity are apportioned between those
activities on a basis consistent with the use of resources. Central staff costs are allocated on the basis of time
spent, and depreciation charges allocated on the portion of the asset’s use.

e Expenditure on Raising Funds

This includes all expenditure incurred by the Academy Trust to raise funds for its charitable purposes and
includes costs of all fundraising activities events and non-charitable trading.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 42 of 72

O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

1. Statement of Accounting Policies (continued)
e = Charitable activities

These are costs incurred on the Academy Trust’s educational operations, including support costs and costs
relating to the governance of the Academy Trust apportioned to charitable activities. *

All resources expended are inclusive of irrecoverable VAT.

Intangible Fixed Assets

Intangible assets costing £1,000 or more are capitalised and recognised when future economic benefits are
probable and the cost or value of the asset can be measured reliably. Intangible assets are initially recognised at
cost and are subsequently measured at cost net of amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Amortisation is provided on intangible fixed assets at rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset ona
straight-line basis over its expected useful life, as follows:

Purchased computer software 25% per annum

Tangible Fixed Assets :
Assets costing £1,000 or more are capitalised as tangible fixed assets and are carried at cost, net of any
depreciation and any provision for impairment.

Where tangible fixed assets have been acquired with the aid of specific grants, either from the government or
from the private sector, they are included in the Balance Sheet at cost and depreciated over their expected
useful economic life. Where there are specific conditions attached to the funding requiring the continued use of
the asset, the related grants are credited to a restricted fixed asset fund in the Statement of Financial Activities
and carried forward in the Balance Sheet. Depreciation on the relevant assets is charged to the restricted fixed
asset fund in the Statement of Financial Activities. Where tangible fixed assets have been acquired with
unrestricted funds, depreciation on such assets is charged to the unrestricted fund.

Depreciation is provided on all tangible fixed assets other than freehold land and assets under construction, at
rates calculated to write off the cost of each asset on a straight-line basis over its expected useful economic life,
as follows:

Land and buildings 0.8% to 3% per annum (buildings only when brought into use)
Leasehold land and buildings 0.8% to 2.5% per annum depending upon lease term
Leasehold improvements 0.8% to 60% per annum depending upon lease term
Computer equipment 25% per annum

Fixtures, fittings and equipment 20% per annum

Assets in the course of construction are included at cost. Depreciation on these assets is not charged until they
are brought into use and reclassified to freehold or leasehold land and buildings.

A review for impairment of a fixed asset is carried out if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying value of any fixed asset may not be recoverable. Shortfails between the carrying value of fixed assets
and their recoverable amounts are recognised as impairments. Impairment losses are recognised in the
Statement of Financial Activities.

Liabilities

Liabilities are recognised when there is an obligation at the balance sheet date as a result of a past event, it is
probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be required in settlement, and the amount of the settlement
can be estimated reliably. Liabilities are recognised at the amount that the Academy Trust anticipates it will pay
to settle the debt or the amount it has received as advanced payments for the goods or services it must provide.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 43 of 72

Oo | Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

1, Statement of Accounting Policies (continued)
Leased assets
Rentals under operating leases are charged on a straight-line basis over the lease term.

Financial Instruments
The academy trust only holds basic financial instruments as defined in FRS 102. The financial assets and financial
liabilities of the academy trust and their measurement basis are as follows: :

Financial assets — trade and other debtors are basic financial instruments and are debt instruments measured
at amortised cost as detailed in note 16. Prepayments are not financial instruments.

Cash at bank — is classified as a basic financial instrument and is measured at face value.

Financial liabilities — trade creditors, accruals and other creditors are financial instruments, and are measured at
amortised cost as detailed in note 17 and 18. Taxation and social security are not included in the financial
instruments disclosure definition. Deferred income is not deemed to be a financial liability, as the cash
settlement has already taken place and there is an obligation to deliver services rather than cash or another
financial instrument. Amounts due to charity’s wholly owned subsidiary are held at face value less any
impairment.

Taxation
The Academy Trust is considered to pass the tests set out in Paragraph 1 Schedule 6 of the Finance Act 2010 and
therefore it meets the definition of a charitable company for UK corporation tax purposes.

Accordingly, the academy trust is potentially exempt from taxation in respect of income or capital gains received
within categories covered by part 11, chapter 3 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 or Section 256 of the Taxation
of Chargeable Gains Act 1992, to the extent that such income or gains are applied exclusively to charitable
purposes.

Pensions Benefits
Retirement benefits to employees of the Academy Trust are provided by the Teachers’ Pension Scheme (‘TPS’)
and the Local Government Pension Scheme (‘LGPS’). These are defined benefit schemes.

The TPS is an unfunded scheme and contributions are calculated to spread the cost of pensions over employees’
working lives with the academy trust in such a way that the pension cost is a substantially level percentage of
current and future pensionable payroll. The contributions are determined by the Government Actuary based on
quadrennial valuations using a prospective unit credit method. TPS is an unfunded multi-employer scheme with
no underlying assets to assign between employers. Consequently, the TPS is treated as a defined contribution
scheme for accounting purposes and the contributions recognised in the period to which they relate.

The LGPS is a funded multi-employer scheme, and the assets are held separately from those of the academy
trust in separate trustee administered funds. Pension scheme assets are measured at fair value and liabilities
are measured on an actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method and discounted at a rate equivalent
to the current rate of return on a high-quality corporate bond of equivalent term and currency to the liabilities.
The actuarial valuations are obtained at least triennially and are updated at each balance sheet date. The
amounts charged to net income/(expenditure) are the current service costs and the costs of scheme
introductions, benefit changes, settlements and curtailments. They are included as part of staff costs as incurred.
Net interest on the net defined benefit liability/asset is also recognised in the Statement of Financial Activities
and comprises the interest cost on the defined benefit obligation and interest income on the scheme assets,
calculated by multiplying the fair value of the scheme assets at the beginning of the period by the rate used to
discount the benefit obligations. The difference between the interest income on the scheme assets and the
actual return on the scheme assets is recognised in other recognised gains and losses.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 44 of 72

O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

1. Statement of Accounting Policies (continued)
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in other recognised gains and losses.

The financial statements only recognise net defined benefit pension assets to the extent that the trust is able
to recover the surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the scheme.

Fund Accounting
Unrestricted income funds represent those resources which may be used towards meeting any of the charitable
objectives of the Academy Trust at the discretion of the trustees.

Restricted fixed asset funds are resources, which are to be applied to specific capital purposes imposed by the
funders, where the asset acquired or created is held for a specific purpose.

Restricted general funds comprise all other restricted funds received with restrictions imposed by the
funder/donor and include grants from the Education and Skills Funding Agency.

Critical accounting estimates and areas of judgement
Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors,
including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.

Critical accounting estimates and assumptions

The Academy Trust makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates
and assumptions will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that
have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within
the next financial year are discussed below.

The present value of the Local Government Pension Scheme defined benefit liability depends on a number of
factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a variety of assumptions. The assumptions used in
determining the net cost (income) for pensions include the discount rate. Any changes in these assumptions,
which are disclosed in note 28, will impact the carrying amount of the pension liability. Furthermore, a roll
forward approach which projects results from the latest full actuarial valuation performed at 31 March 2022 has
been used by the actuary in valuing the pensions liability at 31 August 2024. Any differences between the figures
derived from the roll forward approach and a full actuarial valuation would impact on the carrying amount of
the pension liability.

Transfer of existing academies into the academy trust

The conversion from a state-maintained school to an Academy Trust involves the transfer of identifiable assets
and liabilities and the operation of the school for £nil consideration. The substance of the transfer is that of a
gift and has been accounted for under the acquisition accounting method.

The assets and liabilities transferred on conversion from each school to an Academy Trust have been valued at
their fair value being a reasonable estimate of the current market value that the trustees would expect to pay
in an open market for an equivalent item. Their fair value is in accordance with the accounting policies set out
for the charitable company. The amounts have been recognised under the appropriate balance sheet categories,
with a corresponding amount recognised in donations and capital grants as net income in the Statement of
Financial Activities and analysed under unrestricted funds, restricted general funds and restricted fixed asset
funds. Further details of the transaction are set out in note 31.

Agency Arrangements

The Academy Trust acts as an agent in distributing 16-19 bursary funds from ESFA. Payments received from ESFA
and subsequent disbursements to students are excluded from the statement of financial activities as the
academy trust does not have control over the charitable application of the funds. The funds received and paid
and any balances held are disclosed in note 30.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 45 of 72

O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

2. Comparative SOFA
Restricted Restricted

Unrestricted General Fixed Asset Total
Funds Funds Funds 2023
£000 £000 £000 £000
Incoming and endowments from:
Donations, legacies and capital grants 99 489 16,440 17,028
Transfer from local authority on
conversion - - - -
Transfer from single academy trust - - - -
Charitable activities:
Funding for the Academy Trust’s
educational operations - 156,555 - 156,555
Teaching school hubs - 595 - 595
Other trading activities 193 - - 193
Investments 608 - - 608
Total 900 157,639 16,440 174,979
Expenditure on:
Charitable activities:
Academy Trust's educational operations - 99 155,114 12,092 167,305
Teaching school hubs - 617 - 617
Total 99 155,731 12,092 167,922
Net income/(expenditure) 801 1,908 4,348 7,057
Transfers between funds (585) (1,888) 2,473 -
Other recognised losses
Actuarial losses on defined benefit
pension schemes - 8,673 - 8,673
Net movement in funds 216 8,693 6,821 15,730
Reconciliation of funds
Funds brought forward at 1 Sept 2022 3,828 21,232 451,758 476,819
Funds carried forward at 31 August 2023 4,044 29,926 458,579 492,549

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 46 of 72

O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

3. Donations and capital grants

Restricted
Unrestricted Restricted Fixed Asset Total Total
Funds Funds Funds 2024 2023
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Capital grants - - 6,798 6,798 16,440
Donated fixed assets - - 2,294 2,294 -
Other donations 59 652 - 711 588
59 652 9,092 9,803 17,028
4. Funding for Academy Trust’s educational operations

Total
Unrestricted Restricted Total 2023
Funds Funds 2024 ~=(Restated)
£000 £000 £000 £000

Df€ / ESFA grants
General Annual Grant (GAG) - 138,970 138,970 125,348
16-19 Core Education Funding - 3,977 3,977 1,697
Start Up Grants _ - 416 416 243
Other DfE / ESFA grants - 13,535 13,535 10,866
Teaching School Hub - 779 779 595
Universal Infant Free School Meals - 899 899 824
Pupil Premium - 8,809 8,809 8,312
Pupil Number Adjustment - 364 364 26

- 167,749 167,749 147,911

Other Government grants
Local Authority grants - 5,623 5,623 4,233

Other income from the Academy Trust's
educational operations - 4,963 4,963 5,006

: 178,335 178,335 157,150

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 47 of 72

a) Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

5. Other trading activities

- Star Academies

Annual Report and Financial Statements

\ Unrestricted _—_ Restricted Total Total
Funds Funds 2024 2023
£000 £000 £000 £000
Hire of facilities 184 - 184 193
184 - 184 193
6. Investment Income
Unrestricted Restricted Total Total
Funds Funds 2024 2023
£000 £000 £000 £000
Short term deposits 989 - 989 608
989 - 989 608
‘7, Expenditure
Staff Non-Pay Expenditure- Total Total
Costs Premises Other Costs 2024 2023
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000
Academy's educational operations:
Direct costs 107,221 12,739 10,988 130,948 112,989
Allocated support costs 27,029 16,943 13,097 §7,069 54,316
Teaching School Hub
Direct costs 738 - : 738 615
Allocated support costs - - 41 41 2
134,988 29,682 24,126 188,796 167,922
Net incoming resources for the year include:
, Total Total
2024 2023
£000 £000
Operating lease rentals 5,673 5,308
Depreciation (note 14) 12,652 12,092
(Gain)/Loss on disposal of fixed assets 89 -
Fees payable to auditor for:
- Audit 77 73
- Other services 7 7
Legal costs 83 187

Page 48 of 72

©O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

8. Charitable activities

Direct costs — educational operations
Support costs — educational operations
Teaching school hub

Allocated Support Costs
Support staff costs
Premises costs

Other support costs
Governance costs

9. Staff

a. Staff Costs and employee benefits
Staff costs during the year were:

Wages and salaries

Social security costs

Operating costs of defined benefit pension schemes
Other employee benefits

Supply staff costs
Staff restructuring costs

Staff restructuring costs comprise:
Redundancy payments
Severance payments

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements

Total Total
2024 2023
£000 £000
130,210 112,989
57,848 54,316
738 617
188,796 167,922
Total

Total 2023
2024 Restated
£000 £000
27,029 23,634
16,944 16,866
12,971 13,698
125 118

- 57,069 54,316
Total Total
2023

2024 Restated
£000 £000
96,707 83,312
10,140 8,680
18,229 14,656
283 265

125,359 106,648
9,530 7,486
99 248

134,988 114,382

5 24
94 224
99 248

Page 49 of 72

O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

9. Staff (continued)
b. Severance Payments

The academy trust paid 13 severance payments in the year, disclosed in the following bands:

2024
No.

0 - £25,000 13

c. Non-Statutory/Non-Contractual Staff Severance Payments
Included in staff restructuring costs are non-statutory/non-contractual severance payments totalling £94,782
(2023: £219,026). Individually, the payments were £1,131, £1,369, £1,484, £1,752, £1,858. £3,926, £4,101,
£5,874. £11,727, £11,999, £14,859, £15,431 and £19,271 (2023: £1,017, £1,122, £1,603, £1,616, £2,233, £2,399,
£2,692, £3,346, £4,025 £4,090 £4,185 £4,242 £4,335 £4,469 £4,826 £5,901 £6,156 £6,545 £7,289 £10,232
£10,414 £11,801 £11,972 £17,027 £26,706 £28,314 and £30,468).

d. Staff Numbers
The average number of persons employed by the Academy Trust during the period was as follows:

2024 2023
No. No.

Charitable Activities
Teachers 1,122 1,078
Teaching support 801 752
Total teachers and teaching support 1,923 1,830
Administration and support 1,008 929
Management 174 177
3,105 2,936

The average full-time equivalent number of employees is 2,389 (2023: 2,279).

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 50 of 72

Oo Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

9. Staff (continued)

e. Higher Paid Staff
The number of employees whose employee benefits (excluding employer pension costs and employer
national insurance contributions) exceeded £60,000 was:

2024 2023
No. No.
£60,001 - £70,000 114 78
£70,001 - £80,000 : 54 34
£80,001 - £90,000 26 16
£90,001 - £100,000 17 9
£100,001 - £110,000 5 13
£110,001 - £120,000 11 5
£120,001 - £130,000 3 2
£130,001 - £140,000 4 2
£140,001 - £150,000 2 2
£150,001 - £160,000 3 2
£160,001 - £170,000 - 1
£170,001 - £180,000 1 1
£180,001 - £190,000 1
£280,001 - £290,000 - 1
£290,001 - £300,000 1 :

One hundred and eighty (2023: One hundred and twenty-three) of the above employees participated in the
Teachers’ Pension Scheme. Thirty-seven (2023: Thirty-one) other employees participated in the Local
Government Pension Scheme. During the year ended 31 August 2024, employer’s pension contributions for
these staff amounted to £3,867,825 (2023: £2,527,744).

f. Key management personnel
The key management personnel of the Academy Trust comprise the trustees and the senior management
team as listed on page 1. :
The total amount of key management personnel benefits (including employer pension contributions and
employer national insurance contributions) received by key management personnel for their services to the
Academy Trust was £1,293,097 (2023: £1,228,546).

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 51 of 72

O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

10. Central services
The Academy Trust has provided the following central services to its academies during the year:

e Financial Services Projects
e Human Resources Leadership Specialism
e Facilities and Estates Safeguarding

Data and Performance

Curriculum and Assessment

School Improvement and Educational Development
External Quality Assurance

Inclusion

e Governance
Business Support
ICT Strategy and Support
Admissions
Capital Programmes

¢ Communications
The Academy Trust charges each school for these services based on a percentage (6%) of their GAG. There
may also be additional charges made to some of the academies for specific levels of support. An example of
this could be staffing issues at the new schools which may be covered by staff from the central services. The
actual amounts charged during the year were as follows:

2024 2023

£000 £000

TIBHS 276 253
TIGHS 267 252
OBL 175 169
OHA 248 239
EBB 263 243
EGC 259 243
EGW 278 266
EBP 248 233
EBM 261 245
EGS 253 241
- HLA 246 228
LLA 400 351
OPR 119 114
os! 196 188
TLA 362 388
oBo 120 115
MEB 284 263
MEG 271 2s9
SA. 515 512
sou 505 518
PTH 144 142
PHC 111 104
PBA 166 153
PBL 313 273
SBE 266 252
PRA 101 93
Sst ; 760 721
SSF 69 -
PSH 147 142
SBR 248 187
SBG 218 -
SGB ; 267 213
SVA 253 216
8,609 7,816

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 52 of 72

11,

12.

Oo Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Related Party Transactions — Trustees’ remuneration and expenses

One trustee has been paid remuneration or has received other benefits from an employment with the
Academy Trust. The Chief Executive only receives remuneration in respect of the services he provides
undertaking the role of CEO under his contract of employment, and not in respect of his role as trustee. The
value of trustees’ remuneration and other benefits was as follows:

Sir Mufti Hamid Patel CBE (CEO and trustee):
Remuneration £295,000 - £300,000 (2023: £280,000 - £285,000)
Employer's pension contributions paid £nil (2023: Enil)

The aggregate trustee remuneration in the year is £296,392 (2023: £283,806).
During the year ended 31 August 2024, travel and subsistence expenses totalling nil (2023: nil) were
reimbursed or paid directly to 0 trustee (2023: 0).

Other related party transactions involving the trustees are set out in note 29.
Trustees’ and Officers’ insurance

In accordance with normal commercial practice the Academy Trust has purchased insurance to protect
governors and officers from claims arising from negligent acts, errors or omissions occurring whilst on
Academy business. The insurance providers cover up to £5,000,000 on any one claim, and the cost are now
included within the Trust’s overall combined insurance which covers commercial, crime, travel, trustees, and
officers. The cost of this insurance is included in the total insurance cost.

13. Intangible fixed assets
Computer Total
Software 2024
£000 £000
Cost

At 1 September 2023 S540 540
At 31 August 2024 540 $40

Amortisation
At 1 September 2023 540 540
Charged in year - -
At 31 August 2024 540 540

Net Book Value ©
At 31 August 2024

At 31 August 2023

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements

Page 53 of 72

©O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

14. Tangible fixed assets

Freehold Leasehold Assets inthe — Furniture,
Land and Land and Leasehold Course of Fixturesand Computer Total
Buildings Buildings Improvements Construction Equipment Equipment 2024
£000 £000 £000 ~ £000 £000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 September 2023 166,942 298,835 280 867 11,535 18,635 497,094
Additions 2,207 3,686 6 9,205 773 2,455 18,332
Transferred on
conversion/transfer
(note 31) 11,246 - - - 571 75 11,892
Disposals (97) (113) - - : - - (210)
At 31 August 2024 180,298 302,408 286 10,072 12,879 21,165 527,108
Depreciation
At 1 September 2023 19,015 19,142 59 - 8,279 14,362 60,857
Charged in year 3,425 5,442 52 - 1,417 2,316 12,652
Disposals (8) (113) - - - - (121)
At 31 August 2024 22,432 24,471 111 - 9,696 16,678 73,388
Net Book Value
At 31 August 2024 157,866 277,937 175 10,072 3,183 4,487 453,720
At 31 August 2023 147,927 279,693 221 867 3,256 4,273 436,237
15. Investment
2024 2023
£000 £000
Current asset investment (7-months deposit account) 30,000 27,000
30,000 27,000
16. Debtors
2024 2023
£000 £000
Trade debtors 565 859
VAT recoverable 3,234 3,340
Other debtors 9,535 17,511
Prepayments and accrued income 4,017 3,915
17,351 25,625

Star Academies .
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 54 of 72

O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

17. Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year

2024 2023

£000 £000

Trade creditors 2,860 3,119
Other taxation and social security 2,256 2,113
Other creditors 2,331 2,144
Loans 12 12
Accruals and deferred income 8,073 8,780
15,532 16,168

An interest free salix loan of £73,338, relating to energy efficiency works, was granted in 2020/21. £12,223 has
been paid during the year. £12,223 is to be paid within a year. The remaining balance is to be fully paid by the
financial year 2026/27.

Deferred income

2024
£000
Deferred income at 1 September 2023 1,384
Released from previous years (1,384)
Resources deferred in the year 1,205
Deferred income at 31 August 2024 1,205

The deferred income held at 31 August 2024 consists of Start Up Grants for Academies which have not yet
opened, and other grants received including funding received for 2024/25 Universal Free School Meals.

18. Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year

2024 2023

£000 £000

Loans 24 37
24 37

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page SS of 72

©

Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

19. Funds

Restricted general funds
General Annual Grant (GAG)
Start Up Grant

Pupil Premium

Pension reserve

Other DfE / ESFA grants
Other income / expenditure
Legacies

Teaching school hub

UIFSM

PNA

Restricted fixed asset funds
Transferred on conversion
DfE / ESFA Capital grants
Capital expenditure from GAG

Total Restricted Funds

Unrestricted funds
Unrestricted funds

Total Funds

Balance at 1
September
2023

£000

34,321

(4,446)
31

50
(30)

29,926

165,713
282,883

9,983
458,579

488,505

4,044

492,549

Incoming Resources Gains, Losses
Resources Expended and Transfers
£000 £000 £000
138,970 (136,169) (2,054)
416 (416) -
8,809 (8,809) -

- 1,425 (769)

23,135 (23,135) -
5,615 (6,850) 1,235
779 (779) -

899 (899) -

364 (364) -
178,987 (175,996) (1,588)
11,892 (4,248) -
9,092 (6,682) (299)

- (1,812) 2,354

20,984 (12,742) 2,055
199,971 (188,738) 467
1,730 (58) (1,235)
201,701 (188,796) (768)

The specific purposes for which the funds are to be applied are as follows:

Balance at 31
August 2024
£000

35,068

(3,790)
31

50
(30)

31,329

173,357
284,994

10,525
468,876

500,205

4,481

504,686

Under the funding agreement with the Secretary of State, the Academy Trust was not subject to limits on
the amount of GAG that it could carry forward at 31 August 2024. The carried forward GAG will be used

towards the future operations of the free school as allocated below.

The pension fund is in deficit at the year-end of £3,790k (2023: £4,446K). There are repayment plans in place
for to repay these deficits over the timeframes provided by Lancashire Council Pension Fund, West Yorkshire
Pension Fund, Greater Manchester Pension Fund and West Midlands Pension Fund. Contributions are

reviewed periodically by the actuary to keep the scheme in surplus.

The unrestricted funds can be used for any purpose as the trustees see fit within the charitable objectives.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements

Page 56 of 72

O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

19. Funds (continued)

The transfer from the restricted fund to the restricted fixed asset fund is the net balance from accounting for
fixed asset acquisitions purchased out of GAG and non-fixed asset expenditure purchased out of Capital
Grant funding such as rental costs for teriporary accommodation. The transfer from the unrestricted fund
to the restricted fund represents the use of unrestricted funds to fund a deficit on restricted activities.

Star Academies

Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 57 of 72

O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

19. Funds (continued)
Analysis of academies by fund balance

Fund balances at 31 August 2024 were allocated as follows:

Central Services
TIBHS
TIGHS
OBL
OHA
EBB
EGC
EGW
EBP
EBM
EGS
HLA
LLA
OPR
OBI
TLA
OBO
MEG
MEB
SLA
PTH
PHC
PBA
SBG
PBL
SBE
PRA
SST
SSF
SVA
PSH
SBR
SGB
SOU

Total before fixed assets and pension reserve

Restricted fixed asset fund
Pension reserve

Total

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements

2024
£000

3,438
1,581
2,364
1,443
879
2,164
1,798
1,685
2,308
3,177
1,898
(4,428)
1,327
522
295
758
475
2,080
1,429
4,210
107
321
938
816
(1,694)
1,511
456
3,635
22
(1,217)
895
874
1,107
2,426

39,600

468,876
(3,790)

504,686

2023
£000

3,768
1,341
2,234
1,484
780
1,995
1,681
1,623
2,183
3,026
1,673
(1,974)
840
509
427
1,037
447
1,764
1,374
3,480
113
252
751
(1,527)
1,267
667
3,584

(765)
832
617

804
2,129

38,416

458,579
(4,446)

492,549

Page 58 of 72

O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

19, Funds (continued)
Three out of the 33 operational schools were carrying a net deficit at 31 August 2024. These were:

HLA: Highfield Leadership Academy is a sponsored academy which has seen a significant reduction in pupil
numbers over the last three years. The school also has a PFI contract for which charges are based on capacity as
opposed to actual student numbers. The school has completed a number of restructuring initiatives and there
is ongoing review of all costs to ensure that the school is able to set a sustainable budget in future years. Pupil
intake into Year 7 September 2023 has increased for the first time in several years and will continue to rise in
future years. The trust will need to invest in the academy over the medium-term to support the school
improvement journey of the school.

PBL: Bay Leadership Academy is a sponsored academy which joined the trust with pupil number below PAN. Due
to continuous review of all expenditure at the school, regular monitoring and an expected increase in pupil
numbers, the trust expects the school to return to an in-year surplus by 2027-28. Pupil numbers at the school
are increasing year on year. The trust will need to invest in the academy over the medium-term to support the
school improvement journey of the school.

SVA: The Valley Leadership Academy is a sponsored academy which joined the trust with pupil number
significantly below PAN. Due to a review of all expenditure, regular monitoring at the school and an expected
increase in pupil numbers, the trust expects the school to return to an in-year surplus by 2025-26. Pupil numbers
at the school are increasing year-on-year. The trust will need to invest in the academy over the medium-term to
support the school improvement journey of the school. .

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 59 of 72

©

Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

19. Funds (continued)

Total cost analysis by academy

Expenditure incurred by each academy during the year was as follows: ~

- Teaching and
Educational
Support Staff Other Support Educational

Costs

£000

TIBHS 2,968
TIGHS 3,595
OBL 2,360
OHA 3,079
EBB 2,948
EGC 2,865
EGW 3,096
EBP 2,529
EBM 2,959
EGS 2,734
HLA 4,409
LLA 3,918
OBO 1,572
OPR 1,493
OBI 2,472
TLA 4,301
MEG 3,002
MEB 3,484
SLA 5,001
PTH 2,110
PHC 1,746
PBA 2,222
PBL 3,858
SBG 5,285
Central Services 2,938
SBE 2,999
PRA 1,489
SST 9,180
SSF 878
SVA 3,290
PSH 1,679
SBR 2,548
SGB 2,814
sOU §,399
107,220

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements

Staff Costs
£000

692
760
517
640
590
622
612
446
472
696
421
1,005
273
270
476
687
535
544
893
282
252
322
866
1,018
7,843
492
215
2,028
287
492
373
591
618
684

27,484

Supplies
£000

86
53
68
58
67
126
83
72
74
149
103
72
26
99
s5
98
94
85
240
66
58
61
88
82
63
7
44
352
46
92
77
83
127
147

3,169

Other Costs
(excluding
Depreciation)
£000

1,484
1,375
837
1,148
1,181
1,161
1,340
1,159
1,237
1,047
2,757
1,686
910
577
1,045
3,261
1,387
1,448
2,375
666
541
694
1,522
1,696
(6,950)
1,249
535
3,504
464
1,766
710
1,047
1,132
3,615

39,606

Total 2024
£000

5,230
5,783
3,782
4,925
4,786
4,774
5,131
4,206
4,742
4,626
7,690
6,681
2,781
2,439
4,048
8,347
5,018
5,561
8,509
3,124
2,597
3,299
6,334
8,081
3,894
4,815
2,283
15,064
1,645
5,640
2,839
4,269
4,691
9,845

177,479

Total 2023
£000

5,036
5,584
3,497
4,676
4,472
4,572
4,991
3,935
4,281
4,375
5,930
6,489
2,366
2,243
3,712
7,876
4,605
5,107
7,871
3,042
2,517
3,143
6,378
3,815
4,295
2,005
13,913
4,855
2,597
3,129
3,692
9,648

154,647

Page 60 of 72

©

Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

19. Funds (continued)

Comparative information in respect of the preceding period is as follows:

Restricted general funds
General Annual Grant (GAG)
Start Up Grant

Pupil Premium

Pension reserve

Other DfE / ESFA grants
Other income / expenditure
Legacies

Teaching school hub

UIFSM

PNA

Restricted fixed asset funds
Transferred on conversion
DfE / ESFA Capital grants
Capital expenditure from GAG

Total Restricted Funds

Unrestricted funds
Unrestricted funds

Total Funds

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements

Balance at 1 :
September Incoming Resources Gains, Losses Balance at 31
2022 Resources Expended andTransfers August 2023

£000 £000 £000 £000 £000

33,118 127,045 (123,369) (2,473) 34,321

- 243 (243) - -

- 8,312 (8,312) - -

(11,935) - (1,184) 8,673 (4,446)

8 15,099 (15,076) - 31

(1) 5,495 (6,079) 585 -

so - - - so

(8) 595 (617) oot (30)

- 824 (824) - -

- 26 (26) - -

21,232 157,639 (155,730) 6,785 29,926

169,692 - (3,979) - 165,713

273,225 16,440 (6,476) (306) 282,883

8,841 - (1,637) 2,779 9,983

451,758 16,440 (12,092) 2,473 458,579

472,990 174,079 (167,822) 9,258 488,505

3,828 900 » (99) (585) 4,044

476,818 174,979 (167,921) 8,673 492,549
Page 61 of 72

O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

20. Analysis of net assets between funds

Fund balances at 31 August 2024 are represented by:

Unrestricted Restricted

Funds General Funds

£000 £000

Intangible fixed assets - -
Tangible fixed assets - -
Investments . - 30,000
Current assets 4,481 17,687
Current liabilities - (12,544)
Non-current liabilities - (24)
Pension scheme liability - (3,790)
Total net assets 4,481 31,329

Fund balances at 31 August 2023 are represented by:

Unrestricted Restricted

Funds General Funds

£000 £000

intangible fixed assets - -
Tangible fixed assets - -
Investments - 27,000
Current assets 4,044 20,242
Current liabilities - (12,833)
Non-current liabilities - (37)
Pension scheme liability - (4,446)
Total net assets 4,044 29,926

21. Capital commitments

At 31 August 2024, the Academy Trust had the following capital commitments:

Contracted for, but not provided in the financial statements

All capital commitments are fully supported by Capital Grant programmes.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements

Restricted
Fixed Asset
Funds
£000

453,720

18,144
(2,988)

468,876

Restricted
Fixed Asset
Funds
£000

436,237

25,677
(3,335)

458,579

2024
£000

3,434

Total
Funds
£000

453,720
30,000
40,312

(15,532)

(24)
(3,790)

504,686

Total
Funds
£000

436,237
27,000
49,963

(16,168)

(37)
(4,446)

492,549

2023
£000

10,468

Page 62 of 72

22,

23.

24.

O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Commitments under operating leases

Operating leases

At 31 August 2024 the total of the Academy Trust’s future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable

Operating leases was:

Amounts due within one year
Amounts due between one and five years
Amounts due after five years

Reconciliation of net income to net cash inflow from operating activities:

Net income for the reporting period (as per the statement of financial activities)
Adjusted for:

Depreciation (note 14)

(Profit}/loss on the sale of fixed assets

Capital grants from DfE and other capital income (note 3)

Fixed assets transferred on conversion & donated assets to the trust
Interest receivable (note 6)

Defined benefit pension scheme obligation inherited (note 28)
Defined benefit pension cost less contributions payable (note 28}
Defined benefit pension scheme finance cost (note 28)
Decrease/(Increase) in debtors

(Increase)/Decrease in creditors

Net cash inflow from Operating Activities

Cash flows from investing activities

Dividends, interest and rents from investments
Purchase of tangible fixed assets

Purchase of investments

Loans

Capital grants from DfE / ESFA

Net cash outflow from capital expenditure and financial investment

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements

2024
£000

5,595
21,537
23,129

50,261

2024
£000

12,906

12,652
89
(6,798)
(14,186)
(989)

(1,540)
115
3,646
(636)

5,259

2024
£000

762
(16,039)
(3,000)
(12)
11,653

(6,636)

2023
£000

5,171

19,995
26,599

51,765

2023
£000

7,057
12,092
(16,440)
(608)

752
432
2,306
(660)

4,931

2023
£000

445
(20,468)

(12)
14,566

(5,469)

Page 63 of 72

25.

26.

27.

28.

a) | Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

Analysis of cash and cash equivalents

At 31 August At 31 August

2024 2023
£000 £000
Cash in hand and at bank 22,961 24,338
Total cash and bank equivalents 22,961 24,338

Contingent Liabilities

Star Academies is aware of the 2023 ruling in the Virgin Media vs NTL Pension Trustee case and subsequent
court of appeal ruling published in July 2024.

This ruling noted that certain amendments made to the NTL Pension Plan were deemed to be invalid because
they were not accompanied by the correct actuarial confirmation, being a Section 37 certificate
acknowledging an amendment to the scheme deeds.

There remains significant uncertainty as to whether the ruling will result in additional liabilities for UK
pension schemes, and it is possible that the Department of Work & Pensions will introduce legislation to
allow changes to be certified retrospectively. ,

A detailed review of historic documentation will be needed to determine whether the changes made by the
Scheme were valid (assuming retrospective certification does not become an option), and such a review will
take some time to complete.

As a result, Star Academies cannot be certain of the potential implications (if any) and therefore a sufficiently
reliable estimate of any effect on the obligation cannot be made.

Members’ Liability

Each member of the charitable company undertakes to contribute to the assets of the company in the event
of it being wound up while he/she is a member, or within one year after he/she ceases to be a member, such
amount as may be required, not exceeding £10 for the debts and liabilities contracted before he/she ceases
to be a member.

Pension and Similar Obligations

The Academy Trust’s employees belong to two principal pension schemes: the Teachers’ Pension Scheme
England and Wales (TPS) for academic and related staff; and the Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS)
for non-teaching staff, which is managed by Lancashire County Council, West Yorkshire Council, Greater
Manchester County Council and West Midlands Council. All are multi-employer defined-benefit schemes.

The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS and of the LGPS relates to the year ended 31 March 2020 and of the
LGPS to the period ended 31 March 2022.

Contributions amounting to £2,094,724 were payable to the schemes at 31 August 2024 (2023: £1,673,704)
and are included within creditors.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 64 of 72

O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

28. Pension and Similar Obligations (continued)
Teachers’ Pension Scheme
The Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS) is a statutory, contributory, defined benefit scheme, governed by the
Teachers’ Pension Scheme Regulations 2014. Membership is automatic for teachers in academy trusts. All
teachers have the option to opt out of the TPS following enrolment.

The TPS is an unfunded scheme to which both the member and employer makes contributions, as a
percentage of salary — these contributions are credited to the Exchequer. Retirement and other pension
benefits are paid by public funds provided by Parliament.

Valuation of the Teachers’ Pension Scheme

The Government Actuary, using normal actuarial principles, conducts a formal actuarial review of the TPS in
accordance with the Public Service Pensions (Valuations and Employer Cost Cap) Directions 2014 published
by HM Treasury every 4 years. The aim of the review is to ensure scheme costs are recognised and managed
appropriately and the review specifies the level of future contributions.

Actuarial scheme valuations are dependent on assumptions about the value of future costs, design of
benefits and many other factors. The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS was carried out as at 31 March
2020. The valuation report was published by the Department of Education on 27 October 2023, with the
SCAPE rate, set by HMT, applying a notional investment return based on 1.7% above the rate of CPI. The key
elements of the valuation outcome are:

e Employer contribution rates set at 28.68% of pensionable pay (including a 0.08% administration
levy). This is an increase of 5% in employer contributions and the cost control result is such that no
change in member benefits is needed.

« Total scheme liabilities (pensions currently in payment and the estimated cost of future benefits)
for service to the effective date of £262,000 million and notional assets (estimated future
contributions together with the notional investments held at the valuation date) of £222,200
million, giving a notional past service deficit of £39,800 million

The result of this valuation has been implemented from 1 April 2024.The next valuation result is due to be
implemented from 1 April 2028.

The employer’s pension casts paid to TPS in the period amounted to £12,723,000 (2023: £10,051,000).
A copy of the valuation report and supporting documentation is on the Teachers’ Pensions website.

Under the definitions set out in FRS 102, the TPS is an unfunded multi-employer pension scheme. The
academy trust is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the plan. Accordingly,
the academy trust has taken advantage of the exemption in FRS 102 and has accounted for its contributions
to the scheme as if it were a defined contribution scheme. The academy trust has set out above, the
information available on the scheme.

Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS)

The LGPS is a funded defined benefit pension scheme, with the assets held in separate trustee-administered

funds. The total contribution made for the year ended 31 August 2024 was £6,619,000 (2023: £5,500,000),
- of which employer's contributions totalled £4,893,000 (2023: £4,034,000) and employees’ contributions

totalled £1,744,000 (2023: £1,466,000). The agreed contribution rates for future years are between 14.7%

and 21.9% for employers and between 5.5% and 12.5% for employees depending upon income.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 65 of 72

O | Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

28. Pension and Similar Obligations (continued)
Parliament has agreed, at the request of the Secretary of State for Education, to a guarantee that, in the
event of an academy trust closure, outstanding Local Government Pension Scheme liabilities would be met
-by the Department for Education. The guarantee came into force on 18 July 2013 and on 21 July 2022, the
Department for Education reaffirmed its commitment to the guarantee, with a parliamentary minute
published on GOV.UK.

The Academy Trust’s fund, within the LGPS is in deficit at the year-end of £3,790,000 (2023: £4,446,000). The
significant reduction in the deficit in the year is as a result of changes in the actuaries’ financial assumption
in the discount rate, due to the higher interest and inflation rates, applied to arrive at the net present value
in future cashflows.

There are repayment plans in place to repay these deficits over the timeframes provided by the Pension
Funds. Contributions are reviewed periodically by the actuary to keep the scheme in surplus. During the year
ended 31 August 2024, Star collectively paid £677,286 of deficit repayments.

The financial statements only recognise net defined benefit pension assets to the extent that the trust is able
to recover the surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the

scheme.

Principal Actuarial Assumptions

At 31 August 2024: GMPF LCPF WYPF WMPF
Rate of increase in salaries 3.45% 4.10% 3.75% 3.65%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment / inflation 2.00% 2.70% 2.50% 2.00%
Discount rate for scheme liabilities 5.00% 5.30% 4.90% 5.00%
Inflation assumption (CPI) 2.65% "2.60% 2.50% 2.65%
Commutation of pensions to lump sums 50% 50% 50% 50%
At 31 August 2023: GMPF LCPF WYPF WMPF
Rate of increase in salaries 3.80% 4.30% 3.85% 4.00%
Rate of increase for pensions in payment / inflation 2.00% 2.90% 2.60% 2.00%
Discount rate for scheme fiabilities 5.20% 5.30% 5.00% 5.20%
Inflation assumption (CPI) 3.00% 2.80% 2.60% 3.00%
Commutation of pensions to lump sums 50% 50% 50% 50%

Sensitivity Analysis - LCPF
Central Sensitivity 1 Sensitivity 2 Sensitivity3 Sensitivity 4

Disclosure item 1 year increase
40.5% p.a +0.25%p.a +0.25%p.a in life

discount rate inflation pay growth expectancy

£000 £000 £000 £000 £000

Liabilities 38,642 34,478 40,918 36,069 39,442
Assets (43,479) (43,479) (43,479) (43,479) (43,479)
Deficit/(surplus) (4,837) (9,001) (2,561) (4,410) (4,037)
Projected Service Cost for next year 2,495 2,051 2,743 2,495 2,566
Projected Net Interest Cost fornext year (327) (589) (213) (306) (287)

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements . Page 66 of 72

Oo | Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

28. Pension and Similar Obligations (continued)
Sensitivity Analysis — WYPF (LLA)
Central Sensitivity 1 Sensitivity2 Sensitivity3 Sensitivity 4

Disclosure item 1 year increase
40.1% p.a +0.1% p.a +0.1% p.a in life

discount rate inflation pay growth expectancy

£000 £000 £000 £000 £000

Liabilities 3,473 3,400 3,539 3,480 3,386
Projected Service Cost for next year 204 195 213 204 204

Sensitivity Analysis — WYPF (TLA) -
Central Sensitivity1 Sensitivity2 Sensitivity3 Sensitivity 4

Disclosure item 1 year increase
+0.1% p.a +0.1% p.a +0.1% p.a in life

discount rate inflation pay growth expectancy

£000 £000 £000 £000 £000

Liabilities 6,258 6,120 6,383 6,271 6,102
Projected Service Cost for next year 193 185 201 193 186

Sensitivity Analysis - WYPF (PTH, PHC and PBA)
Central Sensitivity 1 Sensitivity2 Sensitivity3 Sensitivity 4

Disclosure item 1 year increase
+0.1% p.a +0.1% p.a +0.1% p.a in life

discount rate inflation pay growth expectancy

£000 £000 £000 £000 £000

Liabilities 7,106 6,950 7,248 7,120 6,928
Projected Service Cost for next year 337 324 350 337 326

Sensitivity Analysis — WYPF (PRA) .
Central Sensitivity 1 Sensitivity2 Sensitivity3 Sensitivity 4

Disclosure item 1 year increase
+0.1% p.a +0.1% p.a +0.1% p.a in life

discount rate inflation pay growth expectancy

£000 £000 £000 £000 £000

Liabilities 527 513 540 $28 514
Projected Service Cost for next year 49 46 52 49 47

Sensitivity Analysis - WMPF
Sensitivity 1 Sensitivity 2 Sensitivity3 Sensitivity 4

Disclosure item 1 year increase
-0.1% p.a +0.1% p.a +0.1% p.a in life

discount rate inflation pay growth expectancy

£000 £000 £000 £000

Liabilities 239 235 9 409

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 67 of 72

O Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

28. Pension and Similar Obligations (continued)
Sensitivity Analysis - GMPF
Sensitivity 1 Sensitivity 2 Sensitivity3 Sensitivity 4
1 year increase

Disclosure item :
0.1% pa +01%pa +0.1%p.a in life

discount rate inflation pay growth expectancy
£000 £000 £000 £000
Liabilities 93 87 8 155

The current mortality assumptions include sufficient allowance for future improvements in mortality rates.
The assumed life expectations on retirement age 65 are:

At 31 August 2024: GMPF LCPF WYPF WMPF
Retiring today
Males 20.0 21.0 20.5 20.8

Females : 23.3 23.5 23.6 217

Retiring in 20 years

Males 19.2 22.2 20.0 21.7
Females . 25.2 25.3 24.3 24.7
At 31 August 2023: GMPF LCPF WYPF WMPF
Retiring today

Males . 20.1 21.0 21.0 20.6
Females 23.3 23.4 24.1 23.6

Retiring in 20 years
Males 19.3 22.2 22.2 20.1
Females : 25.3 ° 25.2 25.1 24.4

The Academy Trust’s share of the assets in the scheme were:

Fair Value at 31 August 2024: GMPF -  LCPF WYPF WMPF
Equities 2,776 20,740 15,253 3,349
Government Bonds 555 43 1,692 2,254
Other Bonds - 43 768 -
Property 317 3,696 519 386
Cash and other liquid assets 317 609 519 451
Other - 18,348 481 -
Total market value of assets 3,965 43,479 19,232 6,440

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 68 of 72

© Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

28. Pension and Similar Obligations (continued)

Fair Value at 31 August 2023: GMPF LCPF WYPF WMPF
Equities 2,312 15,367 13,325 3,229
Government Bonds 462 127 1,034 997
Other Bands - - 755 -
Property 264 3,016 558 332
Cash and other liquid assets 264 190 607 190
Other - 13,048 131 -
Total market value of assets 3,303 31,748 16,410 4,749

The actual return on scheme assets was £769k (2023: £8,673k).

Amounts recognised in the statement of financial activities:

2024 2023
£000 . £000
Current service cost (net of employer contributions) 1,471 (604)
Past service cost . : (56)
Interest income 3,357 2,210
Interest cost (3,265) (2,642)
Administrative expenses (138) (92)
Total operating charge 1,425 (1,184)
Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations were as follows: .
2024 2023
£000 £000
At 1 September 2023 : 57,764 61,876
Conversion of academy trusts 4,142 -
Current service cost 4,155 §,312
Interest cost 3,265 2,642
Employee contributions 1,744 1,520
Actuarial (gain)/loss (31) (12,721)
Benefits paid {948) (921)
Past service cost 28 56
At 31 August 2024 70,119 57,764

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 69 of 72

a) | Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

28. Pension and Similar Obligations (continued)
Changes in the fair value of academy’s share of scheme assets were as follows:

2024 2023

: £000 £000

At 1 September 2023 56,210 49,941
Conversion of academy trusts 4,770 -
Fair value adjustment (to bring asset value down to defined benefit obligations) (628) -
Interest income 3,357 2,210
Actuarial gain 2,469 (1,156)
Employer contributions 5,626 4,708
Employee contributions 1,744 1,520
Benefits paid (948) (921)
Administration costs (110) (92)
Total market value of assets 72,490 56,210
Defined benefit pension scheme asset not realised (6,161) (2,892)
At 31 August 2024 66,329 53,318

29. Related Party Transactions
Owing to the nature of the Academy Trust and the composition of the Board of Trustees being drawn from
local public and private sector organisations, transactions may take place with organisations in which the
trust has an interest. All transactions involving such organisations are conducted at arm’s length and in
accordance with the Academy Trust’s financial regulations and normal procurement procedures.

The following related party transactions took place in the period of account:

Expenditure Related Party Transaction

Z Dasu who is the spouse of F Dasu, a trustee of Star, is employed at TIGHS. Z Dasu’s appointment was made
in open competition and F Dasu was not involved in the decision-making process regarding appointment. Z
Dasu is paid within the normal pay scale for her role and receives no special treatment as a result of her
relationship to a trustee. Z Dasu has been employed at TIGHS since 2009, before F Dasu became a Trustee of
Star.

The CEO of Star Academies is a Director of the Confederation of School Trust (CST) which supports Multi
Academy Trusts throughout the country. Subscriptions are set at a national level. The Academy Trust paid
their annual subscription fees for 2023-24 of £2,470 in the previous financial year to the CST.

The Academy Trust entered into a service level agreement in December 2018 with Blackburn Youth Zone
(registered charity no 1135949) to provide access and facilitate participation for Star Academies and its
Blackburn schools to benefit from targeted services and projects to improve health and wellbeing, skills and
aspirations. The Rt. Hon Jack Straw, a Member and Trustee of the Trust is also a Trustee of Blackburn Youth
Zone. The value of services provided totalled £25,000 (2023: nil} during the period. There were no amounts
outstanding at 31 August 2024 (2023: £nil). The Academy Trust made the purchase at arm’s length following
a competitive procurement exercise in accordance with its financial regulations.

UK Kothia who is the son of KI Kothia, the Chair of trustees at Star, is employed at EBP. UK Kothia’s
appointment was made in open competition and KI Kothia was not involved in the decision-making process
regarding appointment. UK Kothia is paid within the normal pay scale for his role and receives no special
treatment as a result of his relationship to a trustee.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 70 of 72

a) | Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024

29. Related Party Transactions (continued)
M Kothia who is the daughter of KI Kothia, the Chair of trustees at Star, is employed at TIBHS. M Kothia’s
appointment was made in open competition and KI Kothia was not involved in the decision-making process
regarding appointment. M Kothia is paid within the normal pay scale for her role and receives no special
treatment as a result of her relationship to a trustee.

K Isap who is the daughter of M Isap, a trustee at Star, is employed at Central Office. H Isap who is the son
of M Isap is employed at TIBHS as a casual tutor. The appointments were made in open competition and M
lsap was not involved in the decision-making process regarding the appointments. Both are paid within the
normal pay scale for their role and receive no special treatment as a result of their relationship to a trustee.

School-Led Development Trust (Company Number 13429740) was set up in May 2021 by the Academy Trust
in partnership with three other MATs (Outwood, Harris Federation and Oasis Community Learning) to deliver
the new National Institute of Teaching (NIoT). Sir Mufti Hamid Patel CBE was one of the founding Directors
of the new company. The number of directors has now increased to 12. Other than Sir Mufti Hamid Patel
CBE, the other directors have no affiliations with Star Academies.

Following approval by Department for Education (Df€), and whilst awaiting funding from DfE, the Academy
Trust has financed some initial costs on behalf of School-Led Development Trust (SLDT) totalling £291,015 in
the year.

There was an outstanding amount of £131,421 due as at 31 August 2024.

30. Agency arrangements

The Academy Trust distributes 16-19 bursary funds to students as an agent for ESFA. In the accounting period -

ending 31 August 2024 the Academy Trust received £131,502 (2023: £56,991) and disbursed £115,797 (2023:
£51,046) from the fund. An amount of £75,335 (2023: £56,509) is in included in other creditors relating to
undistributed funds that is repayable to ESFA.

31. Conversion to an academy status/academy transfers into the Trust
On 1% September 2023, Bacup & Rawtenstall Grammar School, a Single Academy Trust, joined Star
Academies. The conversion included freehold land and buildings.

The following table sets out the fair values of the identifiable assets and liabilities transferred and an analysis
of their recognition in the SOFA.
Restricted Restricted

Unrestricted General Fixed Asset Total
Funds Funds Funds 2024
£000 £000 £000 £000

Tangible fixed assets
- Leasehold land and buildings - - 11,207 11,207
— Other tangible fixed assets - - 679 679
Debtors due in less than one year 52 - - 52
Cash in the bank and in hand 721 - - 721
Creditors due in less than one year (274) - - (274)
LGPS pension deficit - 628 - 628
Fair value adjustment - (628) 6 (622)
Total net assets transferred 499 - 11,892 12,391

Note, under the SAT, the school had a £628k pension asset recognised. Star Academies does not recognise pension assets.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements Page 71 of 72

6

oO Star

Notes to the Financial Statements
For the Year Ended 31 August 2024
32. Analysis of changes in net debt

At 1 September Cash Atal

2023 flows August

2024

£000 £000 £000

Cash 24,377 (1,389) 22,988
Loan (39) 12 (27)
24,338 (1,377) 22,961

Total 24,338 (1,377) 22,961

33. Events after the end of the reporting period

King Solomon International Business School, an all-through school (nursery, primary and secondary for pupils
aged 3-16) based in Birmingham, was transferred to Star Academies on 1st November 2024. The transfer

represents Star Academies’ first Christian Faith School.

Star Academies
Annual Report and Financial Statements

Page 72 of 72

