Registered Number 00807043

Annual Report and Financial Statements

[mt

E

Superdrug Stores plc
Annual Report and Financial Statements
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Contents

Strategic Report

Directors’ Report

Independent Auditors’ Report
Statement of Comprehensive Income
Balance Sheet

Statement of Changes in Equity
Cash Flow Statement

Notes to the Financial Statements

Page

17
20
24
25
26
27

28

Superdrug Stores plc
Strategic Report
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

The directors present their Strategic Report for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2023.
General Information

The Company is a public company, jimited by shares and is incorporated and domiciled in England, in the
United Kingdom. The registered number of the Company is 00807043. The address of its registered office is
51 Sydenham Road, Croydon, Surrey CRO 2EU. The Company is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of AS
Watson Holdings Limited, a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands, with its principal place of business
in Hong Kong.

During the financial period some of the AS Watson Group of Companies changed the name from A.S. Watson
to AS Watson. This change has been reflected in these financial statements.

Principal Activity
The principal activity of the Company is a health and beauty retailer in the United Kingdom.
Results and Business Review

The Company has had a strong financial period with sales increasing by 11.8% (2022: 17.0%). In the prior
period, January and February sales were impacted by Omicron Covid-19 restrictions, however no such event
was seen during the period. Sales growth was driven by retail store sales which have increased by 12.5%
(2022: 23.4%). The Company continues to offer strong promotions, including “Member Only” promotions to
members of its Health & Beauty card loyalty scheme, as well as offering a strong range of own brand
products. As a result the Company has been well placed to offer a compelling product range at competitive
prices.

Profit before tax was £111.6 million (2022: £77.8 million), an increase of 43.6% that is primarily attributable
to the strong sales growth. In addition, the Company's continued review of operating costs, coupled with the
increase in sales, resulted in an increase in operating margin from 6.5% to 8.0%. Net assets at 30 December
2023 were £378.8 million (2022: £352.2 million), with total assets of £1,101.8 million (2022: £1,125.8 million)
and total liabilities of £723.0 million (2022: £773.6 million).

Right-of-use assets decreased by 4.1% to £278.5 million (2022: £290.5 million) driven by an £77.9 million
depreciation charge during the period (2022: £80.8 million). The Company continued to be in a robust cash
position which stood at £161.5 million at the period end (2022: £173.8 million). The decrease in cash position
was partially due to an intercompany balance repayment of £80.0 million (2022: nil) to its parent company
AS Watson (Health & Beauty UK) Limited, offset by positive trade during the period. The Company increased
capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment during the period by £3.8 million to £28.7 million with
14 new stores being opened during the period, and a continued focus on its refurbishment programme.

Business Environment

2023 was another tough year for the retail environment with sustained higher interest rates, and persistently
high inflation, squeezing consumers’ disposable income. The “cost of living” crisis was prevalent throughout
the year meaning customers shopped around as they became more price sensitive. Total footfall across the
UK decline compared to 2022, as measured by the British Retail Consortium, although the health and beauty
sector was one of the few market groups to see retail sales growth year on year. Government driven decisions
on areas like National Minimum Wage has compounded wage inflation and continues to put pressure on
operating margins for retailers.

Strategy

The Company continues to strive to be the best in everyday accessible beauty and health. 2023 saw the
opening of 14 new stores as the Company continues to actively manage its store estate. This focus has
extended to ongoing investment in the refurbishment and extension of existing sites. New stores continue to
be primarily in retail parks, as well as larger sites in locations such as Trafford Centre in Manchester,
Braehead in Glasgow and Brent Cross Shopping Centre in London.

Superdrug Stores plc
Strategic Report (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Strategy (continued)

“Offline plus Online” (O&O) remains a central strategic pillar for the Company and whilst the continued shift
back to physical stores remains clear, the online channel has been buoyed by the first full year of the
Company’s Marketplace proposition, which allows third party sellers to showcase and sell their products
directly to customers, via the Company’s website.

The Company’s Health & Beauty card customer loyalty programme remains pivotal to the Company's
engagement with its customers. An expansion of “Member Only” pricing deals has helped to attract more
Health & Beauty card members, driving visit frequency and increasing loyalty.

The Company's focus on its cost base and in driving efficiencies that can be invested in improving the
customer offer has persisted throughout 2023. This included significant reductions in store rents on lease
renewals, further strengthening the economics of physical stores.

Principal Risks and Uncertainties

The management of the Company and the execution of the Company’s strategy are subject to a number of
principal risks. These risks are reviewed formally by the board of directors of the Company (the “Board”) and
appropriate processes put in place to monitor and mitigate them. If more than one event occurs, it is possible
that the overall effect of such events would compound the possible adverse effects. The key business risks
are as follows:

Social and environmental

Risk and Impact

Managing the impact that the Company has on the planet and tackling climate change is critical from both a
social and regulatory standpoint. Customers are increasingly recognising the need for the Company to be
sustainable in the products it offers. This also needs to be integrated within business decisions and strategy.
Non-compliance from a social or regulatory prospective could lead to reputational damage to the Company
and potential penalties.

Controls and mitigation in place

The Chief Executive Officer is a member of the AS Watson Group Global Sustainability Committee
responsible for the AS Watson Group Sustainability Roadmap. This roadmap is ambitious and aims to reduce
the environmental and social impact of the material risks identified. The Company also has a dedicated
Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) team with a recently created role, Head of ESG,
demonstrating the Company's commitment in this area. ,

The Company organises its ESG strategy around the pillars of Planet, People and Product along with a local
Sustainability Roadmap. The Sustainability Roadmap includes quantitative and qualitative targets up to 2030
including, but not limited to, energy reductions, emissions reduction, Own Brand packaging, sustainably
sourced paper and palm oil. The Company contributes actively to AS Watson Group's commitments to
Sustainable Palm Oil, The Ellen MacArthur Foundation, New Plastic Economy and the Science Based Target
Initiative.

The Company is committed to being an ethical business and focussing on human rights. The Company has
a Modern Slavery Task Force and publishes a modern slavery statement. The Company has partnered with
a UK modern slavery NGO (non-governmental organisation) to support its activities in reducing the risk of
modern slavery within the business. The Company also supports a number of NGOs for causes that are
important to our customers and colleagues, through fundraising and awareness raising activities.

Superdrug Stores plc
Strategic Report (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Principal Risks and Uncertainties (continued)

Data security and privacy
Risk and Impact

Insufficient controls around information and data security could lead to a breach of consumer, employee and
supplier data. This could lead to a significant reputational harm to the Company which could cause risks to
the financial performance of the Company in addition to any fines and potential penalties.

Controls and mitigation in place

The Company works closely with experts within the wider AS Watson Group to leverage capability and
technology to constantly monitor and improve this area. Compliance with data protection regulations and
adhering to industry-specific standards is a core action to ensure the lawful and secure processing of relevant
information.

Controls and procedures are in place to identify cybersecurity risks and incidents, with a 24x7 Security
Operations Centre (“SOC”) providing real-time threat and incident monitoring and detection. The network
and systems storing sensitive data are monitored and periodically reviewed. Access is monitored and
analysed by the SOC.

To foster a culture of data privacy and security and reduce the risk of internal breaches, employee training

and awareness programs are essential. The Company educates staff about the significance of the risk and
their responsibility in protecting their own personal data and the organisation's information and assets.

(T_and business systems

Risk and Impact

The Company relies upon its IT infrastructure to deliver its operations which is crucial for the ability to trade.
The security, resilience and control of these key assets are significant to and a key focus of management.
Any significant issues with key IT infrastructure could lead to a detrimental impact on trade, profitability, and
cash flow.

Controls and mitigation in place

The Company has system recovery plans in place to deal with any problems of key systems with testing
taking place periodically to ensure swift action to help minimise business disruption.

Network segmentation is implemented across the Company’s network to ensure resilience and reduce the
risk of systems failure contagion. Protection measures such as network firewalls, web application firewalls,
demilitarised zones, network detection and response tools are also in use. Security incident monitoring is
available and provided by the SOC run by an internal team with the assistance of vendor insight.

Penetration tests are periodically performed at least once per year. A Patch management program is also in
place to apply latest patches to systems to ensure these are constantly up to date and minimising the risk of
inappropriate access or systems compromise. Vulnerability scans are performed at least monthly to identify
missing patches, and there is a daily dashboard showing the patching status of different platforms enabling
real time management review.

The Company continues to invest in developing its IT infrastructure with a portion of the capital expenditure
budget ringfenced for this area.

Superdrug Stores plc
Strategic Report (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Principal Risks and Uncertainties (continued)
People and culture’

Risk and Impact

The Company’s performance depends largely on its staff and continued service of key management. The
loss of key individuals and the inability to recruit people with the right experience and skills could adversely
impact the Company's results and growth.

Controls and mitigation in place

The Company continues to run programmes to improve staff retention, for example its long-established retail
management training and Aspire development programme to drive internal career progression.

The Company offers apprenticeship programmes across various functions within the business and regular
in person and digital training courses through an internal platform which supports the Company’s ability to
develop and retain talent. During the year, the Company launched a new campaign, “Rise-Up, Level-Up”, to
shine a light on the importance of apprenticeships for young people.

Employees have a range of methods to communicate suggestions and proposals including the employee
engagement survey and various forums within an employee portal. The Company also has a competitive
rewards and benefits package for all staff and enhanced benefits when service milestones have been
surpassed.

Competition
Risk and Impact

The Company operates in a highly competitive retail market particularly concerning price, product availability
and quality. Failing to respond to changing customer needs and offering competitive prices could result in
downward pressures on volumes and margins which may limit growth opportunities.

Controls and mitigation in place

To remain a competitive option for consumers, market research is carried out, prices are monitored on a
regular basis, pricing is adjusted accordingly, and the Company carries out planned promotional activities.

The Company has also focussed on building strong relationships with both suppliers and customers — this is
demonstrated by the Health & Beauty card, loyalty scheme where members are able to redeem points and
take advantage of member only pricing.

The products the Company produces or have contractually manufactured under the Company’s guidance
are key to the Company’s success by demonstrating a unique “Own Brand” offering. Additionally, the
Company constantly reviews the market and customer landscape to identify shifts in behaviour and
competitive developments and takes action as appropriate to continue to be an attractive option for potential
customers. This is demonstrated by the recent introduction of Superdrug Marketplace on the Company's
website.

Operating costs and efficiency
Risk and Impact

The Company is exposed to market movements across a significant part of its cost base. External challenges
such as inflation, and rising living and employment costs, continue to have an unsettling impact on the UK.
It is critical to ensure the Company is fit for the challenges that lie ahead by having strategies in place to
mitigate these external pressures as this has placed considerable pressure on both the direct commodity
costs the Company pays in its operations and on the costs of manufacturing and services provision which
drives up the cost of goods for resale.

Superdrug Stores plc
Strategic Report (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Principal Risks and Uncertainties (continued)

Operating costs and efficiency (continued) \ ;
Controls and mitigation in place

The Company constantly focuses on its cost base and seeks to drive cost reductions through procurement
activities and operational efficiencies to control the risk of price rises and for them to be kept to a minimum.
The Company has a robust and regular business forecasting process to model the expected impact of any
market movements on the business, such as the expected effect on any changes to the national living wage.
To mitigate against volatility, during the year, energy is purchased in advance through a rolling programme
of market hedging.

The Company has invested in new assets and emerging technologies within the distribution network to create
the opportunity to drive increased efficiencies and productivity. For example, the purchase of new fleet within
its transport operations.

Supply chain disruption
Risk and Impact

The Company relies upon third party suppliers to deliver products and provide services on a timely basis to
meet the demands of its customers. The risk of disruption and inflationary pressures within the supply chain
could have a negative impact on the profitability and growth of the business. Furthermore, the inability to
service the requirements of its customers could result in reputational damage to the Company.

Controls and mitigation in place

The Company works closely with key suppliers to form effective partnerships to ensure capacity and service
levels are in line with both current activities and future growth plans. The Company also manages the risk of
service failure by carrying sufficient buffer stock in its warehouses and stores, plus the constant engagement
with alternative market operators should supply routes or service provision need to be switched.

All suppliers are required to adhere to the Company's supplier code of conduct, with new suppliers required

to go through due diligence screenings supported by a third party, which mitigates the risk of unethical
practices causing reputational damage.

Key Performance Indicators (“KPIs”)
The directors monitor progress of the Company’s performance by reference to the following KPIs:
52 weeks 52 weeks

ended 30 ended 31
December December

- : 2023 2022
Revenue £1,528.0m £1,366.9m
Operating profit £121.9m £88.4m
Operating margin 8.0% 6.5%

Superdrug Stores plc
Strategic Report (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Financial Risk Management

The Company is funded by operationally generated cash flow, group loans and external short term bank
overdraft facilities if required. The Company sets financial risk management policies in accordance with AS
Watson Group’s policies and procedures. The AS Watson Group is part of the CK Hutchison Holdings Limited
group. Treasury policies are designed to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest rates and exchange
rates and to minimise the Company’s financial risk.

a) Credit risk

Short-term surplus bank funds are placed with high quality financial institutions. As the Company’s retail
sales are usually in cash or by credit or debit card, credit risk is to a great extent short-term and limited to the
recovery of supplier income.

b) Liquidity risk

The Company’s liquidity risk is mitigated by internal funding primarily from the immediate holding company,
AS Watson (Health & Beauty UK) Limited, in order to meet the Company’s funding requirements.

c) Foreign exchange risk

The Company's direct foreign exchange exposure is minimal, with most purchases contracted and paid for
in sterling. The Company has a greater exposure to indirect foreign exchange currency risk from stock
purchases which it manages through ongoing planning and review with key suppliers.

The Company's financial instruments consist of cash, bank overdrafts, intercompany balances with AS
Watson group companies, trade receivables and trade payables. The carrying value of these are all recorded
at amortised cost. Their contractual maturities are ‘less than one year, with the exception of the group
borrowings disclosed in notes 15 and 16.

Companies Act 2006 Section 172 (1) Statement

Under section 172 (a) to (f) of the Companies Act 2006, directors of a company are required to act in a way
they consider, in good faith, would most likely promote the success of the company for the benefit of its
members as a whole, having regard to a range of different matters as stated therein.

The duty emphasises that the board of directors must consider the wider impact of its decisions, rather than
just the financial and strategic elements. The board should also create a culture whereby the long-term
consequences of its actions and the long-term success of the company are given due consideration.

(i) The likely consequences of any decision in the long term

It is essential that the Board makes decisions which are best for the Company in the long term. These
decisions are focussed on long-term success, not short-term gains, which will stand the Company in good
stead for the future. This has been a major focus for a number of years, particularly in light of the pressure
on the high street as a result of the struggling retail market.

The Company works closely with its shareholder and stakeholders to review, update and agree its five-year
strategy each year. Consideration is given to the changing retail landscape and investments that may be
needed to support future growth as well as financial projections. The strategy is formally signed off by the
Board each year, which then forms the basis for the operating plans to deliver against the agreed targets.

The Investment Committee of the Company, chaired by the Chief Executive and supported by the Finance
Director, holds regular meetings to ensure all significant spend decisions have a comprehensive review
before decisions are taken and contracts are signed. This also ensures, to the extent possible, that
commitments with sufficient flexibility or otherwise only minimum commitments will be entered into by the
Company, so as to allow the Company to remain agile in an ever-changing environment at a time where the
nature of the high street is changing rapidly across various town centres.

Superdrug Stores plc
Strategic Report (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Companies Act 2006 Section 172 (1) Statement (continued)

(i) The interest of the employees of the Company

The relationship with the employees of the Company is paramount. The Company actively engages with its
employees to ensure that their opinions and ideas are always considered, and that employees are kept up
to date and informed. The Company holds an annual conference for Store Managers and Assistant Store
Managers to provide an update on the current performance and future plans of the Company. Regular
conferences are also held for Head Office employees, and equivalent ‘all hands’ meetings also take place at
its Distribution Centres.

All employees have access to a social networking platform, which is used for Company communication, as
well as sharing less formal messages with each other on store events, like charity fundraising. Access to
this collaborative network helps to drive employee engagement. Throughout the year employees receive
regular communication and updates from the Chief Executive and other members of the Executive team so
that they are kept up to date and informed of business action, and of the impact of the situation on business
performance.

The Company has a diversity and inclusion strategy, “Everyone Matters”, which remains a key priority across
the business. The Company also has an employee engagement survey which allows the business to gain
feedback to improve the things that matter most to employees, launching new policies, toolkits, and benefits
to enhance its wellbeing and inclusion offering.

Employee wellbeing is very important to the Company and it strives to create a positive environment that
empowers and takes care of employees’ overall wellbeing. Benefits are offered across financial, social,
physical and mental wellbeing. During the year, mental health training and free period products were
launched for all employees. The Company was ranked the 5" happiest retailer to work for in a survey by
Retail Weekly. The Company also enhanced various employee benefits during the year including the
introduction of a pregnancy loss scheme. Other benefits that have been enhanced include paternity leave
and shared parental/adoption leave.

The Company is also a strong supporter of its defined benefit pension scheme, taking seriously its
responsibilities to ensure the retirement obligations are funded and secured appropriately for its employees.
The Finance Director and the Customer & People Director meet with the Trustees of the scheme on a
quarterly basis to this end.

(iii) The need to foster the business relationships of the Company with suppliers, customers and others

In all instances the Company aims to create and maintain open and transparent business relationships, which
are paramount to ensuring high quality products can be obtained on terms that can meet customer demand.
The directors are also mindful of the need to maintain, and enhance, good supplier relationships in the
strategy they deliver for the Company.

The Company participates in regular independent surveys across its key suppliers, seeking feedback on
matters such as clarity of strategy, business practices and payment performance. The Chief Commercial
Officer, Trading Director and Healthcare Director also hold regular “top to top” meetings with major suppliers
to ensure that open communication channels and positive business relationships are maintained.

The Company acknowledges the importance of its customers to the continued and long-term success of the
business, and places great emphasis on customer experience whilst shopping. Through the Company’s
loyalty scheme, store level surveys are undertaken on a weekly basis with customers to gain real-time
feedback with a view to improving customer service.

Superdrug Stores plc
Strategic Report (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Companies Act 2006 Section 172 (1) Statement (continued)

(iv) The impact of the operations of the Company on the community and the environment

The Company has appointed a Head of ESG to drive its wider sustainability strategy which is headed by the
Property Director and the People Director under the banner of “Doing Good Feels Super’, which provides
central oversight to all the ESG activities of the Company. Additionally, the Chief Executive represents the
Company on the global AS Watson Group CSR Committee ensuring that the Company benefits from group-
wide expertise and resources in this important area.

The Company has 3 strategic pillars for ESG which are Planet, People and Product along with a local
Sustainability Roadmap. The Sustainability Roadmap includes qualitative targets up to 2030 including, but
not limited to, energy and greenhouse gas emissions reductions. The Company is committed to being an
ethical business and focussing on human rights. The Company has a Modern Slavery Task Force and
publishes a modern slavery statement. The Company also partners with a UK modern slavery NGO (non-
governmental organisation) to support in reducing the risk of modern slavery within the business.

During the year the Company won a gold and two bronze awards for its long-term charity partnership with
Marie Curie at the Corporate Engagement Awards. The award is testament to the strength of the Superdrug
and Marie Curie charity highlighting the strong employee engagement centred on fundraising.

(v) The desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct

The Company expects the highest standard of business conduct from its employees. They receive regular
regulatory and compliance updates, and the Company also has in place policies, procedures and processes
in respect of modern slavery, anti-bribery and corruption, as well as tax strategy.

All employees sign up to the AS Watson Code of Conduct upon joining the Company, which sets out the
minimum standards for all employees of the AS Watson Group of companies. The Code aims to promote
honest and ethical conduct and encourage trust, fair dealing and integrity in all interactions with customers,
suppliers, colleagues and stakeholders.

(vi) The need to act fairly as between members of the Company

The Company works closely with its shareholder; agreeing the strategic direction, reviewing financial
performance and major investment decisions, and maintaining an open communication on matters of
importance. Such approach drives benefits for both the Company and its shareholder.

Corporate Governance

The Company is part of the AS Watson Group of companies ("ASW Group”), and ultimately part of CK
Hutchison Holdings Limited (“CKHH’, and together with its subsidiaries, the “CKHH Group”), a company
whose shares are listed on the main board of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.

The Company adopts and applies high standards of corporate governance best suited to the needs and
interests of the CKHH Group as it believes that an effective corporate governance framework is fundamental
to promoting and safeguarding interests of the shareholder and other stakeholders and enhancing
shareholder value. ,

For period ended 30 December 2023, under The Companies (Miscellaneous Reporting) Regulations 2018
the Company has continued to follow the Wates Corporate Governance Principles for Large Private
Companies (the “Wates Principles”) which are available on the Financial Reporting Council website as an
appropriate framework when making a disclosure about its corporate governance arrangements. The
Company’s reporting against the Wates Principles is set out below.

Superdrug Stores plc
Strategic Report (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Corporate Governance (continued)
Principle 1: Purpose and Leadership

The Company’s principal objective is to be the best for everyday and accessible beauty and health, both on
the High Street and Online. This business purpose is clearly cascaded and communicated throughout the
Company as it focusses on delivering this objective consistently for its customers. This in turn ensures
financial returns for its shareholder, stability and progression for its employees and continued investment in
the business and the communities which it serves.

Whilst the Board is responsible for the overall direction and management of the Company, the effective day-
to-day management of the Company is overseen by the Company’s executive management team (the
“Exec"), supported by delegated authorities to certain senior officers and employees which are generally
based on financial thresholds. The Board regularly reviews these authorities to ensure they are appropriate
and relevant.

The Exec and members of the Board meet regularly to discuss and review strategies, performance, business
plans, budgets and risk profiles of the Company. Whilst the Board is charged with the task of promoting the
long-term success of the Company and making decisions in the best interests of the Company, the Exec is
accountable for the conduct and performance of the Company within the agreed strategies. The Board
together with the Exec instil and uphold the Company’s objectives and strategies through the day-to-day
operations and management of the Company.

Principle 2: Board Composition

The Board is comprised of four directors which provides for representation of both the Exec and also the
Company’s shareholder. The Exec is represented by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, with the
Company’s shareholder represented by the AS Watson Group Managing Director and AS Watson Group
Finance Director. The Board considers its current size and composition constitutes an effective board
appropriate to meet the strategic needs and challenges of the Company and ensure effective decision-
making.

The Exec comprises of twelve senior executives, led by the Chief Executive. Collectively the Exec possesses
extensive retail leadership experience, gained across several different organisations and countries. It
includes executives with specialist professional qualifications, including in relation to the Company’s
pharmacy operations.

Diversity and inclusion is a key part of the Company's culture. The Company is committed to developing a
more diverse workforce, including at the most senior levels. It recognises the benefits of a Board and Exec
that possesses a balance of skill sets, experience, expertise and diversity of perspectives appropriate for the
strategies of the Company. The Company believes that board diversity enhances decision-making capability
and thus the overall effectiveness of the Board and the Exec in achieving sustainable business operation
and enhancing shareholder value.

Principle 3: Directors’ Responsibilities

The Board and each director have a clear understanding of their accountability and responsibilities. The
Board is committed to achieving and maintaining the high standards of corporate governance structure,
policies and practices of the ASW Group, taking into account the business and regulatory frameworks within
which the Company operates. Business plans and budgets are prepared annually by management of the
Company and are subject to review and approval by the Board and the executive management team of ASW
Group as part of the ASW Group's five-year corporate planning cycle. Management of the Company is also
tesponsible for preparing monthly management reports on the financial results and key operating statistics
of the Company. Monthly meetings are held with the executive management team of ASW Group to review
these reports, business performance against budgets, forecasts, significant business risks sensitivities and
strategies of the Company.

Superdrug Stores plc
Strategic Report (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Corporate Governance (continued)

The Board as a whole is responsible for promoting the long-term success of the Company and making
decisions in the best interests of the Company in tine with the agreed business plans and strategies.
Throughout the year, the management of the Company provides to the directors updates and other
information with respect to the performance, business activities and development of the Company. The
Company also has in place a formal structure of the Board approved delegated authorities to ensure that
there are appropriate controls surrounding decisions and commitments that may bind the Company.

The Board considers that all of these robust corporate governance and internal control frameworks and
company leadership, working together, promote effective stewardship to deliver long-term value for the
Company and its shareholder as a whole.

Principle 4: Opportunity and Risk

The Company is committed to the long-term sustainability of its business by regularly reviewing its business
model and practices to identify opportunities for improving its performance and creating value for
stakeholders. The Exec meets regularly to discuss and consider these opportunities and conducts an annual
strategic review and quarterly forecasting exercise to embed decisions and allocate resources accordingly.

The Board seeks to instil risk awareness across the Company’s business operation and has put in place
policies and procedures which provide a framework for the identification, reporting and management of risks.
The Company adopts an Enterprise Risk Management framework to manage its risk exposure and appetite.
The framework facilitates a systematic approach in identifying, assessing and managing risks within the
Company, be they of strategic, financial, operational or compliance nature. There is ongoing dialogue
amongst the Exec about current and emerging risks, their plausible impact and mitigation measures. On a
half-yearly basis, the Company is required to formally identify and assess the control framework that supports
the management of business risk.

Principle 5: Remuneration

The remuneration of the directors and senior executives of the Company is determined with reference to their
expertise and experience in the industry, the performance and profitability of the Company as well as
remuneration benchmarks from other local and international companies and prevailing market conditions.

Remuneration arrangements are also subject to oversight and approval from the Company's shareholder.
Employees also participate in bonus arrangements which are determined in accordance with the
performance of the Company and the individual's performance. The Board considers that the remuneration
structure of the Company aligns with the Company's objectives, values and strategies to support long-term
sustainable success. The Gender Pay Gap is reviewed by the Exec, and an action pian is formulated for
improvements across the whole organisation. The Exec is committed to developing a more diverse senior
leadership team across the Company and has introduced balanced shortlists for all senior management and
director appointments covering gender and ethnicity to bolster its leadership team and future progression
potential.

Principle 6: Stakeholder Relationships and Engagement

The Board actively promotes engagement and communications with stakeholders, including employees,
shareholder, customers, business partners, suppliers, its Pension Scheme, regulators, government,
community groups and media partners. The Company actively encourages employees to express their views
and has established various channels including a social platform ‘The Hub’ allowing two-way communication
between colleagues at all levels of the organisation. The Hub is used regularly by over 75% of employees
to engage with the culture, share views, ask questions and learn about the business. The Company also
regularly collects views from other stakeholders through a variety of channels, such as independently
sourced feedback and assessment reports by the Company’s key suppliers on its performance across a
range of measures such as business relationships, supply chain management and payment processes.

Superdrug Stores plc
Strategic Report (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Corporate Governance (continued)

The Company is committed to achieving and maintaining high standards of openness, probity and
accountability. There are established whistle-blowing policy and mechanisms which allow the employees of
the Company and those who deal with the Company to report any suspected impropriety, misconduct or
malpractice concerning the Company with confidence.

The Company has adopted a proactive approach to its social, economic and environmental responsibilities
as outlined in its section 172 disclosures.

Non-financial and sustainability information statement

Under Section 414CB of the Companies Act 2006 (“CA s414CB”) the Company is in scope of the
Companies (Strategic Report) (Climate-related Financial Disclosure) Regulations 2022 and therefore
required to incorporate Climate-related Financial Disclosures (“CFD”) in its Annual Report and Financial
Statements. The Company has used both the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures (“TCFD") recommendations and the CFD requirements, which are structured across
four thematic areas of the frameworks, to support the identification, assessment, and management of
climate-related impacts to the Company.

Governance

The Company’s Board is responsible for overseeing management’s response to climate-related impacts.
Accountability for, and oversight of, climate-related impacts sits with the Executive leadership team (“the
Exec’). In its role the Exec ensures there is an effective system of internal controls within the Company for
the assessment and management of key risks. The Exec retains overall responsibility for climate
governance and actions undertaken, which are integrated into the Company’s ESG strategy. The Exec
ensures action plans are embedded into the business strategy and future financial planning to mitigate
climate-related risks and capitalise on climate-related opportunities. The Exec reports on its management
of climate related matters to the Company Board on an annual basis.

The Company also works closely with the AS Watson Group on climate related matters, in particular the
Group’s Chief Sustainability Officer. The Group provides strategic oversight of climate-related risks and
ensures alignment of direction, resources and targeting of climate-related activities. These include the
establishment of Science Based Targets and sustainability roadmap targets.

The Company appointed a Head of ESG into a newly created role during the financial year to help shape
the Company’s wider ESG strategy including climate-related risks and opportunities, and to ensure that the
relevant stakeholders are involved across the business. The Head of ESG will help refine and plan the
changes to the strategy, risk management processes, policies and future investment to support climate-
related activities.

During the year the Company has worked closely with expert external advisers to enhance its understanding
of the potential impact of climate change on the business and to inform its future strategy, risk management
approach and the metrics and targets to be used to monitor progress. This work included undertaking a
gap analysis between its practices and the TCFD recommendations; identification and shortlisting of its key
potential climate-related risks and opportunities; as well as qualitative and quantitative scenario analysis
modelling for both physical and transition risks and opportunities, over time and across two different
temperature scenarios.

Strategy and Risk Management

The Company utilised the TCFD framework to develop its understanding and management of the climate-
related risks and opportunities it may face. Climate related risks and opportunities were identified from
workshops co-ordinated by external advisors, engaging a wide range of stakeholders across the business,
including subject matter experts. Once findings had been discussed and consolidated during workshops a
number of physical risks, transitional risks and opportunities were identified. These climate-related risks
will be incorporated into the Company’s overall enterprise risk management framework.

Superdrug Stores plc
Strategic Report (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Non-financial and sustainability information statement (continued)

Physical risks
Flooding and temperature rises were identified as the most common threat across the Company’s estate

which could disrupt operations across the network. In addition, the changing weather conditions could also
influence a change in shopping behaviour.

Transitional risks

Transition risks are the most significant area of risk for the Company. This is driven by increasing costs as
the government may impose additional regulation and tariffs to meet climate targets. The effect of
regulatory and reporting changes, as well as shifting consumer preferences were assessed using qualitative
reviews, analysis of trends and identification of key drivers.

Opportunities
Opportunities were also identified in relation to a transition to a low-carbon economy. These have the

potential to increase revenue through driving demand due to consumer perception of the Company’s
approach to sustainability.

Using a standard methodology in accordance with guidance provided by the TCFD recommendations the
Company conducted Climate Scenario Analysis (“CSA”) with support from external advisors. The approach
is broken down into its key components below:

Risk screening
For the first iteration of the CSA, the Company started with a larger population of risks and opportunities

that were relevant to its business and industry. Through cross-functional workshops to discuss the impact
of each risk and opportunity, the Company narrowed this initial list down further to produce a shortlist, which
consisted of two physical risks, five transitional risks and two opportunities.

Scenario selection

The Company used global climate scenarios defined by the Network for Greening the Financial Systems
("NGFS’) and selected two climate scenarios from the NGFS for the analysis. Each scenario presents a
distinct possible future in which the Company may be operating.

Net zero 2050

An ambitious scenario that limits global warming to 1.5°C through stringent climate policies and
innovation, reaching net zero COz2 emissions around 2050. This scenario assumes that ambitious
climate policies are introduced immediately. Carbon removal is used to accelerate decarbonisation
but kept to the minimum possible and broadly in line with sustainable levels of bioenergy production.
Net CO2 emissions reach zero around 2050, giving at least a 50% chance of limiting global warming
to below 1.5°C by the end of the century. Physical risks are relatively low, but transition risks are high.

Current policies

This scenario assumes that only currently implemented policies are preserved, leading to high physical
risks. This represents a business-as-usual scenario with minimal meaningful action taken on reducing
emissions. Emissions grow until 2050 leading to about 3.5°C of warming and severe physical risks.
This includes irreversible changes, such as higher sea level rise, and potentially the crossing of
devastating climate ‘tipping points’ such as widespread methane release through the melting of
permafrost landscape, or the permanent shutdown of the Atlantic Gulf Stream.

Impact quantification
The Company carried out a range of different workshops internally to gain an understanding of the

operational implications of each of the identified risks, and opportunities, and how these may vary across
the two different scenarios. These workshops were carried out with input from internal and external experts
within different areas of the business. The Company was able to identify a wide variety of potential impacts
on its business model resulting from climate change. When analysing each risk qualitative and, wherever
possible, quantitative assessments were made. The impact on operating profit was assessed across short
(less than 5 years), medium (5-10 years) and long (more than 10 years) timescales. For the purposes of its
assessment of climate related risks, opportunities and disclosures, the Company has used a similar
materiality as that for its financial statements.

Superdrug Stores plc
Strategic Report (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Non-financial and sustainability information statement (continued)

The ultimate outcome of the CSA was the identification of the most relevant climate-related risks for the
Company and a stronger understanding of the potential impacts across the different climate scenarios. The
CSA and the scenarios used will undergo a full refresh every three years to ensure they remain relevant
and appropriate for the business, although the financial modelling and quantification of impact will be
updated annually.

Physical risks

Risk Description Timescale | Financial
: i Impact

“10+ years Low

trategic response

(Continually monitor flood risk at
distribution centres for long-term

impact. Review business interruption
plans and ensure insurance coverage}
‘emains in place.

Impact of extreme weather events
causing flooding at the Company's
distribution centres

Extreme weather
levents (floods)
impacting distribution
centres

(Continually monitor events at

Changing weather Expected increase in temperatures .
individual stores. The store estate is

onditions leading to jat each store results in an

10+ years | Medium

increased energy increased cooling demand, utilising holly leased, predominantly on
osts and reduced more energy. short leases, providing flexibility on
footfall location.

In addition, increased temperatures
‘esulting in reduced footfall on the
nigh street, with customers
switching to online purchases.

‘ontinue to develop the online
channel to provide customers with
he opportunity to shop both online
ind offline.

Transitional risks

Timescale | Financial |Strategic response

Assuming the Company meets its <5 years Continue to work towards the energy
energy reduction targets by 2030, reduction targets by 2030, as well
his risk reflects the increase in cost identifying other energy saving

as a result ’of the volatility of energy opportunities.

prices
Energy costs represent a smaller
proportion of the overall cost base,
and therefore volatility would present
a smaller risk.

Shifting consumer his risk is identified as a concern | 5-10 years | Medium |Staying up to date on market trends

hat climate conscious consumers lo do with environmental

ould shift demand away from the . performance and communicating the
Company if it was deemed not to Company's ESG journey, targets and
be meeting its decarbonisation commitments to its customers.
‘argets or seen to be behind
|competitors’ journey on climate he Company has experienced
ichange. buying teams across all its categories}

ho monitor changing customer
preferences on an ongoing basis.

Increase in costs due |Increase costs incurred by the 10+ years ‘ontinue to focus on reducing

lo carbon prices and |Company as government policies emissions across the value chain and
‘0 reduce climate change come into meeting the Company's science-
force. This will include costs based target by 2030.
lpassed on to the Company as a
result of increases in costs of raw fork with suppliers to mitigate
materials in the products it sells, as ongoing costs related to product

ell as any taxes applied to the design and development.

Company itself.


Superdrug Stores pic
Strategic Report (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Non-financial and sustainability information statement (continued)

Transitional risks (continued)

Risk= ~~~

“Description ‘ Timescale “|:Financial Strategic response

<5 years :

he Company continually reviews its
product mix, and supplier base, and
herefore has a degree of flexibility if
faced with changing regulations on
packaging. The Company will
continue to work with suppliers to
ensure any cost increases are
mitigated where possible.

Medium

Igovernment policy in changing
packaging regulations.

For the Company’s Own Brand
products, its design team will
‘ontinue to look to mitigate

ackaging costs.

he Company continually reviews its
product mix and supplier base and
lhas a degree of flexibility if faced with
hanging regulations on product
composition. The Company will
ontinue to work with suppliers to
lensure any cost increases are
mitigated where possible.

Increase costs incurred by the
Company as a result of
Igovernment policy with increased
regulation on product composition
land procurement standards.

Increased regulations
on product
omposition and
procurement
standards

For the Company's Own Brand
products, its quality and technical
leam will continue to monitor
changing government policy and
regulation and anticipating product
formulation changes where possible.

Opportunities

Financial
Impact
Medium

Timescale .

-[Description trategic response

Staying up to date on market trends
‘0 do with environmental
lperformance and increasing
communication about its ESG
journey, targets and commitments to
ustomers.

An opportunity may exist if the 5-10 years
Company is deemed to be ahead
lof its competitors at successfully
Imeeting climate targets and the
climate conscious consumer could

shift shopping preferences.

Shifting consumer
preferences due to
lsuccessfully meeting
climate targets

he Company has experienced
lbuying teams across all categories
ho monitor changing customer

preferences on an ongoing basis.

Staying up to date with market trends
and utilising some of the Own Brand
products to try and help drive a

differentiation with ‘more sustainable’

A similar opportunity may exist as 10+ years
he Company sells more
sustainable products, for example

lower non-sustainable packaging

Increase in sales of
/more sustainable’
products

15

Superdrug Stores pic
Strategic Report (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Non-financial and sustainability information statement (continued)

Metrics and Targets

The Company measures its climate impact using metrics that include Greenhouse Gas ("GHG") emissions
and energy usage. Information on the Company's GHG emissions can be found on page 18.

The AS Watson Group has had its science based targets validated by the Science Based Targets initiative
(‘SBTi") as being in line with a 1.5°C trajectory. As part of the AS Watson Group, the Company will be
contributing to the achievement of the following targets:

« 50.4% reduction in absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions vs 2018 by 2030

e Reducing scope 3 GHG emissions from purchased goods and services, upstream transportation and
distribution, and use of sold products by 58% per dollar economic value added

e 33% of supplier emissions from purchased goods and services, upstream transportation and
distribution will be subject to science based targets by 2027

The Company continues to identify ways to support delivery of these targets. For example, 100% renewable
electricity has been used across the Company’s operations since 2019. There continues to be improvements
in understanding emissions associated across the Company’s value chain, and reducing emissions is a core
- focus for managing climate-related risks as it impacts all aspects of the Company’s operations. Performance
tracking against the science based targets at the Company level is being established with AS Watson Group
and will be updated in forthcoming annual reports.

This is the first year the Company has reported against CA S414CB and will aim to continuously develop the
disclosures by including additional details of the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities as it further
enhances the interaction with its business strategy and financial planning.

Future Outlook and Prospects

The directors expect that the UK retail environment will remain challenging and strongly competitive in 2024,
with a heavy focus on price. Consumer sentiment remains subdued as inflationary pressures and high
interest rates continue to impact disposable income, whilst at the same time businesses are seeing significant
increases in their cost base driven by large increases in wage costs and business rates.

However, with the right retail proposition and customer service there is potential for solid growth and returns
to be achieved. The Company’s strategies are designed to ensure its success in the UK market, maintaining
its strong price perception on the High Street and attracting footfall with its broad beauty and healthcare
product offering, both in-store and online. The robust trading performance in 2023, coupled with a clear future
strategy, and cash flows that can support investment, leaves the Company well positioned to grow
successfully in 2024 and beyond.

On behalf of the Board

aN :
RA Fleming

Director
4.6 June 2024

Superdrug Stores plc
Directors’ Report
’ For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

The directors present their report and the audited Financial Statements of the Company for the 52 Weeks
ended 30 December 2023.

Future Developments

The directors’ opinion on the outlook and prospects of the Company has been included in the Strategic
Report.

Dividends

During the period dividends of £45.0m were paid (2022: £45.0m). No further dividends have been proposed.
Post Balance Sheet Events

There have been no post balance sheet events.

Directors

The directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and board members are able
to take independent professional advice at the Company's expense where they judge it necessary to
discharge their responsibilities as directors.

The directors possess an appropriate balance of skills and experience for the requirements of the business.
The Board and its committees operate within a framework of scheduled meetings, with additional ad hoc
meetings being held, as required. .

The directors of the Company who were in office during the period and up to the date of signing the financial
statements were:

DKM Lai

S J Blakemore
P W Macnab
RA Fleming

Third Party Indemnity

As permitted by s234 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company maintains directors’ and officers’ liability
insurance which provides insurance cover against liabilities which directors and other officers of the Company
may incur personally as a consequence of claims made against them alleging breach of duty or other unlawful
acts or omissions in their capacity as directors and officers. The qualifying third-party indemnity provision
was in force during the financial period and also at the date of approval of the financial statements.

Information included in the Strategic Report

Details regarding corporate governance, stakeholder and employee engagement and interests, and the
directors’ opinion on financial risk management have been inciuded in the Strategic Report:

Employment of Disabled Persons

It is the Company's policy to give full consideration to the possibility of employing disabled persons wherever
suitable opportunities exist. Employees who have become disabled are given every opportunity and
assistance to continue in their employment or to be trained for other suitable positions. It is the policy of the
Company that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should be identical to that
of other employees.

17

Superdrug Stores plc
Directors’ Report (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (SECR) disclosure

The Company's environmental reporting accords with SECR requirements, with the reporting period being
for the calendar year 2023. The Company's SECR disclosure presents the carbon footprint, together with
appropriate intensity metric and total use of electricity, gas and transport fuels.

Methodolo:
The Company has employed the service of a specialist external advisor to quantify the Greenhouse Gas

(‘GHG’) emissions associated with the Company's operations.

The report follows the GHG Reporting Protocol —- Corporate Standard as the accepted methodology to meet
the mandatory SECR requirements. The UK government's greenhouse gas conversion factors have been
applied to calculate the carbon emissions to the following reporting standards:

« Greenhouse Gas Protocol - Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard (WBCSD & WRI, 2004)

e Greenhouse Gas Protocol ~ Scope 2 guidance, amendment to the GHG Protocol Corporate
Standard (WNCSD & WRI, 2015). Application of location-based and market-based emission factors
for electricity supplies

e Greenhouse Gas Protocol — Corporate Value Chain (scope 3) Accounting and Reporting Standard
(WBCSD & WRI, 2011)

e Where data was missing, values were estimated using an extrapolation of available data

An operational control approach has been used in order to define the Company's organisational boundary.
This is the basis for determining Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for which the Company is responsible. The
Company has provided disclosure regarding scope 3 emissions as these areas are fundamental to the
operations of the Company.

The Company has set a benchmark of the 2019 year for comparisons against future emissions, as this
represents the best baseline year prior to Covid-19 impacting operations and emissions.

Energy efficiency action
In the 2023 reporting period, the Company has continued its LED upgrade programme across a further 275

stores, which is estimated to deliver an annual energy reduction of 2,000,000 KWh. Additionally, energy
efficient heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems were upgraded in a further 15 stores and 238
commercial chillers removed from stores. The Company’s third-party logistics provider in the south west
conducted a trial to replace diesel with hydrotreated vegetable oil (HVO) to reduce transport emissions by
approximately 80% in Q4.

GHG emissions and energy use report Baseline
Yearended 31 Yearended3t Year ended 31
Units December December December

2023 2022 2019

Energy consumption used to calculate emissions kWh 74,207,500 76,847,227 84,400,418
Emissions from gas & transport (Scope 1) tCOze 4,913 5,217 5,571
Emissions from purchased electricity (Scope 2) tCO2ze 10,724 10,276 14,893
Emissions rom 3° party logistics & business travel in tCOve 769 931 4,176
Total gross emissions tCOze 16,406 16,424 21,640
Total gross emissions per £’m of revenue 10.7 12.0 16.6
Carbon offsets procured via Green Electricity Tariff tCQze (10,367) (10,001) (14,221)
Total net emissions . tCOvze 6,039 6,423 7,419
Total net emissions per £’m of revenue _ 40 4.7 5.7

Total net emissions per ’000 square foot 2.1 2.2 2.5


Superdrug Stores pic
Directors’ Report (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities

The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance
with applicable law and regulation.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law
the directors have prepared the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted
Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure
Framework”, and applicable law).

Under company law, directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they

give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for
that period. In preparing the financial statements, the directors are required to:

e select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

e state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 have been
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

e make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and

¢ prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume
that the company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The directors are also responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and
explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position
of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act
2006.

Directors’ confirmations

In the case of each director in office at the date the Directors’ Report is approved:

e so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company’s auditors
are unaware; and

e they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves
aware of any: relevant audit information and to establish that the company’s auditors are aware of
that information.

Independent Auditors
The independent auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in

office and a resolution concerning their reappointment will be proposed at the annual general meeting.

On behalf of the Board

RA Fleming
Director

“6 June 2024

Superdrug Stores pic
Independent Auditors’ Report to the member of Superdrug Stores plc
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Report on the audit of the financial statements
Opinion
{n our opinion, Superdrug Stores pic’s financial statements:

e give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 30 December 2023 and of its
profit and cash flows for the 52 week period then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure
Framework’, and applicable law); and

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the financial statements, included within the Annual Report and Financial Statements (the
“Annual Report”), which comprise: the Balance Sheet as at 30 December 2023; the Statement of
Comprehensive Income, the Cash Flow Statement and the Statement of Changes in Equity for the period
then ended; and the notes to the financial statements, comprising material accounting policy information and
other explanatory information.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs (UK)”) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under ISAs (UK) are further described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for
the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Independence

We remained independent of the company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to
our audit of the financial statements in the UK, which includes the FRC’s Ethical Standard, as applicable to
other entities of public interest, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with
these requirements.

To the best of our knowledge and belief, we declare that non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical
Standard were not provided.

Other than those disclosed in Note 3, Operating Profit, we have provided no non-audit services to the
company in the period under audit.

Conclusions relating to going concern

Our evaluation of the directors’ assessment of the company’s ability to continue to adopt the going concern
basis of accounting included:

* agreeing the underlying cash flow projections to board-approved forecasts, assessing how these
forecasts are compiled and assessing the accuracy of management's forecasts;

e evaluating the key assumptions used by management within these forecasts including revenue growth;

e considering the liquidity and available financial resources;

e assessing whether the stress testing performed by management appropriately considered the risks facing
the business; and

e reviewing the adequacy of management's disclosures on going concern and consistency with our
knowledge obtained through the audit.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events
or conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue
as a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised
for issue.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

20

Superdrug Stores plc ,
Independent Auditors’ Report to the member of Superdrug Stores plc (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Conclusions relating to going concern (continued)

- However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this conclusion is not a guarantee as
to the company's ability to continue as a going concern.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in
the relevant sections of this report.

Reporting on other information

The other information comprises all of the information in the Annual Report other than the financial statements
and our auditors’ report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information. Our opinion on the
financial statements does not cover the other information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit
opinion or, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in this report, any form of assurance thereon.

In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and,
in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or
our knowledge obtained in the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify an
apparent material inconsistency or material misstatement, we are required to perform procedures to conclude
whether there is a material misstatement of the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other
information. lf, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of
this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report based on these
responsibilities.

“With respect to the Strategic report and Directors' Report, we also considered whether the disclosures
required by the UK Companies Act 2006 have been included.

Based on our work undertaken in the course of the audit, the Companies Act 2006 requires us also to report
certain opinions and matters as described below.

Strategic Report and Directors’ Report

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit, the information given in the Strategic
report and Directors' Report for the period ended 30 December 2023 is consistent with the financial
statements and has been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of
the audit, we did not identify any material misstatements in the. Strategic report and Directors’ Report.

Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit
Responsibilities of the directors for the financial statements

As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities in respect of the financial
statements, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with
the applicable framework and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. The directors are also
responsible for such internal controi as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

21

Superdrug Stores plc
Independent Auditors’ Report to the member of Superdrug Stores pic (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Responsibilities for the financial statements and the audit (continued)
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes
our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit
conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate,
they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of
irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities,
including fraud, is detailed below.

Based on our understanding of the company and industry, we identified that the principal risks of non-
compliance with laws and regulations related to UK tax legislation (including VAT, payroll taxes and income
tax) and health and safety regulations, and we considered the extent to which non-compliance might have a
material effect on the financial statements. We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct
impact on the financial statements such as the Companies Act 2006. We evaluated management's incentives
and- opportunities for fraudulent manipulation of the financial statements (including the risk of override of
controls), and determined that the principal risks were related to posting inappropriate journal entries to
increase revenue or reduce expenditure, and management bias in accounting estimates and judgements.
Audit procedures performed by the engagement team included:

e Discussions with management and internal legal counsel, including consideration of known or suspected
instances of non-compliance with laws and regulation and fraud and actual and potential litigation and
claims

« Review of legal expenditure in the year to identify potential non-compliance with laws and regulation

e Review of key correspondence with tax regulatory authorities in relation to compliance with laws and
regulations

e Review of whistleblowing helpline log and the results of management's investigation of such matters

e Challenging assumptions and judgements made by management in their significant accounting estimates,
in particular in relation to impairment of right of use assets and property, plant and equipment, including
the disclosure of such matters in the financial statements; and

e Identifying and testing journal entries, in particular any journal entries posted with unusual account
combinations

There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above. We are less likely to become aware
of instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations that are not closely related to events and
transactions reflected in the financial statements. Also, the risk of not detecting a material misstatement due
to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve deliberate
concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s
website at: www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditors’ report.

Use of this report

This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the company’s members as a body in
accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We do not, in
giving these opinions, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom
this report is shown or into whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in
writing.

22

Superdrug Stores ple
Independent Auditors’ Report to the member of Superdrug Stores plc (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Other required reporting
Companies Act 2006 exception reporting

Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

¢ we have not obtained all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or

¢ adequate accounting records have not been kept by the company, or returns adequate for our audit have
not been received from branches not visited by us; or

« certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns.

We have no exceptions to report arising from this responsibility.

Craig Skelton (Senior Statutory Auditor)

for and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors
London :

26 June 2024

23

Superdrug Stores plc
Statement of Comprehensive Income
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Revenue
Cost of Sales

Gross Profit

Administrative expenses
Other operating income

Operating profit

Finance income
Finance costs

Profit before taxation
Income tax expense

Profit for the financial period

Other Comprehensive Expense

Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit and loss

Actuarial losses recognised in pension scheme
Movement on deferred tax relating to pension surplus

Total other comprehensive expense

Total comprehensive income for the period

52 weeks 52 weeks
ended 30 ended 31
December December
2023 2022
Note £'000 £7000
1,527,989 1,366,924
(1,326,752) (1,208,105)
201,237 158,819
(86,675) (79,210)
3 7,318 8,773
3 121,880 88,382
6 7,900 1,742
6 (18,142) (12,361)
111,638 77,763
7 (28,426) (17,219)
83,212 60,544
17 (15,473) (9,845)
7 3,869 1,060
(11,604) (8,785)
71,608 51,759

Revenue and operating profit arise from the Company’s continuing operations.

24

Superdrug Stores plc Registered Number: 00807043
Balance Sheet
As at 30 December 2023

At30 . At 31
December December
2023 2022
Note £000 £000

Fixed assets
Intangible assets 8 139,913 141,921
Property, plant and equipment 9 96,753 92,456
Right-of-use assets 10 278,535 290,456

515,201 524,833
Current assets

Inventories 13 270,607 254,204
Trade and other receivables 14 135,365 149,298
Retirement benefit surplus 17 19,065 23,676
Cash and cash equivalents 161,538 173,771
Total current assets 586,575 600,949

Creditors —- amounts falling due within one year

Trade and other payables 15 (318,073) (350,290)
Lease liabilities 10 (132,062) (135,142)

, (450,135) (485,432)
Net current assets 136,440 115,517
Total assets less current liabitities 651,641 640,350

Creditors — amounts falling due after more than one year

Borrowings 16 (85,000) (85,000)
Lease liabilities 40 (179,226) (196,393) _
(264,226) (281,393)
Provisions for liabilities 18 (8,641) (6,791)
Net assets 378,774 352,166
Equity
Called up share capital 20 22,000 22,000
Share premium account 103,400 103,400
Retained earnings ; 253,374 226,766
Total shareholder's funds 378,774 352,166

The notes on pages 28 to 48 form part of these financial statements.

These financial statements on pages 24 to 48 were authorised for issue by the Board on 26 June 2024 and
signed on its behalf by:

R A Fleming
Director

25

Superdrug Stores plc
Statement of Changes in Equity
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Called up Share Total
Share premium Retained Shareholder’s
Capital account Earnings funds
£’000 £7000 £7000 © £000
At 2 January 2022 22,000 103,400 220,007 345,407
Profit for the financial period - - 60,544 60,544
Other Comprehensive Expense for the period
Actuarial losses on pension scheme (note 17) - - (9,845) (9,845)
Movement on deferred tax relating to pension - - 1,060 4,060
surplus (note 11)
Total Other Comprehensive Expense for the
period - - (8,785) (8,785)
- - 51,759 51,759
Total Comprehensive Income for the period
Transactions with shareholder recognised
directly in equity
Dividend Paid (note 19) - - ‘45,000 45,000
Total Transactions with shareholder
recognised directly in equity : : (45,000) __ (45,000) _
At 31 December 2022 22,000 103,400 226,766 352,166
Profit for the financial period - - 83,212 83,212
Other Comprehensive Expense for the period
Actuarial losses on pension scheme (note 17) - - (15,473) (15,473)
Movement on deferred tax relating to pension ; - - 3,869 3,869
surplus (note 11)
Total Other Comprehensive Expense for the
period - - (11,604) (11,604)
Total Comprehensive Income for the period - - 71,608 71,608
Transactions with shareholder recognised
directly in equity
Dividend Paid (note 19) : : (45,000) (45,000)
Total Transactions with shareholder
recognised directly in equity - - ‘45,000 (45,000:
At 30 December 2023 22,000 103,400 253,374 378,774

26

Superdrug Stores plc
Cash Flow Statement
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

Note

Cash flow from operating activities
Company operating profit
Adjustments for:

Depreciation and amortisation
Impairment (reversal)/charge

Loss on disposal of intangible assets
Loss on disposal of tangible assets
Gain on early termination of leases
Defined benefit pension contributions ‘17

Www wo

Operating cash flow before movement in working capital

increase in inventory 13
Decrease/(increase) in trade and other receivables 14
(Decrease)/increase in trade and other payables

Operational cash flow after movement in working capital

Interest paid

Taxation (paid)/received

Net cash inflow from operating activities

Cash flow from investing activities

Purchase of property, plant and equipment

Purchase of intangible fixed assets 8

Interest received
Net cash outflow from investing activities

Cash flow from financing activities

Lease payments

Dividends paid 19
Net cash outflow from financing activities

Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period

Cash and cash equivalents at end of period

27

52 weeks 52 weeks
ended 30 ended 31
December December
2023 2022
£000 £000
121,880 88,382
104,618 106,437
(3,740) 825
162 7
1,094 964
(92) (711)
(10,000) (10,000)
“243,022 185,904
(16,403) (10,584)
13,933 (28,285)
(47,582) 16,269
163,870 162,304
(16,453) (12,315)
(6,930) 1,311
140,487 151,300
(30,364) (21,981)
(2,219) (2,631)
6,552 1,207
(26,031) (23,405)
(81,689) (78,753)
(45,000) (45,000)
(126,689) (123,753)
(12,233) 4,142
173,771 169,629
161,538 173,771

Superdrug Stores pic
Notes to the Financial Statements
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

1. Material Accounting Policy Information

The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below.
These policies have been consistently applied to all the periods presented, unless otherwise stated.

Basis of Preparation

The financial statements of Superdrug Stores plc have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting
Standard 101, ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (FRS 101). The financial statements have been prepared
under the historical cost convention, and in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, as applicable for
companies using FRS 101. There are no amendments to accounting standards, or IFRIC interpretations that
are effective for the year ended 30 December 2023, or future periods, that have a material impact on the
company’s financial statements.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires the use of judgements, estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The estimates
and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and various other factors that are believed
to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis of making the judgements
about carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results
may differ from these estimates. The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas
where assumptions and estimates are significant to the financial statements, are disclosed in note 2.

The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have been applied in the preparation of these
financial statements, in accordance with FRS 101:

e IFRS 7, ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’;

e Paragraphs 91 to 99 of IFRS 13, ‘Fair value measurement’ (disclosure of valuation techniques and
inputs used for fair value measurement of assets and liabilities);

e Paragraph 38 of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’ comparative information requirements
in respect of: ;
- Paragraph 79(a) (iv) of IAS 1
- Paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment
- Paragraph 130(i) of IAS 38 Intangible assets

* The following paragraphs of IAS 1, ‘Presentation of financial statements’:
- 16 (statement of compliance with all IFRS);
- 38A (requirement for minimum of two primary statements, including cash flow statements);
- 38B-D (additional comparative information); and
- 134-136 (capital management disclosures)

e Paragraph 17 of IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ (key management compensation);

e The requirements in IAS 24, ‘Related party disclosures’ to disclose related party transactions entered
into between two or more members of a group;

© =Paragraph 130(f)(ii), 130(f{iii), 134(d) to 134(f) and 135(c) to 135(e) of IAS 36, ‘Impairment of assets’;
and

« Paragraphs 30 and 31 of IAS 8, ‘Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors’
(requirement for the disclosure of information when an entity has not applied a new IFRS that has
been issued but is not yet effective).

28

Superdrug Stores plc
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

1. Material Accounting Policy Information (continued)
Going Concern

The Company meets its day-to-day working capital requirements through its cash reserves and group loans.
The Company’s forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading
performance, show that the Company should be able to operate within the level of its current cash reserves
and group loans for a period of a least 12 months from the date of signing these financial statements.

Forecasts have been produced to reflect severe but plausible scenarios. These scenarios consider the
impact of reduction in sales driven by cost-of-living increases. This still results in a sufficient cash position
before taking into consideration additional cost saving actions including reducing investment capital spend
and other discretionary costs. The Company has sufficient cash reserves to enable it to meet its obligations
and to repay group borrowings as they fall due for a period of a least 12 months from the date of signing
these financial statements.

The Company has no external debt and has access to group borrowings via a credit agreement with
AS Watson Group (HK) Limited. Under the agreement, AS Watson Group (HK) Limited has agreed to make
available a credit facility of £125,000,000, charging interest at 3.5%, maturing on 15 June 2025. The
Company has a pooled bank overdraft facility of £20,000,000, which is provided by National Westminster
Bank ple and which is unsecured and repayable on demand. Further information on the Company's
borrowings is given in notes 15 and 16.

Having assessed the principal risks, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. The Company therefore
continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.

Consolidation

The Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of AS Watson (Health & Beauty UK) Limited, its immediate parent
company. The smailest group into which the results of the Company are consolidated is AS Watson Holdings
Limited, a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands with its principal place of business in Hong Kong.
The Company’s ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party and the largest group to consolidate these
financial statements is CK Hutchison Holdings Limited. The Company is exempt by virtue of compliance of
all conditions in section 401 of the Companies Act 2006 from the requirement to prepare consolidated
financial statements.

Investments in Subsidiaries

Investments in subsidiaries are held at cost less accumulated impairment losses.

Revenue

Revenue represents retail sales to customers and commission income from retail goods and services
provided by third parties in the United Kingdom. It is measured at the fair value of the consideration received
or receivable and is recognised on the day that the store sale is made. Revenue through internet sites is
recognised once an order has been fulfilled and delivered.

Revenue is shown net of returns, loyalty card points, colleague discounts and sales made on an agency
basis, and is stated net of value added tax. Commission income, arising from goods and services provided
by third parties, is recognised in revenue based on the terms of the contract.

In respect of loyalty schemes, as points are issued to customers the retail value of those points is deferred.
When the points are used by customers they are recorded as revenue. Liabilities are recorded to estimate
the proportion of the points issued which are expected to be redeemed by the customers.

In the opinion of the directors there is only one class of business which is that of a health and beauty retailer.

29

Superdrug Stores plc
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

1. Material Accounting Policy Information (continued)
Cost of Sales

Cost of sales consists of expenses incurred in bringing products to a saleable position and condition. Such
costs principally include purchasing of products from suppliers, packaging and distribution costs, direct staff
costs and store costs, including depreciation of store and warehouse right-of-use assets and property, plant
and equipment.

Supplier Income

Supplier incentives, promotional funding, volume related rebates and discounts, collectively known as
‘supplier income’, are deducted from cost of sales and are recognised in accordance with supplier
agreements on an accrual basis as they are earned for each relevant supplier contract. Amounts due relating
to supplier income are recognised within trade receivables, except in cases where the Company currently
has a legally enforceable right to set-off and intends to offset amounts due from suppliers, in which case only
the net amount receivable or payable is recognised. Accrued supplier income is recognised within accrued
income when earned and not invoiced at the balance sheet date. :

Other Operating Income

Other operating income relates to rental income receivable, data sales income and logistics backhaul income.
The income is recognised on an accruals basis.

Government Grants

Government grants are accounted for under the accruals model as permitted by FRS101. Grants of a revenue
nature are recognised in other operating income in the same period as the related expenditure. This includes
the Government Coronavirus Job Retention (Furlough) Scheme.

Foreign Currency

Foreign currency transactions including purchases are translated into the functional currency using the
exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions, or valuation where items are re-measured.
Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions and from the
translation at period-end exchange rates of monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies,
are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.

Intangible Assets

a) Pharmacy licences
An intangible asset arising on the purchase of a pharmacy licence is recognised at cost and is capitalised
as an intangible asset. The licences are not amortised, as they are deemed to have an indefinite useful
economic life. Impairment reviews are carried out on an annual basis to ensure that the carrying value of
each individual licence is still appropriate.

b) Computer software .

Computer software is carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any provision for impairment.
Externally acquired computer software and software licences are capitalised and amortised on a straight-
line basis over their useful economic lives of between five to seven years. Costs relating to development
of computer software for internal use are capitalised once the recognition criteria of IAS 38 ‘Intangible
Assets’ are met. Other development expenditures that do not meet these criteria are expensed as
incurred, When the software is available for its intended use, these costs are amortised on a straight-line
basis over their useful economic lives of between five to seven years. All amortisation is included within
administrative expenses within the statement of comprehensive income.

c) Brands
Brands and trademarks are recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. They are not amortised as
they are deemed to have an indefinite useful life. The assets are tested for impairment on an annual basis
and are carried at cost less any provision for impairment, and any impairment that is identified is
recognised in the statement of comprehensive income.

30

Superdrug Stores plc
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

1. Material Accounting Policy Information (continued)
Intangible Assets (continued)
c) Brands (continued)

The non-amortisation of intangible assets diverges from paragraph 22 of Schedule 1 to “The Large and
Medium-sized Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations 2008” (S1 2008/410), which
requires intangible assets to be written off over their useful economic life. As such, the non-amortisation
of the pharmacy licences and the Brands is a departure, for the purposes of giving a true and fair view,
from the requirements of paragraph 22 of Schedule 1 to the Regulations. It is not possible to quantify the
effect of the departure because the pharmacy licences and the Brand are deemed to have an indefinite
useful life. :

Property, Plant and Equipment

Tangible assets are stated at historic cost, net of accumulated depreciation. The cost of fixed assets is their
historic purchase price, together with any incidental costs of acquisition. .

Depreciation is calculated so as to write off the cost of the tangible fixed assets less their estimated residual
values, using the straight-line method, over the following expected useful economic lives of the assets
concerned. Leaseholds with an unexpired term of greater than 50 years are treated as long leaseholds.

Leasehold improvements shorter of 6 % years or length of the lease
Fixtures, fittings and equipment 5 to 10 years

The useful economic lives of assets are reviewed annually.
Impairment of Non-Financial Assets

Non-financial assets that have an indefinite useful life and are not subject to amortisation are tested annually
for impairment. All other non-financial assets are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is recognised
in the statement of comprehensive income for the amount by which the asset’s carrying amount exceeds its
recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of an asset's fair value less costs of disposal and
value in use. Prior impairments of non-financial assets are reviewed for possible reversal at each reporting
date.

Inventory

Inventory is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, at weighted average cost and consists of
finished goods purchased for resale. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course
of business, less estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Provisions are made as appropriate for
shrinkage and slow moving items.

Trade and Other Receivables

Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less
any provision for impairment. A provision for impairment is established when the carrying value of the
receivable exceeds the present value of the future cash flows discounted using the original effective interest
rate. The carrying value of the receivable is reduced and any impairment loss is recognised in the statement
of comprehensive income. The company applies the IFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected
credit losses which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for all trade receivables. To measure the
expected credit losses, trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and
the days past due.

Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly
liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less that are readily convertible to known

amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value, credit card receipts and
bank overdrafts.

31.

Superdrug Stores plc
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

1. Material Accounting Policy Information (continued)
Trade Payables

Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have been acquired in the ordinary course
of business from suppliers. Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured
at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

Borrowings

Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are
subsequently carried at amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and
the redemption value is recognised in the statement of comprehensive income over the Period of the
borrowings using the effective interest method.

Current and Deferred Income Tax

The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in the statement of
comprehensive income, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in other comprehensive
income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income or directly
in equity, respectively.

The current income tax charge is the amount of income tax payable in respect of taxable profit for the period
or prior periods. Tax is calculated at the rate relevant to the financial period.

Deferred income tax is recognised on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and
liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not
recognised if they arise from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than a business
combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred
income tax is determined using tax rates (and Jaws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realised or the
deferred income tax liability is settled.

Deferred income tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will
be available against which the temporary differences can be utilised.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax
assets and current tax liabilities and where the assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same
taxation authority on either the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an intention to
settle the balances on a net basis.

Employee Benefits

The Company operates both a defined benefit pension scheme and a defined contribution pension scheme
for its employees. A defined benefit scheme is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that
an employee will receive on retirement. A defined contribution scheme is a pension plan under which the
Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity.

The Company’s defined benefit pension scheme is closed with employees making no further contributions.
The pension scheme surplus recognised in the balance sheet represents the difference between the fair
value of the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the balance sheet date.
The defined benefit obligation is actuarially calculated on an annual basis using the projected unit credit
method. Plan assets are recorded at fair value. :

The statement of comprehensive income charge consists of a financing charge, which is the net of interest
cost on pension scheme liabilities and interest income on plan assets and defined benefit pension scheme
expenses. The financing charge is determined by applying the discount rate to the net balance of the defined
benefit obligation and the fair value of the plan assets. The cost is included in the statement of comprehensive
income.

32

Superdrug Stores ple
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

1. Material Accounting Policy Information (continued)
Employee Benefits (continued)

For defined contribution plans, the Company pays contributions to publicly or privately administered pension
insurance plans on a mandatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Company has no further payment
obligations once the contributions have been paid. The contributions are recognised as an employee benefit
expense when they are due. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash
refund or a reduction in the future payments is available.

Provisions

Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present obligation as a result of a past event, it is
probable that a transfer of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate
can be made of the amount of the obligation.

Leases

Leases are recognised as a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability at the date at which the leased
asset is available for use by the Company.

Contracts may contain both lease and non-lease components. However, the Company has elected not to
separate lease and non-lease components and instead accounts for these as a single lease component.

Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured on a present value basis. Lease liabilities
include the net present value of the following lease payments:
e fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives receivable,
e variable lease payment that are based on an index or a rate;
* amounts expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees;
e the exercise price of a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option; and
¢ payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising that
option.

Extension and termination options are included in a number of leases across the Company. These terms are
used to maximise operational flexibility in terms of managing contracts. In determining the lease term,
management considers all facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive to exercise an
extension option, or not exercise a termination option. Extension options (or periods after termination options)
are only included in the lease term and measurement of the liability if the lease is reasonably certain to be
extended (or not terminated).

A lease re-measurement includes a change in scope of the lease, or the consideration of a lease, that was
not part of the original terms and conditions of use. A lease re-measurement includes adding or terminating
the right to use or extending or shortening the contractual lease term.

The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be
determined, which is generally the case for leases in the Company, the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate
is used, being the rate that the lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain an asset
of similar value to the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment with similar terms, security and
conditions.

To determine the incremental borrowing rate, the Company:
* uses recent third party financing received by the Company as a starting point, adjusted to reflect
changes in financing conditions since third party financing were received.
* makes adjustments specific to the lease (e.g. lease term, country, currency and security).

The Company is exposed to potential future increases in variable lease payments based on an index or rate,
which are not included in the lease liability until they take effect. When adjustments to lease payments based
on an index or rate take effect, the lease liability is reassessed and adjusted against the right-of-use asset.

33

Superdrug Stores plc
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

1. Material Accounting Policy Information (continued)
Leases (continued)

Lease payments are allocated between principal and finance cost. The finance cost is charged to profit or
loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of
the liability for each period.

Right-of-use assets are measured at cost comprising the following:
e the amount of the initial measurement of lease liability;
e any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received;
and .
¢ any initial direct costs.

Right-of-use assets are depreciated over the shorter of the asset's useful life and the lease term on a straight
line basis.

Payments associated with short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised on a straight-
line basis as an expense in profit or loss. Short-term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or
less. Low-value assets comprise IT equipment and small items of office furniture.

Lease income from operating leases where the Company is a lessor is recognised in income on a straight
line basis over the lease term. The respective leased assets are included in the balance sheet based on their
nature.

Financial assets

Financial assets are classified as financial assets at amortised cost, fair value through other comprehensive
income, and fair value through statement of comprehensive income as appropriate. The Company
determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. All financial assets are recognised
initially at fair value. Purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on the date the Company
commits to purchase or sell the item.

The Company’s financial assets include trade and other receivables, cash and cash equivalents and amounts
owed by group undertakings. These are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at
amortised cost, less any provision for impairment.

Financial liabilities

Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at amortised cost, fair value through other
comprehensive income, and fair value through statement of comprehensive income as appropriate. The
Company determines the classification of its financial liability at initial recognition. All financial liabilities are
recognised initially at fair value.

The Company's financial liabilities include trade and other payables, accrued expenses and amounts owed
to group undertakings. These are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised
cost using the effective interest method.

2. Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments

The Company makes judgements and assumptions concerning the future that impact the application of
policies and reported amounts. The resulting accounting estimates calculated using these judgements and
assumptions will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results but are based on historical experience
and expectations of future events.

The judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty that have a significant effect on the amounts
recognised in the financial statements are discussed below.

34

Superdrug Stores plc .
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

2. Critical Accounting Estimates and Judgments (continued)
Significant estimates and assumptions

a) Impairment

Financial assets and non-financial assets, right-of-use assets and property, plant and equipment are subject
to impairment reviews based on whether current or future events and circumstances suggest that their
recoverable amount may be less than their carrying value. Recoverable amount is based on the higher of
the value in use and fair value less costs to dispose.

Value in use is calculated from expected future cash flows using suitable discount rates and includes
management assumptions and estimates of future performance. Trade receivables are impaired on
expected credit loss basis.

The Company tests whether assets have suffered any impairment on an annual basis. The level of
profitability of the cash generating unit (CGU) represents the trigger for impairment assessment. For the
reporting periods the recoverable amount of the CGUs, being individual stores or pharmacies that have
indicated signs of impairment, is determined based on value-in-use calculations.

The value in use is calculated using the cash flow performance from the current period adjusted for the next
five years based on the Board approved five-year plan. Sales forecasts are based on sales growth of
between 1.0% to 2.1% per annum. The assumptions include estimated gross margin based on market
segment and location. Operating costs are based on the current structure of the business, adjusting for
inflationary increases but not reflecting any future cost-saving measures.

The resulting cash flows are discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 9.1% (2022: 8.8%) and compared
to the carrying value of property, plant, and equipment and right-of-use assets.

In the current year, an impairment reversal of £6.3m (2022: nil) has been recognised in property plant and
equipment and right-of-use assets due to previously impaired stores exceeding minimum performance levels.
An impairment charge of £2.6m (2022: £0.8m) has been recognised in intangible assets.

The following sensitivities have been applied to the calculation of impairments on assets at store level:
e Sales reduction of 5.0% for 2024 to 2028
¢ Sales increase of 5.0% for 2024 to 2028
e  Pre-tax discount rate was 1.0% higher

These sensitivities have the following impact to the impairment of assets:

Increase/(decrease) in impairment £’000

5.0% lower 5.0% higher 1.0% higher

sales growth sales growth discount rate

intangibles 45 (322) 2
Property, plant and equipment 235 (305) 7
Right-of-use assets 549 (712) 16
Total 829 1,339 25

b) Retirement benefit surplus

The Company operates a defined benefit scheme for its employees. The present value of the scheme’s
liabilities recognised at the balance sheet date and the net financing charge recognised in the statement of
comprehensive income are dependent on interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds. Other key
assumptions within this calculation are based on market conditions or estimates of future events, including
mortality rates, as set out in note 17. Any changes to assumptions used will impact the carrying value of the
retirement benefit obligation. As detailed in note 17, the retirement benefit surplus is most sensitive to
changes in the discount rate and inflation.

35

Superdrug Stores pic

Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

3. Operating Profit
Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting):

52 weeks 52 weeks
ended 30 ended 31
December December
2023 2022
Note £000 £7000
Variable lease payments not included in lease liabilities 855 1,713
Expenses relating to short-term leases . 1,118 2,056
Loss on disposal of intangible assets 8 162 7
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 9 1,094 964
Impairment of pharmacy licences 8 2,600 825
Reversal of impairment of property, plant and equipment 9 (1,865) -
Reversal of impairment of right-of-use asset ‘10 (4,475) -
Amortisation of intangible assets 8 1,465 4,288
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 9 25,222 24,369
Right-of-use asset depreciation 10 77,931 80,780
Amounts payable to the Company’s auditors:
- audit fees 357 381
- audit related assurance services 13 13
- non-audit related assurance services 18 10
Other operating income:
- Rental income (2,077) (2,290)
- Other income (5,241) (6,483)
4. Employees
The total aggregate remuneration comprises: .
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended 30 ended 31
December December
2023 2022
£'000 £'000
Wages and salaries (including directors) 262,032 234,461
Social security costs 17,899 15,936
Other pension costs 6,289 5,489
Total staff costs 286,220 255,886

The average monthly number of persons (including directors) employed by the Company during the period

was:

By activity:
Selling
Administration

52 weeks 52 weeks
ended 30 ended 31
December December
2023 2022
13,111 12,723
734 707
13,845 13,430

36

Superdrug Stores pic
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

5. Directors

The directors’ emoluments were as follows:
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended 30 ended 31
December December

2023 2022
£7000 £'000
Remuneration 2,748 2,522
Long term incentive plan : 167 :
2,915 2,522

The Company has no share based schemes and all remuneration is settled in cash.
There are no post-employment benefits accruing under the Company's defined benefit scheme.

The remaining two directors (2022: 2) are remunerated by other group entities which do not recharge the
Company. These directors do not receive any remuneration for their services to the Company.

The highest paid director's emoluments were as follows:
52 weeks 52 weeks
ended 30 ended 31
December December

2023 2022

£000 £7000

Remuneration 2,018 1,882

Long term incentive plan 124 -

2,142 1,882

6. Finance income and costs

52 weeks 52 weeks
ended 30 ended 31
December December
2023 2022
£'000 £'000
Bank interest 6,552 1,207
Pension financing income 1,348 535
Total finance income 7,900 1,742
Interest payable on loans from group undertakings , (9,881) (5,194)
Interest expense on lease liabilities (8,221) (7,165)
Other Interest expense (40) (2)
Total finance costs (18,142) (12,361)
Net finance costs (10,242) (10,619)

37

Superdrug Stores plc
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

7. Income tax expense

Tax expense included in the statement of comprehensive income 52weeks 52 weeks
ended 30 ended 31

December December.

2023 2022

£°000 £000
UK corporation tax on profits for the period 25,759 13,681
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (1,330) (133)
Total current tax charge 24,429 13,548
Origination and reversal of timing differences 3,997 3,671
Total deferred tax 3,997 3,671

28,426 17,219

Tax on profit

Tax credit included in Other Comprehensive Expense
52weeks 52 weeks

ended 30 ended 31
December December

2023 2022
£°000 £000
Deferred tax:
Origination and reversal of temporary differences (3,869) (1,060)
Total tax credit included in Other Comprehensive Expense (3,869) (1,060)

The effective rate of 25.5% (2022: 22.1%) is higher than (2022: higher than) the standard UK corporation tax

rate of 23.5% (2022: 19.0%). The differences are:
52 weeks 52 weeks

ended 30 ended 31
December December

2023 2022
£’000 £7000
Profit before taxation 111,638 77,763
Profit before taxation at standard UK corporation tax rate of 23.5%
(2022: 19.0%) 26,235 14,775
Effects of:
Non-deductible expenses 3,521 2,577
Adjustment in respect of prior periods (1,330) (133)
28,426 17,219

Tax on profit

From 1 April 2023, the corporation tax rate increased from 19% to 25%.

38

Superdrug Stores plc
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

8. Intangible assets

Pharmacy Computer
Brands licences software Total
£000 £’000 £000 £'000

Cost
At 1 January 2023 125,000 19,370 7,999 152,369
Additions , - - 2,219 2,219
Disposats - (401) (1,008) (1,409)
At 30 December 2023 125,000 18,969 9,210 153,179
Accumulated amortisation and impairment
At 1 January 2023 ~ 6,602 3,846 10,448
Amortisation - - 1,465 1,465
Disposals - (239) (1,008) (1,247)
Impairment charge - 2,600 - 2,600
At 30 December 2023 - 8,963 4,303 13,266
Net book value
At 30 December 2023 125,000 10,006 4,907 139,913
At 31 December 2022 125,000 12,768 4,153 141,921

—_—

Intangible assets amortisation of £472,000 (2022: £410,000) is recorded in cost of sales and £993,000
(2022: £829,000) is recorded in administrative expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.

During the year an impairment charge of £2,600,000 (2022: £825,000) was recognised in cost of sales in the
statement of comprehensive income.

39

Superdrug Stores pic
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

9. Property, plant and equipment

Fixtures,
Leasehold __ fittings and
improvements equipment Total
£000 £000 £000
Cost
At 1 January 2023 73,116 137,713 210,829
Additions 9,586 19,162 28,748
Disposals (7,038) (25,066) (32,104)
At 30 December 2023 75,664 131,809 207,473

Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2023 47,070

71,303 118,373
Charge for the period

9,109 16,113 25,222
Eliminated on disposals (6,638) (24,372) (31,010)
Impairment reversal (281) (1,584) (1,865)
At 30 December 2023 49,260 61,460 110,720
Net book value
At 30 December 2023 26,404 70,349 96,753

At 31 December 2022 26,046 66,410 92,456

Depreciation of £22,658,000 (2022: £21,636,000) is recorded in cost of sales and £2,564,000 (2022:
£2,733,000) is recorded in administrative expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.

During the year an impairment reversal of £1,865,000 (2022: nil) was recognised in cost of sales in the
statement of comprehensive income.

40

Superdrug Stores plc ;
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

10. Right-of-use assets

Retail :

Stores Warehouses Offices Other Total

£000 £000 £7000 £7000 £7000
At 2 January 2022 274,413 33,559 9,910 5,744 323,626
Additions 26,437 - - 5,247 31,684
Re-measurements 15,785 (256) 689 (292) 15,926
Depreciation (73,751) (3,634) (1,080) (2,315) (80,780)
At 31 December 2022 242,884 29,669 9,519 8,384 290,456
Additions 58,903 - : - 1,280 60,183
Re-measurements (13,862) 15,182 (5) 37 1,352
Depreciation (69,853) (4,169) (1,086) (2,823) (77,931)
Impairment reversal 4,475 - - - “4,475
At 30 December 2023 222,547 40,682 8,428 6,878 278,535

Depreciation of £76,308,000 (2022: £80,415,000) is recorded in cost of sales and £1,623,000 (2022:
£365,000) is recorded in administrative expenses in the statement of comprehensive income.

During the year an impairment reversal of £4,475,000 (2022: nil) was recognised in cost of sales in the
statement of comprehensive income.

Re-measurements include a change in scope of the lease, or the consideration of a lease, that was not part
of the original terms and conditions of use, including terminating the right-of-use, or extending or shortening
the contractual lease term.

Lease liabilities

At 30 At 31

December December

2023 2022

£'000 £°000

Current 132,062 135,142
Non-current 179,226 196,393
311,288 331,535
The current and future undiscounted cashflows for the lease liabilities are:

At 30 At 31

December December

2023 2022

£'000 £7000

Within 1 year 147,773 147,264
Between 1 and 2 years 60,459 64,045
Between 2 and 5 years ‘88,318 96,315
More than 5 years 52,095 53,962
348,645 361,586

——

The total cash outflow for the period was £89,910,000 being £81,689,000 of principal and £8,221,000 of
interest. (2022: £85,918,000 being £78,753,000 of principal and £7,165,000 of interest).

41

Superdrug Stores plc
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

11. Deferred tax asset/(liability)

Depreciation

in excess of Lease Other Retirement
capital accounting temporary benefit
allowances IFRS 16 differences obligation Total
£°000 £7000 £000 £7000 £7000
At 2 January 2022 4,276 6,786 ‘4,056 (4,443 2,563
Charge to statement of
comprehensive income (269) (654) (212) (2,536) (3,671)
Credit to other
comprehensive expense - - - 1,060 1,060
At 31 December 2022 4,007 6,132 (4,268; (5,919) 48)
Charge to statement of
comprehensive income (183) (809) (289) (2,716) (3,997)
Credit to other
comprehensive expense - - - 3,869 3,869
At 30 December 2023 3,824 5,323 (4,557) (4,766) (176)

12. Investments
The net book value of investments at 30 December 2023 was nil (2022: nil).

The subsidiary, which is incorporated in the United Kingdom and is wholly owned, is as follows:

Subsidiary Registered address Status
Superdrug Pension Trustee Limited 51 Sydenham Road, Croydon, Surrey, CRO2EU = Dormant

13. Inventories

At 30 At 31

December December

2023 2022

£000 £7000

Finished goods and goods for resale : 270,607 254,204

The amount of inventories recognised as an expense and charged to cost of sales for the 52 weeks ended 30
December 2023 was £1,044,514,000 (2022: £953,591,000). Inventories are stated after provisions for
impairment of £12,562,000 (2022: £11,355,000). There is no material difference between carrying amount and ©
net realisable value of the inventory.

42

Superdrug Stores pic
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023 |

14. Trade and other receivables

At 30 At 31

December December

2023 2022

£000 £000

Trade receivables 47,137 56,441
Amounts owed by group undertakings 33,007 36,597
Other receivables 26,347 27,930
Prepayments 28,874 28,330
135,365 149,298

Trade receivables are stated after provisions for impairment of £1,922,000 (2022: £1,445,000). Amounts owed
by group undertakings are unsecured, repayable on demand and are non-interest bearing.

15. Trade and other payables

At 30 At 31

December December

2023 2022

£’000 £'000

Trade creditors 91,931 65,691
Amounts owed to group undertakings . 54,356 145,181
Corporation tax 38,110 20,611
Other taxation and social security 23,021 18,955
Accruals : 78,205 63,942
Deferred income : 6,335 7,663
Other creditors 25,939 28,199
Deferred tax liability (note 11) 176 48
: . 318,073 350,290

Amounts owed to group undertakings includes an unsecured loan from AS Watson (Health & Beauty UK) Limited
totalling £30,000,000 (2022: £110,000,000). During the year an amount of £80,000,000 (2022: nil) was settled.
The interest rate on this loan is SONIA + 1.83% per annum from 1 January 2023 (2022: SONIA +1.83%). The
effective interest rate for the financial period is 6.2% (2022: 2.0%) and the loan is repayable on demand.

The Company has a pooled bank overdraft facility of 20,000,000, which is provided by National Westminster
Bank plc, and which is unsecured and repayable on demand. interest is payable at National Westminster Bank
pic base rate plus 1.25%. During the period there were no drawings (2022: nil) on this facility.

The Company has recognised the following liabilities related to contracts with customers for gift card and
loyalty points. These are included within other creditors.

At 30 At 31

December December

2023 2022

£'000 £000

Contract liabilities 13,101 11,241

43

Superdrug Stores plc
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

16. Borrowings

At 30 At 31

December December

2023 2022

£'000 £°000
Amounts owed to group undertakings 85,000 85,000

Borrowings relate to a credit agreement with AS Watson Group (HK) Limited. Under the agreement, AS
Watson Group (HK) Limited has agreed to make available a credit facility of £125,000,000, charging interest
at 3.5% per annum, maturing on 15 June 2025.

At the period end, the amount borrowed on this credit facility was £85,000,000 (2022: £85,000,000). No
repayments were made during the financial period ended 30 December 2023 (2022: nil).

17. Retirement benefit surplus

The retirement benefit obligation relates to a defined benefit scheme, the AS Watson (Health & Beauty UK)
Pension Plan (the "Scheme’”). The Scheme is governed by a Trustee board, and the assets of the Scheme
are held separately from the Company's assets. The Scheme is closed, with employees making no further
contributions, and members accruing no further defined benefits.

The Scheme was subject to a triennial actuarial valuation as at 31 March 2021, carried out by Barnett
Waddingham on the projected unit basis. The results of this valuation were finalised in November 2021 and
a recovery plan agreed, under which the Company would pay annual contributions from 1 January 2022 of
£10.0m until 31 December 2023 (which includes funding for Scheme expenses). The next valuation effective
date is 31 March 2024.

The retirement benefit obligation at the year-end has been calculated by Isio Services Limited, as actuarial
advisers to the Company, using the projected unit credit method.

The amounts recognised in the balance sheet are as follows:

At 30 At 31

December December

2023 2022

£000 £000

Present value of funded obligation (164,278) (151,490)
Fair value of plan assets 183,343 175,166
Retirement benefit surplus 19,065 23,676
Deferred tax liability (note 11) (4,766) (5,919)
Net retirement benefit surplus 14,299 17,757

The retirement benefit surplus and the associated deferred tax liability are shown within different line items
on the balance sheet.

Amounts recognised in the statement of comprehensive income are the pension financing income of

£1,348,000 (2022: charge of £535,000), and the pension scheme expenses of £486,000 (2022: £396,000)
included within administrative expenses.

44

Superdrug Stores plc
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

17. Retirement benefit surplus (continued)
a) Other comprehensive expense
Re-measurement of the retirement benefit surplus has been recognised as follows:
52 weeks 52 weeks

ended 30 ended 31
December December

2023 2022
£000 £000
Return on plan assets, excluding amounts in interest (4,308) (112,361)
Actuarial gains/(losses) arising from changes in:
Demographic assumptions 1,886 730
Financial assumptions (2,578) 107,672
Experience (10,473) (5,886)
Total actuarial (losses)/gains (11,165) 102,516
Total re-measurement losses (15,473) (9,845)
b) Valuations
The movements in the retirement benefit surplus are as follows:
52 weeks 52 weeks

ended 30 ended 31
December December

2023 2022
: £’000 £000
Changes in the present value of retirement benefit obligation:
At start of financial period 151,490 253,549
Interest cost on the defined benefit obligation 7,068 4,776
Actuarial loss/(gain) 11,165 (102,516)
Net transfer out liability (266) (101)
Benefits paid (5,179) (4,218)
At end of financial period 164,278 151,490
Changes in the fair value of plan assets: .
At start of financial period 175,166 276,930
Investment return on plan assets (4,308) — (112,361)
Interest income on plan assets 8,416 5,312
Contributions by Company 10,000 10,000
Pension scheme expenses (486) (396)
Net transfer out liability (266) (101)
Benefits paid (5,179) (4,218)
At end of financial period 183,343 175,166

The Company’s expected contributions (including expenses) to the defined benefit section for the next
financial period ending 28 December 2024 are £3,450,000 (2023: £10,000,000).

45

Superdrug Stores plc
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

17. Retirement benefit surplus (continued)
b) Valuations (continued)

The major categories of plan assets are as follows:

- At 30 At 31

December December

2023 2022

£°000 £°000

Gilts 67,683 72,945
Corporate bonds 32,908 18,070
Debt securities 26,413 44,329
Cash 42,179 15,113
Equities 14,160 18,240

Other assets : - 6,469
. 183,343 175,166

c)} The principal actuarial assumptions used at the balance sheet date are as follows:

At 30 At 31
December December
2023 2022
Discount rate 465% 4.75%
Retail price index 3.05% 3.15%
Pension increases 2.85% 2.85%
Life expectancy at balance sheet date for a pensioner at normal retirement
age (now 65 years):
Male pensioner 20.3. 20.7
Female pensioner . 23.6 24.0
Life expectancy at balance sheet date for a future pensioner at normal
retirement age: .
Male pensioner , 21.5 22.0
Female pensioner 25.1 25.5

The discount rate is based on the yield of AA-rated sterling corporate bonds appropriate to the term of the
Scheme’s liabilities. The base mortality assumptions are based on the S3PXA_M tables, with future
improvements based on the CMI 2022 projections with a smoothing factor of 7.0 and a long-term rate of
improvement of 1.25% per annum.

The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the period is 17 years (2022:
17 years).

d) Sensitivities:

The sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions
constant. In practice this is unlikely to occur, with changes in more than one assumption more likely as these
may be correlated.

An increase of 0.25% in the discount rate would decrease the retirement benefit obligation by £6.3 million.
A decrease of 0.25% in the discount rate would increase the retirement benefit obligation by £6.7 million.

An increase of 0.25% in the inflation rate would increase the retirement benefit obligation by £5.9 million. A
decrease of 0.25% in the inflation rate would decrease the retirement benefit obligation by £4.8 million.

The sensitivities are based on management's best estimate of a reasonably anticipated change. The
sensitivities are calculated using the same methodology used to calculate the retirement benefit obligation,
by considering the change in the retirement benefit obligation for a given change in assumption. The net
retirement benefit obligation is the difference between the retirement benefit obligation and the fair value of
plan assets. There has been no change in the calculation methodology since the prior period.

46

Superdrug Stores plc
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

17. Retirement benefit surplus (continued)
e) Other disclosures

The Scheme exposes the Company to actuarial risks such as longevity risk, currency risk, inflation risk,
interest rate risk and market (investment) risk. The Company is not exposed to any unusual entity specific or
Scheme specific risks. The Trustee's investment strategy mitigates some of these risks. Market (investment)
risk is addressed by diversification across asset classes and investment managers. The Trustee keeps
investment performance under review and the Company is consulted before changes are made to the
investment policy.

18. Provisions for liabilities
52 weeks 52 weeks

ended 30 ended 31
December December

2023 2022
£'000 £7000
Provisions
At start of financial period 6,791 5,145
Charged to statement of comprehensive income 3,163 2,028
Utilised in the period (1,313) (382)
At end of financial period 8,641 6,791

Provisions comprise estimates for store closure costs, including dilapidations, and store exit costs.

19. Dividends paid

52 weeks 52 weeks
ended 30 ended 31
December December

2023 2022

£000 £000

20.5p per ordinary share of 10p each (2022: 20.5p per ordinary share of 10p 45,000 45,000

each) ; ,
20. Called up share capital

At 30 At 31

December December

2023 2022
Allotted and fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each (£000) 22,000 22,000
Number of shares ('000 shares) 220,000 220,000

21. Contingent liabilities

The Company has issued guarantees in respect of property lease rentals for a fellow group undertaking,
Kruidvat Real Estate UK Limited, to an annual value of £643,000 (2022: £969,500).

The Company, from time to time, is party to legal proceedings, including tax matters, and claims which arise
in the ordinary course of business. The directors do not anticipate that the outcome of these proceedings,
actions and claims, either individually or aggregate, will have a material impact on the financial position of
the Company.

47

Superdrug Stores pic
Notes to the Financial Statements (continued)
For the 52 Weeks ended 30 December 2023

22. Capita! and other commitments

The Company has no capital commitments (2022: nil).

23. Controlling parties

The Company’s immediate parent undertaking is AS Watson (Health & Beauty UK) Limited, a company
registered in England. The smallest group into which the results of the Company are consolidated is AS
Watson Holdings Limited, a company incorporated in the Cayman Islands with its principal place of business
in Hong Kong. The registered office is PO Box 309, Ugland House, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104, Cayman
Islands. The financial statements of AS Watson Holdings Limited are not publicly available.

The Company's ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party and the largest group to consolidate these
financial statements is CK Hutchison Holdings Limited, a company listed on The Stock Exchange of Hong
Kong Limited and incorporated in the Cayman Islands. The registered office of CK Hutchison Holdings
Limited is PO Box 309, Ugland House, Grand Cayman, KY1-1104, Cayman Islands. The financial
statements of CK Hutchison Holdings Limited can be obtained from 48th Floor, Cheung Kong Center, 2
Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong.

48

