Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Registration number: 00453791

Tarmac Trading Limited
Annual Report and Financial Statements

for the Year Ended 31 December 2023

mn

|
-
F

TUESDAY

08/10/2024 #137
COMPANIES HOUSE

4

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Contents

Strategic Report

Directors’ Report ©

Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities
Independent Auditor's Report

Profit and Loss Account

Statement of Comprehensive Income
Balance Sheet .
Statement of Changes in Equity

Notes to the Financial Statements

1 to 10
11 to 24
25 —
26 to 29
30
31
"32

33

34 to 71

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023

The Directors Present their r strategic report for Tarmac Trading Limited (the "Company") for the year ended 31 December
2023.

The Company is a wholly owned direct subsidiary of Tarmac Holdings Limited. Tarmac Holdings Limited is part of the CRH
Group. Tarmac Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries are referred to throughout as Tarmac, and CRH ple and its subsidiaries
are referred to as the Group.

Fair review of the business

During the year, the Company generated turnover of £2,006.9 million (2022: £1,996.4 million) and an operating profit of £38.9
million (2022: £52.0 million). EBITDA (being earnings before interest, tax, income from shares in group undertakings and
joint ventures and associates, impairment of investments in group and joint venture companies, profit/(loss) on disposal of
property, plant and equipment, depreciation, amortisation and impairment of fixed assets) was £94.3 million (2022: £114.4
million). The Company's profit before tax was £168.1 million, an increase from last year’s profit before tax of £125.9 million.

The improved performance can be predominantly attributed to the £141.0 million dividends received in the year as described in

note 13. Underlying market conditions were relatively stable in 2023 albeit with variable levels of growth Seen across the

industry, with expansion in the infrastructure sector offset by a marked decline in residential. Cost inflation continued to be a

. factor during the period, albeit at lower levels to what has been experienced during 2022. The Company has mitigated the
impact of this through an optimisation programme delivering benefits through commercial, operational and logistics

excellence. oO

On 01 January 2023, as-part ofa Group reorganisation exercise, Cambrian Stone Limited, East Coast Slag Products Limited
and Tarmac (South Western) Limited transferred their entire trade and assets at a total net book value of £49.3 million to the
parent, Tarmac Trading Limited:

. At 31 December 2023, the Company had net assets of £698. 6 million (2022: £674.0 million) and net current assets of £127. 5
million (2022: £290.0 million net current liabilities).

In order to realise its strategic aims, the Company has identified areas of particular focus and has put into place a number of
Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to.measure and assess progress against them. The following indicators are calculated for
the continuing operations of the Company and before exceptional items: :

: Unit 2023 2022
Turnover ‘ £m 2,006.9 1,996.4
. Operating profit oO / £m . 38.9 §2.
Capital additions as a % of depreciation % : 123 : 95
LTIFR (Lost time injuries frequency rate defined as the number of accidents per 100,000 oo
hours worked)* ~ 0.04 0.06
EBITDA (as defined above) ; ; £m- 94.3 114.4
Average number of employees 2,621 2,782

*This is measured across Tarmac.

Turnover, operating profit and EBITDA are deemed to be KPIs as they provide insight as to the level of activity and levels of
profitability for each financial year.

Capital additions as a % of depreciation is deemed to be a relevant KPI for the entity as it shows the level of capital activity in
the business and allows comparison between years of levels of investment in owned and leased assets.

LTIFR is a KPI due to the level of focus the entity has on health and safety (see section later in Strategic report).

Average number of employees provides an indication as to the size of the business and allows any changes in employee base to
be monitored.

Page 1

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Principal risks and uncertainties -
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company are considered to be:

Climate change and policy - the impact of climate change may over time affect the operations of the Company and the markets
in which it operates. This could include physical risks, such as acute and chronic changes in weather and/or transitional risks
such as technological development, policy and regulation change and market and economic responses. Should the Company
not reduce its greenhouse gases (GHGs) emissions by its identified targets, it may be subject to increased costs, adverse
financial performance and reputational damage. However to date no such items of financial significance have occurred and
there is deemed to be limited material risk in the short and medium term, with the longer term impact continuing to be
monitored by management. The Company continues to focus on developing sustainable construction solutions and meet
regularly with government to ensure adherence to the relevant regulations and policy changes;

Market risks - significant levels of inflation have contributed to increased costs and reduced availability of some key inputs as
well as general economic uncertainty. We expect demand in 2024 to be resilient, underpinned by a stable infrastructure
pipeline but economic conditions miay continue to present risks. Economic uncertainty negatively impacts trends in -
construction activity through postponement of orders and rising interest rates. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in the
fuel price and principal energy related raw materials prices such as bitumen. These uncertainties may have some short-term
impacts and there is no guarantee that future actions taken by management will be effective in mitigating them however the
risk will be managed through constant focus on cost control and disciplined financial management. The Company continues to .
monitor the market and government policy to mitigate external risks where possible. In addition, the nature of operations being
based outdoors and certain optimal ‘weather conditions being required for a number of key operational activities, means that
adverse weather conditions across all seasons can have a significant short term impact on both the Company’ 's performance and
the wider market; |

Competitive environment - increased competition could impact the Company’s volumes and margins. The Company benefits
from being part of a vertically integrated business and is therefore able to leverage on other Tarmac companies in order to
differentiate itself from its competitors. The Company’ S principal objective i is to develop sustainable building solutions for its
customers; .

. Health & safety - the Company operates in an industry where health and safety risks are inherently prominent. Further, the
Company is subject to stringent regulations from a health and safety perspective. A serious health and safety incident could
have a significant impact on the Company’s operational and financial performance, as well as its reputation. This is managed
through ensuring that a robust health and safety framework is implemented throughout the Company’s operations requiring ‘all
employees to complete formal health and safety training on a regular basis. The Company monitors the performance of its
health and safety framework and takes immediate and decisive action if non-adherence is identified. The development of a
strong safety culture is driven by management and employees at every level and is a core part of doing business with integrity;
and

.Finance risk management - see Finance risk management objectives and policies section in the Directors’ Report.

Page 2

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA407 1-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Health and safety

The health, safety and wellbeing of employees and contractors is fundamental to the Tarmac business and Tarmac continued to
embed its commitment to Work Safe Home Safe during 2023 with an emphasis on ensuring nobody should be adversely
affected by Tarmac activities as a result. 2023 continued to present health and safety challenges and Tarmac continued to
actively engage in all areas of its business to ensure controls to mitigate the risk to the wellbeing of all stakeholders were
suitable and sufficient. ‘

The Tarmac health and’ safety plan continues to be embedded in 2023 placing a continued emphasis on 4 key pillars namely,
Leading, Learning, Behaving and Planning for Safety. Each pillar has a small number of initiatives designed to support the
business with mitigation of risks in the business and improvement of health, safety and wellbeing as a whole. 2023 saw a focus

. onthe ‘Stop & Think’ and ‘Boots on Supervision’ elemerits of the Tarmac safety plan with an emphasis on challenging unsafe
behaviours and stressing the importance and value of active supervision to help deliver zero harm.

In 2023 there were zero fatalities (2022: 0) and 11 Lost Time Injuries (2022: 17) and the consequent Lost Time Injury
Frequency Rate was 0.04 (2022: 0.06) (defined as the number of accidents per 100000 hours worked).

Employee’ engagement remains a primary focus area for Tarmac. Encouraging employees and -contractors to report incidents
and safety observations is an essential indicator of engagement. Tarmac continues to see the benefits of active safety leadership
interaction across its sites with engagement activities targeted throughout the year towards business risk areas in order to drive
improvement.

In 2023 there were 11 Medical Treatment Cases (2022: 12), 11 Modified Work Duty cases (2022: 15) and 221 First Aid Cases
(2022: 111). The Total Recordable Case Frequency Rate was 0.13 (2022: 0.15), based on 33 incidents (2022: 44). Total
Recordable Cases include Lost Time Injuries, Medical Treatment Cases and Modified Work Duty cases.

A total of 20 high potential incidents were recorded for 2023 (defined as incidents that had a realistic chance of fatal or
life-changing consequences) (2022: 27).

For all incidents, each is investigated to an appropriate level of detail and learning points 2 are cascaded throughout the
organisation.

Page 3

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Section 172(1) statement .

Set out below is the Company’s section 172 report as required by the Regulations. The Regulations require Tarmac Trading
Limited to report how the Directors of the Company have considered their duties under section 172 (of the Companies Act -
2006 (the “Act”)) (“Section 172”), to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its solé member, and in doing so
have regard (amongst other matters) to:

© the likely consequences of any decision in the long term;

© the interests of the Company’s employees;

@ the need to foster the Company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others;

@ the impact of the Company’s operations on the community and the environment;

© the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct; and
© the need to act fairly as between members of the Company.

In giving due regard to their section 172 duty the Directors are mindful of the Company’s principal activities and its purpose _
* and function with the Group. The: Directors are particularly focused on the impact of the ‘Company’ 's operations on its ©
workforce, the community and the environment. - .

The Company is part of the Tarmac sub-group of companies in the UK and is ultimately owned by CRH ple (“CRH”). In the
management of its subsidiaries, the Group defines the measurement of success as long term value creation for the benefit of
each CRH entity and the wider Group with consideration to the Company's immediate stakeholders and those of the Group
also.

The Group recognises the need to have appropriate levels of corporate governance across its subsidiaries as part of its approach -
to risk mitigation and wider stakeholder engagement strategy. Underpinning this approach to corporate governance is the CRH

UK Corporate Governance Policy. This Policy is applicable to all CRH UK entities, including the Tarmac sub-group of
companies, and sets out clear corporate governance controls and processes and provides detailed guidance for directors and

management on the application and execution of section 172 duties. For further information of how corporate governance is’
applied at Tarmac please refer to the statement of corporate governance arrangements on page 12.

Decision making and corporate governance process

As set out in the statement of corporate governance arrangements, decision making within Tarmac is undertaken by the Board,
ExCom or CRH in accordance with the reserved matters and delegations set out in the Policy. Due to the cross-membership
between the Board and ExCom, a flow of information to the statutory directors is ensured.

ExComn meets regularly to discuss and decide on matters pertinent to the business. The Company’ 's Board meets as appropriate
through the year as appropriate to confirm and ratify any decisions made on its behalf by CRH and/or ExCom that impact the
Company’s stakeholders or that are classified as principal decisions. Decision making is guided by the principles set out in the
Policy; Group policies; training received on Section 172 duties and other directors’ statutory duties under the Act and wider
regulatory responsibilities; and Tarmac’s values.

Directors’ training

‘Details of the training received, and how it supports Directors and ExCom members in considering $172 factors, is set out in
the statement of corporate governance arrangements on page 12. -

Board and ExCom Composition

Details of the Board and ExCom composition, and how it supports consideration of $172 factors, is set out in the ‘statement of
corporate governance arrangements on page 12.

Page 4

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Principal decisions

The Board, ExCom and the board of CRH have the necessary skills and experience required to identify the impacts of their
decisions on the Company’s stakeholders, and where relevant, the likely consequences of the decisions in the long-term. Where
a principal decision is being made the Policy should be consulted to determine the corporate governance processes and controls
that should be followed.

Under the Policy, responsibility for making principal decisions is delegated to the board of CRH or members of ExCom except
for decisions that cannot be delegated under the Act. A principal decision can include the following:

¢ all matters that require CRH board approval;

+ development of a new business service or product line;

+ decisions that lead to a-structural change in Tarmac’s business operating model, requiring consultation with employees and or
external stakeholders; :

* significant divestments of property / business;

* material change in, or adoption of, a policy that dictates stakeholder considerations/engagement; and/or

* a significant obligation that would result in Tarmac undertaking legal risk and liability that would be out of the ordinary
course of business.

In line with the Regulations and FRC guidance, and in accordance with the approach taken during the financial year under
review, having considered the Company’s principal risks and uncertainties as detailed in the Strategic Report, the Company
made the following principal decisions during the year ended 31 December 2023: :

* to pay an interim cash dividend amounting to £127m during the year. It is noted that the Tarmac group of companies, which
consists of Tarmac Holdings Limited, being the shareholder, and its direct and indirect subsidiaries, have made a decision to
undertake a Group wide cash repatriation project to minimise Group cash pool interest charges. The payment of the dividends
in the year by the Company is part of this project. In making their decisions, the Board took into account the Company’s strong
capital position, the amount of its distributable reserves; as well as its cash position. Consideration was given to the Company's
actual and contingent liabilities, and the ability of the Company to be able to pay its debts as they fell due. The Company
understands the importance of delivering dividends to its shareholders. The Company is therefore committed to maintaining an
appropriate balance between total cash returns to its shareholders, investment in the business and maintaining a strong capital
position.

UK Mandatory Climate-related Disclosures

We have a long-term commitment to transparency for our investors and stakeholders on how we manage climate-related risks
and opportunities in the transition to a low-carbon economy. In this‘ document, we provide information consistent with the UK.
Mandatory Climate-related Disclosures (UK MCD) requirements.

Board oversight :

Members of the Board, specifically the Materials and Contracting Managing Director, and the Cement Managing Director are
responsible for promoting the long-term sustainable success of Tarmac, generating value for shareholders, being a responsible
and inclusive employer and ensuring that Tarmac makes a positive contribution to wider society. Its role is to provide
leadership, establish and monitor Tarmac’s purpose, values and strategy. The Board also ensures that there is a robust
framework of effective controls to anticipate, assess and successfully manage risks and opportunities, including those related to
climate change. Sustainability, including managing the impact of climate change, is embedded in Tarmac’s strategy and
business model. The Board recognises the importance of decarbonisation in addressing the challenges of climate change and
believes that Tarmac’s integrated strategy of value-added products and innovative solutions have a key role to play in
delivering a more resilient and sustainable built environment. Climate change and sustainability are frequent discussion topics
at the regular Board and Committee meetings, with the Board and its Committees discussing various aspects of Tarmac’s
climate strategy, the linkage between the remuneration policies and practices and the sustainability (and climate-related)
objectives, stakeholder expectations, the regulatory environment and Tarmac‘s carbon reduction targets during 2023. In
addition, climate change and sustainability-related matters form an integral part of discussions for Tarmac ‘s strategy and
business model. This has included reviewing capital allocation in the year, where, for example, capital investment decisions
include considerations for sustainability and carbon footprint impacts. The Sustainability Steering Group (SSG), to which the
Board has delegated primary responsibility for monitoring developments related to sustainability, including climate, and
providing strategic direction, oversight and support to the Board on these important topics, meets regularly and provides a
detailed report of discussion and recommendations to the Board following the conclusion of each meeting.

Page 5

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Management responsibility

The managing directors for Tarmac’s UK materials and cement businesses are responsible for the operational and profit
performance of Tarmac and are accountable to the board for all authority delegated to executive management. The managing
directors executes strategy agreed with the board and regularly reports to the board on the progress and performance of
Tarmac, including in relation to climate-related matters. The managing directors are supported by the executive committee,
which is responsible for implementing strategy, pursuing performance delivery and progressing Tarmac‘s. sustainability and
climate-related strategies. Responsibility for formulating our climate strategy and reporting on progress sits with the
sustainability director. The executive committee receives support from various sub-committees and colleagues across business
functions on sustainability and climate-related issues. Tarmac was also the first in its sector to have an external sustainability
panel providing independent strategic advice and accountability.

Strategy

Tarmac's decarbonisation strategy is founded on whole life thinking and pushing boundaries to develop innovative solutions
which help our customers create sustainable buildings and infrastructure. Our strategy aims to ensure Tarmac continues to
remain well positioned to meet sustainability challenges now and in the future, and support our customers and communities to
do the same.

At Tarmac, we are aligned with our parent company CRH and its new sustainability framework. This identifies three rapidly
emerging and hard to solve global challenges for the built environment and society - decarbonisation, waste and water. The
world that we see emerging today is more complex than ever. With a rapidly-growing population and some cities already at
capacity and the impacts of climate change and demands on resources, there are significant challenges for the built
environment and the infrastructure needed to support these expanding populations.

To meet these demands, society must move quickly to plan for growth and provide the efficient’ and resilient buildings, ©
infrastructure and utilities, such as clean water, affordable energy, transport and telecommunications that are essential for
modern life. We are investing our efforts to develop strong sustainability foundations around protecting the natural world,
helping our people and communities to thrive and standing out as a responsible business.

How climate change impacts. our strategy

Tarmac, a CRH company, is the UK’s leading sustainable building materials and construction solutions business. Tarmac
- combines the knowledge and expertise of two of the construction industry’s most iconic brands: Tarmac, the pioneers of the

modern asphalt road 120 years ago, and Blue Circle, the company that patented Portland Cement.

Our innovative products and solutions not only safely deliver the infrastructure needed to grow the UK economy today but also
help to create a more sustainable built environment for the country’s long-term future. Tarmac has a target to reduce COz
emissions by 30% by 2030 and aims to reach net zero before 2050. We have contributed to some of the UK’s biggest
construction and infrastructure projects. These include HS2, The Sainsbury Laboratory, Wembley Stadium, Heathrow
Terminal 5, Blackpool Sea Defences, The Shard and London 2012 Summer Olympics.

Strategic management of risks

Potential strategic risks to Tarmac, including climate, are identified, assessed and managed i in line with our defined Enterprise
Risk Management (ERM) framework to determine materiality and the potential timelines over which the strategic impact may
occur. We also identify whether these risks would be near-term (up to 2025), medium-term (up to 2030) or r long: term (up to
2050).

Risks may be evaluated as emerging, if they may, or are expected to, occur over materially longer periods or exposures where
the impact cannot yet be fully understood. This would apply to the management of risks related to climate change, as well as
our commitment to our carbon reduction target for 2030. As our understanding of these risks and new innovations to mitigate
against them grow, we can respond accordingly. . :

Using the risk identification process and the same methodology outlined in “Risk Management’, we have identified several

climate-related risks and opportunities within our strategic planning horizon. A selection of these can.be seen in our climate
scenario analysis disclosure.

Page 6

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Risk management

Identifying climate-related risks and opportunities

We proactively identify risks through a number of different forums such as risk workshops, risk champion forums and
engagement with senior leaders and other stakeholders. During 2023, as part of our commitment to understanding the potential
climate-related risks and opportunities that Tarmac faces, we undertook a number of climate risk workshops and review
meetings. These focused: on how climate-related risks could adversely impact Tarmac, and where we see potential
opportunities to create value and contribute to the development of a more resilient built environment and a more sustainable
future. The outputs of our workshops are included as part of our climate scenario analysis disclosure. A robust CRH risk ©
catalogue is used to inform our risk identification processes and ensure we consider the full breadth of climate-related risks and
opportunities. We plan to refresh the climate risk and opportunities assessment on an ongoing basis.

Assessing climate-related risks and opportunities

Climate-related risks and opportunities.are considered over our short-, medium- and long-term horizons. Our parent company

CRH operates a bottom-up and top-down risk assessment process, thereby allowing risk information flows from our operating

companies to inform our Tarmac-wide assessment and allowing key risk topics from a group perspective to filter down and
* inform local risk identification and assessment. Common risk criteria have been used to assess and consistently categorise risks
‘and opportunities, which helps identify and manage aggregated exposures that may be more effectively managed centrally.

The size and significance of each risk is determined according to the product of its assessed impact on the organisation and its
likelihood of occurrence, with consideration of factors such as impact velocity, for example, informing the prioritisation of
risks for subsequent management to within agreed acceptable levels. Our disclosure of climate-related impacts distinguishes
between transition and physical risks and opportunities. While climate-related risks and opportunities are a specific focus for
Tarmac, they form part of a range of interconnected risks that the group manages through the ERM framework.

Climate scenario analysis

In line with the recommendations of UK MCD we undertook a qualitative assessment to identify climate risks and
opportunities, potential impacts on our financial position and consider how our business strategy may perform. In line with UK
MCD guidance, we assessed risks and opportunities under three time horizons and three climate scenarios each.

Selected time horizons - Short: 2025, Medium: 2030, Long: 2050.

The selected climate scenarios shown below highlight how these temperature changes map to the three physical scenarios that
were chosen from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) to test resilience to changes to the frequency and
severity of extreme weather events. Three transition scenarios were chosen from the International Energy Agency (IEA) to test
resilience to different transition pathways. Scenarios were chosen that would enable consideration of a range of physical and
transition outcomes to capture key impacts and uncertainties and supported our assessment of the resilience of our business
model in an uncertain future. Please note that all impacts are considered before any future mitigation measures.

Selected climate scenarios
’ Transition scenarios: IEA - The International Energy Agency ~

1.5°C: NZE - The NZE by 2050 scenario shows a narrow but achievable pathway for the global energy sector to achieve Net
Zero emissions by 2050.

<2°C: APS - The APS scenario takes account of all the climate commitments made by Governments around the world,
including NDCs and Net Zero targets. It assumes that they will be met in full and on time.
2-3°C: STEPS - The STEPS does not assume that Governments will reach all announced goals - it explores where the energy
system might go without additional policy implementation, using a granular, sector-by-sector approach.. :

Physical scenarios: IPCC - The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change

<2°C: SSP1-2.6 - Restricted increased risk from climate change but still a significant increase from current levels of warming
creating increased levels of extreme weather events with impacts to sites and employees.

2-3°C: SSP2-4.5 - Medium scenario considered by IPCC. Significant changes to the Earth’s climate system and higher levels
of adoption required compared to a <2°C scenario.
3°C+: SSP5-8.5 - Highest warming scenario with likely warming ranging from 3.3-5.7°C, resulting in severe increases in
extreme weather and the most extreme adaptation requirements.

Page 7

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

- Tarmac Trading Limited

Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Analysis results

Transition risk: National grid low-carbon energy infrastructure availability.

Risk: This risk explores the impact of government policy on energy security impacting technology selection and availability of
renewable energy through the UK national grid system.

Process: This analysis was based on Tarmac’s current energy reliance across the geographical distribution of Tarmac sites, The
risks were assessed independent of Tarmac implementing a decarbonised operating model and meeting its Net Zero by 2050
target.

Analysis: Operational disruption due to unavailability of energy caused by insufficient grid capacity is expected under this risk,
leading to reductions in output and reduced revenue for Tarmac. Reputational damage may also lead to a loss of customers and
a decrease in revenue. Overall, the STEPS scenario presents Tarmac with the most significant risks, where the pace of national
grid capacity improvements will be the most delayed. The risk decreases under the NZE scenario, over time, due to a
successful transition to a decarbonised national grid. The APS scenario shows that risks peak in the medium term due to the
risk of significant costs incurred from the introduction of carbon taxes before grid infrastructure has been upgraded.

Physical risk: Adverse weather impacts on plant, operations and employees, and/or disruption to supply chain logistics.
- Risk: This risk covers the potential impacts of both the upstream and downstream value chain impacts on Tarmac, as well as
the potential damage caused to Tarmac's own sites and assets from extreme weather.

Process: This analysis was based on Tarmac’s current asset base. The risks assessed considered weather trends in the UK and
their impact on the geographical. distribution of Tarmac sites.

Analysis: Under this risk, the damage inflicted to Tarmac’s assets by weather events will incur costs to repair and disruption to
the entire value chain which in turn, could impact Tarmac’s operations and outputs. This could result in reduced revenues and
reputational damage as Tarmac is unable to promptly fulfil customer requests. The risk to value chains and infrastructures such
as roads pose a greater risk as they are outside of Tarmac's direct control therefore immediate management or mitigation
actions cannot be implemented. However, Tarmac is already operating in areas which have experience weather disruption and
has utilised relevant mitigation at its sites as appropriate. Overall, the impacts are expected to be most significant in the -
Medium-Long term under the SSP2- 4.5 and SSP5-8.5 scenarios,

Opportunity: Additional sales opportunities from offering climate driven solutions and increasing product circularity.
Opportunity: The shifts in climate policies and consumer purchasing trends towards low-carbon and increasingly circular
products offers an opportunity for Tarmac to capitalise on the emerging market.
Process: The analysis of this opportunity incorporated Tarmac’s existing progress on its low-carbon product offering, for
example. through the transition to Warm Mix Asphalt (WMA) as standard, the use of low-carbon energy and piloting the laying
of low carbon roads. The opportunity also. assessed best practice in the wider market.
Analysis: Climate policies and consumer behaviour are increasingly shifting towards low-carbon products. This transition is
expected to accelerate, resulting in heightened demand for sustainable solutions, particularly in the concrete and cement sector
. which accounts for 1.5% of UK emissions. The new market for sustainable products would allow Tarmac to emerge as a
leading provider of low-carbon building materials and would therefore boost revenue streams. Tarmac is strategically
positioned to become a brand highly associated with sustainability and to gain first mover advantage to maximise this
opportunity. Given the increased robustness of climate policy under NZE and APS, this opportunity is likely to materialise
with higher impacts under these scenarios and over time.

Page 8

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Metrics and targets :

As a leader in our industry, we strive to address the climate-related risks and opportunities that arise as we transition to a
low-carbon economy. In line with our continuous improvement philosophy, we will continue to develop our reporting practices
to better measure and improve our performance on sustainability topics, and publish information where possible. We provide
reliable, verifiable and objective climate-related metrics to effectively measure our progress against climate-related targets.

Considering the above referenced risks, Tarmac has developed several relevant targets to ensure its commitment to climate
change is realised within the business. The risks of impact of government policy on energy security and the damage caused to
‘Tarmac's own sites and assets from extreme weather are monitored with the following targets.

Climate-related targets ‘ .
Climate related targets which measure emissions. 30% reduction in absolute group- -wide Scope 1 and Scope 2 co2 emissions

-by 2030 (from a 2021 baseline). Be Net zero by 2050.

Alternative fuels

Waste and secondary materials used as raw materials or altamative fuels in the manufacturing process. For example, i in 2022,
we used over 7.1 million tonnes of waste and secondary materials from other sectors as alternative raw materials for our
products and as alternative fuel.

Recycled materials

Recycled construction, demolition and excavation (CD&E) waste used to produce recycled aggregates and restore our sites.
For example, in 2022, we used over 3.75 million tonnes of construction waste in our recovery and recycling operations, and in
2022, we used over 1 million tonnes of recycled asphalt Planings (RAP) in our asphalt products (15% of our total asphalt
production),

The above targets are discussed monthly at the Climate Steering Group meetings and reported externally via our annual
sustainability report. As we continue to develop our sustainability strategy, our targets are Kept under review and will be
updated i in our sustainability report for FY24.

Resilience statement ; .

This assessment identified a number of transitional and physical risks and opportunities which may adversely or positively
impact the operational or financial performance of Tarmac, without considering any mitigation or adaptation actions Tarmac
may take. Tarmac continually assesses its strategy, business model and ongoing business performance to make sure that it is
driving sustainable growth and value creation for its stakeholders. As Tarmac continues to assess and reassess its strategy and
associated risks and opportunities, new risks and opportunities may become apparent attributable to climate, sustainability, or
_other topics that Tarmac considers as part of its strategic planning. Should such risks and opportunities be identified, Tarmac’s
approach allows it to refresh elements of its strategy. Based on this assessment, the Company believes it has sufficient
flexibility and resilience to successfully manage its climate risks and opportunities. Tarmac will further deepen its
climate-related initiatives in the coming years to help the Company play a leading role in shaping a sustainable future.

Page 9

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Strategic Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued) _

Disclaimer

In order to utilise the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, the Company,
which is ultimately owned by CRH ple (“CRH”), is providing the following cautionary statement. This Annual Report and
Financial Statements contains statements that are, of may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements with respect to the
Company and CRH. These forward-looking statements may generally, but not always, be identified by the use of words such
as “will”, “anticipates”, “should”, “could”, “would”, “targets”, “aims”, “may”, “continues”, “expects”, “is expected to”,
“estimates”, “believes”, “intends” or similar expressions. These forward-looking statements include all matters that are not
historical facts or matters of fact at the date of this document. By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and
uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future and reflect the
Company and CRH current expectations and assumptions as to such future events and circumstances that may not prove
accurate. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
are made as of the date of this Annual Report and Financial Statements. The Company and CRH expressly disclaims any
obligation or undertaking to publicly update or revise these forward-looking statements other than as required by applicable
law. . -

A number of material factors could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied
by these forward-looking statements, certain of which are beyond our control. Factors, risks and uncertainties that could cause
actual outcomes and results to be materially different from those expressed by the forward-looking statements in this report
include the risks and uncertainties described under “Risk Factors” in Part 1, Item 1A of the Annual Report on Form 10-K “Risk
Factors” in CRH Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2023 as filed with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and in CRH other filings with the SEC.

. 3 Oct
’ Approved by the Board on 2024........... and signed on its behalf by:
‘Signed by:
[Jae
Ne STAB TOEZICTABSL
J Delaney
Director

Page 10

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Directors' Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023

The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of Tarmac Trading Limited (the "“Company"), together with the
financial statements and auditor's report for the year ended 3.1 December 2023.

Directors of the Company .

The Directors, who held office during the year and to the date of this report, except where otherwise stated; were as follows:
B Browne .

P Buckley

S Davidson

RJ Doody (resigned 30 June 2024)

S Grey

MT Wood

J Delaney (appointed 28 February 2023)

J O'Driscoll (resigned 28 February 2023)

Principal activity
The principal activities of the Company are organised into three business units:

Aggregates and Asphalt - the quarrying and supply of sand, gravel and stone (Aggregates) and the manufacture of road
surfacing materials (Asphalt);

Readymix - the manufacture and supply of ready mixed concrete; and

Contracting - solutions for the surfacing or repair of roads, traffic management, highway and local authority maintenance.
Dividends . ; Se

The Company paid an interim dividend of £127 million in the year (2022: £230 million).

The Directors did not recommend the Payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2023 (2022: Enil). |

Political donations
The Company did not make any political donations in the year (2022: £nil).

Charitable donations:
The Company did not make any charitable donations in the year (2022: £nil).

Page 11

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Directors’ Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Statement of corporate governance

The Board of the Company (Tarmac Trading Limited being “the Company”) is pleased to present its statement of corporate
governance arrangements for the period to 31 December 2023. The Board is committed to the creation of long-term sustainable
value for the benefit of -its ultimate shareholder CRH plc and its external investors along with stakeholders across the
Company’s value chain including: customers, distributors, supply chain, employees and communities and the wider
environment in which the Company directly and indirectly operates across.

As a large private company which meets the threshold in the Miscellaneous Reporting Regulations 2018 (the “Regulations”),
the Company is required to disclose its corporate governance arrangements, including whether it follows any formal corporate
governance code. As a large private limited company, the Company is not subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code and
has chosen not to apply the Wates Principles for Large Private Businesses. The Company has developed its own corporate
governance policy (the “Policy”). The Board has deemed the Policy appropriate to use as it reflects the ownership structure,
overarching corporate governance and stakeholder engagement that operates across the Tarmac group of companies
(“Tarmac”). The Policy defines key corporate governance protocols such as identifying reserved matters for the boards of
Tarmac subsidiary companies (the’“Boards”), subsidiary governance protocols and a principal decision process, as set out in
the Company’s section 172(1) statement on page 4 in the Strategic Report. The Policy reflects the regulatory landscape in
which the Company operates within. The Company’s application of the policy is undertaken in a manner that is proportionate,
reflecting the Company’s material operations, regulatory environment, principal risks and a main operating company within
the Tarmac group of companies forming part of the wider CRH group of companies (the “Group”).

Purpose and culture

Following the launch in 2022 of the Group’s new purpose and values, 2023 has been a year of embedding the pillars that
underpin the purpose and values ensuring alignment across all Group operating companies which include the Company.

The purpose, which sits at the heart of the framework that defines the Group values, is underpinned by the following four
pillars:

e Our purpose - we stand together to reinvent the way our world is built -

e Our vision - to develop sustainable solutions that build, connect and improve our world

Our pillars, to get us there - Empowered Talent, Customer Connected, Focused Growth, and Sustainability Leadership

e Our values that guide us - People are our priority, Character is our strength, Performance is our commitment, and Innovation
is our way forward.

The purpose is’at the heart of everything that the Company does, it inspires employees and guides day-to-day operations,
culture and the decision making by the business.

The culture is determined by the values which define the expectations, attitudes and behaviours expected by the Company’s
directors and its employees, in its activities and relationships with colleagues, shareholders and wider stakeholders. In doing
so, this ensures that the business maintains a reputation for high standards of business conduct and stakeholder engagement

. which is demonstrated in further detail in the stakeholder engagement statement and employee engagement statement on pages
16 and 19 of the Directors’ report.

CRH has a number of group wide policies in place which are designed to promote the Group’s purpose and help drive overall
engagement with employees, shareholders and wider stakeholders across the Group. The Circle, Tarmac’s employee intranet
site, acts as a key part of the Tarmac infrastructure for engaging with employees. Tarmac is committed to doing business in a
sustainable, responsible and ethical manner, building lasting relationships based on trust and underpinned by integtity, honesty
and respect for the law. All Tarmac employees, including the Company’s directors, must read and abide by the CRH Code of
Business Conduct, which provides guidance to assist employees uphold the Group’s values and act ethically in our workplace,
in our business practices and in our communities, and ultimately in our decision making. Employees are encouraged to ‘Speak
Up’ if they see, hear or suspect something illegal, unethical or unsafe and have access to CRH’s independent hotline to report, _
in confidence and anonymously if preferred, concerns about suspected impropriety or wrongdoing in any matters affecting the
business. .

Page 12

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Directors' Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Strategy

Tarmac’s sustainability priorities - people, planet, solutions - are viewed by the Board as essential to guiding the prosperity and
well-being of society, our customers, the communities in which Tarmac operates and the long-term success of our business. It
is widely recognised by the UK Government and the construction sector that environmental and social considerations will
transform our future - what we build, what we build it with and how we build it. As a leader in the UK construction sector,
Tarmac and the Board recognises the important role it plays in enabling the transition to a sustainable, resilient built
environment; the benefits this will bring to society; and the opportunities for our business. The Board views these as critical
issues and are engaged across the business to ensure that Tarmac delivers on its responsibilities.

In making its decisions, including strategic decisions that impact our stakeholders, a key principle applied by the directors is to
always consider whether the decision they are about to take leads to a positive long-term increase in shareholder value for CRH
plc whilst balancing the interests and long-term impact on stakeholders. The Policy provides the Board and executive
management, acting through the Tarmac executive management committee (“ExCom”), with clear guidance and appropriate
corporate governance protocols to support the decision-making process. At the heart of this process is the necessity to promote
the sustainable, long-term success of the Company, whilst having sufficient regard for stakeholders.

" Examples of decisions taken by the Board and ExCom, demonstrating the corporate governance controls and processes in place
as set out in the Policy and demonstrating oversight of decisions made on its behalf, can be found on page 5 of the section
172(1) statement.

Decision making and corporate governance process

Decision making within Tarmac is undertaken by the Company’s Board, ExCom and CRH. Cross-membership between the
Board and ExCom ensures that there is a flow of information between the two decision making forums as the statutory
directors receive updates, reports, detailed information and are party to decisions made by the ExCom. As set out in the Policy,
the Company’s Board has reserved matters relevant and appropriate to its purpose and function, with appropriate thresholds, to
ensure applicable approvals are obtained before certain actions or business decisions can be taken. The Policy also details what
matters are delegated to ExCom and CRH (in its capacity as ultimate shareholder). These matters are reserved to ensure the
directors of the Boards can demonstrate sound and competent execution of their statutory duties (including oversight of the

- management of relationships and engagement with stakeholders on their behalf) in accordance with the Act and the
Regulations. A key principle underlying these delegations is that the flow of delegation originates from the Board to ExCom or
CRH. The Company’s Board meets as appropriate to confirm and ratify any decisions made on its behalf by CRH and/or
ExCom that impact the Company’s stakeholders or that are classified as principal decisions. For a:description of what is
considered to be a principal decision for the Tarmac business, please refer to page 5 of the section 172(1) statement in the
Strategic Report.

As detailed in the ‘Directors’ Training’ section below, regular training and workshops are undertaken by directors, ExCom and
senior management to understand the requirements of the Regulations and how the Policy would apply in relation to
stakeholder engagement and the process for approving principal decisions, supplemented by Tarmac’s principles-based
approach to defining a principal decision. This training informs the directors of future regulatory developments which the
Board will continue to monitor through the overarching corporate governance across the UK.

Board processes that support decision making require board paper preparers to ensure sufficient and relevant information is

provided to the Board, ExCom and/or CRH. Board meetings and minutes demonstrate that the relevant aspects of section 172

are considered and appropriately addressed. This particularly includes the impacts of the Company’s operations on the

community and the environment. The Policy provides Tarmac with a framework to ensure everyone involved in and

contributing to the decision-making process understands the duties which the directors are obliged to consider in the

decision-making process and applicable regulations, to be able to provide relevant information and therefore lead to effective
" decision making.

Page 13

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Directors' Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Board and Executive Committee Composition

As a key operating entity of the Tarmac business, and in accordance with the Policy, the Company must have a minimum of
three directors with representatives from the finance team and ExCom. The Company has six directors, all of whom are
members of ExCom. ExCom membership is composed of regional managing directors, business-line managing directors
together with directors of key functional areas. .

The composition of the Board provides a "broad range of skills, knowledge and industry experience, including general
management, finance, engineering and operations, to enable the Company to meet the needs of its business and for the
directors to each carry out their role and statutory duties to a high standard which reflects the material operations and risks of
the business.

In accordance with the Policy, individual directors must have sufficient capacity to make a valuable contribution to their role as
a statutory director. In addition, and in line with Tarmac’s regional operational structure, several directors. of the Board are
tasked with overseeing and managing Tarmac’s business in certain geographical locations. This balance of skills and
experience and oversight provides the Board with an understanding of the local areas and communities within which Tarmac
operates and the needs of the businesses within it. The Board’s collective experience enables them to consider a broad range of
stakeholders in their deliberations and decision making. : :

“ExCom comprises the six statutory directors of the Company along with other members who are part of senior management
within Tarmac group companies. During, and after the end of, the reporting period, changes were made to the Board’ s
composition to strengthen and align legal entity and executive’ governance. The current directors are as follows:

The Board:

Bevan Browne: Managing Director - UK Materials -

Peter Buckley: Senior Vice President

Shaun Davidson: Regional Managing Director - North and Scotland
Mark Wood: Regional Managing Director - South-East

Simon Grey: Regional Managing Director - South West

John Delaney: Finance Director (appointed 28 February 2023)

It is noted that Johanna O’Driscoll was a Director in the year but resigned on 28 February 2023 and that Rob Doody was a
Director in the year but resigned on 30 June 2024. .

Before any director is appointed to the Board, both the Group and the Board composition principles in the Policy are consulted
to ensure the composition of the Board is appropriate, taking into consideration the company categorisation, the skills and
experience of the appointee and the overall diversity mix of the existing Board.

Directors’ training

The Tarmac Legal team supports Tarmac in operating sustainably and consistently with its values. The team provides advice,
guidance and support to the management teams in order that they can effectively support the Board in the critical matters and
regulatory issues which they must consider in making their decisions. This ‘support ranges from matters, including establishing
policies and procedures and issuing communications to legal advice on compliance and business issues.

Employees, which include the directors of the Company, are provided with regular Code of Business Conduct training. Certain
employees, determined according to the risk profile of their role, undertake annual advanced compliance training covering
Modern Slavery, Anti-Bribery, Anti-Trust, Anti-Fraud and Anti-Theft. The training provided enables the directors to be
committed to operating the business and making decisions to the highest ethical, moral and legal standards and putting the
Group’s values into practice in their daily duties.

Under the Policy, all newly appointed directors will receive director training on appointment and all directors will refresh their

training regularly. The provision of training is facilitated by the Legal team. Recent Board training delivered digitally has
focused on directors’ duties, in particular those under the Companies Act 2006.

Page 14

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Directors' Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Stakeholder engagement

The principal activities of the Company are organised into four geographical areas, each dealing with the three areas of
activities in that region: :

© aggregates and asphalt - the quarrying and supply of sand, gravel and stone (aggregates) and the manufacture of road
surfacing materials (asphalt); .

@ readymix - the manufacture and supply of ready mix concrete; and

© contracting - solutions for the surfacing and repair of roads, traffic management, highway and local authority maintenance.

Tarmac’s activities and purpose frame the Board’s approach to corporate governance, including stakeholder engagement. The
Company’s key stakeholders are:

© its workforce: our employees bring an exceptional level of commitment and integrity to the work they do, every single day.
We acknowledge that our employees are fundamental to the long-term success and development.of the Tarmac business.
© customers: without customer engagement we would not understand our customers’ requirements and we would fail in our
commitment to support them and deliver in projects, and ultimately the Tarmac business would not be sustainable.
e suppliers: our suppliers are vital to achieve our purpose and sustain our long-term success, as they enable us to continue to
deliver to our customers. Ensuring our supply chain meets our high standards, by signing up to the CRH Code of Conduct,
helps to ensure the integrity of our products and maintain our ethical business values. :
@ the local communities in which we operate: we look to treat our local communities with respect including looking after the
environments in which we operate and providing local people with a safe and secure environment to work in.
© its immediate shareholder and its ultimate parent company: the Company is part of the Tarmac sub-group of companies in
the UK. Its immediate shareholder is Tarmac Holdings Limited and is ultimately owned by CRH. CRH is committed to, and
invests in, the long-term success of the Company. The directors understand the importance of, and are committed to, delivering
dividends to the shareholder and are equally committed to maintaining an appropriate balance between total cash returns to the
shareholder, investing in the business. and maintaining a strong capital position. :

Consideration of sustainability factors, environmental, social and governance matters, is of growing importance to the Board,
‘Tarmac, CRH and its stakeholders. Sustainability is about securing long-term success for the business, its customers and
communities by continually improving environmental, social and economic performance throughout the whole lifecycle of its ©
products, services and solutions. The Group has a credible sustainability strategy, which sets out its sustainability journey for
the next. 10 years and beyond, including to achieve net zero by 2050. The strategy is founded on whole. life thinking and
pushing the boundaries to develop innovative solutions, which help the customers create sustainable buildings and ~
infrastructure. To achieve this, the directors are focussed on continuously improving the sustainability performance of the
business, products and services throughout their life-cycle, including the goods purchased, the operations and logistics, how the
products perform i in-use and how they can be reused at the end of their current life.

The Net Zero roadmap was established in 2023 which served to align the group reduction targets and set out how the Company
may achieve those targets and promote education within the business. A significant example on how the targets are being
achieved.includes the business utilising 100% renewable energy within the UK which has been covered by Renewable Energy
Guarantees of Origin (REGO) certification. A further example can be drawn from the net zero road projects that have been
completed in 2023 where three local roads within Hartlepool Borough Council and Stockton-on-Tees Borough Council have
been resurfaced at a record low carbon footprint within the UK with a reduction of up to 80% carbon compared to traditional
resurfacing methods resulting the lowest CO2 emissions for road resurfacing in the UK without using carbon offsetting. These
projects involved working with international partners including Shell, Volvo CE, Wirtgen and JCB where the latest technology
has been used such as the first electric concrete mixer in partnership with Renault and advanced bio binders in partnership with
Shell. In this respect the Board continues to evolve its focus on the environmental impacts of its business, of which these
priorities for CRH include climate action; water usage; biodiversity and land use; and waste and air quality. For further
information refer to the latest Tarmac and CRH Sustainability Reports which explain more on the sustainability strategy in the

“group.

For further information in relation to stakeholder engagement, please refer to the section 172(1) statement on page 4 of the
Strategic Report and the stakeholder engagement statement and employee engagement statement on pages 16 and 19 of the
Directors’ Report.

Page 15

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Directors' Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Opportunity and risk

ExCom, on behalf of the Board, continuously assesses and monitors the risks affecting the Tarmac business, promoting the
long-term sustainable success of the Company by identifying opportunities to create and preserve value, and establishing
oversight for the identification and mitigation of risks. The business operates under an enterprise risk management process with

ExCom regularly presenting its considerations of new risks faced by the business and reported in the business’ risk register.

The risks aré ranked, firstly in terms of gross risk and then the net risk position, taking into account the effect of internal
controls on the identified risks, and lastly on target risk, based-on the effect mitigating actions will have. Each risk has an
owner at ExCom level who is responsible for overseeing the management and mitigation of that risk. Periodically, ExCom will
review the risks, identifying further new risks and providing updates on how actions from previous reviews have been
managed. Processes and controls are in place to support the business identify opportunities in accordance with strategic
objectives, undertake appropriate due diligence and ultimately gain approval. The principal risks and uncertainties facing the
business can be found on page 2 of the Strategic Report. mo

Remuneration

Remuneration of directors is based on their management role and responsibilities, rather than their appointment as a director of
a specific legal entity. Remuneration within Tarmac is governed by the Tarmac Reward Governance Framework for the
majority of Tarmac employees, excluding directors and senior employees. Directors’ and other key senior employees’
remuneration, which includes base salary, discretionary annual bonus, a discretionary performance-related share plan in CRH
and employee benefits, is governed by the CRH Reward Governance Framework.

Directors’ remuneration is aligned with the Company’ s- performance, which can only be achieved through delivery of the

Group’s purpose, values and strategy, and is primarily represented through the ‘discretionary annual bonus which is based
solely on the performance of both the Company and the individual, with individual performance taking account of both "what
you achieve" and "how you go about it". The Company has a clear reward strategy that defines the reward and benefits
package applicable at each banding level within the Company that is designed to reward performance at all levels with the
directors, being the executive population, subject to the relevant set of benefits due to an employee at their banding level. Roles
at all levels within the business are subject to external salary benchmarking that takes account not only of roles in our sector,
but the workforce market more generally.

Employment of disabled persons

It is Company and Tarmac group wide policy to treat all employees and potential employees equally and: to give full
consideration to suitable applications for employment from disabled persons where they have the necessary abilities and skills
for the: position and, wherever Possible, to re-train employees who become disabled so that t they can continue their
employment.

Stakeholder Engagement Statement

‘The Policy provides detailed guidance for directors and riatiagement on their accountability, statutory responsibilities and the

process for stakeholder mapping across the Group.

The Board recognises the importance of considering and having regard to key stakeholders and their interests when making
decisions. By thoroughly understanding the Company's key stakeholder groups, the Board can successfully factor in and
address the needs of these stakeholders and foster good business relationships with them. The Company's key stakeholders are
its shareholder, employees, customers, suppliers and the local communities in which it operates (the "Stakeholders").

Regularly engaging with the Stakeholders is a priority for the Company and the following information describes how, at a
Tarmac level, which included the Company, the Group directors had regard to the need to foster relationships with its
Stakeholders, how outcomes were considered and how concerns were identified and addressed, including on the decisions
taken by the Group at a Tarmac level, during the reporting period: .

Engagement with employees

For details on how the Directors engaged with the Company’s employees, how the Directors had regard to those employees’
interests, and the effect of that regard, including on the decisions taken by the Directors during the reporting period, refer tothe .
employee engagement statement in the Directors’ Report (details of which are set out on page 19).

Page 16

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Directors' Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Customers

Stakeholders’ interests

* Focused on minimising the impact on the environment, including the provision of low carbon solutions

« Expected responsible and sustainable sourcing of materials;

* Projects that maximise sustainability, including the health, safety and wellbeing of workers, lower carbon and reduce
environmental impact;

¢ Excellent and reliable service;

+ Transparency through the supply chain, committed to respecting human and labour rights and preventing modern slavery; and
+ Engage with customers to promote product innovation.

How we have fostered relationships
Customer sustainability or Environmental Social and Governance (“ESG”) requirements often form an integral part of the
pre-qualification questionnaire for tender processes, especially for larger customers and tenders. In recent years, there has been
‘a steadily increasing weighting applied to ESG aspects in assessing tenders. In engaging with customers, either through tender
submissions or outside of the formal tender process, the Company positively takes into account how Tarmac’s sustainability
strategy and journey complements their sustainability ambitions. The sustainability strategy, Act, sets out Tarmac's goals to
secure long-term success for the business, the customers and communities by continually improving environmental, social and-
. economic performance throughout the whole lifecycle of the products, services and solutions. enabling the transition to a
sustainable, resilient built environment.

By considering the needs of the clients, the Company helps them deliver better outcomes, faster and more efficiently. The
professional, collaborative approach, combined with the business’ expertise adds value whilst minimising disruption and other
adverse impacts. This ensures. the Company consistently delivers successful frameworks and award-winning projects on time
and to budget.

Suppliers

Stakeholders’ interests

+ Sustainable, long term success of the Company

+ Prompt payment

+ Fair terms and conditions

« Ethical behaviour (including anti-bribery and corruption and anti-slavery); and
* To embrace innovation.

How we have fostered relationships
The Company reports to the government on its payment practices, processes and performance every six months under the

Reporting on Payment Practices and Performance Regulations. The Board takes payment practice commitments to suppliers
seriously, seeks to ensure prompt payment of invoices and has actively reviewed payment statistics during the year.

_ Tarmac works with its suppliers to identify and mitigate risks throughout the supply chain: Supply chain risks are forefront to
the Group and more information can be found on our commitment to human rights through the Modern Slavery Statement.

Tarmac places business ethics and sustainability at the forefront of all business interactions, including those with its suppliers,
recognising they are key stakeholders in the success of the Tarmac business. The Company demonstrates its commitment
through certification to BES 6001 (which was re-certified in 2023 following a change in BES standards) - responsible
sourcing, and 6002 - ethical labour. The Company expects its suppliers to share its unwavering commitment to ethical business
practices and meet the same standards including in respect of human rights, health & safety and environmental stewardship. As
a globally responsible business, it is ensured that the supply chain matches the business ethics by ensuring all suppliers sign up
to the CRH Code of Conduct prior to being approved as a Tarmac supplier.

Tarmac aims to engage all suppliers in a fair and consistent manner. Ownership of supplier management activity is assigned to
a dedicated Category Manager within the central Procurement team. The method of engagement required is determined by an
assessment of spend and risk. The Company supports the growth of local micro businesses, small and medium sized enterprises
and third sector organisations, removing barriers faced during procurement and paying them promptly.

Additionally the business is leading cultural change by approving heads of terms with key suppliers and embracing the
innovation which needs to occur to ensure that suppliers remain engaged from a sustainability perspective. The annual Supplier
Sustainability Week and Supplier Innovation Challenge highlights the Company’s commitment to working with supply chain
stakeholders to enhance supply chains and deploy innovations at pace.

Page 17

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Directors' Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

* Local communities

Stakeholders’ interests

* To conduct operations in a considerate, responsible and responsive way;

* The provision of a safe place of work for the communities in which the Company operates;

* To support local and national safety initiatives to raise awareness of the dangers of the industries in which the Company
operates in;

* Commitment to working with local communities and supporting the development of a highly skilled and inclusive workforce
for the future; and

* Compliance with all relevant legal, regulatory and tax obligations.

How we have fostered relationships

Tarmac is a leading contributor on a wide range of sector associations, including the Construction Products Association, UK
Green Building Council, the Supply Chain Sustainability School and the Mineral Products Associations (MPA). The
sustainability strategy has a focus on climate change, sustainable and responsible supply chains and the impact on. the planet as
a whole. :

Tarmac engages with schools in the local communities. Through the national partnership with Solutions for the Plant, now in
its 10th year, Tarmac has supported thousands of students to learn how STEM skills and careers can help solve sustainability
issues. In 2023 Tarmac’s learning and development team received a rating of ‘Outstanding’ from Ofsted following the first full
inspection of its apprenticeship programme which is affiliated with. Sheffield college. The programme received its first full ©
inspection in August 2023 and Tarmac is currently the only employer provider in the UK to have achieved Outstanding in .
2023. Noteworthy is that 32% of apprentices who had completed the programme and remained within the business have been’
promoted to a frontline leader position which is a testament to the continuous investment in the community and people.

In addition to this, the Company has supported continual improvement of Panshanger Park where in 2023 the dragonfly area
opened with an aim to improve biodiversity in the area. The park has been named a dragonfly hotspot by the British Dragonfly
Society and is home to 19 different species of dragonflies and damselflies, making it one of the best habitats in Hertfordshire to
accommodate them. The dragonfly trail has received investment throughout 2023 and now extends to 2.5km with a newly
surfaced pathway to improve accessibility for the public. The trail includes:sights of Kings Lake, Riverside Lake, Rifle Butts
wildflower meadow and a viewing area over the River Mimram. School STEM projects have also continued and students
within the community have had the opportunity to gain insight and experience in the construction of bridges. Tarmac also
recognised the difficulties and crises-which exist with the local communities and have donated 1.5 tonnes of food and provision
to food banks across the UK.

Tarmac operates under the CRH UK Tax Objectives, Strategy & Governance Framework. ‘As a large global organisation, CRH
acknowledges its responsibilities with respect to taxation in the multiple communities and jurisdictions in which it operates.
CRH seeks a constructive and cooperative working relationship with the UK tax authorities through discussions and updates
between the in-house tax team and the HM Revenue & Customs Customer Compliance Manager.

As part of the continuing commitment to electric vehicles as a means to meet the climate targets, during quarter 4 of 2023
Tarmac made first use of its first battery electric concrete mixer in a local road resurfacing project in partnership with
Hartlepool Borough Council and Stockton-on-Tees Borough Council. Unveiled in 2022 the ‘e-mixer’ is the first vehicle in the
company’s national HGV fleet and is.now being actively used. .

Tarmac continued to operate key standards including the third-party certified ISO 50001 energy management standard across
the business and ISO 14001 which refers to environmental management systems. Such standards are used to drive continuous
improvement in energy and environmental impacts. For further information on the energy efficiency actions taken by Tarmac,
please refer to the streamlined energy and carbon reporting in the Directors Report on page 22. Further please refer to further
information on the Tarmac approach to climate-related risks and opportunities on page 2 of the Strategic Report.

Page 18

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Directors' Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Shareholders

Stakeholders’ interests

+ Long term success of the Company;

* The Company’s ability to maintain delivering dividends;

* The Company’s commitment to maintaining an appropriate balance between total cash retums to shareholders, investment in
the business and maintaining a strong capital position to support capital investment and infrastructure to sustain long term
value creation; and

* Recognition of the need to understand and report on ESG initiatives.

How we have fostered relationships
Through its operational functions, the Company reports to CRH on a regular basis in the form of business reviews and strategic

plans, risk reporting and financial statements. CRH’s Treasury, Tax and Finance functions coordinate with the Company's
Treasury, Tax and Finance functions to evaluate the amount of dividends and impact at local level. CRH works collectively
with the Board to achieve the Group’s objective to create long-term sustainable value. The Company’ S strategy is to maximise

value for CRH, the Company's ultimate parent. :

Employee Engagement Statement

Why we engage: :
The Board engages with its , employees to provide them with information and keep them up to date on matters of concern to

them and to increase their awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting the Company's performance and the
Group's performance. The Board encourages the employees to provide their feedback and enable two-way communication with
employees to generate understanding and engagement.

Tarmac’s group-wide policy is to-communicate with, and involve employees on, matters affecting their interests at work and to
inform them of the performance of the business. This includes adopting such employee consultation as is appropriate,
including consultative committees, training and development and communication programmes. The information is °
complemented by the quarterly in-house magazine, 'One', Tarmac communications and information on the Company’s new
intranet platform, ‘The Circle’, which contain items of news, current affairs and information relevant to employees.

The Company also consults with trade unions on behalf of the employees, predominantly on business matters and workplace
issues that affect terms and conditions of employment. In some areas of the business where national agreements are in place,
the Board and its representatives formally meet with the trade unions on a quarterly basis to discuss a wider range of topics, as
appropriate.

It is important that the employees are engaged in the performance of the Company. CRH operates a savings-related share
option scheme which employees of the Company are eligible to join, saving. up to £500 per month from their net salaries for a
fixed term of three or five years and at the end of the savings period they have the option to buy CRH plc shares at a discount. .-

How we have engaged: ©
Tarmac has increased its focus on operational upskilling. At operator level the efforts as an employer provider have been

recognised through the first full Ofsted-inspection achieving an ‘Outstanding’ rating. The work of the Tarmac team at the
National Skills & Safety Park was further recognised when the Head of Learning & Development, received an award from the
Purpose Coalition for 'The Right Advice and Experiences' award for the team's work on breaking down barriers in social
mobility. Over 60% of operational supervisors have now undertaken a 6-day leadership development programme to provide
them with the skills to effectively lead their teams. These supplement the improvement in quality of individual development
plans for operational supervisors and managers, where additional support and guidance has been provided. 2024 will see the
-launch of the CRH Academy which provides further leadership development for all levels of the organisation.

Page 19

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAAAO71 -9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Directors’ Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Tarmac has also continued to focus on early careers with an aim to attract high calibre and diverse individuals. The Company -
delivered a four-part attraction strategy which focused on relatability, reach, the removal of education and employment barriers
and support. The campaign ran over an eight-week period, which received over 7000 applications, amounting to a 500% uplift
on previous campaigns. The website traffic to the company website during this time also received a significant uplift at 1434%. °
Circa 60% of the applicants identified as being ‘global majority’ (non-white in ethnic background) above the industry average
for global majority applications of approximately 13%. Additionally, 21% of the applicants were female, again above the
industry average of female ‘applicants of approximately 14%. This demonstrates the impact and success the campaign had in-
reaching out to.the diverse and previously uncontacted pool of potential employee candidates. Tarmac are pleased to share that
72 ‘early to career’ individuals were recruited via this campaign with 50% being either female or identified as being the global
majority.

How the’ engagement impacted decision making

Tarmac has a series of employee networks called ‘Communities’ - a new way for our employees to connect with their
colleagues. As a business, Tarmac is proud to celebrate what matters to our colleagues and help everyone bring their whole self
to work and the Communities will help colleagues find like-minded people to share advice and knowledge, provide support or
just socialise together. Our Communities reflect colleague feedback in line with our inclusion and diversity (“I&D”) activity.
Our communities include: ;

e Religious and Cultural Heritage

© The Female Voice

© Mental health and wellbeing

@ Ability

‘@ Menopause Support (a private group for those who are experiencing the menopause)

e@ R.E.A.C.H (Black, Asian, and Minority Ethnic communities)

e Two LGBTQ+ communities (one open to allies and one private for those who identify as LGBTQ+)
e Parents and Carers

© Sustainability

The Communities have seen continuous growth throughout 2023 with 1,580 employees being pait of one or more employee
networks. This is reflective of the successful implementation of the new purpose where the business has become increasingly
inclusive as it has recognised the diversity that exists within its workforce, notably the Ex-Armed Forces and Emergency
Services group had been created and added to the Health and Wellbeing community in 2023, allowing former military and
Blue Light services personnel to connect and establish relationships with one and other.

The majority of the Communities are open to both members. and allies and each community has an executive sponsor which
enables reciprocal mentoring and ensures all employee voices and opinions are heard, especially from the underrepresented
groups, enabling us to remove barriers and underpins the I&D agenda. Communities have been very active, holding various .
events at least monthly. Another recognition was Tarmac being awarded the Clear Assured Gold Standard as a result of the
ongoing ‘dedication to 1&D in both company policies and culture. This was an improvement on the prior year Silver Award
recognising the positive efforts in the business being made. :

Driven by the communities’ voices, Tarmac launched new policies in 2023 including improvements to adoption and paternity
policies.

Further activities throughout 2023 have included;
e The introduction of free sanitary products on all the sites and offering of Women's personal protective equipment, driven by
the Female Voice community; -
e An upgrade to the Adoption and Paternity policies, driven by the parent and carer community;

- @ Events which support-cultural days such as PRIDE driven by the LGBTQ+ community and the Black History Month event,
celebrating black heritage and food driven by REACH; and
e The partnership with SCOPE which enables us to reach potential employees who: identify as having a disability which has
been driven by the Ability community. |

Principal decisions
For details on the process behind making decisions, including principal decisions, the effect of engagement on those decisions

please refer to the Statement of Corporate Governance Arrangements on page 12 of the Directors’ Report and the section
172(1) statement on page 4 of the Strategic Report.

Page 20

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Directors' Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Environmental matters

Tarmac, a CRH company, is the UK’s leading sustainable building products, construction services and solutions business. Our |
innovative products, services and solutions help to deliver thé infrastructure needed to grow the economy today and create a
more sustainable built environment to support the future prosperity of the UK.

. Decarbonising our business, and providing products, services and solutions that help society and the UK built environment
mitigate the impacts of climate change, is central to Tarmac's commercial strategy and corporate purpose. In 2021 we launched
Act, our sustainability strategy which sets out our commitments, objectives and goals against three main themes: ‘People’,
‘Planet’ and ‘Solutions’. Act includes our objective to be net zero by 2050, and to support this, in 2023, Tarmac launched its
Net Zero Roadmap. The roadmap sets out our plan to achieve net zero, so that our stakeholders can see the firm steps we are
taking to support the UK’s net zero targets. .

In 2023, CRH, our parent company, set an ambitious industry leading target to reduce absolute CO2 emissions across the
business by 30% by 2030, from a 2021 baseline. This forms part of CRH’s 2050 net zero ambition and is aligned with the
goals of The Paris Agreement. The target is supported by a series of Science Based Target initiative (SBTi) validated targets.

As a business, aligned with CRH, Tarmac has also set a bold target to reduce our absolute CO2e emissions by 30% by 2030.
This is a major milestone on our path to net zero by 2050, which is set out in our new Net Zero Roadmap. This target commits
us to one of the most ambitious reductions in emissions in the UK construction materials industry and builds on the progress
we have made’to date in line with Act, our Sustainability strategy. At the end of 2023, Tarmac had achieved a 32% reduction in
CO2 per tonne. We categorise our greenhouse gas emissions into direct and indirect sources in line with the Greenhouse Gas
Protocol.

Alongside our decarbonisation targets, Tarmac is committed to the other sustainability elements of our Act strategy. We aim to -
be a safe and inclusive business, employing great people and maintaining strong community relationships. We want to protect
the health, safety and well-being of our employees, contractors, and those around us, driving Tarmac to develop a zero-harm
culture. Across our business operations in 2023, we had a Total Recordable Case Frequency Rate (TRCFR) of 0.13 incidents
for every 100,000 hours worked, and a Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) of 0.04 for every 100,000 hours. °

Tarmac also strives to be an employer of choice and an organisation with a truly inclusive culture. Our employees underpin the
long-term success of our business and our customers, so it is vital that we continue to build an inclusive business that attracts
and retains a talented, motivated, and diverse workforce. In 2023, Tarmac is proud to have been awarded Gold accredited
membership via The 5% Club for the second year running, to have maintained Clear Assured Gold Standard for our
commitment to inclusion and diversity, and for our National Skills and Safety Park to have received the Purpose Coalition
award.

We are committed to outstanding environmental. performance, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, optimising the use of
resources and making a net positive contribution to biodiversity. The impact of climate change and the transition to a
zero-carbon society are arguably the most important challenges for our generation. As society continues its journey to net zero
emissions, we are fully committed to playing our part in reducing carbon along our.value chains to support the UK’s net zero
target.

Tarmac supports a circular economy, which means designing out waste at every stage of a product’s life cycle and developing
products with greater durability to extend their useful life. We work to design long-lasting products that can be reused at their
end of life; to reduce waste from every aspect of our operations; and to reduce demand for natural resources, so we can ensure
that the essential materials we need to supply our customers remain available.

~ As a leading supplier of recycled aggregates, Tarmac have developed a range of recycled solutions that reduce waste, preserve

‘mineral resources, and reduce the carbon footprint of our products. We are also a net user of waste, which means we use more
of other people’s waste than the waste we produce ourselves. In 2023, we used over 985,000 tonnes of recycled asphalt
planings (RAP); over 7.1 million tonnes of waste and secondary materials from other sectors as raw materials for our products
and as fuel in the manufacturing process; and over 3.2 million tonnes of construction waste in our recovery and recycling
operations.

In 2024, we will continue to work towards a net zero society. Following the launch of Tarmac’s ‘Roadmap to net zero’, we

hope to build on the progress we made in 2023 through collaboration and taking part in new trials and innovative projects to
help us further reach our goals.

Page 21

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited
Directors' Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Further details on our approach are detailed in our 2023 Sustainability Report: https://sustainability-report.tarmac.com.
Streamlined Bnergy a and Carbon Reporting

Methodology

Tarmac Trading Limited, as a large unquoted company, y, qualifies for completing Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting by
satisfying two or more of the specified requirements set out in the guidance. In compliance with the regulations energy use
from gas, electricity and transport including their associated emissions have been reported, in conjunction with an intensity
ratio of emissions per business turnover (tCO2e/£) and energy efficiency actions taken.

In determining the entity's energy use and emissions the principles of The Greenhouse Gas Protocol have been followed where

possible. For Tarmac Trading Limited, energy consumption has been determined from billed. data with emissions calculated

using UK Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting. Gross CV and gross carbon factors were used from
' DEFRA to convert fuel volumes to kWh and kgCO2e.

For information see: https://www.gov. uk/goveramentpublications/greenhouse-gas-reporting-conversion-factors-2023,

Tarmac Trading Limited, as part of Tarmac Holdings Limited, is subject to ESOS regulations and is certified to ISO 50001.
Energy efficiency measures taken by Tarmac Trading Limited have been drawn from the actions and recommendations set out
by these schemes. Intensity ratio of emissions per business turnover has been utilised as all businesses are revenue generating
and there are inconsistencies in production output units.

Energy Efficiency Actions

During 2023, Tarmac Trading Limited continued to operate the third-party certified ISO 50001 energy management standard
across the business. This standard is used to drive continuous improvement in energy and CO2 efficiency. In the period
covered by the report, Tarmac Trading Limited carried out the following energy efficiency actions:

1. The processes and procedures that form our ISO 50001:2018-certified Energy Management System ensure we operate at a
high standard, and drive continuous improvement (CI) in our energy usage. Specific energy consumption and CO2 targets are
set for all of our manufacturing sites, enabling us to monitor performance and make these targets more ° stringent each year to
support CI efforts and the investment behind these. : :

2. Tarmac continues to procure 100% of our power supply from renewable energy souices, fully traceable through REGO
certificates. We are also assessing the potential for all sites to have their own self- generated clean power from the grid in the -
future. .

3. In 2023, Tarmac developed an online sustainability training module as a way for even more employees across the business
to receive sustainability training. The module covers global sustainability issues and our sustainability strategy, ensuring our
carbon reduction and other sustainability ambitions drive employee behaviour. In 2023, a further 284 employees completed
this training.

4. To support our transition to net zero, in 2023, Tarmac used an electric bond coat. sprayer for the first time in the UK on the
‘A120 in Essex, and now services the area surrounding the M25. Developed by DE Plant in partnership with Volvo and
Schafer-technic, the all-electric vehicle offers carbon savings of 1.12kg CO2e/km.

5, In 2023, Tarmac partnered with Hartlepool and Stockton-on-Tees Borough Councils to deliver the lowest carbon roads ever
to be resurfaced in the UK. Combining an extensive range of low carbon materials, techniques, and plant and equipment to
resurface the carriageway sections, the project delivered a reduction in carbon emissions of up to 80% compared to traditional
methods, and is aiming to be replicated on further projects in 2024.

6. To expand our supply of aggregates via freight trains, a new internal rail siding has been developed and connected to the rail
network at Hillhead Quarry, with the first train departing in July 2023. 118 trains have been dispatched since, moving over
160,000t of material - with every train replacing an average of 75 HGVs, this represents significant carbon savings for Tarmac
and our customers. :

Page 22

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071 -9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF940264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Directors' Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Unit of
GHG emissions and energy data Measure 2023 2022
Energy consumption used to calculate emissions ~ kWh 416,010,247 441,659,142
Emissions from combustion of gas (Scope 1) : »  tCO2e 42,061 47,890
Emissions from combustion of fuel (Scope 1 & Scope 3)* tCO2e 11,4820 13,962
Emissions from purchased electricity (Scope 2, location-based) tCO2e 28,540 24,050
Emissions from purchased electricity (Scope 2, market-based factor) tCO2e - . -
Total gross CO2e based on above (location-based Scope 2) tCO2e 82,083 85,902
Total gross CO2e based on above (market-based Scope 2) tCO2e 53,542 61,852
Gross tCO2e per
Intensity ratio £million turnover 41 43

* Emissions from combustion of fuel for transport purposes (Scope 1) & from business travel in rental cars or employee-owned
vehicles where company is responsible for purchasing the fuel (Scope 3)

Local communities and partnerships

Local communities and partnership arrangements are managed on a Tarmac wide basis. Tarmac has a Sustainability Strategy in
place which commits to delivering a net positive contribution to the communities that Tarmac operates in. Along with the
contribution that Tarmac makes as a major employer and buyer of goods and services, Tarmac works hard to build local
partnerships with community organisations to enhance biodiversity, support employment and education, and to build stronger
community relations. As part of the commitment to deliver a net positive contribution, Tarmac actively seeks out engagement
opportunities with local communities to explain Tarmac's activities, along with encouraging feedback. This includes a
continued commitment to involving, engaging and consulting local communities in connection with plans for new operations’
or alterations to existing operations, prior to formal planning permission being sought. As such, a range of communication
methods are in place for each operational site including community liaison groups, websites, site visits, newsletters and social
media.

Future developments

The UK government continues to invest in major infrastructure projects to support economic growth, national renewal and
greater productivity. In 2023, the National Infrastructure and Construction Pipeline policy paper noted £700-750bn of planned
investment spend over the 10-years, relating to 660 planned projects. This contributes to strong medium to long term prospects
for the Company given the level of investment required in the UK, and the commencement of key infrastructure projects.
Management remains focused on what can be controlled as a business and will continue to work towards investing in
construction solutions for the future. |”

Finance risk management objectives and policies

Liquidity and cash flow risk - in order to maintain liquidity, the Company’s funding requirements are under constant review. |
The Company is part of a Tarmac wide cash pooling arrangement and as such the cash is managed at a Tarmac level. Cash is
able to be placed on deposit within the CRH Group zero balancing cash- pooling arrangement ‘which allows advantageous
interest rates to be gained on cash put on Aeposit Cash placed with CRH (UK) Limited is able to be accessed by the © Company
at any time;

Credit risk - the Company’s principal financial assets are cash and bank balances, trade and other receivables. The Company" s
credit risk is primarily attributable to its trade receivables. The amounts presented in the balance sheet are stated net of
allowances for doubtful receivables. The Company has no significant concentration of credit risk;

Interest rate risk - the Company has interest rate exposure primarily on its amounts owed to Group undertakings. The Company
has no significant further exposure to interest rate risk; and

Price risk - the Company seeks to mitigate its exposure to commodity price risk through using relevant pricing mechanisms in
the course of business with its customers. These could include hedging and supplier rebates as appropriate. Recent inflation
related price increases expose the Company to rises in commodities such as fuel prices and principal energy related raw
materials prices like bitumen, as well as having an impact on salaries and recruitment. The Company monitors the market to
mitigate price risks where possible. :

Research and development

The Company engages in research and development activities for example new product development, process improvement
and sustainability initiatives. Information regarding research and development activities can be found within the accounting
policies i in note 2 to the financial statements.

Page 23

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA407 1-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Directors’ Report for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

Going concern
The Directors have considered going concern in preparing these financial statements.

The Company participates in a Group zero balancing cash pool arrangement. Each company participating in the cash pooling
arrangement has cash automatically swept to/from its account on a daily basis so that the balance reverts to zero at the end of
each day. For all companies within the Tarmac group, cash is swept to/from CRH (UK) Limited and balances are interest
bearing.

Detailed forecasts including the Company are prepared on a Tarmac Group basis for a period of at least 12 months from the
date of approval of these financial statements. The Tarmac Group as a whole is profitable and cash-generative. These forecasts
show that there is sufficient cash headroom in each individual month across the period, allowing the Tarmac companies to
continue to operate with significant cash headroom whilst meeting daily cash flow requirements over this period.

Given that these forecasts are not prepared by statutory entity, and should the need arise, a signed letter of support, confirming —
ongoing support throughout an equivalent period has been obtained from the Company’s ultimate parent company, CRH plc,
for which forward looking plans have also been prepared to reflect severe but plausible downside scenarios. Even considering
plausible downside scenarios, there are sufficient funds to allow the Company to continue in operational existence for the
foreseeable future.

Taking account of the detailed forecast of the Tarmac group of companies and having received confirmation of ongoing
support of CRH plc for the next 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements, and their willingness and
ability to provide financial support to the Company if needed, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company
has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the next 12 months from the date of approval of these financial
statements. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.

Post balance sheet events
On 2 September 2024, the entire trade and assets of a minor contracting business unit was disposed of for consideration of £3.6
million. The assets being stock held at net book value of £0.5 million.

The Directors have considered all other post-year end transactions, information received and events, up to the date these
accounts are signed, for anything that may be either an adjusting or non-adjusting post balance sheet event. There was nothing
else identified requiring adjustment to, or disclosure in the current year financial statements.

Directors indemnities

The Articles of Association of the Company contain an indemnity in favour of all of the Directors of the Company that, subject
to law, indemnifies the Directors, out of the assets of the Company, from any liability incurred by them in defending any
proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour (or otherwise disposed of without any finding or admission of any
material breach of duty on their part).

Disclosure of information to the auditors

Each Director has taken steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that the Company's auditor is aware of that information. The Directors confirm that there is
no relevant information that they know of and of which they know the auditor is unaware. This confirmation is given and
should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.

Auditors

Deloitte LLP have indicated their willingness to be reappointed as auditor. No notice in accordance with s488 of the
Companies Act 2006 (which would operate to prevent the deemed reappointment of auditors under s487(2) of that Act) has
been or is expected to be received and accordingly the necessary conditions are in place for the deemed reappointment of the
auditors to take place in the absence of an Annual General Meeting.

; 3 Oct 2024
Approved by the Board ono... and signed on its behalf by:

(tay

~B374B70E22C 14B97..""°7*""***

J Delaney
Director

Page 24

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Statement of Directors' Responsibilities

The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law
and regulations.

Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors have
elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), including FRS 101 "Reduced Disclosure Framework". Under
company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing these financial
statements, the Directors are required to:

* select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
+ make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; .
* state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and
explained in the financial statements; and
_* prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will
continue in business.

The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records ‘that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the
assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the
company's website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements
may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Page 25 ;

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members.of Tarmac Trading Limited

Report on the audit of the financial statements

Opinion
_ In our opinion the financial st statements of Tarmac Trading Limited (the ‘Company’):
* give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at 31. December 2023 and of its profit for the year then
. ended;
+ have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including
Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and .
* have been prepared in 1 accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

We have audited the.financial statements which comprise:
* the Profit and Loss Account;

* the Statement of Comprehensive Income;

* the Balance Sheet;

* the Statement of Changes in Equity;

* the Statement of Accounting Policies, and

* the related notes 1 to 29.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting
Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice).

Basis for.opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our
‘responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial
statements section of our report.

We are independent of the Company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial
statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern
‘In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting in the
preparation of the financial statements is appropriate. .

Our evaluation of the Directors’ assessment of the Company’ s ability to continue to adopt the going concern basis of
accounting included:

* testing the clerical accuracy of the cash flow forecast model; . .

* completing an assessment of the consistency of the models used to prepare the forecasts in line with other areas of our audit;
* performing a look back analysis of the historical accuracy of forecasts prepared by management,

* perform sensitivity analysis on managements forecasts;.and ©

* assessing the adequacy of the disclosures in the financial statements.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions that,
individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Company's ability to continue as a going concern for a period of
at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

of this report.

Page 26

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of Tarmac Trading Limited (continued)

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our
auditor’s report thereon. The Directors are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report. Our
opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in
our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or otherwise appears to be
materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to
determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we
have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the
financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Directors
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due
to fraud or error. :

In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Company's ability to continue as a going
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the
Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is
a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or
in the aggregate, they could reasonably be-expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these
financial statements.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC's website at
www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud :
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures i in line with
our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of irregularities, including fraud. The extent to
which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.

We considered the nature of the Company’s industry and its control environment, and reviewed the Company’s documentation
of their policies and procedures relating to fraud and compliance with laws and regulations. We also enquired of management
and the Directors about their own identification and assessment of the risks of irregularities, including those that are specific to
the Company's business sector.

We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory £ frameworks that the Company operates in, and identified the key

laws and regulations that:

* had a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. These included UK
Companies Act and tax legislation; and

« do not have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental to the Company’s
ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty.

Page 27

Docusign Envetope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264
Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of Tarmac Trading Limited (continued)

We discussed among the audit engagement team including relevant internal specialists such as tax and IT specialists regarding
the opportunities and incentives that may exist within the organisation for fraud and how and where fraud might occur in the
financial statements.

As a result of performing the above, we identified the greatest potential for fraud in the following areas, and our procedures
performed to address them are described below:

We noted a significant risk due to fraud, related to revenue, around the occurrence and accuracy of contracting revenue which

has not been certified by customers at year end. In response to this risk we have performed the following procedures:

¢ We tested the design and implementation of controls over contract revenue, including management’s controls over the

estimates ‘of total costs for performance obligations.

* We selected a sample of contracts and:

- Recalculated the percentage of completion to gain comfort over the accuracy of the life-to-date revenue balance.

- Performed a review of the forecasted cost by challenging the Quantity Surveyors on the completeness and accuracy of the

estimate through verifying unit rates to quotes or invoices from-other projects and verifying quantities and timelines to the
’ agreed program build up.

- Tested the year end contract debtor and WIP balances by agreeing samples through to subsequent customer certification or

alternative supporting documentation.

In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also required to perform specific procedures to respond to the risk of
management override. In addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, we tested the appropriateness
of journal entries and other adjustments; assessed whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative
of a potential bias; and evaluated the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or Sutside the normal
course of business.

In addition to the above, our procedures to respond to the risks.identified included the following:

* reviewing financial statement disclosures by testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with provisions of
relevant laws and regulations described as having a direct effect on the financial statements; ,

* performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material

. misstatement due to fraud;

* enquiring of management, internal audit and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims,
and instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations; and‘ :

* reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance and reviewing internal audit reports.

Report on other legal and regulatory requirements

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 ©

In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

* the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year for which the financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

. the Strategic Report and the Directors' Report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of the audit, we
have not identified any material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors’ Report.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report in respect of the following matters if, in our opinion:

* adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not’
visited by us; or

». the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

* certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

* we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

We have nothing to report in respect of these matters.

Page 28

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Independent Auditor's Report to the Members of Tarmac Trading Limited (continued)

Use of our report . ; : .

This report is made solely to the Company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies
Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company’s members those matters we are required
to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or
assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this
report, or for the opinions we have formed. ‘

DocuSigned by:
se G2ZECABABZOADF :2-0--
Sukhpal Kaur Gill ACA (Senior Statutory Auditor) °
For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP
Statutory Auditor

Birmingham, United Kingdom

03 Oct 2024
Date:..

Page 29

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

. Profit and Loss Account for the Year Ended 31 December 2023

2023 . - 2022 .
Note ; £m ‘£m
Turnover , oO : . 4. 2,006.9 1,996.4
Cost of sales ; ; 1,593.6) (1,584.4)
Gross profit , 413.3 : 412.0 .
Distribution costs ; . . (158.5) * (146.3)
Administrative expenses : (219.7) (216.9)

‘” Other operating income . . 5 3.8 3.2
Operating profit © . : . 5 ' 38.9 52.0
Income from shares in group undertakings * : 13 141.0 60.0
Amounts written off investments . 1300" (316.1) oe
Intercompany debt recovery 13 273.7 °° | -
Interest receivable and similar income ; 6 37.0 17.8
Interest payable and similar expenses : 7 (6.4) (3.9)
Profit before tax 7 168.1 125.9
Tax on profit . 9 (17.5) a (9.3)
Profit for the year ; ; 150.6 - 116.6
The above results were derived from continuing operations.

. The notes on pages 34 to 71 form an integral part of these financial statements.

Page 30

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Statement of Comprehensive Income for the Year Ended 31 December 2023

oo. 2023 2022

: Note “ £m £m

Profit for the year . . . 150.6 116.6

Other comprehensive income/(expense) - Cash flow hedge movements “3.2 (4.4)

Total comprehensive income for the year 153.8 112.2
é:

The notes on pages 34 to 71 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Page 31

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

_ (Registration number: 00453791)
Balance Sheet as at 31 December 2023

31 December 31 December

2023 2022
. Note £m -£m
Fixed assets :
Intangible assets : 10 19.2 19.4
Tangible assets oa 11 $14.5 504.3
Right of use assets . . 12 97.3 82.4
Investments : 13 "33.6 ° 72.9
Loans.to group undertakings . 15 142.6 — 495.5
, 807.2 1,174.5
Current assets : .
Stock 14 60.4 $1.1
Debtors 16 : 464.3 467.7
Cash at bank and in hand , , 204 TL
545.1 535.9
Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year - 17 : (417.6) ; (825.9)
Net current assets/(liabilities) ____ 127.5 (290.0)
Total assets less current liabilities , 934.7 884.5
Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year : - 18 (91.0) (74.5) |
Deferred tax liabilities 9 (35.6). (34.6)
Provisions for liabilities . 20 (109.5) (101.4)
Total liabilities - : . (653.7) ( 1,036.4)
Net assets ; 698.6 674.0
Capital and reserves
Share capital ; . 21° 434.8 | 434.8
Share premium reserve . 22 125.0 125.0
Share based payment reserve 22,23 5.6 : 2.8
Cashflow hedge reserve ; 22 : (5.3) (3.5)
Profit and loss account : : 22 138.5 114.9
Shareholders’ funds . ; . 698.6 674.0
: 3 Oct 2024
Approved by the Board and authorised for issue on ............0.000 They were signed on its behalf by:
Signed by: ;
vee BSPABTOE2ZCVSBB..
J Delaney
Director

The notes on pages 34 to 71 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Page 32

Docusign Envelope iD: FCAA407 1-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited
Statement of Changes in Equity for the Year Ended 31 December 2023

Share Cash flow

: Share based hedging Profit and
Share premium payment reserve loss
capital reserve reserve (note 22) account Total
£m -£m fm £m £m £m
At | January 2022 ~ 434.8 125.0 2.2. 27 228.3 793.0
Profit for the year - - - - 116.6 116.6.
Other comprehensive expense - - - (4.4) - (4.4)
Total comprehensive (expense)/income , - - - (4.4) 116.6 112.2
Dividends - - se - oe (230.0) (230.0)
Cash flow hedge movements ~ : a Lf - (1.8) - (1.8)
Share based payment transactions : : 0.6 : : -_ 0.6
At 31 December 2022 . 434.8 1250 | 28 (3.5) 114.9 674.0

Share Cash flow :
Share __s based hedging Profit and

Share premium payment reserve _ loss :

‘capital reserve . reserve (note22) © account Total

. £m £m _ £m £m im. £m

At 1 January 2023 434.8 125.0 2.8 (3.5) 114.9 674.0

Profit for the year . oe - - - = 1506 ° 150.6

Other comprehensive income . - - = ; 3.2 - 3.2

Total comprehensive income - - - . 3.2 150.6 153.8

Dividends - - - -  . (127.0) (127.0)
Cash flow hedge movements oo - - (5.0). - (5.0) ”

Share based payment transactions - - 2.8 - : __2.8

At 31 December 2023 434.8 125.0 5.6 | (5.3) 138.5 698.6

The notes on pages 34 to 71 form an integral part of these financial statements.
. Page 33 .

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023

1. General information

The Company is a private company limited by share capital, incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales, operating
under the Companies Act 2006. :

The address of its.registered office is: .

Ground Floor

T3 Trinity Park

Bickenhill Lane

Birmingham

United Kingdom

B37 TES

2 Accounting policies

Summary of significant accounting policies and key accounting estimates
The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these financial statements are set out below. These policies have
been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless otherwise stated.

. Basis of preparation , .
These financial statements were prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced Disclosure Framework ('FRS 101') ‘and in accordance with applicable
accounting standards. The financial statements are prepared on the historical cost basis.

These financial statements are presented in pounds sterling because that i is the currency of the primary economic environment
in which the Company operates.

Going concern
The Directors have considered going concern in preparing these financial statements.

The Company participates in a Group zero balancing cash pool arrangement. Each company participating in the cash pooling
arrangement has cash automatically swept to/from its account on a daily basis so that the balance reverts to zero at the end of

_each day. For all companies within the Tarmac group, cash is swept to/from CRH (UK) Limited and balances are interest
bearing.

Detailed forecasts including the Company are prepared on a Tarmac Group basis for a period of at least 12 months from the
date of approval of these financial statements. The Tarmac Group as a whole is profitable and cash-generative. These forecasts
show that there is sufficient cash headroom in each individual month across the period, allowing the Tarmac companies to
continue to operate with significant cash headroom whilst meeting daily cash flow requirements over this period. ,

Given that these forecasts are not prepared by statutory entity, and should the need arise, a signed letter of support, confirming
ongoing support throughout an equivalent period has been obtained from the Company’s ultimate parent company, CRH ple,
for which forward looking plans have also been-prepared to reflect severe but plausible downside scenarios. Even considering
plausible downside scenarios, there are sufficient funds to allow the Company to continue in operational existénce for the
foreseeable future. ©

Taking account of the detailed forecast of the Tarmac group of companies and having received confirmation of ongoing
support of CRH plc for the next 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements, and their willingness and
ability to provide financial support to the Company if needed, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company
has adequate resources to.continue in operational existence for the next 12 months from the date of approval of these financial ”
statements. Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.

Page 34

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Summary of disclosure exemptions ;
These financial statements are separate financial statements. The Company is exempt from the preparation of consolidated
financial statements under s401 of the Companies Act, because it is included in the group financial statements of CRH plc.

As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that
standard including:

* the requirements of IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures;

* the requirements of paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement,

¢ the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ to present comparative information in

respect of: (i) paragraph 79{a)(iv) of IAS 1 -and (ii) paragraph 73(e) of LAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment; and (iii)

paragraph 1 18(e) of IAS 38 Intangible Assets;

« the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 10(f), 16, 38A, 38B, 38C, 38D, 40A, 40B, 40C, 40D, 111 and 134-136 of IAS 1

Presentation of Financial Statements;

* the requirements of IAS 7 Statement of Cash Flows;

+ the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of LAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes i in Accounting Estimates and Errors;

+ the requirements of paragraphs 17 and 18A of IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures;

* the requirements in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or more

members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member;

* the requirements of paragraphs 130(f) (ii), 130(f) (iii), 134(d)-134(f} and 135(c)-135(e) of LAS 36 Impairment of Assets;

* the requirements of paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2 Share Based Payments,

* the requirements of the second sentence of paragraph 110 and paragraphs 113(a), 114, 115, 118, 119(a) to (©), 120 to 127 and
129 of IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers;

* the requirements of paragraph 52, the second sentence of paragraph 89, and paragraphs 90, 91 and 93 of IFRS 16 Leases; and

+ the requirements of paragraph 58 of IFRS 16, provided that the disclosure of details of indebtedness required by paragraph

61(1) of Schedule 1 to the Regulations is presented separately. for lease liabilities and other liabilities, and in total.

Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the group accounts of CRH plc. The group accounts of CRH ple are

available to the public and can be obtained as set out in note 28.

Changes in accounting policy :

New standards, interpretations and amendments effective

The following have been applied for the first time from 1 January 2023 and did not have a material effect on the financial
statements:

* Initial application and amendments to IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts

+ Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements and IFRS Practice Statement 2 - Disclosure of Accounting
Policies

« Amendments to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements - Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current

+ Amendments to IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors - Definition of Accounting
Estimates

+ Amendments to IAS 12 Incomes Taxes - Deferred Tax relates to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction

+ Amendments to IAS 12 - Pillar Two Model Rules

Page 35

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF 940264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Revenue recognition

The Company recognises revenue in the amount of the price expected to be received for goods and services supplied at a point

in time or over time,.as contractual performance obligations are fulfilled and control of goods and services passes to the
~ customer. It excludes trade discounts and value added tax/sales tax.

Recognition

Sale of goods : :

The Company earns revenue from the sale of goods. Recognition of revenue from the sale of goods is at the point in time when
control is deemed to pass to the customer upon delivery/dispatch to a customer depending on the terms of the sale, the
customer has full discretion over the manner of distribution and price to sell the goods, has the primary responsibility when
onselling the goods and bears the risks of obsolescence and loss in relation to the goods. A receivable is recognised when the
goods are delivered to the customer as this is the point in time at which the right to consideration becomes unconditional, as
only. the passage of time is required before payment is due. Contracts do not contain multiple performance obligations (as
defined by IFRS 15).

Goods are sometimes sold with discounts or rebates based on cumulative sales over a.period. This variable consideration is
only recognised when it is highly probable that it will not be subsequently reversed and is recognised using the most likely
amount or expected value methods, depending on the individual contract terms. In the application of appropriate revenue
recognition, judgement is exercised by management in the determination of the likelihood and quantum of such items based on
experience and historical trading patterns. This revenue is recognised in the accounting period when control of the product has
been transferred, at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for fulfilling
its performance obligations to customers. ,

Revenue from contracts with customers

The Company also ears revenue from the provision of services relating to construction contracts. The Company enters into a
number of construction contracts, to complete various projects. Contracts usually commence and complete within one financial
period and are generally fixed price.

The Company typically recognises revenue within its construction contract businesses over time, as it performs its obligations.
Management believe this best reflects the transfer of control to the customer by providing a faithful dépiction of primarily the
enhancement of a customer controlled asset or the construction of an asset with no alternative use. The method used is
determined in accordance with the contract type and are based on either the input or output method depending on the specific
contractual arrangements and in accordance with IFRS 15. In the event that the recoverability of the contract income is
uncertain or is dependent on the outcome of certain events, relevant contract provisions would be made accordingly. In all of
the Company's construction contract arrangements the Company has an enforceable right to payment for work and
performance obligations completed to date.

Some of the Company’s construction contracts may contain forms of variable consideration that can either increase or decrease
the transaction price. Variable consideration is estimated based on the most likely amount: or expected value methods
(depending on the contract terms) and the transaction price is adjusted to the extent it is highly probable that a significant
reversal of revenue recognised will not occur. In some instances a customer can be billed and revenue recognised in the period
subsequent to the contracted work being completed when items such as variable consideration are agreed with the customer.

Page 36

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Land development activities

For land development transactions, each contract is reviewed to identify the number of individual promises (performance

obligations) included in the contract. In most cases, there will be only one promise (performance obligation) in the contract, the.

sale of a single plot of land. In addition, where land is developed into individual plots before being sold, each sub-plot will

represent a ‘separate performance obligation if it is individually identified and is capable of being used by the buyer

independent to the other plots. If a land sale occurs in stages, revenue is recognised when the individual sub-plots are

transferred to the buyer if the sub-plots are separately identifiable in the contract; and they are capable of being used on their
~ own or with the use of readily-available resources of the buyer. .

Revenue is recognised as each performance obligation is satisfied and control of the land passes to the customer regardless of
the number of performance obligations in the contract, unless the criteria for recognising revenue over time is met. The
following factors are indicators that control of the land has passed to the customer:
« Tarmac has a right to be paid for the land;
+ The buyer now has legal title to the land;
” + The buyer now has physical possession of the land;
* The buyer has the significant risks and rewards of ownership;
« The land has been accepted by the buyer.

Where control of individual sub-plots passes to the buyer.in stages, and the sub-plots a are considered separate performance |
obligations, the overall contract price must be allocated to the sub-plots.based on their standalone market prices and the
allocated revenue will be recognised as control passes to the buyer.

In most cases, the transaction price in a land development transaction is the proceeds received for sale of the land. However; in
some instances, there may be other factors such as linked overages or other forms of variable consideration to be considered.
Variable consideration such as an overage fee is only recognised when it is highly probable that the revenue recognised will ©

“not be reversed in-the future. This may be when the subsequent sale has been completed by the purchaser and Tarmac is
contractually owed the money. However, each contract is examined on a case by case basis to determine at what ‘point the
variable consideration should be recognised,

Page 37

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF940264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued) -

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Contract assets and receivables

In the Company's construction contract part of the business, amounts are billed as work progresses in accordance with
pre-agreed contractual terms. When a performance obligation is satisfied but a customer has not yet been billed this is
recognised as a contract asset (unbilled revenue) and included within trade debtors.

Retentions are also a common feature of construction contracts and are recognised as a contract asset within trade and other
debtors when the Company has a right to consideration in exchange for the completion of the contract. Retentions are
consistent with industry norms and the purpose of these is not to provide a form of financing.

Apart from retentions, the Company does not have any construction contracts where the period between the transfer of the
promised goods to the customer and payment by the customer exceeds one year. As a consequence, the Group applies the
_ practical expedient in IFRS 15 and does not adjust any of its transaction prices for the time value of money.

When consideration is received in advance of work being performed, or the Company has billed an amount to a customer that
is in excess of revenue recognised on the contract; this is recognised as a contract liability within creditors; and the revenue is
generally recognised in the subsequent period when the right to recognise revenue has been determined. As a result, advance
payments received for construction contract arrangements are not considered a significant form of financing.

Generally payments from customers on contracts take place within agreed payment ‘terms following receipt of the invoice.
Payment terms can vary by contract but. would typically be between 14 and 45 days. Occasionally on certain contracts
payments may be received in advance of work being performed. As noted above, these would. be included within contract
liabilities.

Cumulative costs incurred, net of amounts transferred to cost of sales, after deducting onerous provisions, provisions for
contingencies and payments on account not matched with revenue, are included as construction contract balances in
inventories. Cost includes all expenditure directly related to specific projects and an allocation of fixed and variable overheads
incurred in the Company’s contract activities based on normal operating capacity.

The ‘Company’s contracts generally are for a duration of less than one year and therefore the Company does not capitalise
incremental contract costs; instead expensing as incurred, as permitted by the practical expedient under IFRS 15."
Contract liabilities ,

When a contract is identified as being onerous (i.e. its unavoidable cost exceeds the economic benefit of the contract), a
provision is created; being the lower of costs to complete the contract and the cost of exiting the contract. The Company
provides assurance-type warranties for general repairs and does not typically provide service-type (extended) warranties.

Where the outcome of a construction contract cannot be estimated reliably, contract revenue is recognised to the extent of ;
contract costs incurred where it is highly probable they will be recoverable. Contract costs are recognised as expenses in the
period in which they are incurred.

When it is highly probable that total contract costs will exceed total contract revenue, the expected loss is recognised as an
* expense immediately.

Page 38

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Other income

-Below are details of other income:

+ Dividend revenue - Dividend income from investments is recognised when the shareholder’s rights to receive payment
have been established (provided that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company and the amount of
revenue can be measured reliably). : :

* Rental income - The Company’s policy for recognition of revenue from operating leases is described below.

* Interest revenue - Interest income is recognised when it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Company
and the amount of revenue can be measured reliably.

* HMRC research and development credit - The Company's policy is to recognise in accordance with LAS 20 - Government
grants, in the period to which it relates.

Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Company will comply with the conditions
attaching to them and that the grants will be received.

Government grants are recognised i in profit or loss on a systematic basis over the periods in which the Company recognises as
expenses the related costs for which the grants are intended to compensate. Specifically, government grants whose primary
condition is that the Company should purchase, construct or otherwise acquire non-current assets are recognised as deferred
revenue in the balance sheet and transferred to profit or loss on a systematic and rational basis over the useful lives of the
related ‘assets.

Government grants that are receivable as compensation: for expenses or losses already incurred or for the purpose of giving
immediate financial support to the Company with no future related costs are recognised i in profit or r loss i in the period in which
they become receivable.

Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are ‘treated as deferred income and released to profit or loss over
the expected useful lives of the assets concerned. : : .

Research and development expenditure :

In the normal course of business, the business performs research and development activities in relation to obtaining and
managing planning requirements on the Company’s sites. Expenditure on research activities is recognised as an expense in the
period in which it is incurred. Development expenditure incurred is capitalised within tangible fixed assets as part of the site
asset where the conditions of IAS 38 are met.

Tax : . . . :
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.

The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the profit
and loss account because it excludes items of income or expense that. are taxable or deductible in other years and it further
excludes items that are never taxable or deductible. The Company’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that
have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.

Page 39

. Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

“Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable’ on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is
accounted for using the balance sheet liability method. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable
temporary. differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be
available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a business
combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at'each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.

" Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in'the period when the liability is settled or the asset is
realised based on tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is
charged or credited in the profit and loss account, except when it relates to items charged or credited in other comprehensive
income, in which case the deferred tax is also recognised in other comprehensive income.

The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reflects the tax consequences that would follow from the
manner in which the Company expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets
and liabilities.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are-offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current
tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Company intends to settle its -
current tax assets and liabilities on.a net basis. :

Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognised in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively. Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting
for a business combination, the tax effect i is included in the accounting for the business combination.

. Tangible assets
’ Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment in value.

All tangible assets (which includes mineral reserves, land and buildings, plant and machinery and assets under construction)
are initially recognised at cost. This applies to both owned and constructed assets. The cost of an item would include the

- purchase price of the item and any direct costs necessary to bring the item to the location and condition in which is it capable
of operating as intended.

An item of property, plant and machinery is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to ;

arise from the continued use of the asset. The gain or loss arising on the disposal or scrappage of an asset is determined as the
difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in the profit and loss account.

- Page 40°

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Depreciation
The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the
effect of any changes in estimate accounted for on a prospective basis.

Consideration is given to climate change when determining the useful lives of assets: The determination of useful lives also
considers the Group’s carbon emissions targets. There were no significant changes in the estimates of useful lives during the
_ current financial year.

Mineral reserves are amortised over their estimated commercial life on a site by site basis on a unit of production basis. Assets
under construction are not depreciated until they come into use. Other tangible fixed assets are depreciated to their estimated
residual value on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives as s below.

Asset class . : , Depreciation method and rate
Freehold building 2% - 20% straight-line

Long leasehold properties 2% straight-line

Short leasehold buildings oo Period of lease

Plant and machinery : 2.5% - 33% straight-line -
Freehold land is not depreciated. oe
Assets under construction are not depreciated until they come into use

Goodwill

Goodwill is initially measured at cost being the excess of the cost of the acquisition over the Company’s share of the assets and
liabilities recognised on acquisition or deemed cost on conversion. Subsequently goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed
annually for impairment or whenever there is an indicator of impairment. This is a departure from the requirement of the
Companies Act which requires the amortisation of goodwill. The Company has invoked a true and fair override in respect of
the non-amortisation of goodwill because the carrying value of goodwill is not considered to reduce gradually over its life. The
Company is not able to reliably estimate.the impact of non-amortisation in the profit and loss account because the useful
economic life and pattern of diminishment of the goodwill cannot be reliably predicted.

Amortisation
Amortisation is provided on intangible assets so as to write off the cost, less any estimated residual value, over their expected -
useful economic life as follows:

Asset class. , Amortisation method and rate

Software — : : 24% straight-line
Investments ,

-Investments in subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates are shown at cost less provision for impairment.

A jointly controlled entity is an entity in which the Company holds an interest with one or more other parties where a
contractual arrangement has established joint control over the entity.

An associate is an entity over which the Company has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a
joint venture. Significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions.of the investee but
is not control or joint control over those policies.

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on n hand and call deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments that are
readily convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.

Page 41

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited ©

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Stock

Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is based on weighted average and includes all expenditure
incurred in acquiring the stocks and bringing them to their present location and condition. Raw materials are valued on the
basis of purchase cost on a weighted average basis. In the case of finished goods and work-in-progress, cost includes direct
materials, direct labour and attributable overheads based on normal operating capacity. Net realisable value is the estimated
proceeds of sale less all further costs to completion, and less all costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.

Estimates of net realisable value are based on the most reliable evidence available at the time the estimates are made, taking
into consideration fluctuations of price or cost directly relating to events occurring after the end of the period, the likelihood of
short-term changes in buyer preferences, product obsolescence or perishability (all of which are generally low given the nature
of the products) and the purpose for which the stock is held. Materials. and other supplies held for use in the production of
stocks are not written down below cost if the finished goods, in which they will be incorporated, are expected to be sold at or .
above cost.

Consideration is given to any impact of climate change on stock at the balance sheet date. There was no impact noted on
‘ inventory during the current financial year. :

Development land is classified as stock when all the following conditions are met:

¢ The land is not currently being used in the business by a Tarmac entity;

+ Business plans / strategy refer to the intention to redevelop and sell the land within the ordinary life cycle of the business; and
* Plans are in place showing that the land will be sold within the normal operating cycle of the business.

The-key considerations for whether something qualifies as development activity and therefore is held within stock, is whether
the purpose of the activities is to achieve a sale of the land or increase the potential sales proceeds from the sale of the land.
within the normal operating cycle of the business. Development activities should also substantially improve or modify the land
(i.e. not just repairs and maintenance). Development land within stock is held at the lower of cost and net realisable value.

Transfers of development land take place from property plant and equipment to stock when land i is no longer 0 owner occupied
by Tarmac and begins to be redeveloped for the purpose of selling it in the near future.. Transfers of development from stock.
back to property plant and equipment would take place if the land becomes owner occupied by Tarmac. ~

Borrowings

Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that
necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets,
until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.

All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.

Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company lias a present obligation (legal or constructive) as-a result of a past event, it is
probable that the Company will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the
obligation.

The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the
balance sheet date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. Where a provision is measured
using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows
(when the effect of the time value of money is material).

When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third party, a
receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually certain that reimbursement will be received and the amount of thé
receivable can be measured reliably.

Consideration is given to any impact of climate change on provisions at the balance sheet date. There was no impact noted on
provisions during the current financial year. :

Page 42

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Restoration and decommissioning

The Company creates two types of restoration provision; a provision for the terminal restoration costs expected in order to
dismantle and remove the plant and roadways at their facilities and also an ongoing restoration provision as minerals are
extracted from the sites.

The costs of terminal restoration are capitalised as a directly attributable cost-of the site and a provision created at that stage.
The costs are then charged to the profit and loss account as depreciation over the site's life. Provisions are discounted and
unwound over time. ,

The costs. of ongoing restoration are charged to the profit and loss account as the minerals are extracted from the site. Provision
is also made for the post-closure costs on the basis of air space consumed in respect of leachate and gas monitoring at landfill
sites. Similar costs incurred during the operational life of the site are written off directly to the profit and loss account.
Provisions are discounted and unwound over time.

In addition, Environmental provisions may arise as a consequence of site activities. Environmental protection may be governed

_ by local legislation, which could trigger a legal obligation. Tarmac could also trigger an environmental provision as a result of
a constructive obligation i.e. the company could raise a valid expectation in the local community that it will take action to
protect the environment in which it operates, as a result of past practice or its stated policy in respect of the environment and
climate change.

For all-restoration, decommissioning and environmental provisions, provisions carried are based on currently available facts
with respect to each individual site and consider factors such as existing technology, currently enacted laws and regulations
and prior experience in remediation of sites. Inherent uncertainties exist in such evaluations primarily due to unknown
conditions, changing governmental regulations and legal standards regarding liability, the protracted length of the clean-up
periods and evolving technologies. The provisions included reflect the judgement applied by management in respect of
information available at the time of determining the liability and are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress or as
additional technical or legal information becomes available. Due to the inherent uncertainties described above, many of which
are not under management’s control, actual costs and cash outflows could differ if management used different assumptions or
if different conditions occur in future accounting periods.

Restructuring

A restructuring provision is recognised when the Company has developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has
raised a valid expectation ‘in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or
announcing its main features to those affected by it. The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the direct
expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed byt the restructuring and
not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.

Legal provisions
The status of each significant claim and legal proceeding in which the Group is involved is ‘reviewed by management on a
periodic basis and the potential financial exposure is assessed. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is
considered probable, and the amount can be reliably estimated, a liability is recognised for the estimated loss. Because of the
uncertainties inherent in such matters, the related provisions are based on the best information available at the time; the issues
taken into account by management and factored into the assessment of legal contingencies include, as applicable, the status of
settlement negotiations, interpretations of contractual obligations, prior experience with similar contingencies/claims, and
advice obtained from legal counsel and other third parties. As additional information becomes available on pending claims, the
potential liability is reassessed and revisions are made to the amounts provided where appropriate. Such revisions in the
- judgements and estimates of the potential liabilities could have an impact on the results of operations and financial position of
_ the Company i in future accounting periods.

Onerous contracts

When a contract is identified as being onerous, a provision is created; being the lower of costs to complete the contract and the
cost of exiting the contract. Generally the provisions held by the Company relating to onerous contracts are relation to mineral
leases and related obligations at closed and mothballed sites. These costs will be incurred over the remaining terms of the
relevant leases.

Page 43

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Leases

The Company enters into leases for a range of assets, principally relating to property. These property leases have varying
terms, renewal rights and escalation clauses, including periodic rent reviews linked with a consumer price index and/or other
indices. The Company also leases plant and machinery, vehicles and equipment. The terms and conditions of these leases do
not impose significant financial restrictions on the Company.

A contract contains a lease if it is enforceable and conveys the right to control the use of a specified asset for a period of time
in exchange for consideration, which is assessed at inception. A right-of-use asset and lease liability are recognised at the
commencement date for contracts containing a lease, with the exception of leases with a term of 12 months or less which do
not contain a purchase option, leases where the underlying asset is of low value and leases with associated payments that vary
directly in line with usage or sales. The commencement date is the date at which the asset is made available for use by the
Company.

The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the future minimum lease payments, discounted using the
incremental borrowing rate or the interest rate implicit in the lease, if this is readily determinable, over the remaining lease
term. Lease payments include fixed payments less any lease incentives receivable, variable payments that are dependent on a
rate or index known at the commencement date, amounts expected to be paid under residual value guarantees and any
payments for an optional renewal period and purchase and termination option payments, if the Company is reasonably certain
to exercise those options. The lease term is the non-cancellable period of the lease adjusted for any renewal or termination
options which aré reasonably certain to be exercised. Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate and
rentals relating to low value or short-term leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Management applies judgement in determining whether it is reasonably certain that a renewal, termination or purchase option
will be exercised. .

Incremental borrowing rates are calculated using a portfolio approach, based on the risk profile of the entity holding the lease
and the term and currency of the lease.

After initial recognition, the lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured
when there is a change in future minimum lease payments‘or when the Company changes its assessment’ of whether it is
reasonably certain to exercise an option within the contract. A corresponding adjustment is made to the carrying amount of the
right-of-use asset. Modifications to a lease agreement beyond the original terms and conditions are either treated as a
re-measurement of the lease liability and asset or treated as a separate lease, depending on the nature of the modification.
Generally any modifications that increase the scope of the lease or that increase the lease payrnent by the market price of the
increased asset are accounted for as a separate new lease. :

The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the lease liability adjusted for any payments made at or
before the commencement date, initial direct costs incurred, lease incentives received and an estimate of the cost to dismantle
or restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located at the end of the lease term. The right-of-use asset is
depreciated over the lease term or, where a purchase option is reasonably certain to be exercised, over the useful economic life
of the asset in line with depreciation rates for owned property, plant and equipment. The right-of-use asset is tested for
impairment if an impairment indicator is considered to exist.

Non-lease components in a contract such as maintenance and other service charges are separated from minimum lease
payments and are expensed as incurred.° -

Regarding the comparatives, leases where the lessor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified

as operating leases, Operating lease rentals are charged to the Profit and Loss Account on a straight-line basis over the lease
term. :

Page 44

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Company as lessor

The Company may choose (if allowed under the terms of the lease with the landlord) to sublease a portion of an asset that it
does not need. Headleases are accounted for in line with the Company's lease accounting policy outlined above. Any subleases
are assessed to determine how much of the risk and rewards have transferred under the agreement and whether this is operating
or finance in nature. Where the majority of the risk and rewards have transferred as a result of the sublease, a sublease
receivable balance is recognised in place of the leased asset. The sublease receivable is the discounted value of future lease
receipts and receipts reduce this balance rather than being recognised in the profit and loss account. Any difference between
the leased asset and sublease receivable is recognised as profit or loss on sublease in the profit and loss account. The lease
liability remains unaffected. Where the Company retains most of the lease and the risk and rewards have not transferred as a
result of the sublease, the’ Company would not recognise a lease receivable for the sublease. The sublease income is then
recognised in the profit and loss account as it is earned.

The Company may also on occasion choose to lease elements of its owned land to other group companies. The company is
considered to be the primary lessor in this situation and the arrangement is assessed to determine whether it is deemed to
constitute an operating lease or finance lease. It is noted that the usual assessment is of an operating lease, as the useful life of
land is unlimited and so the risks and rewards of ownership therefore do not transfer.

Risks around these scenarios are appropriately reviewed, monitored and managed by the company through inclusion of
relevant clauses in any third party lease agreements that are Put in Place. Arrangements with group companies are deemed to
be low risk in nature.

Impairment ‘of non-financial assets

At each balance sheet date, the Company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine
whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable
amount of the asset is estimated to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where the asset does not generate cash
flows that are independent from other assets, the Company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to
which the asset belongs. When a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also
allocated to individual cash-generating units, or otherwise they are allocated to the smallest Company of cash-generating units
for which a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified.

An intangible asset with an indefinite useful life is tested for impairment at least annually and whenever there is an indication
that the asset may be impaired. :

Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future
‘cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.

If the recoverable amount of an ‘asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying -
amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognised
immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued amount, in’ which case the impairment loss is
treated as a revaluation decrease. : : ;

Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to the
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that
would have been détermined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years. A
reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss, unless the relevant asset is carried at a revalued
amount, in which case the reversal of the impairment loss is treated as a revaluation increase.

Dividends
. Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognised as a liability i in the Company’s financial statements in the
period in which the dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders.

Defined contribution pension obligation :
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are recognised as an expense when employees have rendered
service entitling them to the contributions.

Page 45

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA407 1-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited |

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Share based payments

The Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions under FRS 101 in relation to the requirements of paragraphs
45(b) and 46-52 of IFRS 2 Share based Payment, because the share based payment arrangemients concern the instruments of
another group entity and the equivalent disclosures are included in the consolidated financial statements of CRH ple in which
the Company is consolidated. ;

Awards under the Performance Share Plans

20% of the awards under the 2014 Performance Share Plan are subject to a Total Shareholder Return (‘TSR’) (and hence
market-based) vesting condition measured against a tailored sector peer group (2021: 25%). Accordingly, the fair value
assigned to the related equity instruments at the grant date is derived using a Monte Carlo simulation technique to model the
market-based performance conditions; and is adjusted to reflect the anticipated likelihood as at the grant date of achieving the
vesting condition. Awards are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market condition is s satisfied, provided that
all other performance and/or service conditions z are satisfied. :

The remaining awards granted under the 2014 Performance: Share Plan are subject to non-market based vesting conditions;
45% are subject to a cumulative cash flow target; 20% are subject to a RONA metric; and 15% are subject to a sustainability
and diversity scorecard metric. The fair value of the awards is calculated as the market price of the shares at the date of grant.
No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately vest. At the balance sheet date the estimate of the level of vesting is
reviewed and any adjustment necessary is recognised in the Profit and Loss Account.

Savings-related Share Option Schemes .
The fair value assigned to options under the Savings-related Share Option Schemes are derived in accordance with the
trinomial valuation methodology on the basis that the services to be rendered by employees as consideration for the granting of

share options will be received over the vesting period, which is assessed as at the grant date. The cost is recognised, together ~~

with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which the performance and/or service conditions are fulfilled. The
cumulative expense recognised at each reporting date until the vesting date reflects the extent to which the vesting period has
expired and the Parent’s best estimate of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately vest. The Profit and Loss
expensé/credit for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised at the beginning and end of that period.
The cumulative charge to the Profit and Loss account is reversed only where an employee in receipt of share options leaves
service prior to completion of the expected vesting period and those options forfeit in consequence.

Where an award is cancelled, it is treated as if it is vested on the date of cancellation, and any expense not yet recognised for
the award is recognised immediately. This includes any award where non-vesting conditions within the control of either the
Company or the employee are not met. All cancellations of awards are treated equally..

Details in relation to the above scheme are set out in CRH plc's published financial statements.

_Financial instruments

Classification and measurement
Financial assets: and financial liabilities are recognised in the Company’s balance sheet when the Company becomes party to
the contractual provisions of the instrument. .

Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value.

Financial assets .
The Company’s classes of financial assets are cash and other financial assets, and these are classified as ‘loans and
receivables’. ,

Trade receivables, loans, and other receivables that have fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active
market are classified as ‘loans and receivables’. Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective

_ interest method, less any impairment. Interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term
receivables when the recognition of interest would be immaterial.

Page 46

Docusign Envelope 1D: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Financial liabilities

The Company has financial liabilities that are classified as ‘other financial liabilities’, and these relate to borrowings from
fellow subsidiary companies and trade and other payables. Trade payable may also include amounts due in relation to supplier
finance arrangements.

Other financial liabilities, including borrowings, are initially measured at fair value, net of transaction costs. .

Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured a at amortised cost using the effective interest method, with interest
expense recognised on an effective yield basis.

The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest
expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments
through the expected life of the financial liability, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial
recognition.

Derecognition
; Financial assets

The Company derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it
transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the
Company neither’ transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership .and continues to control the
transferred asset, the Company recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to
pay. If the Company retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Company
continues to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.

Financial liabilities

The Company derecognises a financial liability when its contractual obligations are discharged, cancelled, or expire.
Impairment of financial assets ; ‘
Financial assets

The Company assesses the indicators of impairment at each reporting date and as required recognises a loss allowance for
expected credit losses on investments. The amount of expected credit losses is updated to reflect changes i in credit tisk since
initial recognition of the respective financial instrument.

The Company’ recognises lifetime expected credit losses (ECL) based on the Company’s historical credit loss experience,
adjusted for factors that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of both the current as well
as the forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date. :

In assessing whether the credit risk on a financial instrument has increased significantly, the Company compares the risk of a
default occurring on the financial instrument at the reporting date with the risk of a default occurring on the financial
instrument at the date of initial recognition. In making this assessment, the Company considers both quantitative and
qualitative information that is reasonable and supportable, including historical experience and forward-looking information that
is available without undue cost or effort.

Page 47

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

2 Accounting policies (continued)

Derivative financial instruments

The Company uses derivative financial instruments such as forward currency contracts, forward commodity purchases and
interest rate swaps to hedge its risks associated with. certain foreign currency, commodity prices and interest rate fluctuations.
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into
and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. : :

Derivatives are carried as assets when the fair value is positive and as liabilities when the fair value is negative. The fair value
of forward currency contracts is calculated by reference to current forward exchange rates for contracts with similar maturity
profiles. The fair value of interest rate swap contracts is determined by reference to market values for similar instruments. For
those derivatives designated as hedges and for which hedge accounting is desired, the hedging relationship is formally
designated and documented at its inception. This documentation identifies the risk management objective and strategy for
undertaking the hedge, the hedging instrument, the hedged item or transaction, the nature of the risk being hedged and how
effectiveness will be measured throughout its duration. Such hedges are expected at inception to be highly effective in
offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine that they actually. have been
highly effective throughout the reporting period for which they were designated.

Hedge accounting .
For the purpose of hedge accounting, hedges are classified as cash flow hedges when hedging exposure to variability i in cash

flows that is either attributable to a particular risk associated with a recognised asset or liability or a highly probable forecast

transaction. Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting

are taken to the profit and loss account. The treatment of gains and losses arising from revaluing derivatives designated as

hedging instruments depends on the nature of the hedging relationship. For cash flow hedges, the effective part of any gain or

loss on the derivative financial instrument is recognised directly in the hedging reserve. Any ineffective portion of the hedge is

recognised immediately in the profit and loss account. : . ,

Climate change

Climate change risks including-the impact of achieving this target have been considered and assessed in the preparation of the
Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2023. In line with the application of our accounting policies, estimates
and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis as we continue to develop and implement our strategy to meet
these targets.

3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the Company’s accounting policies, which are described in note 2, the Directors are required to make
judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from
other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised
in the period in which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future
periods if the revision affects both current and future periods.

The Directors believe that the following accounting policies are critical due to the degree of estimation required and / or the
potential material impact they may have‘on the Company’s financial position and performance.

The following are areas of judgement:

Page 48

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

3 Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued) .

Revenue recognition - long term contract accounting .

. The Company generates revenue from long term contracts. This often requires judgement to be applied and where actual
results differ to the estimates made, this could result in a significant impact on the Company’s financial results. The specific
judgements required are dependent on individual contracts and so may differ on a contract by contract basis. Examples would
include judgement being required in estimating the stage of completion of the contract at the balance sheet date based on the
forecast total contract costs that is expected to be incurred on the contract. There are no individually material judgements
relating to contracts during the year.

The following are areas of estimation uncertainty:

Estimation uncertainty considerations for revenue recognition are included in the judgements section above.

Provisions

Estimation is required in determining whether the Group has a present obligation and whether it is probable that an outflow of
economic benefits will be required to settle this obligation. This estimation is applied to information available at the time of
determining the liability including but not limited to interpretations of legislation, regulations, case law and insurance contracts
depending on the nature of the provision. :

Restoration, decommissioning and environmental costs
The company has an obligation to undertake restoration and environmental work associated with sites and decommissioning of
plant or other site work.-A provision is recognized for the present value of such costs, which will be incurred over the life of
the relevant quarry. The measurement of these provisions is based on an evaluation of currently available facts with respect to
each individual site and considers factors such as existing technology, currently enacted laws and régulations and prior
’ experience in remediation of sites. The liabilities provided for reflect the assumptions applied by management in respect of
information available at the time of determining the liability and are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress or as
additional technical or legal information becomes available. Due to the inherent uncertainties described above, many of which
are not under management’s control, actual costs and cash outflows could differ if management used different assumptions or
if different conditions occur in future accounting periods. Costs for restoration of site damage, decommissioning and
environmental costs are estimated having regard to the terms of the relevant extraction licence and planning conditions using
either the work of external consultants or internal experts.. Management uses its judgement and experience to provide for and
amortise these estimated costs over the life of the site. Provisions are discounted where appropriate and unwound over the
estimated life of the site. ©

Mineral estimates and useful economic lives of assets

When determining the extent of mineral reserves available in the Company’s quarries, assumptions that were valid at the time
of estimation may change when new information becomes available. A change in assumptions could affect prospective
depreciation rates and asset carrying values.

The calculation of the Company’s depreciation rate is on a site by site basis based on the. unit of production which could be
impacted to the extent that actual production in the future is different from current forecast production based on the mineral
reserves.

Factors which could impact useful economic lives of assets include:

- assumptions used in the estimation of mineral reserves;
- renewal of planning and other regulatory factors; and
- unforeseen operational issues at the quarry sites.

Depreciation is provided in order to write down the assets to their residual values over their estimated useful lives as set out in
the accounting policy. The application of these estimated lives requires the exercise of management judgement. Useful lives
are regularly reviewed and should management’s assessment of useful lives change then depreciation charges in the financial
statements would be updated and carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment would be amended accordingly. The
carrying amount of property, plant and equipment by each class is included in the tangible assets note and details of the
estimated useful lives are included within the accounting policy. :

Page 49

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

4 Turnover

’ The analysis of the Company's turnover for the year from continuing operations is as follows:

Sale of goods

Revenue from contracts with customers .

Land development activities

Turnover is wholly attributable to the United Kingdom market.

. Contract balances .

An analysis of the Company's construction contracts is as follows:

Contract assets -
Unbilled revenue
Retentions

Contract liabilities
Advances received

Billings in excess of revenue - deferred revenue. 17

2023

224°

2022

£m £m

1,502.7 1,509.0

502.6 472.8

“1.6 14.6

2,006.9 1,996.4

At 31

At 1 January . December

2023 Additions — Received 2023

Note — £m , £m : £m £m
16 27.3 22.4 (27.3)

16 55 “53 + > (6.2) 4.6

. Charged to - At 31

At 1 January : . the profit and December

2023 Additions loss account . 2023

Note £m £m . £m £m

“17 . (3.0) @G.0) - 3.0 (3.0)

(31.0)

Page 50

(18.7) (31.0) 18.7

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

5 Operating profit

Arrived at after charging/(crediting) . :
2023 2022

: £m £m
Depreciation on tangible fixed assets TO ; 39.6 47.5
Depreciation on right of use assets ; 16.4 13.3
Cost of stock recognised as an expense . 961.4 . 851.8
HMRC research and development expenditure credit - * (3.8). (3.2)

(Profit)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (0.9) . 16 .

Rents receivable ; ; . (7.3) (6.6)
Share based payment expense . 7.6 ~ 2.3
Restructuring costs . . : , : 49 3.7

Restructuring costs relate to the various internal restructuring and redundancy programmes, primarily as a result of the
portfolio review and management reorganisation carried out between 2020 and 2023. ‘

2023 2022
£m £m
Auditor's remuneration:
"Fees payable to the Company's auditor for the audit of the Company's financial

accounts = * 0.7 0.5

There were no non-audit services provided in either year.

Page 51

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

6 Interest receivable and similar income

2023 "2022
. £m £m
Interest receivable from group companies. : Le 37.0 17.8
7 Interest payable and similar expenses . :
; _ 2023 2022
. ; £m £m
Interest on bank overdrafts and borrowings i oc 0.1
Unwinding of discount on provisions 3.6 15
Interest paid to group undertakings : . 0.2 : -
Interest expense on leases ; ; 2.6 2.3
. 64 3.9
8 Staff costs
The aggregate payroll costs (including Directors' remuneration) were as follows: Looe .
: . 2023 2022
: ‘£m £m
Wages and salaries oa : . 125.1 _ 120.9
Social security costs , ~ 12.7 12.6
Other short-term employee benefits . 6.0 5.9
Redundancy costs : : oo 49 . (0.8)
, 148.7 _ _138.6

The average number of persons employed by the Company (including Directors) during the year, analysed by category was as

follows: : .
. 2023 - 2022
. . No. . No.
Production , 1,966 2,098
Administration and support : 655 684
; 2,621 2,782

The amounts paid to the Directors during the current and prior years were paid by fellow Tarmac subsidiary, Tarmac Services
Limited. The costs recharged to the Company were emoluments of £2.5 million (2022: £2.6 million) and pension contributions
of £nil (2022: Enil). ,

During the year payments of £nil were made to Directors in respect of loss of office (2022: £0.3 million).

Two Directors are paid by another CRH group entity and it is not practicable to split their services or remuneration between
Tarmac subsidiaries or other CRH group entities for the services rendered to these entities. The Directors' salary, pension and
any associated benefits are paid by CRH Group Services Limited which has made no recharge to the Company in respect of
these payments.

. During the year, six directors received vested share options in the parent company, CRH plc.

Page 52

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

9 Taxon profit -

Tax charged/(credited) in the profit and loss account . :
. 2023 2022

£m £m

Current taxation : ; :
Current year 14.8 * $.0
Adjustments in respect of prior years 0.7 __ (0.3)

; 15.5 47
Deferred taxation : . :
Origination and reversal of temporary differences ; . . 1.9 . 3.2
Adjustments in respect of prior years . : oe : 0.4
Change of rate oo . 0.1 : 1.0
Total deferred taxation ; oo 20 — ; 4.6.
Tax charge in the profit and loss account os : 17.5. 9.3

The differences between the total tax for the year and the amount calculated by applying the standard rate of UK corporation
tax of 23.5% (2022: 19%) to the profit before tax are as follows:

2023 “2022

. : £m £m

Profit before tax - 168.1 125.9
Tax at the standard rate of UK corporation tax of 23.5% (2022: 19%) : "39,5 23.9
Adjustments in respect of prior years : . 0.7 ~ Ol
Income not taxable : (98.1) (13.3)
Expenses not deductible . . : : . . 772 , 2.4
Share based payments : : (1.4) ~ (0.5)
Group relief (claimed) / surrendered for nil payment , - (4.5)
Transfers and hive up (0.2) oe
Impact of change in tax laws and rates : 0.1 1.0
Impact of land appropriated to stock : : . (0.5) -
Chargeable gains see 0.2 0.2
Total tax charge , ue : OO 17.5 9.3

Page 53

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071 -9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

9 Tax on profit (continued)

Group relief within Tarmac is surrendered free of charge.

Group relief claimed from other CRH UK Group companies is paid for at the prevailing rate of corporation tax for the year at
23.5% (2022: 19%). . .

Finance No.2 Bill 2015 enacted the rate of comporation tax to 19% with effect from 1 April 2017 with Finance Bill 2021
increasing the main rate of corporation tax for all non-ring fence profits to 25% from 1 April 2023. This change was
substantively enacted on 24 May 2021 and no further changes to the corporation tax rate have been proposed. It has resulted in
a blended current tax rate for the current year of 23.5%.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at tax rates that are enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The timing of the reversal of the Company’s deferred tax items has been considered, and accordingly at 31 December 2023
deferred tax has been calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset is realised or liability is
settled. Therefore all deferred tax assets and liabilities have been measured at 25% being the rate enacted at the balance sheet
date. |

Deferred tax

Deferred tax movement during the year: , 7
(As restated) At

Ati January Recognised in Recognised in 31 December

2023 income _ equity oo. 2023

: : £m £m £m £m
Accelerated tax depreciation ~ : (52.9) ' (3.6) - (56.5)
Share-based payment ; nr) Se . 11 : 2.0
Provisions , : . 17.4 1.5 : ; 18.9
(34.6) (2.1) Ll | (35.6)

During the preparation of the current year financial statements, the Company identified that in the prior year financial
statements the split between accelerated tax. depreciation and share-based payment had been understated by £0.5 million
respectively. Consequently, the prior year comparatives have been restated to correct the allocation.

There are £103.6 million of unused tax losses (2022: £105.1 million) for which no deferred tax asset is recognised in the -
statement of financial position:

10 Intangible assets .
Goodwill Software Total

£m £m £m
Cost or valuation .
At 1 January 2023 , 20.5 0.8 21.3
At 31 December 2023 . 20.5 0.8 21.3
Amortisation
At 1 January 2023 , 1.6 0.3 19
Amortisation charge . : . ; : - . 0.2 0.2
At 31 December 2023 1.6 0.5. 2.1
Carrying amount .
At 31 December 2023 : , . 18.9 _ 03 19.2
At 31 December 2022 , 18.9 0.5 19.4

Page 54

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264
Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

11 Tangible assets

Mineral Land and © Plant and’ Assets in course

reserves _ buildings. machinery _ of construction Total
£m £m : £m £m £m
Cost or valuation . ;
At | January 2023 716.3 74.0 : 605.6 58.4 1,454.3
Additions 5.0 . 08 49 _ 32.5 43.2
_ Disposals = (0.2) , . (7) (18.7) - (20.6)
Transfers from assets in course .
of construction © : 0.6 1.7 24.9 (27.2) 7
Intra group transfers in 0.2 : 0.9 8.2 - 1.0 10.3
Intra group transfers out ; - ae (1.0) 1) — (1.1):
_Reclassifications ; (41.1) © 36.8 ; 4.3 ; - -
At 31 December 2023 . 680.8 112.5 628.2 64.6 1,486.1
Depreciation : :
At 1 January 2023 : 450.1 30.6 ; 469.3 ve 950.0
- Charge for the year ; WS 24 ' 25.7 = 39.6
Eliminated on disposal - / (0.5) “ (17.7) - ~ (18.2)
Intra group transfers in “0.2 0.3 0.6 - “Al
Intra group transfers out , . -- (0.9) : - (0.9)
Reclassifications . . (4.3) 12.2 2.1 - -
At 31 December 2023 447.5 45.0 479.1 _- 971.6.
- Carrying amount
At 31 December 2023 233300 675 A GSS

At 31 December 2022 . _ 266.2 © 43.4 136.3 58.4 | 504.3

Reclassifications relate to changes in presentation of assets between asset categories. These reclassifications have no impact on
related accumulated or current year depreciation expense. _

Land and buildings 0 .
The net book value of land and buildings comprises:

‘31 December 31 December

2023 2022

. . £m £m
Freehold ; 65.6 - 415
Leasehold - long . : 1.2 1.2
Leasehold - short . . 0.7 0.7

67.5 43.4

Page 55

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264.

Tarmac Trading Limited . ‘

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

, 11 Tangible assets (continued)

Value of land not depreciated
The value of land not depreciated is as follows:

31 December 31 December

2023 2022
£m £m
Land not depreciated ae . 32.1 31.1
12 Right of use assets
Land and Plant and-
buildings machinery ’ Vehicles Total
£m — £m . £m £m
Cost or valuation _ .
At 1 January 2023 : : . 80.4 : 29.6 12.4 122.4
- Additions oo 440 — 17.5 ; 3.6 25.5
Disposals . : (5.9) (2.1) : (3.5) (11.5)
Remeasurements 5.0 : - (0,2) 4.8
Intercompany transfers . 5.1 : 0.3. (0.2) - 5.2
At 31 December 2023 | . 89.0 45.3 ; 12.1 146.4
‘Depreciation . oo ,
At 1 January 2023 ; 21.8 10.6 76 40.0
Charge for the year : 77 . 5.8 2.9 16.4
Eliminated on disposal : : : (2.6) . 21). (3.5) (8.2)
Intercompany transfers 0.9 : 0.1 (0.1) 0.9
“At 31 December 2023 ; 27.8 14.4 6.9 49.1
Carrying amount .
At 31 December 2023 _ 612 30.9 — 52.973

At 31 December 2022 58.6 - 19.0 48 82.4

Remeasurements
£4.8 million (2022: £2.4 million) of remeasurements relate to changes to future lease payments on land, machinery and
vehicles leases. .

Note 19 includes further information on the lease liabilities for these right-of-use assets.

Page 56

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

13 Investments
Subsidiaries a £m

Cost or valuation

At | January 2023 : . 563.0
Additions , 276.8
At 31 December 2023 : . 839.8
Provision . :

At 1 January 2023 . 490.3
Provision for impairment made during year , 316.1
At 31 December 2023 : . : . 806.4
Carrying amount | ; : :

At 31 December 2023 : 33.4

At 31 December 2022 , 2.7
The investments in subsidiaries are all stated at cost less provision for impairment.

As part of a wider project to simplify the ownership structure of dormant entities within the Tarmac group, during the year the
Company recognised an additional £276.8 million in investments through both the acquisition of subsidiary shares from other
group undertakings and the subscription to the newly issued share capital of those subsidiaries. This subscription to newly
issued share capital restored a number of subsidiaries to solvency, leading to a £273.7 million gain in respect of intercompany
debt recovery being recorded in the profit and loss account. A provision for impairment of £316.1 million was recognised to
reduce the investments to the recoverable value of the respective subsidiary. During the year the Company received dividends
of £141.0 million from subsidiaries (2022: £60.0 million) which are explained as follows. £57.9 million dividends were a result
of this corporate simplification project. £65.6 million dividends were from entities hived up to the Company during the year.
. Other dividends received during the year amounted to £17.5 million.

Page 57

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited —

Notes to the Financial Statements for the.Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

13 Investments (continued)

Details of the subsidiaries at 31 December 2023 are as below. All companies listed below are owned directly by the Company
unless otherwise indicated. All companies operate principally in their country of incorporation, which is the United Kingdom
unless otherwise indicated.

All companies have a registered address of Ground Floor 73 Trinity Park, Bickenhill Lane, Birmingham, United Kingdom,
B37 7ES, unless otherwise indicated below.

. Proportion of
Name of subsidiary : : Registered office _ ownership %
. : . 2023 2022
Alun Griffiths (Contractors) Limited* . Waterways House, Merthyr 100% | 100%
Road, Llanfoist, :
Abergavenny,
. Monmouthshire NP7 9PE
BDP Surfacing Limited ae 100% 100%
. Beasley Coated Stone Limited : 100% | 100%
Bettamix Limited . : _ 100% . 100%
Bodfari (Quarries) Limited . : : 100% 100%
Bodfari Quarry Products Limited* . 100% “100%
Bothwell Park Brick Company Limited ~ Cambusnethan House, ~ 100% 100%
: : Linnet Way, Strathclyde .
Business Park, Bellshill,

. . : ML4 3NJ, Scotland .
Bowne & Shaw Limited : : 100% 100%
Brady Industries Limited* : 100% 100%
Briggs Amasco Curtainwall Limited* . 100% 100%
Bristol Aggregates Recycling Limited 100% 100%
Broadhill Developments Limited* , : 100% 100%

_ Busy Bees Limited , 100% 100%
Buxton Lime and:Cement Limited 100% 100%
Cambrian Stone Limited : : : 100% =; 100%
‘Cempak Limited ; 100% 100%
CMS-Pozament Limited* . Cambusnethan House, 100% 100%
, . Linnet Way, Strathclyde ~

Business Park, Bellshill,
. ML4 3NJ, Scotland
Craven Street Developments Limited* : 100% 100%
Croxden Quarries Limited* , . 100% 100%
Dow Mac Limited* : : 100% 100%
E. G. Coleman (Weymouth) Limited* 100% 100%
East Coast Slag Products Limited . , 100% 100%
Environmental Aggregates Limited © ; . 100%" 100%
Francis Parker Limited* 100% 100%
Francis Parker Properties Limited* 100% 100%
Greater London Asphalt Limited : 100% 100%
Harlow Asphalt Limited . . = : 100% 100%
Hilton Property Holdings Limited : 100% 100%
Holme Hall Quarries Limited : . 100% 100%.
Hopkins Concrete Limited 100% 100%
J.B. Riney and Co. Limited : 455 Wick Lane, London, 100% 100%
: United Kingdom, E3 2TB

Jee’s Hartshill Limited ‘ 100% 100%

Page 58

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued) ,

13 Investments (continued)

Name of subsidiary

Kings & Company Limited*

Lignacite (Trade Mark) Limited
Lime-Sand Mortar (Southern) Limited*

Link Way Management Company Limited*
LTM (City of London) Limited*

LTM (City of Westminster) Limited*

LTM (Southern) Limited*

LTM (Western) Limited*
‘LTM Crewing Services Limited

Moreys (Verwood) Limited*

Nash Rocks Stone and Lime Company Limited
National Road Planing Limited .

New London Road Developments Limited* -

’ North Notts Gravel Company Limited

Panvers Limited ,
Pozament Limited

Providethat Limited*
‘Purple Alpha Limited

R.R. Land Investments Limited .
Raisby Quarries Limited*
Richard Abel & Sons Limited*
Ritemix Concrete Limited*
Roseland Aggregates Limited
Scunthorpe Slag Limited*
Severn Valley Brick Company Limited*.
Site Mixed Concrete Limited
Situsec Contractors Limited
Solent Aggregates Limited*
Tarmac (BA) Limited

Tarmac (South Western) Limited

Tarmac (SQ) Limited

Tarmac Asphalt Limited

Tarmac Benchmark Developments Limited*.
Tarmac Bricks & Tiles Limited*

Tarmac Brookglade Properties Public Limited Company*

Tarmac Building Materials Limited
Tarmac Burford (Southern) Limited*

Registered office

Cambusnethan House,
Linnet Way, Strathclyde
Business Park, Bellshill,
ML4 3NJ, Scotland

Cambusnethan House,

Linnet Way, Strathclyde
’ Business Park, Bellshill,

ML4 3NJ , Scotland

-Cambusnethan House,

Linnet Way, Strathclyde
Business Park, Bellshill,
ML4 3NJ, Scotland

Waterways House, Merthyr

Road, Lianfoist,
Abergavenny,
Monmouthshire NP7 9PE

74

Cambusnethan House,
Linnet Way, Strathclyde
Business Park, Bellshill,

- ML43NJ

Page 59

Proportion of
ownership %
2023

100%

83.33%
100%

100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%

100%
100%

100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%

100%
100%

‘100%

100%
100%
100%
100%
100%

2022
100%

83.33%
100%

100% -
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%

100% -

100%

100%
100% -
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%

100%
100%
100%

"100%

100%
100%
100%
100%

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

13 Investments (continued)

Name of subsidiary

Tarmac Caledonian Limited

Tarmac DC Pension Trustee Limited
Tarmac Directors (UK) Limited :

. Tarmac Fleming (Quarries) Limited (incorporated in
Ireland)*

Tarmaé Group Limited :

Tarmac Holdings (THL) Limited ©

Tarmac Industrial Products Limited

Tarmac Limited

Tarmac’ Marine (Guernsey) Limited (incorporated in

Guernsey)

Tarmac Marine Limited

Tarmac Minerals Limited

Tarmac Minimix Limited*

Tarmac Nominees Limited _

Tarmac Nominees Two Limited

Tarmac Properties Home Counties Limited*

Tarmac Properties (JMA) Limited*
- Tarmac Properties Limited

Tarmac Provincial Properties Limited* ,

Tarmac Quarry Products (Ireland) Limited (incorporated in
» Ireland)

Tarmac Recycling Services Limited

Tarmac Roadstone Holdings Limited

Tarmac Roadstone Limited

Tarmac Roadstone Nominees Limited

Tarmac Secretaries (UK) Limited

Tarmac Structural Concrete Limited*
* Tarmac Topblock Limited

Tarmac Topflight Limited

Tarmac Toplite Limited

Tarmac Topmix Limited

Tarmac Trustees Limited

Tarmac UK Holdings Limited*

Tarmac UK Limited*

TCR Aggregates Limited

Teesside Slag Limited*
TGCL (Oldco) Limited*
The Northumberland Whinstone Company Limited
Thermodeck Limited* .
Tilcon (North) Limited
Tilling Construction Services Limited*
Tipton Group Limited*
Tipton Holdings Limited*
. Topmix (Mortars) Limited*

Registered office

Cambusnethan House, .
Linnet Way, Strathclyde
Business Park, Bellshill,
ML4 3NJ, Scotland

One Spencer Dock, North
Wall Quay, Dublin 1,

. Ireland

Guernsey, GY1 2QB,
Guemsey

‘One Spencer Dock, North

Wall Quay, Dublin 1,
Ireland

- Cambusnethan House,

Linnet Way, Strathclyde

’ Business Park, Bellshill,

ML4 3NJ, Scotland

Page 60

Proportion of ©
ownership %
2023 2022.
100% 100%
100% 100% |
100% 100%
100% 100%
100%: 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% - 100%:
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% - ° 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100% .
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100%

100%

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

13 Investments (continued)

Name of subsidiary

Topmix Limited

Trevians Limited*

United Marine Aggregates Limited

Vicourt Limited*

W.J. Hall & Sons (Gorleston) Limited

Wales and Border Counties Plant Hire Limited
Welsh Aggregates Limited

Winmix Limited*

* indicates indirect investment

Joint ventures

- Cost or valuation
At 1 January 2023

At 31 December 2023

Provision
At 1 January 2023

At 31 December 2023
Carrying amount

At 31 December 2023
At 31 December 2022

Registered office

Page 61

Proportion of
ownership %

2023 2022
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100% -
100% 100%
100% 100%
100% 100%

1.2
1.2 -

1.0
1.0

0.2
0.2

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264 -

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

13 Investments (continued)

Details of the joint ventures as at 31 December 2023 are as below. The registered office address is Ground Floor T3 Trinity
Park, Bickenhill Lane, Birmingham, United Kingdom, B37 TES unless otherwise indicated.

Name of joint ventures

Argot Properties Limited *
Barker & Bence Limited *
C. & H. Quick-mix Limited *

Foxholes Business Park Limited *
GRS (Roadstone) Limited *

GRS (Roadstone) Trustees Limited *
GRS Bagging Holdings Limited *
GRS Building Products Limited *
GRS Roadstone Group Limited

GRS Roadstone Holdings Limited *

Isle of Wight Aggregates Limited °
Linear Quarry Products Limited

Mersey Sand Suppliers (unincorporated) *

Mersey Sand Suppliers Limited

Minevote Public Limited Company *.

North Tyne Roadstone Limited
Norwest Holding Limited *

Norwest Sand & Ballast Co (1985) * °
Norwest Sand & Ballast Company Limited *

Oval (302) Limited *
Peel Lamp Properties Limited *

Prestige Sports Surfaces Limited (in liquidation)

R.H. Roadstone Limited *
Schofield Centre Limited *

Shepperton Aggregates Limited (in liquidation)
South Kensington Developments Limited *

Tarmac Clayform Limited *

Registered office

. 9-11 Drayton High Road,
- Drayton, Norwich, Norfolk,

NR8 6AH

10 Goldsmith Way, Eliot,
Business Park, Nuneaton,
Warwickshire, CV10 7RJ

_ 10 Goldsmith Way, Eliot .
Business Park, Nuneaton,

Warwickshire, CV10 7RJ
10 Goldsmith Way, Eliot
Business Park, Nuneaton,
Warwickshire;CV10 7RJ
10 Goldsmith Way, Eliot

‘Business Park, Nuneaton,

Warwickshire, CV10 7RJ
10 Goldsmith Way, Eliot
Business Park, Nuneaton,
Warwickshire, CV10 7RJ
10 Goldsmith Way, Eliot
Business Park, Nuneaton,
Warwickshire, CV10 7RJ

- Cambusnethan House, Linnet

Way, Strathclyde Business
Park, Bellshill, ML4 3NJ

7a Howick Place, London
SWI1P 1DZ, England

Venus Building 1 Old Park
Lane, Traffordcity,
Manchester, England, M41
THA

7a Howick Place, London,
SWI1P 1DZ, England

Page 62

Proportion of
ownership %
2023 2022
"50% 50% -
50% - 50%
50% 50%
50% 50%
25% 25%
25% 25%
25% 25%
25% 25%
25% 25%
25% 25%
50% 50%
50% * 50%
33.33% 33.33%
50% 50%
50% 50%
50% 50%
50% 50%
50% 50% ©
50% 50%
50% 50%
50% 50% |
50% 50%
50% 50%
50% 50%
50% 50%
50% 50%
50% 50%

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

13 Investments (continued)

Proportion of

: : ownership %
Name of joint ventures Registered office 2023 ‘2022
Tarmac Farrans JV Limited (incorporated in Northern 99 Kingsway, Dunmurry, 50% 50% -
Ireland) Belfast, BT17 9NU
Tarmac Guildford Limited * 50% 50%
Tendley Quarries Limited : : Brigham, Cockermouth, 50% 50%

: . : “. Cumbria, CA13 0SE

White Lion Walk Limited * . 50% _ 50%

* indicates indirect investment

14 Stock
31 December 31 December
2023 2022
£m £m
Raw materials and consumables . . 14.8 16.8
Finished goods and goods for resale ~ ; . 39.2 31.1
Development land ; . 6.4 . 3.2
, 60.4 51.1

There is no material difference between the balance sheet value of stocks and their replacement cost.

15 Loans to group undertakings .
, 31. December 31 December

2023 2022

£m £m

Amounts due from construction contract customers ‘ : - , 1.2
Sublease receivable ; , - 1.7_

Loans to group undertakings : : 142.6 492.1

Amounts owed by joint ventures and associated companies : 0.5

142.6 495.5

Loans to group undertakings and amounts owed by joint ventures and associated companies have no fixed repayment date and
are repayable on demand. No interest is charged on these balances.

On 31 December 2023, the Company assigned to Tarmac Holdings Limited the £343.1m outstanding loan amount owed by
Tarmac Cement Limited in respect of the transfer of certain Cement plants in 2016. On the same date, the terms of the loan,
which previously attracted an interest charge of LIBOR plus 3.5% with no fixed repayment date, were amended to a 5 year
fixed term loan maturing on 31 December 2028 at a fixed interest rate of 5.59%.

During the year the presentation of certain balances previously included within Loans to group undertaking has been amended
and the current year balances are presented within Debtors.

Page 63

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071 -9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

16 Debtors

Debtors: Amounts falling due within one year

Trade debtors

Amounts owed by group companies

Amounts owed by joint ventures ‘and associated companies
Unbilled revenue , /
Amounts due from construction contract customers
Prepayments :

Other debtors

Sublease receivable

31 December
2023
£m

158.8

243.7

3.1
22.4
5.7
9.1
16.2
0.4

459.4

31 December
2022

£m

174.8

221.3

5.9

27.3.

47
9.9
23.5
0.3

467.7

Amounts due from construction contract customers, falling due within one year, of £5. 7 million (2022: £4.7 million) includes

-retentions of £3.1 million (2022: £4.3 million).

Amounts owed by fellow group companies and amounts owed by joint ventures and associated companies have no fixed
repayment date and are repayable on demand. No interest is chargéd on these balances. There are amounts due from CRH
(UK) Limited for the zero balancing cash pool arrangement, on which interest is charged at the Bank of England base rate.

At 31 December 2023 allowances for doubtful debts were only held against Trade Debtors, amounts included were £19.5

million (2022: £12.3 million).

Debtors: Amounts falling due after more than one year
Sublease receivable

_ Amounts due from construction coniract customers
Amounts owed by joint ventures and associated companies

31 December

2023
£m
2.8
1.5
0.6

49

31 December
2022
£m

Amounts due from construction contract customers, falling due after more than one year; of £1.5 million (2022: £1.2 million

presented within Loans to. ‘group undertakings) relates to retentions.

During the year the presentation of certain balances previously included within Loans to group undertakings has been amended

and the current year balances are presented within Debtors.

Page 64

C

\

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071 -9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

17 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year

Note

Trade creditors

Accrued expenses

Amounts owed to group companies :

Amounts owed to group companies - group relief

Social security and other taxes

Other creditors :

Corporation tax

Current portion of long term lease liabilities 19

31 December -

2023
£m

167.7
89.2
30.4

1.8
43.4
52.3
14.2
18.6

417.6

31 December
. 2022
£m

125.0
83.3
508.7
ll
48.7
40.8
37
14.6

825.9

Amounts owed to group companies are unsecured, have no fixed repayment date and no interest is charged oni these balances.

Other creditors includes advances received of £3.0 million (2022: £3.0 million) and billing in excess of revenue of £31.0

million (2022 : £18.7 million).

18 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year

. . . Note
Long term lease liabilities . 19
Other creditors
19 Leases
Leases included in creditors —

. Note
Current portion of long term lease liabilities 17°
Long term lease liabilities . ee 18

Page 65°

* 31 December

31 December

2023 2022
£m £m
87.5 TAS
3.5 __-
91.0 TAS
31 December 31 December
2023 2022
£m £m
18.6 14.6
87.5 74.5
106.1 89.1

i

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FFO4| D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)
19 Leases (continued)

Lease liabilities maturity analysis :
A maturity analysis of lease liabilities based on undiscounted gross cash flow is reported in the table below:
: 31 December 31 December

2023 . 2022

: £m £m

’ Less than one year 18.9, 14.8

1 -2 years : . . : . 17.5 12.3

2-3 years . 15.1 : 10.8

3-4 years © . . , 11.0 8.7

4-5 years : . V7 5.4

Between 5 and 10 years . _ | 21.7 19.8

Between 10 and 20 years : a : . 27.1 ~~ _ 275

’ More than 20 years . So ; 9.1 11.7
Total lease liabilities (undiscounted) oo - 128.1 111.0

Lease costs charged to the Profit and Loss Account -

Tarmac avails of the exemption from capitalising lease costs for short-term leases and low-value assets where the relevant

‘criteria are met. Variable lease payments directly linked to sales or usage are also expensed as incurred. The following lease .

costs have been charged to the Profit and Loss Account as incurred:

2023 2022

: : ; £m £m
Short term leases : : 1.7 ; 1.7
Variable lease payments not included in the lease liability : : 51.8 60.4
53.5 . 62.1

The variable lease payments relate to contract hauliers. As the payments are fully variable these will move in line with activity
of the business and therefore future exposure to variable lease payments is expected to move in line with turnover.

Total cash outflows related to leases .
Total cash outflows related to leases are presented in the table below:

. 2023 2022
Lease liabilities : Em. £m
At 1 January 89.1 _ 93.5
Addition of right of use assets . 25.5 V7
Disposals oe : Q4) - (0.4)
Remeasurements , , 48 2.7
Payments ; ; ; (18.2) -(16.3)
Discount unwinding : , . . 2.6 . 2.30 -
Intercompany transfers ~ ae : 4.7 (0.4)

At31 December, 106.1 89.1

Page 66

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

19 Leases (continued)

Sublease receivable maturity analysis

A maturity analysis of sublease receivables based on undiscounted gross cash inflow i is reported in the table below:

Less than one year

1 -2 years :

2 -3 years

3 - 4 years

4-5 years

Between 6 and 10 years
Between 11 and 20 years

Total sublease receivable (undiscounted)

31 December
2023
£m

0.3

0.3
03

0.3
03
13

12,

4.0

31 December
2022

£m

0.3

0.2

- 0.2

0.2

0.1

0.7

0.3

2.0

Sublease i income for 2023 was  £0.3 million (2022: £0.3 million), No salé and leaseback transactions were recognised during

the period (2022: nil) -

_Amounts receivable on operating leases

A maturity analysis o} of amounts receivable on operating leases based on undiscounted gross cash inflow i is reported i in the table

below:

Less than one year

1-2 years

2 - 3 years

3 - 4 years

4 -.5 years

Between 6 and 10 years
Between 11 and 20 years
Over 20 years

Total amounts receivable on operating lease (undiscounted)

Page 67 ©

31 December
2023.

£m

- 0.4

0.4
0.4
0.4

0.3.

1.2
2.3
4.0

9.4

31 ‘December
2022
£m
0.3
0.3"
0.3
0.3
03
1.2
2.3
4.0

9.0


Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited —

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

20 Provisions for liabilities

Restoration
and Other
Restructuring decommissioning provisions Total
: £m £m £m £m

At 1 January 2023 Ho 9.9 . 62.1 29.4 101.4

Provided during the year . 49 3.5 18.0 ; 26.4

Transfers between group companies . - , 0.4 (0.6) (0.2)
_ Transfers from hived up entities © , - 12. 03 1.5

Provisions used ; (4.72) ~ © (4.0) (6.5) (15.2)

Unwinding of discount ‘ . 3.2 04. 3.6

Change in discount rate . = (7.6) (0.4) . (8.0) -

Reclass provision 9.7) 74 ; 230. ° -

At 31 December 2023 04 66.2 | 42.9 : 109.5

The Company has an obligation t to undertake restoration and environmental work associated with sites and decommissioning of
plant or other site work. A provision has been recognised for the present value of such costs. These costs will be incurred over
the life of the relevant quarry.

- Restructuring provisions relate to commitments under various internal restructuring and redundancy programmes, primarily as
‘a result of the portfolio review and management reorganisation carried out between 2020 and 2023. These Provisions are
expected to be utilised within one year of the balance sheet date.

- Other provisions primarily relate to onerous contracts and legal claims. The onerous contracts provided for are principally in

relation to mineral leases and related obligations at closed and mothballed sites. These costs will be incurred over the
remaining terms of the relevant leases.

Page 68

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264
Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

21 Share capital

Allotted, called up and fully paid shares

31 December . 31 December
2023 2022:
No. m £m No. m £m
Ordinary shares of £1 each : : 435 435 435 435

22 Reserves

Called up share capital represents the nominal value of shares that have been issued.
Share premium account represents the premium paid on shares that have been issued.
Profit and loss account includes all current and prior period retained profits and losses.
, Share based payment reserve includes the cumulative share based payment expense.
Cashflow hedge reserve includes cumulative movements in hedge arrangements held by the Company. |

Details of all movements in reserves are shown in the Statement of Changes in Equity on page 33.

23 Share-based payments

2023; (02
, . . £m £m
2014 Performance Share Plan expense ; . oo , 68 | 1.4
Savings related share option expense : ; 0.8 0.9
, 7.6 2.3

Details in relation to the above schemes are set out in CRH plc's 2023 published financial statements.

Savings related share option

: : : ; 2023 2022
Weighted average remaining contractual life gear . : 1,72 2.60
Range of exercise-price ® : 20.11 - 31.04 20.11 - 31.04

The savings related expense of £800,000 (2022: £900 ,000) reported in the Profit and Loss account has been arrived at through
applying the trinomial model, which is a lattice option-pricing model.

The weighted average share price at the date of exercise for share options exercised during the period was €48.70 (2022:
€34.54).

Page 69

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071 -9237-470A-8DBA-5831 FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

‘23 Share-based payments (continued)

At 1 January 2023 deferred At31 December
2023 2023 expense - Shares vested tax expense : 2023
. £m £m £m £m £m

2014 Performance Share . : ,
Plan - 12 68 (5.7) ot 2.3

’ Savings-related share mc .

option expense 14 0.8 , (0:2) oa - 2.0
Deferred tax 0.2 -- . - - ; 11 13

24 Capital commitments ,

The total amount contracted for but not provided in the financial statements was £9.1 million (2022: £9.6 million). This relates
to planned fixed asset purchases.

25 Contingent liabilities

The Company has contingent liabilities i in respect of performance bonds, guarantees and claims under contracting and other
agreements, entered into under the normal course of business. At 31 December 2023, the value of these was £42.3 million
(2022: £44.7 million).

26, Retirement benefit schemes
The Company operates defined contribution retirement benefit schemes for all qualifying employees. The assets of the
schemes aré held separately from those of the Company in funds under the control of trustees.

The total cost charged to the profit and loss account of £6. 0 million (2022: £5.9 million) represents contributions payable to
these schemes by the Company. As at 31 December 2023, contributions of £1.8 million due in respect of the current reporting
period had not been paid over to the schemes (2022: £1.7 million). This amount is included in other creditors.

Page 70

Docusign Envelope ID: FCAA4071-9237-470A-8DBA-5831FF94D264

Tarmac Trading Limited

Notes to the Financial Statements for the Year Ended 31 December 2023 (continued)

27 Related party transactions

Income and receivables from related parties
Associate and

: : : .. joint ventures
2023 . : £m
Sale of goods : : : 25.7
Amounts receivable from related party 3.8

Associates and

- . joint ventures

2022 : £m
Sale of goods : 249
Amounts receivable from related party ; 6.4

Expenditure with and payables to related parties
an . . Associates and

; joint ventures
2023 : ; a £m.
Purchase of goods : . . 48

Amounts payable to related party : . ‘ : : .

Associates and

. joint ventures
2022 7 . _£m
Purchase of goods ; 7 . Ad

Amounts payable to related party . eee

28 Parent and ultimate parent undertaking

The Company's immediate parent is Tarmac Holdings Limited.

The ultimate parent and controlling party is CRH ple.

Relationship between entity and parents

The parent of the largest and smallest group in which these financial statements are consolidated is CRH ple, incorporated i in
Ireland.

The address of CRH plc is:

42 Fitzwilliam Square,

Dublin,

D02 R279,

Ireland

Copies of the financial statements of the ultimate parent company. a are available from the Company Secretary at the above
address.

29 Post balanice sheet events
On 2 September 2024, the entire trade and assets of a minor contracting business unit was disposed of for consideration of £3.6
- million. The assets being stock held at net book value of £0.5 million.

The Directors have ‘considered all other post-year end transactions, information received and events, up to the date these
accounts are signed, for anything that may be either an adjusting or non-adjusting post balance sheet event. There was nothing
else identified requiring adjustment to, or disclosure in the current year financial statements.

Page 71

