DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

Teach First

iu rm

2303004
COMPANIES HOUSE

Aniitural report

SATURDAY

ee
=

and accounts 2022/23 °

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-B0DB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

\
A welcome from our Chair, Dame Vivian Hunt........00..0..ccccccccesessuceeceeensceccecsseseeseeesseeeeeeesssaeeeeseess 3
Chief Executive Officer's INtroduction ..........cccccceccseeeeseceecneesneceaeeenseeeteseaeeneeeesssueseeseescnseeeteeeesenneees 4
OUP PULPOSE ooo. ccc ect ceeeesereeeeeesecnecrescsseesaessecieeseaueeseceeeeseeedessesceessesneeesurseneeeenarenaees 6

Our strategy
Our activities and objectives...

Achievements and performance

Fimancial review.....0.....eccce ccc cece eres eresecnsnresnesesnaeeeenee snes eeraeetassueesisetiesesenaeeniaaeesene 17
Our risks and uncertainties... eee ec ccc ccneneecneeeenteeeseneeeetareecseeeteseeeesieenneeeseaeesiueesees 20
Our governance and Management ........... cee cece ee ee eescee cee caseeceeceseseeesetsesaeeassecsceguteeensenseeaeees 21
Administrative details... ee cece cece re neneeereeeeneaereeseeeaeteeteessusescssseaseeseeeeeesenees 28
Independent Auditor's report to the members of Teach First ............0..ccccesceeseeeseeeeesseeeteeeaeenseenneees 29
Consolidated Statement of Financial Activities 0.00.00... ee cece eee e cee seseteeee tetas eeneeenrenenessatees 33
Consolidated and Charity Balance Sheets ....0........cccseeseeceseeecneeseeeneeeneeneensees veceseeestesesecesesseeees 34
Consolidated Statement of Cash FIOWS ...0.......c cece escessceeecsseceesenseseesensesseessssesseateessaesseserecsatens 35

Notes to the financial statements

Thank you

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

A welcome from our Chair, Dame Vivian Hunt
Welcome to the Teach First annual report for the year to August 2023.

Twenty years ago, Teach First set out on a mission to improve the life chances and choices for children
experiencing disadvantage and poverty. We train talented teachers and equip school leaders working in
some of the poorest areas of the country to give children with the fewest opportunities access to a great
education. Teach First partner schools are significantly more likely to serve disadvantaged communities,
with 37% of pupils on Pupil Premium and 28% on free school meals compared to an average of 25% and
18% respectively for schools across England.

As we begin a new chapter — 2023 to 2030 — our strategic purpose remains unchanged even amid the
continued effects of the pandemic, a rising cost of living and increasing childhood poverty.

Educational achievement remains one of the biggest factors in determining a child's chances in life. Having
inspired more than 16,000 teachers into classrooms since 2003, we're working to tackle the attainment and
destination gap for disadvantaged young people by supporting more talented people to become high quality
teachers and leaders in schools in low-income communities. Demand from schools is higher than ever, with
a record number of vacancies posted with us last year, and we are working to get more teachers into
classrooms through alternative routes into teaching.

Amongst the successes of the past 12 months, | am immensely proud of our Outstanding Ofsted rating in
all areas for our High Potential Initial Teacher Training Programme and Early Career Framework and in
particular the acknowledgement during these inspections that tackling disadvantage is at the heart of our
work. Findings from the National Foundation for Educational Research, detailed later on in this report,
demonstrate the impact of Teach First on young people's attainment in areas where it is most needed.

Beyond the classroom, the social movement around our mission continues to grow, with our ambassadors
(alumni of our programmes) gathering across the country as part of our 20th anniversary celebrations.

Our work would not be possible without our generous supporters, who range from private individuals to
trusts, foundations and businesses across the country. They help us to innovate, to improve, to build
community and to reach the hardest to reach. We work in partnership to add value through employee
volunteering, work experience schemes and coaching. In particular, I’d like to thank the AKO Foundation,
Amazon UK, Citi, Huo Family Foundation and IG Group for their contributions this year.

| would like to thank the Trustees for their contributions of time, money and expertise during the year. | want
to make special mention to thank Lord Jonathan Hill, Dame Mary Marsh, Will Bickford Smith and James
Bilefield as they step down from our Trustee Board, for their deep care, challenge and valued service. | also
welcome our newest Trustees: Richard Taylor, Paul Geddes, Lord Jonathan Kestenbaum, Professor
Samantha Twiselton, Humphrey Battcock, Clare Gilmartin, Nabila Jiwa and Helen Weir. They bring vast
and varied experience to our Board and will strengthen our impact; we would not be here without them.

Finally, | would like to offer our heartfelt thanks to our Patron, His Majesty King Charies III, our Vice Patron,
Dame Julia Cleverdon DCVO CBE, and our Founder Brett Wigdortz, along with our partners, funders,
Teach First ambassadors and wonderful staff for all they continue to do to deliver our mission.

Together, we can continue our work inside the classroom and beyond to bring an end to educational
inequality. ‘

Ct

Dame Vivian Hunt DBE

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

Chief Executive Officer's Introduction

This year was our 20th anniversary. During the summer of 2003, 186 intrepid leaders started our first Summer
Institute before being placed in secondary schools in London. In 2023, we placed 1,334 teachers in early
years, primary and secondary across the whole of England, 67% of them outside London.

We marked our anniversary with evidence of our impact. An independent report from the National Foundation
for Educational Research showed that GCSEs in secondary departments that recruited a Teach First trainee
were statistically significantly higher than in similar departments in comparison schools. Teach First partner
schools see increases in university attendance. Our teachers are more likely to remain in schools serving
disadvantaged communities; are 12 times more likely to move into senior leadership positions; and the
proportion of teachers in the classroom two years after qualifying is four points higher for Teach First than for
HE routes. We also gathered our ambassadors to celebrate their enduring impact: there are now over 100
Headteachers who qualified with us and we marked our third ambassador elected to Parliament. Whilst we
are proud of our progress, the need for our core mission remains.

In the UK, 29% of children are living in poverty; nearly one in five of them in persistent poverty. Educational
results for these children have stalled and reversed. 53% of disadvantaged pupils did not meet the expected
standard in combined reading, writing and maths at Key Stage Two last year. At the other end of the age
range, poorer students are on average three A Level grades behind their affluent peers. This is calamitous.

It is a tough recruitment environment for teachers and education leaders. Despite record vacancies posted
with us, we reached 76% of our recruitment target compared to 62% for the sector as a whole; in secondary,
we hit 84% of our target compared to 50% for the sector. Nonetheless, this is disappointing when the need
iS So great. In 2022/23, we ended the year with a planned financial deficit, which reflected the cost of our
continued investment in the support we provide to teachers and schools in spite of a reduction to our income.
In 2023/24, we will implement operational changes to balance the books, grow income, and align resources
to our new strategy, driving significant efficiencies.

2022/23 marked a new chapter: we launched a new Charity-wide strategy to see us from 2023 to 2030. The
goal of our new strategy is to close the attainment and destination gaps for disadvantaged young people. We
know that our programmes improve results for the most disadvantaged young people, so our new strategy
sets out an ambitious plan to spread opportunity more widely through two key outcomes:
e Building sustained partnerships with 1,000 schools serving low-income communities, as these are
uniquely powerful institutions; and
e Cultivating a community of 30,000 ambassadors who can together address some of the forces outside
schools that affect achievement, as we cannot leave it to schools alone.

We will drive these outcomes by four strands of activity:

e Finding and developing talented people (many of whom would not otherwise consider teaching) to
become effective teachers in the schools who need them;

e Developing these people, and their colleagues, as effective leaders in education;

e Cultivating, connecting and inspiring our community of ambassadors and supporters to help them
deliver interventions and shape policy; and

e Influencing policy for education to ensure schools and young people get the funding, talent, support
and attention they deserve.

These activities are closely connected. Teachers become leaders who become ambassadors who create
system-changing policy. In return, policy shapes the environment for leaders and they create the climate in
which teachers are retained, thrive and deliver great outcomes. This is a distinctive and successful recipe for
impact at Teach First.

If we get this right, every young person will get a shot at fulfilling their potential. And that is the firmest
foundation for our shared prosperity as a nation.

iby

-
Russell Hobby, Teach First CEO

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E
; oe


DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

Our purpose

Our vision
Every child fulfils their potential.

Our impact goals
Narrow the attainment gap for disadvantaged children, with a particular focus on those facing persistent
disadvantage.

Narrow the destination gap for disadvantaged young adults in sustained employment, apprenticeship and
training, with a particular focus on those facing persistent disadvantage.

Our aims

For over twenty years we have been working on behalf of children to ensure they are able to go on toa
successful future. Whilst our methods have changed and evolved, our core purpose remains: no child's
success in education should be limited by their background. Too many children are still missing out on the
opportunities they need to thrive in school and in life, with pupils eligible for free school meals starting
school an average of four and a half months behind the attainment of their peers. This increases to 18
months by the time that they take their GCSEs. After leaving school, these young people are more likely to
longer term be out of work or education than to go to university. They're also three times more likely to
need to claim benefits by age 30.

The cost-of-living crisis and after-effects of COVID-19 continue to plunge more families into poverty, further
stunting more children’s futures. The gap in GCSE attainment between disadvantaged pupils and their non-
disadvantaged peers is now at its highest point for over a decade. The Department for Education's (DfE)
disadvantage gap index, summarising the attainment differences in GCSE maths and English nationally,
now stands at 3.95, up from 3.84 last year, having widened every year since 2020. It is more important than
ever that we give children the chances and choices they need to succeed and to keep on powering the
potential of the schools and pupils who need it most.

We believe schools are the heart of the community and the main agent of change for many children. We
know that when young people from low-income backgrounds get to go to a great school, they can achieve
great things. So, our aim is simple: let's help more schools in the most challenging areas to become great
because all children should get to go to a great school.

We aim to work with the schools who need us most, selected on a range of deprivation measures at both
the school and pupil level, and we give those schools what they tell us they need: teachers, leaders,
networks and a strong voice in policy. This is how we achieve our goal: by getting great teachers and
brilliant leaders into the schools that need them most; connecting those schools with powerful networks of
our ambassadors, partners and others committed to achieving our mission; and campaigning for the policy
changes needed to make a life-changing difference to the most disadvantaged pupils.

in this report, you will see the progress we have made in strengthening and scaling up each of these
contributions.

VEN

‘ First

OUR STRATEGY 2023-2030

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6A0262E

Teach

OUR VISION
Every child fulfils their potential

OUR IMPACT GOALS

] Narrow the attainment gap for disadvantaged
children, with a particular focus on those facing

persistent disadvantage

Supporting the
transformation of
schools in disadvantaged
communities

2 Narrow the destination gap for disadvantaged young
adults in sustained employment, apprenticeship
and training, with a particular focus on those facing

persistent disadvantage

THE OUTCOMES WE WANT TO SEE

Systemic and policy
changes to benefit
disadvantaged children
and their schools

A more diverse education
system which reflects the
communities it serves

People working together to

transform society to benefit

disadvantaged children
and their schools

THE PILLARS AND INPUTS OF OUR 2030 STRATEGY

GREAT
TEACHERS

Develop and deliver our
transformational training
programme to create
10,000 new teachers

Ensure there is a supply
of teachers across the
country by launching and
scaling our SCITT to create
a further 4,000 teachers

Develop nearly 25,000 early
career teachers
both directly and in
partnership to support our
reach and impact

BRILLIANT
LEADERS

Deliver 35,000 NPQs to
specialist teachers and
leaders across our schools

Coach and support
nearly 400 whole school
leadership teams to
support sustainable
improvement

Support 3,500 in-school
careers leaders to
create and embed
successful careers

strategies for their pupils

POWERFUL
MOVEMENT
We will reach a total
ambassador population
of 38,000
More than 6,000

ambassadors will be in
school leadership positions

We will grow to a network
of 6,000 schools and 80
delivery partners

STRONG
POLICY

Influence a significant
increase in funding
for schools in
low-income areas

Push the needs of pupils
and teachers in these
schools up the political
agenda through media and
campaign activity

Support our community of
ambassadors and teachers
to engage with campaigns
so that policy reflects the
needs of pupils growing up
in poverty

WORKING CLOSELY WITH ALIGNED PEOPLE AND ORGANISATIONS
TO HELP ACHIEVE OUR VISION

: tuture teachers J existing teachers ambassadors supporters Individual donors Policymakers

| teachfirst.org.uk Teach First is a registered charity, no. 1098294
i


DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

Our strategy

Building on what works

The year to come will be the first of our new 2030 strategy, which has four pillars:

1. Great teachers — we will continue to recruit, place and train teachers into the schools that need
them the most. We want to do this by continuing our High Potential Initial Teacher Training
Programme (HPITT), and by growing the scale of our new School Centred Initial Teacher Training
(SCITT) with expert delivery partners across the country to ensure that schools have access to the
teachers that our children need and deserve. We will also continue to support early career teachers
and through our work with them both increase their commitment to our mission and create the most
effective teachers possible in those first years in the profession.

2. Brilliant leaders — we will deliver the National Professional Qualifications (NPQs) that serve as the
kitemark for specialist teacher development and leadership training. We also have our highly
effective Leading Together programme that will continue to take a different approach to leadership
development by working with whole school leadership teams to effect change for eligible schools
and their pupils.

3. Powerful movement — Teach First is made up of a movement of ambassadors, schools, delivery
partners and supporters all united in their desire for a more equal society. We will continue to work
with all of these groups to ensure that we are building a movement for change, and that, through the
right partnerships, programmes and experiences we are bringing people together and accelerating
the impact we have.

4. Strong policy — Teach First will always be a voice for schools facing the most challenging
circumstances and we will continue to work with policymakers and those in positions of influence to
ensure that schools have the right conditions to succeed, for the ultimate benefit of their pupils.

To deliver this we will also need to change how we operate as a charity. We are viewing this through four
cornerstones that outline our ambitions for the organisation we want to grow into throughout this next
strategy period.

Agility

+ Willing and able to innovate, experiment, and learn. Working with our audiences to refine our
ideas. Responding quickly and effectively to an ever-changing environment

High Performance

+ Steadily and sustainably delivering our strategic goals and increasing our impact. We offer
exceptional experiences, and we are visible and credible experts in our sector

Sustainability

+ Meeting our charitable purpose in a way that balances finances, people, and planet

Equity, Diversity and Inclusion

* Through equity of approach and diversity of people and thinking, our decisions will be better
and our innovation more impactful. An authentically equitable, diverse and inclusive charity”


DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

Our activities and objectives

Our theory of change is that, to eradicate educational inequality, schools need excellent teachers and
access to the very best leadership; and that both the schools and the people working with us need to be
connected to each other to increase the rate at which we narrow the educational gap.

Our activities

Teacher training
High Potential Initial Teacher Training

Our Training Programme recruits those who wouldn't have otherwise gone into teaching and places them in
schools who need them most, whilst providing a high-quality programme of teacher and leadership
development. On completion of the Training Programme, trainees gain Qualified Teacher Status and a
Postgraduate Diploma in Education and Leadership. 1,334 trainees were successfully recruited to join the
2023 cohort: 65% of those were placed in regions outside of London. 75% of our 2021 cohort completing
the programme identified a desire to continue to be engaged as a Teach First ambassador.

Early Career Framework

We are one of six Lead Providers nationally to deliver the Early Career Framework (ECF), a two-year
programme of training, development and mentoring that ensures teachers in the early stages of their career
have the knowledge and skills to teach effectively to aid impact and retention. It is part of our offer to
schools (as delivery partners) to enable them to deliver the golden thread of teacher and leadership
development. Our Ofsted inspection rated the programme as Outstanding, identifying that “Leaders place
tackling disadvantage at the heart of the decisions they make about key aspects of training”. Over 12,000
participants started their ECF programme with us in 2022/23 with 5,802 starting in September 2023.

School-Centred Initial Teacher Training

This year we piloted our School-Centred Initial Teacher Training (SCITT) programme, which is designed to
ensure that all local areas have a pipeline of highly effective teachers. Our curriculum equips trainee
teachers to enable the most disadvantaged pupils to succeed and is designed around specific subjects.
The model is delivered through partners, who lead the recruitment and training of teachers as well as their
placement in schools. Teach First is the accountable ITT provider, providing the curriculum as well as
training and support to delivery partners alongside quality assurance and contract management.

Subject Knowledge Enhancement

We offer Subject Knowledge Enhancement (SKE) programmes in physics, biology, chemistry, maths and
computing, funded by the DfE. SKEs aim to maximise teacher recruitment by ensuring trainees can be
successful in specialisms where they might have limited subject expertise. The retention rate within the
SKE programme was 97% and 82% of SKE participants then went on to participate in our Training
Programme (HPITT), the majority of these (68%) specialising in Physics and helping to provide teachers of
the subjects most in need.

Leadership development

Leading Together

Leading Together targets schools that need our support the most — schools that have not yet been rated as
“good” — it also serves disadvantaged communities. Over two years, we work with whole school leadership
teams to implement and sustain improvements, through individual and group coaching from an experienced
former headteacher, expert module input and flexible support. An external evaluation of Leading Together
highlighted strong evidence for retaining teachers, progression of staff into leadership roles and significant
improvement in the confidence of school leaders.

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

National Professional Qualifications
National Professional Qualifications (NPQs) are nationally recognised school leadership accreditations that

support aspiring and new leaders from early in their career right through to Executive Leadership. We
support and develop new and upcoming leaders at every stage of their career to build a sustainable
leadership pipeline. Our second NPQ cohort this year reached over 4,000 leaders. We also launched two
new NPQs, focused on Early Years and Literacy leadership.

Careers Leader programme

The Careers Leader programme enables schools to transform their careers education provision by
supporting Careers Leaders to build their knowledge and develop a long-term careers strategy for their
school. We reached over 100 schools this year. The programme is targeted at schools serving
disadvantaged communities, as we know that pupils eligible for Free School Meals are twice as likely as
their peers to end up not in education or employment (NEET) at age 18 — 24. Long-term programme
evaluation shows a statistically significant increase in the average percentage of students going on to
sustained destinations post Key Stage 4 in schools participating in this programme.

Primary Careers Programme pilot
The Primary Careers Programme was launched in March 2023 in partnership with the Careers and

Enterprise Company (CEC). It is a new, DfE-funded pilot focused on supporting a Lead Teacher ina
primary school to embed careers-related learning and employer encounters for their pupils. Wave one of
the pilot reached 300 teachers and we have provided access to a number of modules and seminars to
support them particularly in developing a strategy for careers, embedding careers in the curriculum and
working with parents and carers on careers related learning.

Ambassadors and networks

We now have a global movement of over 16,000 ambassadors (alumni of our programmes), which includes
over 100 headteachers and five ambassadors standing to be MPs at the next General Election. Members
of our ambassador community fight to end educational inequality by volunteering their time and expertise
and by supporting us as funders or through sustained engagement with our mission as they progress into
positions of influence. To celebrate our 20th Anniversary, in July we hosted the Great Ambassador
Gathering, convening 1,000 people at Totteridge Academy in London, and delivered a series of mini
gatherings with another 400 ambassadors nationwide.

Teach First Networks help keep teachers connected and galvanise communities committed to our cause.
Through the support of our funders, this year we launched 48 new networks, taking our total to over 200,
and welcomed 3,212 attendees to network events. One of our most thriving networks is Heads Forward, a
group of ambassador headteachers providing peer-to-peer support through mentoring, termly conferences,
school visits and sharing resources.

Our community of ambassadors mean that those who choose to leave teaching after training with us stay
connected and dedicated to our mission, as politicians, education specialists or within organisations that
support our work. These ambassadors form part of a broader network of partners, which includes
businesses, funders, and others, all working together to solve education from the classroom to
government. One example of this is the engagement of our corporate partners with our Careers Leaders
programme: our partners provide vital training, advice and work experience as well as financial support to
support Careers Leaders, exposing pupils facing the most disadvantage to careers and opportunities they
wouldn't otherwise have access to. Other examples include our partnership with Mission 44 to attract more
Black STEM teachers into the classroom; and our work with Amazon to bridge the gap in computer science
education, training teachers and preparing pupils from low-income backgrounds for a digital future. The
countless hours of mentoring, coaching and practical opportunities our partners provide for our pupils,
teachers and schools are integral to our mission to ensure every child can fulfil their potential.

10

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

Our objectives

This year marks the end of our strategy for 2018-23. Our key mission was to Transform Education with
Great Teachers and Leaders. Our strategy 2023-30 is set out on pages 7-8.

For this strategy we used the following key objectives:
1) To get more great teachers where they're needed most;
2) To support school leadership so our teachers and pupils thrive.

Under each of these objectives we had the following aims:
> Develop high quality programmes.
> Recruit participants and place in schools.
> Develop and retain participants.
> Connect teachers through great networks.
> Ensure great customer service.

The tables below summarise our success in delivering against the two key objectives between 2018-23.
The data provided comes from contracts we hold with the DfE, which requires us to report against their key
performance indicators.

The quality of our programmes for this period has remained sector leading as evidenced by our recent
Ofsted Inspections which rated both our HPITT and the ECF programmes as Outstanding.

For the last few years recruitment has been more challenging than in previous years reflecting the overall
challenges that education as a sector is facing in recruiting and training teachers. Despite this we have
continued to outperform the sector, this year achieving 76% of our recruitment target compared to 62% for
the sector as a whole; in secondary, we achieved 84% of our target compared to 50% for the sector.

In 2021 the DfE changed the metrics they used to measure HPITT retention and satisfaction meaning that
data for 2018-20 and 2021-23 are not comparable.

Objective 1: To get more great teachers where they’re needed most.

_ F208 20192020 E2024 W022

Total number recruited a 1,518 | 1,394 | 1,334
Number retained at the end of Y2" | 82% | 83% | N/A?
% Participants rate their experience of being on the 72% 61% N/A2

Programme as good or better’.
‘In 2021, the DfE changed the KPI we report on for HPITT retention.

2 This year’s cohort have not yet completed their second year.

ECF KPIs 2021 2022 2023

Total number recruited 5,571 4,982 2927
Number retained at the end of Y2

% Participants rate the training good or above at the end of year 1 and 2 77% 85% N/A*
*This year’s cohort have not yet completed their second year.

Objective 2: To support school feadership so our teachers and pupils thrive.

NPQs KPIs

Total number recruited 3386 4230

Number retained at the end of the programme N/AZ
% Participants rate the training as good or above. | 96-98% N/A2
1 These figures are not available yet as 2022 cohort haven't completed course.
2These figures are not available yet as this cohort is recruited in November 2023.

11

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-B0DB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E


DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-B0DB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E__|

TEACHER DEVELOPMENT

now tweinee teachers
inscihocls

eatly

Gevelopad throuesn

our Early Career
Premawerks progrenine

ra SCHOOL LEADERSHIP

ieecharscupperied
Gavdlop their cenaer through

appar et puolld past
support their pupis past
soos) career options
eee cegenma

Caan uppertsd Gueush
our Leading Tegetiiar

NETIIORKS & ANEASSADORS

Teach Firstembessadiors
are curently headisachiar
iy
rat ero eat Seeks

ambassadors in leadership
roles in sefioals


DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

Achievements and performance

The education landscape continues to be challenging. But we are endlessly encouraged by the
persistence, dedication and innovation of the schools we partner with and the teachers we train and
support. And we are delighted to have achieved some excellent outcomes this year.

Our work

Here are just a few of the highlights of our work this year:

Ofsted

We were delighted by the outcome of two full Ofsted inspections this year for our Initial Teacher Training
(ITT) and Early Career (ECF) programmes, which rated Teach First as ‘Outstanding’ in both programmes
across 11 graded categories. Ofsted noted in particular the quality of our curriculum, our partnerships with
schools, and the impact we are having due to our trainees and Early Career Teachers.

The continued importance of the Charity’s mission is evident in both the ITT and ECF reports, which note
that trainees’ education and training is “underpinned by a focus on high ambition for all pupils, particularly
those who are disadvantaged” and trainees choose to train with us “because they aspire to be skilled and
responsive teachers who can make a difference to the education and lives of all children, particularly those
who are disadvantaged.” You can access the reports for ITT here and ECF here.

Leading Together

This year, only three schools went from the lowest to the highest Ofsted rating in the country, and two of
them worked with Teach First through Leading Together. Leading Together continues to deliver significant
impact to schools who need it the most, supporting them to improve during and beyond the length of the
programme. We recruited 31 new schools to the programme in 2022/23, bringing the total number of
schools we supported during the year to 60. 98% of participants rated the programme as ‘good’ or ‘very
good’ and 100% reported that the support of their Achievement Partner (former head) was ‘good’ or ‘very
good’.

National Professional Qualifications

Over 6,500 participants have now successfully completed one of the reformed National Professional
Qualification (NPQ) programmes with Teach First, with an impressive 98% of most recent cohort reporting
being satisfied or very satisfied with their training. Over a third of our participants have advanced to roles
with greater responsibilities between starting and finishing their NPQ. The introduction of the NPQ in
Leading Literacy has been a resounding success. One participant told us: "/ have LOVED this course. |
have learnt more than | did when | did my 4 year teaching degree 20 years ago. | now feel | have... the
confidence to know what to do to improve English across my school for the children and be able to support
teachers to do so.”

School-Centred Initial Teacher Training

This year saw the pilot of our School-Centred Initial Teacher Training (SCITT) offer, aimed at enabling
schools in all areas of the country to have a pipeline of brilliant teachers who are recruited from their
communities and trained locally. Our offer provides Delivery Partners with recruitment materials and the
high-quality curriculum they need to deliver great teacher training in their schools. Our partners recruited 85
trainees across eight !ocal areas and have received training and support to begin delivering the programme
in September 2023. In a challenging year for recruitment into Initial Teacher Training across the sector, it's
a huge success that these partners have been able to establish themselves and attract new candidates to
the profession.

14

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13833D9E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

Our impact

We strive to understand the impact of our work on schools and teachers but also right through to the impact
on pupils where possible. In this section we have picked out some of the highlights of our evaluations from
the last year. If you want to know more about our impact you can visit the impact section of our website
here, and you can also read our full impact report.

An independent report on our impact

We commissioned the National Foundation for Educational Research (NFER) to assess the impact of our
Training Programme using the most rigorous data and methodologies available and to provide us with
feedback on how we're doing. The Department for Education has welcomed the report's findings, saying:
“Teach First is an excellent route into a fulfilling career in the education sector and it is great to see the
sustained impact that Teach First teachers have had improving attainment’. We can consider the findings
under three main headings:

Schools and young people

The research revealed that “recruitment of a Teach First trainee was associated with higher GCSE
attainment in the departments in which the trainee was placed, compared to otherwise similar departments
without a Teach First trainee”.’ |t shows our teachers have a positive impact on young people’s attainment
from very early in their careers, helping them to get the grades they need to unlock their future. This
difference is seen when using much larger sample sizes than previous studies and is testament to the hard
work of teachers and the colleagues with whom they work in schools across the country.

The report also highlighted that schools with Teach First trainees subsequently see a rise in the proportion
of students who go on to attend university, and a greater proportion of pupils moving on to Russell Group
universities compared to comparable schools. The achievements of young people, just like these findings
on those pupils reaching top universities, are always the result of their hard work, their families, teachers
and a whole community of organisations. We're proud to be part of that progress in opening opportunities
to more young people from low-income backgrounds.

Teacher progression

We aim to provide schools serving disadvantaged communities with a leadership pipeline by supporting
trainees to make rapid progression into leadership positions. NFER research found Teach First trained
teachers are 12 times more likely to move into senior leadership positions within three years compared to
teachers who trained at university; and three times more likely to become senior leaders than similar
teachers from school-based training routes.

Tackling inequity

The NFER report said Teach First works with schools that serve pupils in the most disadvantaged
communities in the country, and “teacher workforce challenges were considerably more acute in Teach
First schools than other schools in England’. \t highlighted that these schools were more likely than others
to have had a teaching vacancy, and to be among the schools with the highest per-pupil expenditure on
supply staff. This is confirmation that we are targeting our support at the schools which need it most.

As these reports have been completed independently by the NFER you can read them in full through their
website here:

The progression and retention of Teach First teachers
The impact of the Teach First Training Programme on schools and pupils

‘ For the full analysis, see Nationa! Foundation for Educational Research, “The impact of the Teach First Training
Programme on Schools and Pupils”, p.41

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-B0DB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E
Our performance

We monitored our performance against a number of priority areas throughout the year:

Relsrec]kprsyccrrent)

Whilst we outperformed the rest of the sector, our final
cohort number for 2023 was 1,334, which was below
target and resulted in us being rated inadequate in terms
of our contractual performance in reporting to the Cabinet
Office.

To mark our 20th anniversary, we commissioned NFER to
carry out an independent assessment of the impact of our
work: to find out more, see page 15. We hosted three
large celebratory events: with 1,001 participants, the

Recruit, place and
retain our 2023 HPITT
programme cohort

Get the most out of our
20th anniversary for the
greatest possible
impact ambassadors to date; and between them, our Gala Dinner
and Run the River raised nearly half a million pounds to

support our work.

Great Ambassador Gathering was our largest gathering of |

RED |
STARS |

NOT
ACHIEVED

ACHIEVED

Having launched an ambitious new strategy that will take
us to 2030, we reorganised our leadership structures to
optimise delivery. In the coming year, we will extend this
work as we implement a new financial plan and operating
model that will enable us to meet our ambitious goals.
We worked hard to embed new technology following a
transformation programme and give staff confidence to
use it effectively. We have begun to realise the benefits of
this foundational work, with a significant improvement to
our system readiness for the start of the new academic
year (see priority 5, below). We will continue to support
the adoption of our technology and are investing in the
development of a new, secure data platform.

We identified a need to enhance the onboarding
experience for new ECF and NPQ programme
participants and prioritised improvements to our data
quality, technical issue management, and triage
processes to achieve this. The caseload of issues raised
by programme participants during their onboarding in
September and October was approximately half the size
of the equivalent period in the previous year. More than
99% of cases were resolved within the target average of
five days.

Turn our strategy into a
plan

Enhance our
technology

September readiness —
5 | for all programmes and
participants

PARTIALLY
ACHIEVED

PARTIALLY
ACHIEVED

ACHIEVED

This year, we had planned for a deficit, which came in at
£1.4 million. Further detail on our financial performance

Maintain financial
discipline to hit our

8 financial targets for the | can be found in the Financial Statements, which form a
year separate section of this
Work together to Our new divisional structure was in place as of 31 August
7 ensure a smooth 2023, with all Executive roles filled (see priority 3, above).

transition to our new
divisional structure

ACHIEVED

ACHIEVED

16

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B3309E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686D86AD262E

Financial review

Introduction

In 2022/23 we planned for a financial deficit and the deficit that we incurred amounted to £1.4m (£0.4m surplus in
2021/22). While our expenditure remained relatively flat, our income declined due to reductions in the high-
performance initial teacher training (HPITT) trainee numbers and a decrease in voluntary income. [n the 2023/24
financial year, we will review both our cost base and income plans so that we can grow our reserves to give us firm
foundations and headroom to invest in continuing to deliver impact in the coming years.

We invested £2.4m in digital customer experience this year. We will continue to optimise our digital solutions and
continuously improve our service offers to improve our delivery and the experience stakeholders of our partners,
trainees and funders.

Total income

Operating expenditure

Operating surplus

Investments/non-recurring costs

Total surplus for year

Income

Our HPITT programme generated 63% of our total income (2022: 72%), funded by the DfE, and through fees charged
to schools for the placement of teachers. This year's decrease in income reflects the challenging recruitment market,
resulting in fewer candidates being recruited and placed into schools.

Our income was however bolstered by an expansion of our Early Career Framework (ECF) and National Professional
Qualification (NPQ) provision, supporting teachers from early career to executive headship, where we saw a
combined growth of 60%. Our growth in ECF and NPQ training has been largely a result of growing and effectively
supporting our delivery partners.

Our voluntary income declined during the year by £2.3m compared to the previous financial year (a 28% decline). We
have undertaken a full review of our fundraising strategy to ensure that we are in a position to increase the
contribution made by voluntary income in future years, supported by a newly established Teach First Development
Board. :

Expenditure

Our total operating costs were broadly flat, including inflation. Whilst costs were closely managed, there was a
planned increase to training delivery spend as we returned to largely face to face training following trainee feedback,
supporting both the trainee and staff experience. This cost was offset by a decrease in university subcontractor and
delivery partner costs due to lower number of participants.

This year also saw a significant increases in facility costs, energy costs and buildings insurance costs with costs rising

over 22% year on year. Following a review of.property occupancy, the decision has been taken to reduce our lease
holdings in 2023/24.

17

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13833D9E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

Investments and non-recurring costs

We continued to invest in our customer relationship management system to leverage technology to improve the
processes and experiences of our key stakeholders, staff and trainees. Our recruitment and enrolment processes for
the HPITT and other programmes are managed through the new platforms.

We incurred one-off costs for the pilot of our new SCITT programme, which launched in September 2023. We
restructured parts of our support services teams during the year. In addition, the executive director structure of Teach
First was revised during the year to allow clearer responsibility and accountability resulting in non-recurrent
restructuring costs.

Investment in:
+ customer experience and digital
* new pilot programmes.

* restructuring

Total investments/non-recurring costs

Balance Sheet

We continue to manage stable cash-based reserves. Whilst cash balances and liabilities have both reduced following
the technology investment described above, we continue to hold sufficient cash to fund day-to-day operations.

Reserves policy

Our free reserves are the net current assets of our general unrestricted funds.
We hold these funds to:

e provide a safeguard against the risk of a downturn in our activities (which could lead to expenditure exceeding
income)
provide working capital to finance our day-to-day operations
provide a safeguard against failure to deliver contractual obligations we have entered into

* protect our solvency in the event of any curtailment of our income-generating activities.

We review our reserves policy on an annual basis and carry out a risk-based assessment of factors likely to reduce
our income or increase our expenditure, to make sure our free reserves are appropriate. We believe two to three
months of future operating expenditure provide a sufficient reserve to cover these risks. Based on forecast
expenditure for 2023/24, the Trustees have approved a range for free reserves of between £10.0m and £15.0m.

As at 31 August 2023, total reserves were £11.1m, with £0.2m being restricted and £0.3m connected to fixed assets,

leaving free reserves of £10.6m (2022: £11.6m). We are planning an increase in free reserves over the medium term
in line with our future financial plans. We didn't hold any investments in financial instruments during the financial year.

18

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-~470F-B0E4-686DB6AD0262E

Going concern

In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements, the Board has considered the
organisation's business activities, liquidity and strategy, as well as the risks to the Charity and the applicable controls.

The Charity's business activities, financial performance and liquidity position are reviewed annually by the Board as
part of a full business planning process and subsequently considered regularly to ensure the plan accurately reflects
the position of the Charity. In particutar, a significant proportion of the Charity’s income and expenditure relates to
contracts with the DfE and the Board regularly reviews the latest multi-year position in relation to the securing,
extending and renewing such contracts.

The Board has considered a variety of income and expenditure scenarios prepared by management which stress-test
the organisation's ability in the current and forecast economic environment, to manage its monthly liquidity position,
flex its resources to customer demand and deliver against its mission. These severe but plausible scenarios, which
covered the period to 31 August 2025, provided sensitivity analyses and reverse-stress tests based on key factors
such as programme-participant numbers and levels of voluntary income received.

Based on these severe but plausible scenarios and their divergence from the organisation's base-case income and
expenditure and cashflow forecasts, as well as the liquidity and unrestricted reserves available to the Charity and
mitigations including work currently underway to reduce our cost base, the Board is satisfied that the Charity has
adequate resources to operate for the foreseeable future and considers it appropriate for the organisation to adopt a
going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.

19

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

Our risks and uncertainties

Effective risk management is vital in meeting our vision and mission and achieving our goals. All employees should be
able to identify, mitigate and manage key risks within their areas and communicate and escalate these as appropriate.
This ensures that responsibility for risk is distributed across, and embedded in, the operations of the Charity.

We manage risks in accordance with our risk-management policy. All key organisational risks are recorded on a risk
register that includes an assessment of their likelihood and impact; tracks the internal controls in place and actions
taken to reduce, eliminate or mitigate against them; and sets future mitigating actions that would further reduce the
likelihood and impact of the risk materialising.

The Executive Committee has accountability and responsibility for the risk register. The Trustee Board holds overall
accountability for ensuring that effective risk management arrangements are in place. It is supported in this role by its
Finance Committee which also reviews risks escalated from the executive on a quarterly basis.

The principal risks in relation to 2023/24 and their main mitigations are as follows:

e Recruitment and placement of our Training Programme teacher cohort for 2024: failure to meet
contractual targets
We are focusing on increasing our presence on university campuses, improving our digital application process
and in finding talent from under-represented groups to increase the scale and mix of our cohort. We will continue
to review financial support and incentives introduced in 2023. This will better enable us to respond to demand for
trainee teachers. We are building our school engagement capabilities and strengthening our strategic
partnerships with schools to generate increased placement opportunities and allow for enhanced forward
planning.

e« Voluntary income: failure to secure sufficient voluntary income to fund our strategic plans
Voluntary income is an important source of income for us to achieve our mission. We have a new income
strategy to support our fundraising goals to build on the success of Teach First's 20th anniversary. We are
working closely with our Business Leaders Council and Giving Ciub alongside a newly established Development
Board to develop deeper partnerships and explore new ones.

e Financial reserves: reserves held are insufficient
Our reserves secure our ability to operate. In the context of a challenging and changing extemal
environment, we are making plans designed to drive up our income and reduce our cost base so that we can
increase our reserves.

e Government funding: failure to secure sufficient funding for our activities
We have been successful in securing government funding for the Training Programme to August 2025. We are
continuing to improve and refine this programme so that it continues to deliver value for money, high-quality
delivery and impact.

e Cyber-security: failure to protect ourselves from cyber-security threats
We have put in place appropriate technical security measures to protect our servers, services and end-user
devices. Services are reviewed against security standards and any defects addressed and we conduct regular
security audits. We train staff about their responsibilities in relation to security as part of their mandatory training
and, as part of this, make them aware of common phishing and manipulation approaches.

e Child safeguarding: risk of a child safeguarding incident occurring
All trainee teachers and Teach First staff receive DBS checks and are required to comply with their schools’
safeguarding policies and procedures. An executive level Child Safeguarding Committee, chaired by the Child
Safeguarding Officer, is in place. All employees completed mandatory online training on child safeguarding and
Teach First has undertaken a recent review of its approach to incident management.

20

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

Our governance and management

Teach First is a charitable company limited by guarantee and not having share capital. We operate in England and
Wales (Company number 04478840 and Charity number 1098294).

We're governed by our Memorandum of Association and Articles of Association, which were last amended in April
2012. Our Memorandum of Association sets out our charitable purpose, which is to advance the education of the
public.

Trustees are also Directors of the charitable company. They are appointed by the Board of Trustees and
appointments are for a term of three years. Trustees may be reappointed by the Board to serve for a maximum of two
further three-year terms (nine years in total).

During the year the Board appointed nine new Trustees (Richard Taylor, Paul Geddes, Jonathan Simons, William
Bickford Smith, Lord Jonathan Kestenbaum, Carole Samantha Twiselton, Humphrey Battcock, Clare Gilmartin and
Nabila Jiwa) with two Trustees retiring (Dame Mary Marsh and James Bilefield) and two Trustees departing as a result
of new conflicts of interest (Jonathan Simons and William Bickford Smith).

The balance and diversity of Trustees is kept under review by the Board. Emphasis is placed on ensuring that our
Trustees provide the specific mix of skills and experience that have been identified as important to our objectives and
activities, as well as the Charity's ongoing development. Four of the Trustees during the year were Teach First
ambassadors, having completed our Training Programme — the presence of ambassador Trustees ensures the voice
of a key stakeholder group at Board level. All new Trustees receive a full induction programme to ensure they
understand the organisation, their role and their responsibilities. New and existing Trustees are also offered
development opportunities to help them meet these responsibilities.

The Board of Trustees meets regularly to govern the Charity. This year it held five meetings, including an additional
meeting to discuss the Charity's strategic plans. There is a written schedule of matters reserved for decision by the
Board. Matters not reserved for decision by the Board are delegated to one of the Board committees or to the Chief
Executive Officer (CEO). The schedule of matters reserved was updated in August 2021.

At its meetings in 2022/23, the Board reviewed organisational performance and impact and risk throughout the year.
In addition to matters formally reserved to the Board, it considered the Charity's fundraising strategy, recruitment
strategy, organisational strategy and performance, child safeguarding, organisational culture and plans for its 20"
anniversary of the Charity.

In 2023/24, the work of the Board will be further strengthened by the establishment of a new sub-committee, called the
Education Committee, which will advise the Board on Teach First’s education strategy and report to the Board on the
quality and impact of the Charity’s educational activities.

Trustees have a duty to promote the success of the Charity and, in doing so, are required by Section 172(1) of the
Companies Act 2006 to have regard to various specific factors, including:

« The likely consequences of decisions in the long term (as covered in the section on ‘Risks and uncertainties’
and “our strategy’ on pages 7 to 8 and 20 respectively)

e The interests of employees (as covered in the section on equity, diversity and inclusion and employee
engagement on pages 23 to 25)

e The need to foster the Charity’s relationships with third-party stakeholders, including the Department for
Education, schools, candidates, trainees, participants, donors and funders, and contractors and suppliers (as
covered in the section on ‘Achievements and performance’ on page 14)

e The impact of the Charity's operations on the community and environment (as covered by the section on
‘Environmental reporting’ on page 24)

e The desirability of the Charity maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct (as covered by
the Welcome from our Chair and Chief Executive Officer's Introduction on pages 3 and 4).

Finance Committee
The Finance Committee assists the Board of Trustees with financial review; review of internal financial controls; risk
management policy and processes; monitoring the effectiveness of the internal and external audit functions and

making recommendations to the Board on the appointment and removal of the auditors; and employee salary and
benefits management, including the CEO's remuneration. This year the Finance Committee held eight meetings.

21

“
DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

The Finance Committee regularly reviews the financial performance of the Charity and ensures appropriate financial
planning and policies are in place. As part of this, it reviews and recommends the Charity's budget to the Board on an
annual basis. To assist with risk management, the Finance Committee regularly reviews the organisational risk
register and reviews and recommends the risk management policy to the Board. It is the responsibility of the Finance
Committee to recommend the appointment of the external auditor; review audit findings and meet with the internal and
external auditors; and report to the Board on matters of significance arising from the annual audit. The Finance
Committee also reviews the Trustees’ Annual Report and Accounts and recommends these to the Board for approval.

During the year the Finance Committee approved the Charity’s budget and business plan and the staff annual salary
review. During the year the committee also reviewed the internal audit reports for the following key business areas:
Payroll, Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance (ESG), Cyber Security, Budgeting and General Ledger.
As a result of their work in 2022/23, our internal auditors - RSM — were able to conclude that Teach First “has an
adequate and effective framework for risk management, governance and internal controf’. However, in its work, RSM
also “identified further enhancements to the framework of risk management, governance and internal control to ensure
that it remains adequate and effective”. The Committee will monitor the implementation of these improvements over
the course of 2023/24.

In 2022/23 the Committee reviewed its Terms of Reference and conducted an annual review of some of the Charity's
policies including the reserves policy. Additionally, the Committee received updates from the fundraising and
technology teams.

In 2023/24, the Committee will be known as the Finance, Risk and Audit Committee, to better reflect its remit.
Technology Committee

The Technology Committee was established in November 2020 and assists the Board of Trustees with technology-
related matters.

The Technology Committee provides governance oversight of the Charity’s technology and systems. It considers how
technology can play a key role in re-shaping the design and delivery of professional development for teachers and
school leaders. It also considers the Charity’s strategic partnerships with large technology organisations.

This year the Technology Committee held four meetings.

In 2023/24, the Committee will be known as the Digital, Data and Technology Committee, to better reflect its remit.
Nominations Committee

The Nominations Committee assists the Trustee Board with succession planning.

The Nominations Committee recommends to the Board suitable candidates for Board appointments, including the
Chair. Where appropriate it also recommends the reappointment of Trustees. This year the Nominations Committee
undertook a significant Trustee recruitment process as a number of Trustees reached the end of their terms towards
the end of the pandemic and within the year. As a result of this process, the Committee recommended the
appointment of nine new Trustees.

20th Anniversary Committee

The 20th Anniversary Committee was set up as an informal subgroup of the Board in December 2022. Five meetings
took place to work with Trustees on the Charity’s plans for its 20th anniversary year.

In 2023/24, the work of this informal committee will be taken on by a formal subgroup of the Board of Trustees, called
the Development Board.

Organisational structure

The Board of Trustees delegates the day-to-day management of Teach First to the CEO and the executive directors.
The CEO and Executive Team meet regularly as the Executive Committee to manage activities undertaken by Teach
First.

The names of the members of the Executive Committee can be found on page 28.

22

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13833D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E
Teach First subsidiaries

Teach First has one subsidiary company, Teach First Trading Limited. Teach First Trading Limited continues to raise
funds to support the delivery of Teach First's charitable purposes. Details of the financial performance of Teach First's
subsidiary are included in note 10 to the financial statements.

Equality, diversity and inclusion

Our objective is to unlock the potential in all children, not just some. To achieve this, we're creating a culture where
everyone, from any background, can do their best work.

As an employer our aim is to create a place where everyone can perform, learn and contribute while having the
confidence to be themselves. To do this we must remove the systemic biases and barriers that have become all too
familiar within the workplace. For example, we’ve made significant changes to our employee recruitment and selection
processes. Building on rules to ensure diverse shortlists, we're making sure decision-making at interview stage is
distributed with no one person having full say. And insisting that everyone involved in interviewing taking part in
training on inclusive hiring practices.

We've created clear policies and guidance to embed equity, diversity, and inclusion across the Charity at key
moments in a person's life, including a Trans and Non-Binary Equality Policy, Menopause, Bereavement, and Serious
Illness Guidance and more. This is underpinned by training and a programme of events to celebrate our diversity and
better understand the experiences of those from historically marginalised and under-represented groups. Whilst we
have much more to do, we were proud this year to be identified as a Gold and Top 100 Employer by Stonewall, a Top
30 Employer for Working Families, and a Committed Employer via the Disability Confident employer scheme.

We believe it is crucial that we reflect the communities we serve, as our decision-making should involve and be held to
account by those with the personal experience of the barriers we're here to break down. Transparency is vital in our
commitment to increase the representation of our workforce to better reflect the UK working population and the
communities we serve. We publish all our employee demographic data twice a year and have targets for the
representation we want to see in our workforce by end August 2024.

Pay and pay gap reporting

We're committed to providing fair and competitive rewards to all our employees. We're confident we pay fairly for the
same or equivalent work, regardless of background.

Since November 2019 we have advertised a single, non-negotiable starting salary for each job level. For
transparency, we have also adopted a process for a non-consolidated market supplement, agreed in advance by a
committee of peers using external benchmark data (not the hiring manager), for hard to recruit posts like technology
specialists or former head teachers. And we have standardised our annual salary review process, removing discretion,
so all employees deemed to be “on-track” receive a uniform increase. The Board of Trustees is responsible for the
CEO's remuneration and our employee salary and benefits management framework. These are reviewed by the
Finance Committee regularly and are recommended by the Committee to the Board for approval.

Pay gap reporting is a way of measuring both equity (pay) and diversity (distributed representation across levels).
Therefore, we have gone beyond statutory requirements to publish an annual ethnicity pay gap report since April
2020. This year we also published a socio-economic background pay gap report for the first time. You can find our
2023 pay gap reports here:

* 2023 Gender Pay Gap Report
e 2023 Ethnicity Pay Gap Report

2023 Socio-economic Background Pay Gap Report

Agile and flexible working

Teach First has long been a champion of agile working. All our employees can flex their hours and location to make
their responsibilities work alongside their life under our agile working arrangements. We judge performance based on
outcomes and impact, not hours worked in an office. While agile gives flexibility, some families need a pattern that's
protected to give security and peace of mind. For example, always being able to work from home on a certain day,
part-time working, or a job share. Our flexible working policy provides this as a day one right. We now have nearly 200
employees with a formal flexible working agreement and support over 100 different working patterns. This is role
modelled at all levels of the Charity and all our job specifications include a clear statement of our support for agile and
flexible working.

23

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13833D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E
Family friendly working

We pride ourselves on being a family friendly employer. We offer a portfolio of support to parents and carers to enable
them to effectively balance their work and home life including paid emergency leave for dependents, paid carers
leave, paid premature birth and neonatal care leave, paid miscarriage and stillbirth leave, and much more.
Recognising that the gender pay gap will only really be addressed if parental duties are shared equitably, from 1
September 2023 we will offer six weeks fully paid paternity leave and we continue to encourage the use of Shared
Parental Leave (which we match to our enhanced maternity leave) and flexible working. And acknowledging that
returning from parental leave is a key transition period, that it can present career and other challenges, we provide
24/7 online coaching and resources for returning employees and their managers.

Employee engagement

Our employees’ contributions make real differences to how we work and all our experiences here. Each of our
directorates is represented at our elected Employee Engagement Forum that meets regularly through the year.
Employees can contribute ideas to improving their experience at work and how we operate. In the past year the forum
has addressed our employee benefits provision, employee reward and recognition, and diversity and inclusion.

Our affinity groups are a crucial component of creating an inclusive workplace. Their Chairs have dedicated, paid time
to complete their role and sit on our Employee Engagement Forum. We support them in running various events
throughout the year, including safe space conversations, awareness, and celebration events. And through our
employee surveys we're continually hearing from our people on what's gaing on and can see what’s making things
better — and what's not.

Staying close to our purpose is so important to us that we offer our people three days a year where they can do
voluntary work that gets them close to our purpose. in the past year our employees have used this time to provide
career coaching to pupils, volunteer as student mentors, take up school governor positions and much more. The
summary outcomes of this work are shared with the Executive Committee and the Board of Trustees. We also work
with a wide range of corporate partners, whose staff engage in volunteering on our programmes to broaden our reach
and impact.

Environmental reporting

Teach First operates from eleven offices across the country and our energy use is related to:

e Administrative activities, including the use of electricity for office equipment and fuel and electricity for heating and
cooling purposes; and

e Business travel, using employee-owned vehicles, for which the corresponding business mileage is paid by the
organisation.

During the year ended 31 August 2023, we consumed 447 MWh of energy (2022: 405 MWh) on scope 1 and 2
activities.

We have worked with an environmental consultant to quantify that Teach First emissions in the year were as follows:

Tonne CO2e
Scope 1: direct emissions
Scope 2: indirect office-space emissions

2023 | 2022

The chosen intensity measurement ratio is total gross emissions in tonne CO2e per Full Time Equivalent member of
staff (FTE), the recommended ratio for the sector. For the year ended 31 August 2023, we caused the emission of
0.11 tonne CO2e per FTE (2021: 0.10 tonne CO2e).

Scope 1 and 2 emissions increased in the year to 447 MWh of energy (2022: 405 MWh) due to an increase in office
attendance from both Teach First staff and other building tenants as Covid restrictions no longer applied as in the
previous reporting year.

Teach First has limited control over energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, as we do not own our office
spaces and the vehicles used for business travel are owned by staff.
However, we remain committed in our endeavour for energy efficiency and this year implemented the following
actions:
« Investigated the possibility of reducing our floor space to reduce energy consumption. We surrendered two
floors of office space (20,00 fi2) in London on 5 December 2023.

24

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6A0262E

e Review Building Management System settings to better match energy consumption to occupancy to reduce
heating energy consumption times.
e Review and reduced our server room temperatures to lower energy consumption.

Measures taken to improve energy efficiency

Our emissions on business travel reduced to 106 Tonne COQ2e (2022: 120 Ton CO2e) this year. This is due to an
increase in the use of technology and video conferencing to reduce travel to schools for face-to-face mentoring,
teaching and supervision.

Teach First is committed to the achieving net zero emissions by 2030, ahead of the Government’s target of 2050.

Quantification and reporting methodology

We have complied with The Companies (Directors’ Report) and Limited Liability Partnerships (Energy and carbon)
Regulations 2018, incorporating the UK Government's policy on Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting (‘SECR’),
which came into force on 1 April 2019.

Public benefit

All our activities are undertaken to further our charitable purpose, which is to advance the education of the public.
More specifically, the Charity is working towards a day when no child's educational success is limited by their
socioeconomic background. In working towards this vision, we also envisage having a positive impact on wider
society. The Trustees have a duty to consider public benefit guidance published by the Charity Commission. We are
satisfied that the purpose and activities of the Charity continue to satisfy the requirements of the public benefit test set
out in section 17 of the Charities Act 2011. We have demonstrated how we have worked towards our charitable
purposes, by setting out our achievements during the year in our Trustees’ Report (on pages 5 to 11).

Compliance information
Modern Slavery Transparency Statement

We are required to publish an annual statement on the steps we have taken to ensure that modern slavery is not
present in the Charity's supply chains or operations. We are committed to upholding the letter and spirit of the Modern
Slavery Act, and our Modern Slavery Transparency Statement for 2022/23 is published on our website. This sets out
what steps we have taken to prevent modern slavery from occurring within the Charity and our supply chains, along
with future plans in this area.

Supplier relations

The organisation, as governed by the Board of Trustees, has taken into account the impact of business changes on
donors, funders and suppliers. We have reviewed our payment terms reporting, which showed that over 95% of
invoices were paid within 60 days.

Fundraising

The Charity Act 2011 (as amended) requires all charities subject to audit to provide information on their fundraising
practices within the Trustees' annuat report. This is to help protect the public from intrusive practices. The majority of
our income comes from statutory contracts and school fees for the provision of initial teacher training. However,
voluntary funding is important to enable us to deliver our vision and mission. We therefore undertake a range of
fundraising activities in support of our charitable aims. Our approach to fundraising includes:

partnerships with corporate supporters

securing grants from trusts and foundations

donations from individuals (mainly from philanthropists but also, on a smaller scale, the wider public)
entry fees and sponsorship raised by individuals for challenge events (such as Run the River)
sponsorship related to other events

Most of our fundraising activity is managed in-house. During the year we did use the services of some specialist
providers, to support us in certain areas. This included a specialist research agency, to support our efforts to seek
donations from philanthropists; use of advertising agencies to publicise our fundraising events; and events
management companies, to provide logistical support in organising larger events. All of this is undertaken under the
supervision of our in-house fundraising team.

25

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

We did not engage the services of any professional fundraising agencies to undertake direct response fundraising
solicitation or cultivation either by phone, online or face-to-face, during the year.

We strive to achieve the highest possible standards of fundraising and undertake a number of measures to ensure we
are accountable for our practices. We've had no complaints with regards to our fundraising practices.

We are registered with the Fundraising Regulator who holds the Code of Fundraising Practice for the UK. We work
within these regulations, as well as carrying out our activities in line with the expectations of our supporters.

26

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B3309E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E
Trustees’ statement of responsibilities

The Trustees, who are also directors of Teach First for the purposes of company law, are responsible for preparing
the Trustees’ Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the Trustees to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the
Trustees have elected to prepare the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with United
Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law),
including FRS 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland’.

Under company law the Trustees must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the charitable company and the group, and of the incoming resources and
application of resources, including the income and expenditure, of the charitable group for that period. In preparing
these financial statements, the Trustees are required to:

select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;

observe the methods and principles in the Charities Statement of Recommended Practice (SORP) (FRS 102);
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

state whether applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

* prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
charitable group will continue in business.

The Trustees are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
group’s and charitable company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial
position of the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

The Trustees confirm that:

e So far as each Trustee is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the group's auditor is
unaware; and

e The Trustees have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Trustees in order to make themselves
aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the group’s auditor is aware of that information.

The Trustees are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on
the charitable company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of
financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.

Grant Thornton UK LLP, having expressed their willingness to continue in office, will be deemed reappointed for the
next financial year in accordance with Section 487 (2) of the Companies Act 2006 unless the company receives notice
under Section 488 (1) of the Companies Act 2006.

Liability of members of the Board of Trustees '

Teach First is limited by guarantee and has no share capital. The Trustees are members of the company and every
member is liable to contribute a sum not exceeding £1 in the event of the company being wound up while he or she is
a member or up to one year thereafter. At 31 August 2023 there were 14 members.

Declaration

This Trustees’ Annual Report on pages 5 to 27, including the Strategic Report on pages 12 to 26, is presented and
approved by the Board of Trustees and signed on its behalf.

YU

Signed
Date 12/3/2024

Dame Vivian Hunt
Chair of the Board of Trustees

27

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

Administrative details

Administration as at 31 August 2023

Administrative details

Teach First

Registered name: Teach First

Charity number: 1098294

Company number: 04478840

Principal and registered office:

6 Mitre Passage, Greenwich Peninsula,
London, SE10 0ER

Website: www.teachfirst.org.uk

Patron
King Charles III

Vice Patron
Dame Julia Cleverdon DCVO CBE

Founder and Honorary President
Brett Wigdortz OBE

Board of Trustees

Dame Vivian Hunt (Chair)

Humphrey Battcock (from 12 December 2022)
Sarah Bibi

James Bilefield (until 14 July 2023)

William Bickford Smith (until 19 May 2023)
Djamila Boothman

Caroline Carr

Alison Duncan

Paul Geddes

Clare Gilmartin (from 1 February 2023)

Tom Harbour

Nabila Jiwa (from 5 June 2023)

Lord Jonathan Hill (until 20 March 2023)

Lord Jonathan Kestenbaum

Dame Mary Marsh (until 4 April 2023)
Nicholas Owen CBE

Richard Taylor

Samantha Twiselton (from 1 December 2022)

Company Secretary
Emily Commander

Finance Committee
Alison Duncan (Chair)
Sarah Bibi

Paul Geddes
Nicholas Owen CBE
Richard Taylor

Nominations Committee
Nicholas Owen CBE (Chair)
Caroline Carr

Alison Duncan

Tom Harbour

Dame Vivian Hunt

Technology Committee
James Bilefield (Chair)

Paul Geddes

Tom Harbour

Mike Page (Co-opted member)
Stuart Riley (Co-opted member)

Executive Committee

Russell Hobby CBE, Chief Executive Officer
Sujata McNab, Chief Operating Officer

Kate Evans, Chief Information Officer

Amy Mitchell, Chief Impact Officer

All members of the Executive Committee are deemed
key management personnel.

Bankers
Barclays Bank pic
1 Churchill Place
London E14 SHP

Solicitors

Clifford Chance

10 Upper Bank Street
London E14 5JJ

Ashurst

London Fruit & Wool Exchange
1 Duval Square

London E1 6PW

External Auditor
Grant Thornton UK LLP
30 Finsbury Square
London EC2A 1AG

Internal Auditor

RSM Risk Assurance Services LLP
The Pinnacle,

170 Midsummer Boulevard

Milton Keynes MK9 1BP_

28

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

Independent Auditor's report to

the members of Teach First

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Teach First (the ‘parent charitable company’) and its subsidiary (the ‘group’)
for the year ended 31 August 2023, which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Financial Activities, the Consolidated
and Charity Balance Sheets, the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and notes to the financial statements, including
asummary of significant accounting policies. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation
is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102; The Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:

* give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and parent charitable company's affairs as at 31 August 2023
and of the group’s and the parent charitable company’s incoming resources and application of resources
including, the group's and the parent income and expenditure for the year then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and

e have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We have been appointed as auditor under the Companies Act 2006 and report in accordance with regulations made
under that Act. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the ‘Auditor's responsibilities for the
audit of the financial statements’ section of our report. We are independent of the group and parent charitable company
in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including
the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these
requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for
our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

We are responsible for concluding on the appropriateness of the Trustees’ use of the going concern basis of accounting
and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the group’s and the parent charitable company's ability to continue as a going concern. If
we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our report to the related disclosures
in the financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify the auditor's opinion. Our conclusions are
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our report. However, future events or conditions may cause the
group or parent charitable company to cease to continue as a going concern.

In our evaluation of the Trustees’ conclusions, we considered the inherent risks associated with the group's and parent
charitable company's business model including effects arising from macro-economic uncertainties such as high inflation
and the ‘Cost-of-living Crisis’, we assessed and challenged the reasonableness of estimates made by the Trustees and
the related disclosures and analysed how those risks might affect the group’s and parent charitable company’s financial
resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern period.

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the Trustees’ use of the going concern basis of accounting
in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions
that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the group’s and parent Charity's ability to continue as a
going concern fora period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant
sections of this report.

29

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report and Accounts, other than the financial
statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The Trustees are responsible for the other information contained within the
Annual Report and Accounts. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except
to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine
whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have
performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that -
fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

e the information given in the Strategic Report and the Directors’ report, prepared for the purposes of company
law, included in the Trustees' Annual Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared
is consistent with the financial statements.

« the Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report included in the Trustees’ Annual Report have been prepared in
accordance with applicable legal requirements.

Matter on which we are required to report under the Companies Act 2006

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and parent charitable company and their environment
obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic Report or the Directors’
Report included in the Trustees' Annual Report.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters where the Companies Act 2006 requires us to report to
you if, in our opinion:

e adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent charitable company, or

e returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or

e the parent charitable company’s financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and
returns; or

e certain disclosures of Trustees‘ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

e we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of Trustees

As explained more fully in the Trustees’ Responsibilities Statement, set out on page 27, the Trustees (who are also the
directors of the charitable company for the purposes of company law) are responsible for the preparation of the financial
statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the Trustees
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the Trustees are responsible for assessing the group and the parent charitable
company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using
the going concern basis of accounting unless the Trustees either intend to liquidate the group or parent charitable
company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

30

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.

Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. The extent to which our
procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud, is detailed below:

We obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the charitable
company and the sector in which it operates. We determined that the following laws and regulations were most
significant: the Charities SORP (FRS 102), The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and the
Republic of Ireland (FRS 102), the Companies Act 2006 and the Data Protection Act 2018;

We understood how the charitable company is complying with these legal and regulatory frameworks by making
inquiries of management and those charged with governance. We enquired of management and those charged
with governance whether there were any instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations, or whether
they had any knowledge of actual or suspected fraud. We corroborated the results of our enquiries through our
review of board minutes, and through our legal and professional expenses review;

These audit procedures were designed to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements were free
from fraud or error. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not
detecting one resulting from error and detecting irregularities that result from fraud is inherently more difficult
than detecting those that result from error, as fraud may involve collusion, deliberate concealment, forgery or
intentional misrepresentations. Also, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from
events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely we would become aware of it;

We assessed the susceptibility of the charitable company’s financial statements to material misstatement,
including how fraud might occur and the risk of material override of controls. Audit procedures performed by the
engagement team included:

o Identifying and assessing the design effectiveness of certain controls management has in place to
prevent and detect fraud;

Challenging assumptions and judgments made by management in its significant accounting policies;
Identifying and testing journal entries;

Identifying and testing related party transactions;

Inspecting the board minutes; and

Assessing the extent of compliance with the relevant laws and regulations as part of our procedures on
the related financial statement item.

0000 0

The assessment of the appropriateness of the collective competence and capabilities of the engagement team
included consideration of the engagement teams’:

o Understanding of, and practical experience with, audit engagements of a similar nature and complexity
through appropriate training and participation;
o Understanding of, and practical experience with, audit engagements of a similar nature and complexity
through appropriate training and participation; and
o Understanding of the legal and regulatory requirements specific to the entity including the provisions of
the applicable legislation.
The team communications in respect of potential non-compliance with laws and regulations and fraud included
the potential for fraud in revenue recognition through manipulation of income.
We did not identify any matters relating to non-compliance with laws and regulation and fraud.
In assessing the potential risks of material misstatement, we obtained an understanding of:

31

DocuSign Envelope ID: 1383309E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

© The charitable company’s operations, including the nature of its revenue sources, to understand the
classes of transactions, accounts balances, expected financial statement disclosures and business
risks that may result in risks of material misstatement; and

© The charitable company’s control environment, including:

fo}
fe}

°

The charitable company's control environment, including:

Management's knowledge of relevant laws and regulations and how the charitable company
is complying with those laws and regulations;

The adequacy of procedures for authorisation of transactions and review of management
accounts; and

Procedures to ensure that possible breaches of laws and regulations are appropriately
resolved.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial Reporting
Council's website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the charitable company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of
the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the charitable company’s
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest
extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the charitable company and
the charitable company’s members as a body,.for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Grant Thewtian Ule LLP

Stephen Dean BA (Hons) FCA DChA

Senior Statutory Auditor

for and on behalf of Grant Thornton UK LLP
Statutory Auditor, Chartered Accountants

London
Date: 12/3/2024

32

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-B0DB-470F-BO0E4-686DB6AD262E

Consolidated Statement of
Financial Activities

(Incorporating an income and expenditure account)
For the year ended 31 August 2023

Note Unrestricted funds Restricted funds Total 2023 Total 2022

£'000

Charitable activities | 2 | 54,930

Investments

£'000 £'000 £'000

Income from other trading
activities

Total Income

Expenditure

Cost of raising funds

Expenditure on charitable
activities

Total Expenditure

Net result for the year (1,352) 437

| Reconciliation of funds

Total funds brought
forward at 1 September

Total funds carried
forward at 31 August

All income and expenditure derive from continuing activities.

The Statement of Financial Activities includes all gains and losses recognised in the year.
The notes on pages 37 to 53 form an integral part of these financial statements.

A Statement of Financial Activities for the Charity is set out in note 19.

33

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

Consolidated and Charity Balance
Sheets

As at 31 August 2023

o oup a oup

0 0 0 0
000 000 000 000 [ine

Fixed Assets

Tangible assets 9 294 294 266 266

Investments in trading subsidiaries 10 - - - -

Total Fixed Assets 294 294 266 266

Current Assets

Debtors "1 22,047 22,431 23,994 24,274

Cash at bank and in hand 12,849 12,456 19,194 18,891

Total Current Assets 34,896 34,887 43,188 43,165

Creditors: amounts falling due within 12 (23,365) (23,356) (30,294) (30,271)

one year

Net current assets 11,531 11,531 12,894 12,894

Total assets less current

liabilities 11,825 11,825 13,160 13,160

Provisions for liabilities

Net assets

‘| Funds

Restricted funds

Unrestricted funds

a LL

The notes on pages 37 to 53 form an integral part of these financial statements. The financial statements on pages 33
to 53 were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of Trustees on 1 February 2024, and were signed on its
behalf by:

Yk

Dame Vivian Hunt
Chair
Company Registration Number 04478840

12/3/2024
34

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13833D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows

For the year ended 31 August 2023

Cash flows from operating activities
Net cash outflow from operating activities

Cash flows from investing ac: S

Interest from investments

Purchase of tangible fixed assets

Net cash inflow from investing activities

Net movement in funds

period

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year

Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year

The notes on pages 37 to 53 form an integral part of these financial statements. ~

35

DocuSign Envelope 1D: 13B33D9E-B0DB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

Reconciliation of net result for the year to net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities

Net expenditure for the year

Adjustments for:

(394) ~ (64)

Deposit interest and investment income receivable

Depreciation and amortisation charges 5 165 189
Increase in debtors 11 1,947 3,750
(Decrease) in creditors 12 (6,929) (9,742)
Decrease in provisions 13 17 (15)
Net cash (outflow) from operating activities (6,546) (5,835)

Cash at bank and in hand

Net cash used on operating activities

Analysis of changes in net debt

At 1 September
2022

£°000

2023

£000

12,849

Other non-cash
charges

Cash flows At 31 August

£000 £000

The notes on pages 37 to 53 form an integral part of these financial statements.

36

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13833D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

Notes to the financial statements

1. Accounting Policies

A) BASIS OF PREPARATION

The financial statements are prepared under the
historical cost convention and in accordance with
Accounting and Reporting by Charities: Statement

of Recommended Practice applicable to charities
preparing their accounts in accordance with the
Financial Reporting Standards applicable in the UK
and Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) (effective 1 January
2019) - (Charities SORP (FRS 102)), the Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and the
Republic of Ireland (FRS 102) and the Companies Act
2006. Teach First meets the definition of a public
benefit entity under FRS 102. The Financial
Statements are presented in Sterling (£) which is the
functional currency of the group and entity. Teach
First, and its subsidiary are incorporated in England
and Wales, and both entities share the same
registered address.

B) GOING CONCERN

tn adopting the going concern basis for preparing the
financial statements, the Board has considered the
organisation’s business activities, liquidity and
strategy, as well as the risks to the Charity and the
applicable controls.

The organisation's business activities, financial
performance and liquidity position are reviewed
annually by the Board as part of a full business
planning process and thereafter considered on a
regular basis to ensure the plan accurately reflects the
position of the Charity. In particular, a significant
Proportion of the Charity’s income and expenditure
relates to contracts with the Department for Education
and the Board regularly reviews the latest multi-year
position in relation to the securing, extending and
renewing such contracts.

The Board has considered a variety of income and
expenditure scenarios prepared by management which
stress-test the organisation's ability in the current and
forecast economic environment, to manage its monthly
liquidity position, flex its resources to customer
demand and deliver against its mission. These severe
but plausible scenarios, which covered the period to 31
August 2025, provided sensitivity analyses and
reverse-stress tests based on key factors such as
programme-participant numbers and voluntary income.

Based on these severe but plausible scenarios and
their divergence from the organisation's base-case
income and expenditure and cashflow forecasts, as
well as the liquidity and unrestricted reserves available
to the Charity and mitigations including work currently
underway to reduce our cost base, the Board is
satisfied that the Charity has adequate resources to
operate for the foreseeable future and considers it
appropriate for the organisation to adopt a going
concern basis in preparing its financial statements.

C) GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

These financial statements consolidate the results of
the Charity and its wholly-owned subsidiary on a line-
by-line basis: both entities also share the same
registered address at 6 Mitre Passage, Greenwich
Peninsula, London, England, SE10 OER.

As an additional disclosure, the notes to the financial
statements (note 19) include a statement of financial
activities for the charity.

D) INCOME

Income is recognised when the Charity has entitlement
to the funds: any performance conditions attached to
the term(s) of income have been met; it is probable
that the income will be received, and the amount can
be measured reliably.

The following specific policies apply to categories of
income:

Fees paid by schools

Fees are paid by schools for each trainee placed with
them. A deposit element is recognised in the year in
which the trainee is placed. Fees for year one and year
two of the placements are recognised over the period
the trainee is teaching in the school over the two-year
programme. If a trainee withdraws from the
programme before the October half-term of their first
year, a refund is issued to the school for the full fee
and deposit. For withdrawals thereafter, refunds of
non-deposit income are calculated based on the
number of complete months the trainee is not at the
school.

Initial Teacher Training

Income for Initial Teacher Training relates to income
received in respect of our contract with the Department
for Education for delivery of the Training Programme in
England. income is recognised in line with the delivery

37

DocuSign Envelope 1D: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

of the contracted service provided less any clawback
due.

Other Government contracts

All income to which the Charity is entitled at year end
is recognised in the accounts, except where there are
conditions attached to the contracts which we are
uncertain will be met; or where the Charity is yet to
meet performance-related conditions attached to the
contract.

Voluntary income

Income from donations or grants is recognised when
there is evidence of entitlement to the gift, receipt is
probable and its amount can be measured reliably. In
the case of a grant or corporate donation, evidence of
entitlement will usually exist when the formal offer of
funding is communicated in writing to the Charity. Ln
exceptional circumstances, Voluntary income may
occasionally be recognised in advance of a formal
signed agreement where an authorised individual
confirms that a signed agreement has been delayed
due to administrative procedures (e.g. where a
Foundation Board only meet quarterly to confirm
grants). In these cases, an assessment will be made
on the basis of the probability of receipt of income.
Some donations and grants will contain terms or
conditions that must be met before the Charity has
entitlement to the resources. This income is deferred
until the conditions have been met.

Other donations are recognised when received.

Sponsorship/ticencing income
Income on sponsorship or licencing in Teach First

Trading Limited is eamed at the date that agreement is
signed between Teach First and the donor. Where it is

possible to identify the period in which the customer
receives the benefit of the service, the income will be
recognised when benefits are conferred to the
customer.

Investment income
Investment income is earned from interest on funds

held on deposit. Income is recognised when receivable

and the amount can be measured reliably.

E) DONATED GOODS, FACILITIES AND
SERVICES

Donated goods, professional services and facilities are

recognised as income when the Charity has control
over the item, any conditions associated with the
donated item have been met, the receipt of economic
benefit from the use by the Charity of the item is
probable and that economic benefit can be measured
reliably. On receipt, donated goods, professional
services and facilities are recognised on the basis of
the value of the gift to the Charity which is the amount
the Charity would have been willing to pay to obtain
services or facilities of equivalent economic benefit on
the open market; a corresponding amount is then
recognised in expenditure in the period of receipt.

F) FUND ACCOUNTING

Restricted funds are those funds received with specific
conditions attached and are restricted for use in those
activities only. All other funds received are considered
unrestricted funds and are available to spend on
activities that further any purposes of the Charity.

Designated Funds are unrestricted funds set aside by
the Trustees in respect of fixed assets or for use on
specific future projects.

G) EXPENDITURE

All expenditure is accounted for on an accruals basis
and has been listed under headings that aggregate all
the costs related to that activity. Where costs cannot
be directly attributed, they have been allocated to
activities on a basis consistent with the use of
resources.

Support costs include the management and
administration of Teach First and include staffing and
the associated costs of supporting, monitoring and
evaluating the work of the Charity and irrecoverable
VAT. These costs have been split between costs of
generating funds and charitable activities. The bases
on which support costs have been allocated are set
out in note 4.

The direct costs of raising funds and charitable
activities, including directly attributable salaries, are
allocated on an actual basis to the key strategic areas
of the Charity.

Contributions in respect of the Charity's defined
contribution pension scheme are charged to the
income and expenditure account in the year in which
they are payable to the scheme.

Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the
rate ruling at the time of transaction.

H) OPERATING LEASES

The Charity classifies the lease of office space and
photocopying equipment as operating leases. The title
to the assets remains with the lessor and the items are
held for significantly less than the useful life of the
asset. Payments under operating leases are charged
to the income and expenditure account on a straight-
line basis.

|) TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS
Tangible fixed assets are stated at their purchase
price, together with any incidental costs of acquisition.

Individual assets are capitalised only when their cost of
acquisition is over £500.

38

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

Tangible fixed assets are depreciated based on
original cost or valuation, less any residual value, on a
straight-line basis over the expected useful economic
lives of the assets concerned.

Depreciation is charged from the month of purchase,
and none in the year of disposal.

The annual rates used for this purpose are:

« Computer equipment - 33.3%

« Equipment, fixtures and fittings - 20%

e Leasehold improvement - depreciated over the
term of the lease

Fixed assets undergo an annual review for indications
of impairment, and if any indicators are identified,
impairment assessments are conducted.

J) INVESTMENTS
Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost,
less any provision for impairment.

K) DEBTORS

Trade and other debtors are recognised at the
settlement amount due after any trade discount
offered. Prepayments are valued at the amount
prepaid, net of any trade discounts due.

L) CASH AT BANK AND IN HAND

Cash at bank and in hand includes cash and short
term highly-liquid investments with a short maturity of
less than 12 months from the balance sheet date.

d

M) CREDITORS AND PROVISIONS

Creditors and provisions are recognised where the
Charity has a present obligation as a result of a past
event that will probably result in the transfer of funds to
a third party and the amount due to settle the
obligation can be measured reliably.

N) VOLUNTEERS

Volunteers give their time freely to nurture and develop
the young peopie and teachers we work with. The
value of this is not recognised in the accounts.

O) SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENTS AND
ESTIMATES

Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated
and are based on historical experience and modelling
of future changes based on agreed parameters such
as dropout rates for retention of trainees, recruitment
levels for future cohorts where income is received in
advance but would be subject to reclaim by DfE. The
Charity makes estimates and assumptions in these
areas however, the resulting accounting estimates will,
by definition, rarely be perfect. It is the opinion of the
management and Trustees that there are no estimates
and judgements that have a significant risk of causing
a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities within the next financial year.

39

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-B0DB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

2. Incoming resources
Unrestricted Restricted Total 2023

£'000 £'000 £

Charitable Activities

Total 2022

£000

: 13,646

16,334

Fees paid by schools

Initial Teacher Training - 26,250 32,492

Early Career Training - 10,504 6,314

Other Contracts - 4,531 2,038

Total Charitable Activities 54,930 - 54,930 57,178

Donations

Voluntary income from —

Corporates, Trusts and 4,785 2,861 ‘7,646 9,669

Foundations and Major Donors

Donations in kind 35 - 35 344
10,013

Total Donations 4,820 2,861 | 7,681

Further information is provided on the support of gifts and services donated in kind:

2023 Total 2022 Total

£'000

reining and professional 35 344
IT services - | - |
Total 35 | 344 |

40

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B3309E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

3. Expenditure

Support Direct 2023 Total Support Direct 2022 Total
costs expenditure costs expenditure

Expenditure on
raising funds

Support Direct 2023 Total Restated Direct 2022 Total

costs expenditure Support costs expenditure

‘000
6,757

a ee
5,990 31,513 37,503

Teacher
recruitment

Teacher trainee

development 26,954

Leadership
programmes,
networks and other
activities

10,152

Early career
training

Charitable
Operating
Expenditure

59,013

Non-recurring
digital and other
costs

5,745

Expenditure on
charitable
activities

64,757,

41

DocuSign Envelope 1D: 13B33D9E-80DB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

4. Allocation of support costs and non-recurring costs

Support costs are allocated as a proportion of the associated staff costs in these areas.

Allocation of support costs 2023 Total 2022 Total

£'000 £'000

Expenditure on raising funds 611 440

Expenditure on charitable activities

10,702

Support costs are constituted of the following types of costs:

Support costs 2023 Total 2022 Total
£'000
Salaries and staff costs p oe 6,079
Premises cost and rent 1,242
Operations and office management 1,947 1,525
information technology 1,936 1,381

Depreciation and amortisation

Governance costs

Total

Non-recurring digital and other 2023 Total 2022 Total
costs

Salaries and staff costs 1,514 2,178
Information technology 903 3,567
Total . 2,417 5,745

42

DocuSign Envelope 1D: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

5. Net income for the year

This is stated after charging:

2023 Total 2022 Total

£'000

Depreciation

Auditor remuneration payable:
49 41

Fees payable to the company’s auditor for the audit of the company’s
annual accounts relating to the current year

Fees payable to the company’s auditor for other services:

* Audit of the accounts of subsidiaries

Operating tease charges: rent and equipment

6. Analysis of staff costs and the cost of key management personnel

2023 Total 2022 Total

£'000

Wages and salaries 35,636
Employer's national insurance costs 3,387

Pensions and other staff costs

43

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-B0DB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

Salary bands:

60,000 — 69,999

70,000 ~ 79,999

80,000 — 89,999

90,000 — 99,999

100,000 — 109,999

110,000 — 119,999

120,000 - 129,999

160,000 - 169,999

The cost of key management personnel, comprising the Executive Committee, was £902,663 (2022: £870,661). The
members of the Executive Committee are listed on page 28. Employer pension contributions paid in respect of these
employees amounted to £55,633 (2022: £58,797). The total of termination payments was £411,474 (2022: £96,195),
Termination payments related to a restructure of the Executive team made at the end of the financial year, which
reduced the Executive from 8 to 5 effective from September 2023. There were also restructures in Information
Services and Charity Services during the reporting period. The nature of these payments were lump sum payments
and they have been recognised when the Charity became legally obliged to make these payments.

PENSION CONTRIBUTIONS
Teach First contributes to defined contribution pension policies for its qualifying employees. Employer contributions

payable for the year amounted to £1,604,706 (2022 - £1,601 ,045), of which nil (2022 - £293,519) was outstanding at
the balance sheet date.

44

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

7. Staff numbers

The average number of

employees on a Full Time
Equivalent basis during the year
were:

The average number of

employees, including casual

workers, on a Headcount basis 951 821
during the year were:

8. Taxation

Teach First is a registered Charity under the Charities Act 2011 and as such is exempt from tax on its income and
gains to the extent that such income and gains are applied for charitable purposes. Teach First is parent to Teach
First Trading Limited. The company made a profit of £367,035, which it will distribute under a deed of covenant and
has been recognised in 2023.

9. Consolidated and Charity tangible fixed assets

Leasehold Computer Equipment,
improvements equipment fixtures and

fittings

£'000

Cost

"At 1 September 2022 3,276 —_ 1,021 OO 543 i ; 4,839
Additions - 192 - 192
At 31 August 2023 3,276 1,213 543 5,032

‘Depreciation and impairment

At 1 September 2022 3,276 782 515 4,573
Charge for the year - 154 11 165
At 31 August 2023 3276 936 526 4738

‘Net ibook value

At 31 August 2023 - 277 17 294

At 1 September 2022 - 238 28 266

45

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BOD8-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

10. Charity investment in trading subsidiary

Cost and net book value Subsidiary undertakings

At 31 August 2023 and 2022

Country of % held Activity
incorporation

Teach First Trading Limited

Sponsorship and
service fees

England
1 Ordinary share of £1 each

Voluntary income from Corporates, Trusts and Foundations and individuals includes service fees from supporters who
license the Teach First brand. This non-primary purpose trading is recognised through the wholly-owned trading
subsidiary Teach First Trading Limited (company number: 08159283), which distributes the entirety

of its profits to the Charity by gift aid. The Charity owns the entire share capital of the company of 1 share at £1.

A summary of the trading results of Teach First Trading Limited is shown below:

Turmover

Cost of sales and

administration costs (133) (126)
Net profit 367
Tax on profit -
Profit for the financial year ; 367

The assets and liabilities of the subsidiary were:

 Pnnnneinnnananen

Current assets

Current liabilities

Retained in Subsidiary

46

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

11. Debtors

Consolidated
2023

Trade debtors

Accrued income

Charity Consolidated
2023 2022

£ £

Prepayments

Intercompany debtors

12. Creditors

Consolidated

Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

Trade creditors

Charity Consolidated
2022

100

Charity
2022

£°000

Charity
2022

£'000

Other creditors

Funds held on behalf of third parties

Accruals

Taxation and social security costs

4,095

Deferred income (see i)

Rent provision |

Total |

|. DEFERRED INCOME

Brought
forward

Consolidated

£000

Analysis of movements

Received Recognised

T
£'000

School fees

3,646)

Initial Teacher Training and other
Government contracts

(26,250)

| Other income

(160)

Total

(40,056)

16,830

Carried
forward

£'000

47

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6A0262E

School fees
Some of our schools’ fees for trainee teachers are billed in advance. This income is recognised upon achievement of
specific milestones.

Initial Teacher Training and other Government contracts

This represents contractual income relating to future periods, which is recognised on achievement of specific
milestones. Following a change in contractual terms and the timings of billings, there has been a reduction in deferred
income.

Other income

This represents voluntary income relating to future periods, which is recognised on achievement of specific milestones
and after agreement with the donor.

Broug e ) Recog q a
orward o d
000 000 000 000

Analysis of movements
School fees 12,720 11,384 ; (13,646) 10,458
ital Teacher Train and other 3,927 23,794 (26,250) 1,471
Other income 183 14 (160) 37
Total 16,830 35,192 | (40,056) 11,966

13. Consolidated and Charity Provisions

Brought Providedinthe Used in the year Carried
forward year forward

£°000 £000 £°000 £'000

Analysis of movements

Dilapidations

Total

Dilapidations

Dilapidation costs expected to be payable on the termination of the lease of Teach First's London office in 2026.

48

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13833D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6A0262E

14. Analysis of charitable funds at 31 August 2023

Consolidated Brought forward Incoming Resources Carried forward
resources expended

‘000 £°000 £'000

Restricted funds

Teacher trainee development

Leadership programmes,

networks and other activities (2,727)

Total restricted funds - 2,862]. --— (3,294) 172

Unrestricted funds 60,614 (61,535) 10,928

Total

63,476 (64,829)

Charity Brought forward incoming Resources Carried forward
resources expended

£°000 £'000

Restricted funds

Teacher vanee devaopmen a ee) (sn

Leadership programmes, 2,542
networks and other activities

Total restricted funds

Unrestricted funds

(61,402)

Total (64,696) 11,100

Teacher trainee development
Funds that are specifically restricted by donors towards our Training Programme, including supporting additional
activities to ensure we run a high-quality programme.

Leadership programmes, networks and other activities

This restricted fund includes networks to support our alumni groups in order that they continue to be advocates for our
mission. The carry forward funds are restricted to our Career Leader and National Professional Qualification
programmes, aimed at supporting middie and senior leaders.

Unrestricted
Unrestricted funds are received from a range of donors and supporters.

49

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

15. Analysis of net assets between Charity funds

Fund balances at 31 August 2023 are represented by:

Charity

General
unrestricted
funds

Restricted
funds

Fixed assets 294 - 294 266
Debtors 22,047 - 22,047 23,994
Cash in bank and in hand 12,678 12,849 19,194
Creditors: amounts falling due (23,365) . (23,365) (30,294)
within one year
—|-—___— -

Total 11,654 171 11,825 13,160 |
Provisions (725) - (725) (707)
Total funds carried forward 11,100 12,453

a ae, a aE

£'000

£'000

Fund balances at 31 August 2023 are represented by:

£'000

Fixed assets 294 - 294 266
Debtors 22,431 - 22,431 24,274
Cash in bank and in hand 12,285 171 12,456 18,891
win one year falling due (23,356) . (23,356) (30,271)
Total 11,654 171 11,825 13,160
Provisions . (725) (707)
Total funds carried forward 171 11,100 12,453

Free reserves, which are defined as General Unrestricted Reserves excluding fixed assets, were
£10.6m at 31 August 2023 (2022: £11.6m).

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F -B0E4-686DB6AD262E

16. Financial commitments

There were capital commitments of £ni! existing at 31 August 2023 (31 August 2022: £nil).
The company was committed to making the following total future payments in respect of operating leases:

Within one year

Within two to five years

Over five years

2,582 3,548 |

17. Related party transactions

The Charity has taken advantage of the exemption in-FRS102 from disclosing transactions with other members of the
group. Trustees were not remunerated, and no expenses were claimed for travel and out of pocket expenses (2022:
£nil). Expenses are shared between the parent company and subsidiary using an income-based allocation approach.
The total expenses recharged to the subsidiary were valued at £126,104 (2022: £110,439).

51

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

18. Comparative Consolidated Statement of Financial Activities

Total 2022

£000

Unrestricted funds Restricted funds

Charitable activities

Donations

Investments

Income from other trading activities

Total Income

Cost of raising funds 2,534

Expenditure on charitable activities 61,064

Total Expenditure 63,595

Net result for the year

Total funds brought forward at 1 September 12,016

Total funds carried forward at 31 August 14 11,849 604 12,453

52


DocuSign Envelope ID: 13833D9E-BODB-470F-BOE4-686DB6AD262E

19. Charity Statement of Financial Activities

For the year ended Unrestricted Restricted funds Total 2023 Total 2022
31 August 2023 funds

00
Income:
Charitable activities 54,930 - 54,930 57,178
Donations 7,184 9,374
Investments 391 56
Income from other activities 471 478
Income from subsidiaries 367 513
TOTAL INCOME 60,481 2,862 63,343 67,599

Expenditure:

Reconciliation of funds

Cost of Raising funds. 2,404
Expenditure on Charitable 58,298 64,758
activities

TOTAL EXPENDITURE 61,402 3,294 64,696 67,162
Net expenditure for the year (921) (432) (1,353) 437

Total funds brought forward 11,849 604

Total funds carried forward at 31

10,928 172

August 2023

20. Post balance sheet events

There have been no material post-balance sheet events.

53

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13833D9E-BODB-470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

Thank you

For those who have supported Teach First in our financial year to 31 August 2023.

AKO Foundation

Amazon UK

Ashurst LLP

Barclays

Humphrey Battcock

BDO LLP

Bettys and Taylors Group
Bloomberg

BNP Paribas Bank

Boston Consulting Group
Capital Group

Caroline Carr

Citi

CVC Capital Partners

Deloitte

OHL UK Foundation

Drax Group

Fruugo.com

Goldman Sachs Internationa!
Henley Investment Management
House of Lords

Dame Vivian Hunt

Huo Family Foundation

IG Group

Independent Franchise Partners
Institution of Engineering and Technology
Colm Kelleher

Lord Jonathan Kestenbaum
Kusuma Trust

Lone Pine Foundation

Marshall Wace

Mission 44

MS Amlin Business Services
Sarah & Dominic Murphy

Bob Noyen

@rsted (UK) Limited

Nicholas Owen

Porky Whites
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Rolls Royce plc

Siemens

SSE plc

Richard Taylor

Temasek

The Green Foundation

The Swire Charitable Trust

The Worshipful Company of Butchers
The Worshipful Company of innholders
Urenco

XTX Markets

Zurich Community Trust (UK) Limited

We would also like to thank all our supporters who wish to remain anonymous.

54

DocuSign Envelope ID: 13B33D9E-BODB-~470F-B0E4-686DB6AD262E

University partners

We would like to thank our university partners for playing a vital role in the delivery of our Training Programme and
enabling our trainees to maximise their impact on the lives of children and young people from disadvantaged
communities in England and Wales.

e Bath Spa University

Birmingham City University
Canterbury Christ Church University
Northumbria University

Sheffield Hallam University

Governmental partners

We would like to thank the Department for Education for their funding and support during the year.

Volunteers

We would like to thank the hundreds of volunteers who gave their time to support our work throughout the year. Their
commitment and enthusiasm enabled us to help even more disadvantaged young people around England and Wales.

Support of our campaign events and policy reports

Over the course of the year we have hosted a series of events, and policy reports, which wouldn't have been possible
without the generous support of our sponsors and event partners. These have included:

Run the River

e Headline Sponsor — Citi
e Event Partner — |G Group
e Event Partner - Amazon

teachfirst.org.uk
Registered Charity, no. 1098294

55

