Company Number: 0977818

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

a .

OM

*ADUQOY:
A 22/01/2025 #8:
COMPANIES HOUSE |

WEDNESDAY

TABLE OF CONTENTS Page

Introduction from our Vice Chancellor and President 1
Statement from our Chair to the Court of Governors 2
General Information 3
Strategic report , 4-29
About the University of Westminster. 4
Our vision, mission and values...... 4
Strategic Priorities and Objectives. 5
Being Westminster: Performance Highlights 2023/24 6
Education.......cccceesscesesecceeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 7
Research and Knowledge Exchange. 9
Employability........ 11
Global Engagement. 12
Inclusion.... 13
Wellbeing... 15
Sustainable development. 16
Enabling delivery of Being Westminste 20
Public and Private Benefit.. 21
Trade Union Activit 23
Financial Review... 24
Risks and Uncertainties 27
Stakeholder engagement an 28
Corporate Governance and Internal Controls 31-37
Independent Auditor’s Report to the Court of Governors of the University of Westminster 38-41
Financial statements 42-84
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure. 42
Consolidated and University Statement of Changes in Reserves. 43
Consolidated and University Statement of Financial Position 44
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows... 45
Notes to the Financial Statements. 46

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Introduction from our Vice-Chancellor

We started the year with a major milestone on the delivery of our Being Westminster Strategy 2022-2029 as we
celebrated the award of Silver in the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) for both our Student Experience
and Student Outcomes. TEF is the scheme run by the Office for Students (OfS) that assesses higher education
teaching providers teaching and learning outcomes for their students and we are so proud of our Silver status.
The award recognises the impact of our work on our education objectives within Being Westminster with our
unique approach to authentic learning preparing our Westminster students for success in a changing world.

Through our relevant demand-led and forward-looking portfolio we are equipping our students to tackle global,
political and social challenges with confidence and we are becoming increasingly recognised for this. Our
practice-based personalised approach to education is enabling our students to succeed and our focus on
ensuring the very best experience during their studies is driving progress on our education objectives as also
evidenced in the National Student Survey (NSS) results 2024 — the NSS is an annual sector-wide survey of
experience of final-year undergraduate students. Completed by 77 per cent of our eligible students this year,
the survey noted improvement in student positivity in nine out of ten of the areas covered including all five areas
that feed into the TEF.

We continue to work closely with our students working in partnership with us through the University of
Westminster Students’ Union (UWSU) to provide a learning environment in which all can thrive and we will
strive for continuous improvement. We have invested significantly in our physical and digital environment
throughout our vibrant campuses in the heart of London and at Harrow with major capital projects across our
estate. Our focus is on creating spaces that inspire learning, give a strong sense of community and that our
people love to inhabit.

It was especially pleasing in January 2024 to open the doors to our fantastic new sports complex, The Den,
which is one of the leading sports hall venues in the country with a seating capacity of 180 and the latest
lighting and music systems alongside a strength and conditioning gym. The Den is an exceptional environment,
open free to our students and colleagues and a home to our talented Dragons’ sports teams.

A comprehensive refurbishment project continues to provide state of the art facilities in our education and social
spaces across all our buildings and we are investing in our historic Regent Street campus which has undergone
radical work to maintain our heritage on our flagship site.

In March we invited supporters and business partners to a special Breaking the Ground ceremony at Zone29 -
our new centre for enterprise and career success. Positioned centrally, next to our Marylebone campus,
Zone29, the new centre will have a transformative impact on the career outcomes of our students and alumni.
Our sound and prudent financial planning has resulted in a strong outcome for the year which sets us fair to
navigate future impacts from external volatility in the sector and we will continue to build on this sound
foundation.

Our reputation continues to flourish, and we again secured record growth in applications. We remain a highly
appealing global study choice with students attracted to join our diverse, inclusive and international community.
Our Being Westminster — World of Difference — strategic aim underpins our commitment to attracting students
from more than 160 countries around the world, welcoming them to our diverse and ethical community. We are
proud to be in the top 20 UK institutions with the highest proportion of international students (Times Higher
Education (THE) Global University Rankings).

Our unique community of progressive, compassionate and responsible people make us uniquely Westminster
and are instrumental to our success and achievements. This year we launched a new scheme to thank our
academic and professional services colleague community who work so tirelessly to inspire, guide and support
our students. In June we celebrated our colleagues’ successes at the Go Westminster Awards designed to
recognise their contributions which are truly groundbreaking and exceptional. Our people and the way we work
together as a community are the underpinning foundations of our institution.

It is our students success and attainment of their goals that drives us and it was a delight to award them for
their achievements at our annual Graduation Ceremonies. As ever these superbly orchestrated events at the
Royal Festival Hall were the highlight of the year for us all and we are so proud to congratulate each and every
student as they forge their own career path knowing they will stay connected as members of our alumni and
leave us with the vision and ethical values that make us Westminster.

Professor Peter Bonfield OBE ay
Vice-Chancellor and President Mi ASA
1

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Statement from our Chair to the Court of Governors

It gives me great pleasure to present to you the University of Westminster's Annual Report for 2023/24, which
outlines the second year of delivery of our refreshed University Strategy: Being Westminster 2022-29.

During 2023/24, we have pressed ahead with implementing the actions from our 2023 governance
effectiveness review, so that our structures and practices are better aligned with the University’s priorities and
values. We held workshop sessions at our annual away day on the Court of Governors’ role in strategy and how
to be a more strategically-minded board. We also reflected during the year on how the Court and each of our
committees has contributed to progressing our 2022-2029 strategic priorities - wellbeing, inclusion, sustainable
development. Governors also participated in workshops and briefings from senior leaders during the year on
our international students’ experience and our plans to reach our goals by 2029.

Building on our adoption of the strategy, Being Westminster 2022-2029 in March 2022, we approved our
refreshed Digital Westminster Strategy, noted the Employability Strategy approved by Academic Council and
discussed the mid-term review of our Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Strategy. Our proactive engagement with
the work of Academic Council continued with pre-Court briefings on our Education Strategy, our Research and
Knowledge Exchange Strategy and access and participation. Governors continue to attend as observers at
Academic Council meetings and report their endorsement of the Annual Quality and Standards Report.

We were proud that we achieved a Silver award in the TEF in 2023, and we continue to focus our discussions
on progress and performance - including against the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals. We recognise
that our colleagues are vital to our success and all we achieve. The Court has welcomed the opportunity to
discuss the outcomes of the latest colleague wellbeing survey and were pleased to note an increase in survey
participation (particularly amongst our academic colleagues). That both allows us to rely on a clear picture of
the colleague experience and to understand more clearly the differences between groups of colleagues. The
Court received assurance that most colleagues feel their work environment fosters mutual respect and trust and
experience our values in their day-to-day working. We recognise also that there are areas for improvement and
our Resources Committee agreed annual milestone performance indicators and targets to support monitoring of
progress in these areas.

The partnership between the Court and UWSU (the University of Westminster Students’ Union) continues to be
strong. In addition to our annual meeting with the new sabbatical team to hear their priorities for the year and
the strategic updates we received from the Students’ Union at each Court meeting, this year we considered the
five-year review of the Code of Practice and Memorandum of Understanding between our university and
UWSU. The UWSU Trustee Board and the Court agreed minor updates before the agreement was signed by
me and the UWSU President. Our thanks go to the 2023/24 Sabbatical team, led by former student governor
and UWSU President Taruna Bangia and including UWSU Vice-President (Undergraduate Education) Nandini
Aggarwal, who had been a student governor since July 2022. We warmly welcome newly appointed student
governors UWSU President Divanshu Airan and UWSU Vice-President (Postgraduate Education) Chidambar
Dhapatkar.

As ever, with our new Chancellor and many of the other Governors, | have attended several graduation
ceremonies this year. | continue to be inspired by these joyous occasions, and it is a highlight of my role that |
can celebrate with our students their extraordinary achievements. It is also a time to thank our fantastic
academic and professional colleagues for their efforts to enable our students and graduates to achieve their
potential.

Independence and fresh thinking are key to the success of our governing body. This does mean however that
we have had to say farewell to some longstanding members of the Court, including Deputy Chair to the Court
and Chair, Remuneration Committee Lin Phillips; independent governors David Stanton and Phil Wales; and
academic colleague governor Graham Meikle. We are currently conducting a recruitment process with inclusion
at its heart and are really excited to be welcoming new independent members of the Court in spring 2025.

Finally, | would like to extend my heartfelt thanks to our outstanding team of Governors, committee members
and University Executive Board members whose dedication to our students and colleagues, and shared
commitment to our values is unfailing. Working in close partnership with the Vice-Chancellor | look forward to
overseeing the continued progress against our Being Westminster strategy and with my fellow governors to
delivering high-quality, inclusive governance in support of our wonderful University.

Professor Lynne Berry CBE une
Chair of the Court of Governors and Pro Chancellor a4

2

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
General Information

Chancellor
Natalie Campbell MBE

Chair of the Court of Governors and Pro-Chancellor
Professor Lynne Berry

Vice-Chancellor and President
; Professor Peter Bonfield

Company Secretary
Mr lan Wilmot (from 1 February 2024)
Mr John Cappock (retired 31 October 2023)

Deputy Company Secretary
Mr lan Wilmot (to 31 January 2024)

University Secretary and Chief Operating Officer
Mr lan Wilmot (interim position from 1 November 2023; permanent appointment from 1 February 2024)
Mr John Cappock (retired 31 October 2023)

Director of Finance
Mr Phil Harding (interim position from 1 May 2024)
Mr lan Wilmot (to 30 April 2024)

Auditors

KPMG LLP

15 Canada Square
Canary Wharf
London

E14 5GL

Bankers

National Westminster Bank pic
Lloyds TSB Bank ple
Santander UK plc

Solicitors

Mills & Reeve LLP
Eversheds LLP

Dehns LLP

Re Legal Consulting Ltd

Registered Office
309 Regent Street
London

W1B 2HW

Registered Number
0977818 England and Wales

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Strategic report

ABOUT THE UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Who we are

We, the University of Westminster, are a diverse and dynamic international education institution situated in the
heart of London with more than 21,000 students from more than 160 different nations.

We have our origins as London’s first polytechnic, founded in 1838 to educate the working people of London.
Since then, we have developed into an institution that combines both metropolitan and cosmopolitan
dimensions, and which is closely involved in business, professional and academic life within London, as well as
overseas. We have become known for the many ways in which we help our students to realise their full
potential, regardless of background. Many of our achievements are ground-breaking, yet we are also
compassionate and caring.

As a place to study or to work, we strive to strengthen our reputation as a welcoming and inclusive organisation.
We promote a dynamic synergy between our Colleges: Design, Creative and Digital Industries; Libera! Arts and
Sciences; and the Westminster Business School. Our teaching is practical, authentic, and contemporary. Our
research has impact in the world, is internationally recognised and informs our teaching.

The University of Westminster is incorporated under the Companies Act as a charity and company limited by
guarantee and not having any share capital. The University is also an exempt charity in accordance with the
Charities Act.

The objects for which the University is established are recorded in the Articles of Association and reproduced in
the Statement of Corporate Governance and Internal Controls.

The Charity’s beneficiaries, as reflected in the objects, are the students enrolled at the University and the public
at large who stand to benefit through the impact of our teaching, research, and enterprise activity.

OUR VISION, MISSION AND VALUES
Our vision

Our University is a place where discoveries are made, barriers are broken, diversity is celebrated and where
everyone is welcome.

Our people stand out as significant contributors to their communities — through their innovation, enterprise and
problem-solving — seeking to make the world a more sustainable, healthier and better place.

Our mission

To help students and colleagues from different backgrounds fulfil their potential and contribute to a more
sustainable, equitable and healthier society.

Our values

Progressive: We look forwards, anticipate what's changing and embrace the new with energy and imagination.
Compassionate: We are thoughtful and sensitive, supportive and encouraging, making time to talk, especially
when the pressure is on. We are inclusive, united, careful to consider what enables each and every one of us to

play our part.

Responsible: Individually and collectively, we take responsibility for our actions, work to the highest ethical
standards and help each other to do the right thing always.

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Strategic report

STRATEGIC PRIORITIES AND OBJECTIVES
OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES

Our strategy, Being Westminster 2022-2029 (‘Being Westminster’), is guided by our three priorities:

Inclusion

Westminster will be known as a place where everyone can bring their whole self to work or study and know they
belong — our commitment to equality, equity, diversity and inclusion is at the core of how we engage with
everyone. All Westminster colleagues and students will be in a supportive and safe learning and working
environment which is equitable, diverse and inclusive, is based on mutual respect and trust, and is a place
where harassment and discrimination are not tolerated. As a responsible institution, we strive to ensure and to
champion equality. As a progressive institution, we take pride in our diversity. As a compassionate institution,
we commit to an inclusive culture that allows students and colleagues to reach their full potential.

Wellbeing

Working and studying together at Westminster as a community of students and colleagues is a big part of our
lives — doing so in an environment that places our wellbeing front and centre helps us to be safe and feel safe.
We care for the safety, health and wellbeing of those around us as well as ourselves. We believe that everyone
has the right to feel fulfilled at work and study, connected to a community of colleagues and students who are
passionate about making a positive impact on themselves, our workplaces, study spaces and those around us.

Sustainable Development

We take inspiration from the 17 United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in how we drive our
actions, activities and governance across our University, in line with our progressive, responsible and
compassionate values. As a community, we bring together our collective energies to play our part in addressing
the climate crisis and inequalities to enable a more sustainable and socially just world.

OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
Being Westminster sets out our four objectives:
Education: Authentic learning, preparing for success in a changing world.

Research and Knowledge Exchange: Finding solutions to make a difference for our communities and the
world.

Employability: Connecting students and employers for graduate career success.
Global Engagement: Westminster — World of Difference.

To achieve these objectives, we work together with our People and our Digital and Physical Environment to
achieve the following outcomes:

Reputation
We will be known for the things that matter most to us — as a place where discoveries are made, barriers are
broken, diversity is celebrated and where everyone is welcome.

Financial sustainability

We will invest in our future and manage our finances to create a secure and sustainable base. Our investments
will be ethical and in line with our values. We will continue to focus on the key performance measures — income
generation, our costs, surplus and working capital — to guarantee the University’s long-term financial
sustainability.

Visit our website for more details on our Strategy: westminster.ac.uk/about-us/our-university/our-purpose-
mission-and-values

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Strategic report

BEING WESTMINSTER: PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 2023/24

Education
We achieved the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) award of Silver

Research and Knowledge Exchange
We recorded our highest ever satisfaction rate in the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey of 83%
against a sector average of 79%

Employability
95% of our undergraduate courses have Work-Based and Placement Learning embedded in the curriculum

Global Engagement
48% of our students are from overseas

Inclusion
We completed the fourth year of our Black History Year programme

Wellbeing
We awarded £343k in grants to support students as part of our Cost of Living Assistance Scheme and
supported our colleagues through access to sports and gym facilities, hardship loans and cost of living
payments

Sustainable Development
We're in the top 15% of universities globally for our performance against the United Nations’ Sustainable
Development Goals

Our People
We improved performance against our internal targets for wellbeing, personal and professional development,
and colleague community measures

Our Digital and Physical Environment
This year we invested £54.6m in capital improvements to our digital and physical estates

Financial highlights

Income 2023/24 £270.5m 2022/23 £260.4m
Operating expenditure 2023/24 £239.8m 2022/23 £238.2m
Surplus 2023/24 £30.7m 2022/23 £22.2m ~
Liquidity 2023/24 2.9:1 2022/23 3:1

Net assets 2023/24 £540.7m 2022/23 £514.3m -

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Strategic report

EDUCATION

Performance and Improvements

We began 2023/24 strongly with the Teaching Excellence Framework (TEF) award of Silver overall. We also
achieved Silver in both sub-categories of student outcomes and experience. This represented a significant step
forward from the previous Bronze award and it was pleasing to find our approach to strategic improvement
included in the Office for Students (OfS) report ‘Approaches to strategic improvement in submissions to the
Teaching Excellence Framework 2023’ by Professor Dilly Fung. This report focused on those institutions that
had substantially improved outcomes, and how they had achieved this. Having been recognised in the TEF for
very high quality provision (Silver), we are working towards being recognised as outstanding (Gold).

Our National Student Survey (NSS) results in 2024 improved in all five areas that feed into the TEF,
significantly So for teaching, assessment and feedback, academic support and student voice. We have also
improved significantly in students’ perceptions of learning opportunities, organisation and management, and
mental wellbeing services. This improvement has narrowed gaps that existed between different groups of
students, particularly between our disabled students and other students. Nevertheless, we remain below
benchmark for teaching, academic support and mental wellbeing services, and a number of gaps still remain,
with young, non-Black and LGBTQ+ students reporting less positive experiences. These areas remain a focus
for 2024/25.

Regarding student outcomes, the latest TEF data shows we are now broadly at benchmark for continuation into
second year of study, and for completion of qualification (0.4pp below benchmark for continuation, 0.9pp above
benchmark for completion). There is no evidence of grade inflation in results, with the number of firsts and 2.1s
falling marginally over the year from 68.6% of students to 67.8%. During the year we developed and submitted
our Access and Participation Plan (APP) to the OfS, outlining our commitments to support UK home
undergraduates for the subsequent four years:

" Supporting Access - Westminster is committed to increasing the representation of Black, Asian,
Minority Ethnic, and IMD Q1-2' students in the Schools of Arts, Media and Communications, and
Architecture and Cities. By 2029, we aim to close the representation gap between these groups and
White students, eliminating it by 2033. We will achieve this through scholarships, expanding non-
traditional study options, and innovative outreach initiatives like summer schools and subject tasters.

» Supporting Continuation - We are focused on eliminating continuation gaps between young and mature
students, particularly those aged 21-25 and 31+, by offering targeted support through our Peer Support
Call Centre Service and enhanced Learner Analytics. We will also bridge the gap between part-time
and full-time students by developing transitional support and mental health resources, ensuring all
students have the tools they need to succeed.

* Supporting Continuation and Completion - Westminster is committed to fostering an inclusive
environment where Black, mixed ethnicity, and IMD Q1-2 students can thrive. We will eliminate
continuation and completion gaps through enhanced curriculum design, inclusive assessments, and a
robust peer support academic representation system. For care leavers, we will provide targeted
financial assistance, tailored mental health support, and personal tutoring to ensure their success.

= Supporting Student Success - We aim to close the awarding gap for male IMD Q1-2 students and
eliminate the gap between Black, Asian, and Minority Ethnic students and their White peers by 2033.
This will be achieved by enhancing our curriculum, increasing support through Equality, Diversity and
Inclusion (EDI) School Leads, inclusive course design, and our peer support academic representation
system. :

= Supporting Progression - Westminster will ensure equal progression opportunities by eliminating the
progression gap between female and male graduates by 2028/29. We will bridge the employment gap
for Black and Asian graduates, especially women, through mentoring, work experience, and financial
support. For students with social or communication impairments, we will reduce the progression gap by
providing targeted mentoring and simplifying processes. Additionally, we will eliminate the progression

1 Index of Multiple Deprivation Quintiles 1-2

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Strategic report
gap between IMD Q1-2 and Q3-5 leavers through a multi-intervention approach focused on
employability and academic support.

Strategic Focus 2024/25

During 2023 we agreed, and began to implement, our new Education Strategy to 2029. Authentic, practical and
active learning is at the centre of this and will drive activity in 2024/25. Authentic learning immerses students in
meaningful and engaging activities. Authentic learning is experiential and discursive rather than didactic in
nature. It is collaborative and is focused on the construction of knowledge for wider benefit.

We are developing new courses that tackle real world challenges, for example MSc Pharmaceutical Science
and MSc Al and Digital Health. Alongside this we are building opportunities for authentic learning within existing
courses. Education for sustainable development is a priority, and the UN SDGs, will be embedded in content
and assessment on all courses by the end of 2024/25, Every student who graduates will understand the SDGs
and their relevance for their discipline.

Our new ‘Trading Places’ project, generously funded by the Quintin Hogg Trust (QHT), is embedding authentic
learning opportunities in every college. This includes building a consultancy clinic in the Westminster Business
School, expanding the Westminster Legal Clinic in the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences and developing
Smoke Radio in the College of Design, Creative and Digital Industries. Each of these projects will have a
physical presence as well as being embedded in courses and will give students live interactions with the public,
industry and the professions, to mutual benefit.

Other projects contribute to the spread of authentic learning across courses. The Democratic Education
Network (DEN) now offers an elective module that any student can take. DEN inspires and encourages
students to engage locally and globally while enhancing their employability skills. Students co-create
publications, work with the community and visit international universities. Other flagship authentic learning
modules are beginning to infuse the curriculum too. Examples are Architecture Live Projects; the Museum of
the Future; My Graduate Journey; Cavendish Living Lab; Prison Partnerships, Gene Editors of the Future and
Community Counselling.

We have an ambitious programme to develop a learning environment that supports active, practical and
authentic learning. During 2023/24 we developed active learning computing spaces, new wet labs, the Harrow
Dark Room and a Games Hub, in addition to refurbishing the Westminster Legal Clinic. In 2024/25 we will
develop a state-of-the-art clinical simulation suite at New Cavendish Campus, expand the Fabrication Lab
(Fablab) at Marylebone campus and develop the old Soho Poly (once London's leading fringe theatre) in Little
Titchfield Street as a shared teaching and community space.

Our focus on inclusion realised through the targets and interventions set out in our Access and Participation
Plan is strengthened by our first-ever student submission for access and participation, demonstrating our
commitment to a whole-university effort in supporting all students to have equal opportunity of success through
their education.

Our commitment to inclusivity extends to our foundation year programme, where 72.5% of foundation entrants
in 2021/22 achieved a first-class or upper second-class honours degree, significantly improving outcomes for

students who have historically faced barriers to higher education. This success underscores the impact of our
shared-provision model and the value we add to our students' educational journeys.

Our new personal tutoring model, WeThrive, is designed to provide tailored support that evolves with students
throughout their academic journey. Based on research, we have adapted our approach to recognise and
address the specific needs of students who may be at greater risk of experiencing awarding gaps.

Launched in September 2022, our Student Centre service model offers student-focused support both on-site
through three staffed information desks and off-site via online chat and email. A dedicated customer service
team addresses common queries, directing students to specialists when needed, eliminating barriers,
simplifying access to support and improving signposting. The development of the Digital Student Hub,
supported by the Enquiry Management System, launched in 2024, prioritises student-centric enquiry
management. Our approach facilitates active signposting for students who are ‘at risk’. The system enhances
analytics, allowing for improved tracking and monitoring of student enquiries, including frontline referral rates
and types of queries. The insights gained from analytics will inform service adaptations, ultimately leading to
increased student success.

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Strategic report

Additionally, a forthcoming purpose-built building scheduled to open in 2026 will mark the establishment of a
central physical Student Hub designed to revolutionise the student experience. By consolidating student
support services, and social and learning spaces, including a new library, under one roof, the building will aim to
enhance student engagement and elevate the overall campus environment. The new facility will significantly
boost awareness and utilisation of support services, encouraging students to make the most of the space.
Specialised advisers will be available in dedicated consultation rooms, fostering a personalised and supportive
environment for students.

We know through our student engagement, data and research, that some student groups are more likely than
their peers to have multiple commitments outside their studies and are often at higher risk of course
interruption, withdrawal and of receiving lower degree awards. Through the Transitions Project, we aim to
support students to navigate interruptions or deviations across the lifecycle of the course; helping them to,
progress and succeed in their studies, alongside maintaining a sense of belonging.

For 2024/25, we will implement a robust evaluation strategy aimed at proactively addressing challenges related
to student success and employability. This strategy is designed to create a dynamic and responsive educational
environment that equips students for long-term success in their chosen careers. A key focus is on developing a

comprehensive evidence and evaluation framework that provides in-depth insights into the effectiveness of our

interventions, particularly for ‘at risk’ student groups. These insights will directly inform our investment priorities,
ensuring that equality of opportunity is embedded throughout the student lifecycle.

Regular updates, impact assessments, and research reviews will be presented to our University Planning
Committee, ensuring that evaluation data is integral to our ongoing strategic planning, academic monitoring,
and decision-making processes. Continuous monitoring throughout the year will ensure that evaluation
outcomes directly influence our practices, enhancing our ability to respond effectively to student needs and
promote equity across the university.

Celebrating success: Peer support for students

Our Peer Support Programme was launched in 2023/24, in partnership with UWSU (the Students’ Union). The
initial focus was on establishing a call centre through which UWSU employs students to make peer-to-peer
check- in calls. Every student at the University has received at least one call during the year, and there have
been more than 5,500 detailed conversations with students.

The call centre positively impacted attrition rates, particularly for those at risk of lack of equality of opportunity
through the student lifecycle. Withdrawal rates in our APP variation plan groups was reduced from 4% to 0.8%
for students in these groups who engaged with the service, compared to those who did not.

RESEARCH AND KNOWLEDGE EXCHANGE

Performance and Improvements

Our primary key performance indicator in relation to grants and awards is income per research-active colleague
compared with our peers, and we have made significant progress during 2023/24, By mid-year the figure had
risen by 17% against an increased target, since when this figure has nearly doubled in value to £14,177, now
exceeding the target by 88%. This indicator will ebb and flow as new grants launch and other projects are
completed, but this is a positive sign. Between August 2023 and July 2024 we submitted 157 research and
knowledge exchange bids with a potential total value to the University of £27.7m. We have received 51 new
awards in total with 73 applications pending at the time of writing. The number of subject areas above
benchmark for research income increased from 5 to 6 between July 2023 and February 2024, but this has fallen
back to 5 evidencing that there remains a way to go to ensure that commitment to grant capture is equally
strong across all our schools and colleges. Quality-related research (QR) funding from Research England
agreed in the wake of the 2021 Research Excellence Framework (REF) exercise will remain at around £6.6m
per year until 2030.

Major new awards in 2024 include: €807,000 to Stroma Cole in the School of Architecture and Cities (EU
Horizon project); £300,000 from British Academy Knowledge Frontiers to Ipshita Basu in the School of Social
Sciences; and £175,000 from the Ministry of Justice to Veruska Oppedisano and Richard Dorsett in the School
of Organisations, Economy and Society).

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Strategic report

The 2023 Postgraduate Research (PGR) Experience Survey (PRES, July 2023) reports our highest satisfaction
rate ever (83% against a sector average of 79%), placing us 18/100 nationally for overall satisfaction (compared
with 18/89 in 2021). Since our last annual report we have opened our first ever Graduate School facility at
Regent Street, providing both a bespoke location for training and other PGR activity and a social space at the
heart of our University reserved for PhDs. A further boost to growing our community of postgraduate
researchers has been the award of Doctoral Landscape Awards by the Arts and Humanities Research Council,
to run from 2026 and only offered to 50 universities nationally.

Much of our Knowledge Exchange activity is an extension of our research activity and reflects the impact our
research has outside academia. Unlike the periodic REF and TEF exercises, the KEF (Knowledge Exchange
Framework exercise) reports every year and is based largely on the amount of income universities report as
part of the annual Higher Education Business and Community Interaction (HE-BCI) survey. This results in a
dashboard showing the relative prominence of different ‘perspectives’ on knowledge exchange, which does not
inform league tables but rather helps institutions prioritise their knowledge exchange activity. The 2023
dashboard (KEF3) shows us to have ‘high engagement’ with continuing professional development (CPD) and
graduate start-ups as well as ‘medium engagement’ with our other key priority areas, namely working with
business and in the area of local growth and regeneration. Commercialisation of intellectual property is a
perspective where we have fewer opportunities, and which is less of a strategic commitment and evidences
‘very low engagement’.

This last year has seen the conclusion of the QHT-funded Students as Agents of Knowledge Exchange project
in which 326 students have been hired on projects including: the Westminster Community Consultancy
Programme where students have worked in teams on projects for charities, social enterprises and local
businesses; the Carbon Impact Programme with the Work Based and Placement Learning Project Team; and
the Cavendish Living Lab, which has hired 32 students from a mix of disciplines and levels in science, business,
media and technical roles, working part time during study (https://cavendishlivinglab.com/blog/).

Key new industrial funding for knowledge exchange this year includes: £184,260 to Jimmy Bell and Louise
Thomas in the School of Life Sciences from the STFC and The Guy Foundation; £56,993 to Mykaell Riley in the
School of Arts and Boarders Production Ltd (Studio Lambert); £8,959 to Andrew Groves in the School of Arts
and Massimo Osti Studio (Tristate International); £16,513 to Jean Seaton in the College of Design, Creative
and Digita! Industries and Facts Matter Ltd; and £10,250 to Sam Raphael in the School of Social Sciences and
Leigh Day Trust.

Income from short courses in 2023/24 was £1.66m, of which £1.2m came from the 1,642 delegates attending
professional courses, and increasing numbers attending professional training courses offered by and at our
University is a key strategic priority for 2024/25.

A key development in research and knowledge exchange (RKE) in 2024 has been the appointment of the first
Deputy Vice-Chancellor for RKE to lead on our Making a Difference RKE strategy, supported by the Graduate
School and RKE Office.

Strategic focus 2024/25

Much of our income derives from the activity of six key research centres, and to enable them to achieve more
we are appointing to a new administrator role in 2024/25. We have also established a working group under our
RKE Steering Committee to review the needs of early-career researchers and identified resources to provide
additional support to colleagues at a key career stage. As we continue to prepare for the next REF in 2029, we
will be running a mock REF process in 2024/25. Underpinning our strategic commitment to offering every
student the opportunity to experience and benefit from studying in an environment rich in research, we are also
launching a £0.5m two-year Students as Researchers programme in 2024/25.

Celebrating success: Beyond the Bassline
in April 2024, Beyond the Bassline: 500 Years of Black British Music opened at The British Library. Co-curated
by Dr Mykaell Riley — Senior Lecturer, Director for The Black Music Research Unit (BMRU) and Principal

Investigator for Bass Culture Research at the University — it was the first major exhibition to chart the history of
Black music in Britain.

10

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Strategic report

EMPLOYABILITY

Performance and Improvements

In addition to winning three National Enterprise Educator Awards this year (see ‘Celebrating Success’ in this
section), we were highly commended in the Outstanding Contribution to Student Employability category at the
London Higher Awards. The latter commendation reflects our work to provide inclusive opportunities to develop
the confidence and professional networks of our students. Following the publication of Being Westminster, we
have significantly scaled a series of employability programmes within and outside of the curriculum,

including Future Ready Mentoring, Westminster Working Cultures, WeNetwork enterprise activities, the Early
Careers Support Package and Westminster Employability Award.

In March 2024, we welcomed colleagues, supporters and industry professionals to break the ground to mark
the start of construction on Zone29, our new hub for enterprise and industry at 29 Marylebone Road. The event
included a reception at our Marylebone campus for supporters, colleagues, project partners and members of
our Court of Governors.

Our Employability Awards Celebration recognised more than 3,000 students completing the Westminster
Employability Award. The event celebrated student engagement with key employability activities. More than 100
winners in different categories were announced, recognising outstanding contribution to both the University and
personal and professional development. The 2023/24 academic year saw a record-breaking 3,016 students
successfully complete a level of the Westminster Employability Award, with more than 38,000 activities
completed.

95% of our undergraduate courses have Work-Based and Placement Learning embedded in the curriculum.
During 2023/24, we promoted the Shortlist.me interview platform with 395 student registrations, LinkedIn
Learning courses with 5,295 logins from students and colleagues, and the Bright Network summer virtual
internship programme with 455 student applications.

To mark the end of our Elevate business support programme this year, we held an Elevate Showcase, where
our participating alumni had the chance to present their businesses and showcase the progress they have
made since starting the programme. The six-month programme offers tailored and strategic support to our
alumni’s businesses, putting them on a pathway to growth, and focusing on increased revenue generation and
optimisation of processes.

Strategic focus 2024/25

Our focus will be on improving outcomes for all our students. We want our students to go out in the wider world
with knowledge, skills, and experience that makes them highly competitive in any job market - in the UK or
elsewhere. Improving employability and employment prospects for all our students, home and international, is
our mission.

We will support our students’ professional ambitions and improve our Graduate Outcomes performance by
delivering activities in line with the priorities agreed in our Strategic Employability Framework, which was
refreshed in 2023/24. We are keen to increase engagement from all student groups in employability
programmes through more tailored employability communications and making 2024/25 the Year of
Employability. We will develop targeted interventions to increase engagement in the employability journey by
students from disadvantaged groups and embed key employability programmes within the curriculum to
increase participation.

We will continue to increase engagement with UK and international businesses and alumni to shape our
student experience and support our students to secure highly skilled employment. We will reach out to alumni in
key countries to identify job and work experience opportunities and ensure these are shared with our students.
This will support planning for the opening, and successful launch, of Zone29 in 2025/26.

Celebrating success: Westminster wins the triple

In September 2023, we won three National Enterprise Educator Awards for our work engaging alumni networks
to demystify enterprise for underrepresented students and recent graduates. These awards recognised
collaborations between our Westminster Enterprise Network (WeNetwork) and Alumni Relations teams who
have made enterprise accessible to the whole Westminster community. The activities undertaken include

11

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Strategic report
enterprise-focused What It Takes events and mentoring programmes, alumni business support and alumni-
funding for enterprise programmes.

GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT.

Performance and Improvements

In 2023/24, our focus was on strong international student recruitment in the face of a highly volatile external
environment, enhancing support for international students to encourage a stronger sense of belonging,
encouraging greater global mobility for all our students including those from under-represented backgrounds,
strengthening partnerships with institutions around the world, and emphasising our global identity.

As a result of the work of our International Student Support Group during 2022/23, we launched the World in
Westminster Café: Making Westminster Your Home series, run in partnership with UWSU. These events
engaged high numbers of international students over the year through cultural and social gatherings. The series
celebrated festivals and cultural events including Diwali, Hanukkah, Lunar New Year and many more across
2023/24.

We received almost £1.2m in funding from The Turing Scheme in the 2023/24 academic year to support
opportunities for our students to study, work and volunteer abroad. This included both short and longer-term
options, with an emphasis on encouraging participation from students from underrepresented groups.

We hosted a number of high-profile guests during the year including His Majesty King Letsie Ill of Lesotho who
visited to attend a reception celebrating 200 years of the Kingdom of Lesotho and witnessing the exchange of a
Memorandum of Understanding between Westminster and the National University of Lesotho.

Recruitment to programmes at our trans-national education (TNE) partners continues to be very positive, with
more than 5,000 University of Westminster students in Uzbekistan and in Sri Lanka. January 2024 saw the
launch of our new TNE partnership in Katmandu, Nepal and we hope that 2025 will see the launch of a new
partnership in Oman. :

Our primary TNE partnership with Westminster International University in Tashkent (WIUT) remains very
strong. During the year, a delegation led by our Vice-Chancellor travelled to Uzbekistan to participate in the
second Uzbekistan — UK Education Forum held at WIUT. The Forum, a joint initiative between the Ministry of
Higher Education, Science and Innovation of the Republic of Uzbekistan, the British Council in Uzbekistan, the
University of Westminster and WIUT addressed core priorities for higher education in Uzbekistan and the UK.

We also held the inaugural Global Uzbekistan Festival organised in conjunction with WIUT. The Festival
encompassed a range of cultural, academic and sporting activities across our London campuses and saw the
the close involvement of the British Council, Uzbekistan and the Uzbekistan Embassy in the UK.

Following a period of substantial growth in international student numbers to the UK, the UK is now experiencing
a period of considerable uncertainty, volatility and declining enrolment numbers. Despite the positive outcome
of the Migratory Advisory Committee review, and recent statements from the new Secretary of State for
Education indicating a shift in rhetoric from the previous Government, there is no significant shift in policy — and
intensified competition within the sector is likely to continue well into the 2025/26 recruitment cycle.

The impact at Westminster, as per national trends is a predicted 30-40% shortfall in our postgraduate numbers
against overall target and 15-20% shortfall in undergraduate. However, there are significant differences at
subject level with STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) and Business holding up stronger
than humanities and arts-based subjects.

Our long term recruitment strategy remains focused on diversity in our student body, and developing and
maintaining sustainable recruitment pipelines, but with ambitions for shorter term growth tempered in line with
recent market cooling. We continue to operate far and wide with activity in more than 50 markets and
recruitment partners covering the majority of the globe. Engagement with our agent network and academic
partners remains central to our activity planning. In 2024/25 we will see our first cohort of International Year
One Kaplan graduates entering computer science courses at Level 5. For the 2025/26 intake we will focus on
further developing links with our UK partner network as well as overseas school counsellors, developing more
tailored communications for parents and students, and developing further undergraduate scholarships.

We signed up to the new UK Agent Quality Framework in December 2023 to ensure we maintain the highest
standards in agent and partner management policies and practice, with guidance and oversight from key

12

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Strategic report

University executive groups. Following both a KPMG and in-house audit we remain confident that our existing
practices are of a high standard and continue to underpin our work. Agents and academic partnerships
contribute circa 65% of our new cohorts.

We remain mindful of the importance of flexibility in our recruitment planning and tactics and continue regular
engagement with key colleagues across our Colleges to keep them updated on the admissions picture and
market conditions. We brought forward admissions deadlines to support enhanced compliance and ensure
students had sufficient time to apply for their visas following delays experienced in the previous cycle. We will
maintain under review any feasible adjustments to deadlines for 2025/26.

Strategic focus 2024/25

We are a ‘global university with London energy’. We are keen to make this come alive in a dynamic context
where events around the world have direct or indirect impact on our university community. By leveraging our
diversity and putting global engagement at the heart of various endeavours, we are keen to enhance global
mobility and citizenship for all our students and colleagues. In this coming year, we will also focus on writing our
new Global Engagement Strategy which will help nurture and promote internationalisation.

We will continue to work towards our aim of 30% of undergraduate students and 70% of postgraduate students
being from overseas. As part of our work to do this, we will strengthen our links with our TNE partners across
the world. We will also work to increase student engagement with opportunities to study, work and volunteer
abroad, highlighting both short and longer-term options and encouraging participation from students from
underrepresented backgrounds. We look forward to developing new pipelines to support incoming recruitment
to our Study Abroad and London International Summer School programmes. We will also enhance pipelines for
full degree progression and articulation through predominantly UK-based partners such as Kaplan, INTO and
NCUK. We will continue to foster best practice in all aspects of our student recruitment to ensure the highest
standards of UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) compliance and implementation of the Agent Quality
Framework.

Following on from new initiatives launched in 2023/24, we will focus on enhancing the international student
experience in 2024/25 through an emphasis on belonging. We will create a welcoming, friendly space for
international students to connect with peers, share experiences, and build a community. We want all our
students, including international students from different parts of the world, to feel at home at Westminster. This
will be facilitated through new International Student Champions in our three Colleges. Recognising the unique
challenges faced by international students, we will continue our World in Westminster Café programme of
events to enhance their sense of belonging. A collaboration with our Centre for Education and Teaching
tnnovation (CETI) Transitioning Project aims to help international students acclimatise to university life and
London through cultural orientation workshops and comprehensive starter guides.

Celebrating success: High rankings for international students and outlook
In the latest Times Higher Education (THE) Global University Rankings, Westminster was among the top 20 UK
institutions with the highest proportion of international students. We also placed in the top 50 globally for

international outlook in the THE Young Universities Rankings, which focuses on institutions which are up to 50
years old.

INCLUSION

Throughout 2023/24, we have promoted global diversity, inclusion, and cultural awareness through a series of
impactful events and initiatives. ,

In May 2024, we hosted our third annual Challenging Racisms Conference. This event brought together a
diverse range of speakers and panels to explore and challenge various forms of racism in academia and
society. The conference featured a keynote address by Professor Lisa-Dionne Morris, Founder of the Black
Female Academics’ Network, emphasising the importance of an intersectional approach to addressing racism.
Panels discussed topics such as: intersections of faith, belief and race; gendered racism; disabilities in
university life; and navigating sexuality and racial identity. The conference highlighted critical issues around
race, identity, and systemic barriers faced by marginalised groups, encouraging ongoing dialogue and action.

13

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Strategic report

We reaffirmed our commitment to LGBTQ+ inclusion through a range of activities, including our participation in
the Pride in London Parade 2024, showcasing our dedication to creating an inclusive environment for all
students and colleagues.

As part of our World in Westminster Café programme, we organised a series of cultural celebrations throughout
the year, as set out above in our Global Engagement section, fostering cross-cultural connections and
understanding. We also hosted several events as part of our Westminster Conversations series.

Our ongoing Black History Year (BHY) programme continued this year, including a talk by historian and
journalist Dr Shantella Sherman on ‘Screening Eugenics: How Theories of "Racial Fitness" Shape Our Views’
and a BHY celebration event which featured music, conversations, and displays of talent reflecting the Black
experience. Our Muslims in Britain Conference — a collaboration with the Muslims in Britain Research Network,
and the Everyday Muslim Heritage and Archive Initiative — brought together students, scholars, and
professionals to.discuss the rich history of Muslims in Britain from 1800 to 1970, and beyond.

Our People, Culture and Wellbeing department has taken significant steps to promote gender equality and
inclusive hiring practices this year. They will support a new application for the Athena Swan Charter, which
focuses on advancing gender equality in higher education and research. The practice of having an ED!
Stakeholders Panel for all senior level posts will continue and additionally we have partnered with an external
recruitment agency specialising in diverse and inclusive hiring practices.

Our Organisational Development team has been instrumental in creating a more inclusive environment through
various training programmes and support initiatives. They have developed and will continue to offer year-round
training on a wide range of inclusion topics, including mental health, menopause awareness, racism,
neurodiversity, and inclusive leadership. We are introducing a mandatory Disability Essentials colleague
training module to enhance understanding and support for individuals with disabilities. We will continue to invest
in leadership development programmes such as Aurora and Diversifying Leadership, two programmes
delivered by sector non-profit Advance HE which are aimed at fostering inclusive leadership and empowering
colleagues. Support is also provided to five colleague networks: BME (Black and Minority Ethnic); Colleague
Disability Network; Faith, Spirituality and Belief; Q+ (LGBTQ+), and Women of Westminster. These networks
play a crucial role in promoting diversity and inclusion within our community.

As part of our ambitious Westminster for All: Equity, Inclusion, and Belonging programme in 2024/25, we will
make significant efforts to celebrate cultural diversity and enhance our inclusive culture. This includes our World
in Westminster Café series, as well as events and activities to mark awareness days and months, often in
partnership with UWSU. We will run bespoke programs to address the specific needs of diverse student groups.
These include Black History Year Create, the LGBTQ+ Empowering Futures Programme, Empowering Asian
Women Programme, and inclusive career development for students with disabilities.

With our focus on challenging prejudices and celebrating diversity, we will continue to facilitate important
conversations within the higher education sector through conferences we run, such as Challenging Racisms
and Queering Academia. We are also working to bring together the SDGs and ED\I initiatives, fostering
collaborative projects that address both sustainability and social equity.

We will maintain as well as augment strong relationships with external organisations to further our EDI goals.
These partnerships include collaborations with Advance HE for mentoring schemes; Pride In London for human
rights initiatives; ParliaMentors, a faith and belief forum designed to empower students to create social change,
and Westminster LGBT+ Forum for LGBTQ+ support.

Through these multifaceted efforts, we will continue to work towards our commitment to creating and
maintaining a diverse, equitable, and inclusive environment for all members of our community.

You can read about our inclusive governance practices in the Corporate Governance statement on page 34.
Education for all

This year, we continued to break down barriers to education through innovative projects and successful
fundraising, ensuring that opportunities remain accessible to all students, regardless of their background.

A key highlight of the year was the diverse range of scholarships and awards that have made a significant
impact. We celebrated these initiatives during our inaugural scholarship reception, bringing some 100 donors
and scholars together to recognise this support. Our ever-expanding scholarships have provided essential

14

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Strategic report
support to students facing financial hardships. These scholarships ensure that financial stress does not hinder
students’ academic progress.

We also hosted events like the Netcompany Smart Cities Challenge Final for 16—18-year-alds, which provided a
platform for students to showcase their innovative ideas and gain recognition for their work. This event,
supported by various partners, not only celebrated the students' achievements but also connected them with
industry experts, opening doors for future career opportunities. The company also generously funded academic
prizes in the field of Computer Science and Engineering for our students, helping to enhance their CVs.

The QHT continues to be a significant contributor, funding various projects that enhance student life and our
learning environments. The Trust's commitment was further demonstrated by an additional £5.5 million funding
announcement, which will continue to support inclusive education initiatives.

Additionally, the Ken Subraj Foundation played a vital role by supporting our students with prize awards and
international internships, offering both financial aid and valuable professional experience. This initiative has
allowed students from various backgrounds to access opportunities that enhance their employability and career
prospects.

We also continued our partnership with the United Nations’ International Organisation for Migration, offering
donor-funded internships to students, thereby providing them with invaluable international experience that
enhances their academic and career prospects.

The Ignite Fund remains a cornerstone of our efforts to support student initiatives. This year, the fund awarded
nearly £70,000 to more than 100 students, enabling them to pursue research projects, entrepreneurial ventures,
and other academic ambitions. This financial support has been crucial in helping students bring their ideas to
fruition, regardless of their financial background.

We continued to nurture young entrepreneurs through our Elevate and Pioneer programmes, providing support
and resources to aspiring business leaders. An inspiring example is Elizabeth Ola, a Westminster alumna who
benefited from these initiatives and recently won a national competition in which she was awarded a month-long
rent-free retail space in London for her skincare brand, TRU SKN. Through these programmes, we can support
students and graduates like Elizabeth to turn their innovative ideas into successful ventures, supporting a new
generation of entrepreneurs.

Strategic partnerships with several corporate funders, including Santander Universities UK, have also been
instrumental in supporting employability initiatives for students who need support the most. These
collaborations ensure that students have access to resources and opportunities that prepare them for the job
market, particularly those from underrepresented groups.

In line with our commitment to sustainability, we were awarded £40,000 from the Greener Futures Fund. This
funding supports projects that not only benefit students but also contribute to a more sustainable future,
ensuring that we remain at the forefront of innovative and responsible education.

Finally, we recently celebrated the first full year of the Soho Poly venue being open, marking a significant
milestone in its mission to provide access to the arts and arts education. Nearly 1,000 attendees, including
students, graduates, and members of the local community, participated in various events. These included the
venue's debut in the London-wide Open House Festival, the launch of the Soho Poly Arts Club, Polyphonic
Mondays, live concerts, memoir writing sessions for older people, and workshops for sixth formers, among
other enriching activities. This vibrant schedule exemplifies our commitment to making the arts accessible to all.

Celebrating success: World in Westminster Café series celebrates diverse festivals and welcomes
international students

Our World in Westminster Café event series, run in partnership with UWSU, has gone from strength to strength
this year, following its launch in 2022/23. Marking a wide range of festivals and cultural events — including
Diwali, Hanukkah, Lunar New Year and many more — these events have provided opportunities for social and
cultural celebration and exchange, in a welcoming and inclusive environment, with high engagement particularly
among our international students.

15

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Strategic report
WELLBEING

Student wellbeing

We made a successful bid for £65,000 in project funding from the Central and North West London NHS
Foundation Trust. This funding supports an 18-month initiative, launched in February 2024, that includes the
secondment of an NHS mental health practitioner to our University Mental Health Support team. This
collaboration is designed to enhance our efforts in casework, student transitions, and outreach for those with
mental health needs.

Our Sexual Misconduct Liaison Officers were shortlisted in the Limeculture Limelight Awards, as well as our
own Go Westminster Awards. This recognition highlights their dedication, excellence, and professionalism,
acknowledging their outstanding contributions and achievements in this area.

We have completed our development of the Prayer and Contemplation Room facilities at our Marylebone
Campus, involving close collaboration with students to create dedicated space for prayer, spiritual reflection and
contemplation, ensuring that our facilities meet the needs of our diverse student community.

Our Cost of Living Assistance Scheme has continued to provide essential support to both undergraduate and
postgraduate students, including our international students. This year, we had more than 1,300 applications and
awarded 1,146 grants totalling £343,000.

Our Student Counselling Service has relocated to our New Cavendish Street campus in newly refurbished
rooms and supported more than 900 registrations from students seeking emotional and psychological support.

Colleague wellbeing

We have established our Colleague Wellbeing Action Plan and our annual Colleague Wellbeing and
Engagement Survey recorded a 6% increase in colleagues reporting higher levels of wellbeing compared to the
previous year.

Performance against our internal targets for wellbeing, personal and professional development, and colleague
community measures improved in the year, for both academic and Professional Services colleagues — with
more work to do in 2024/25 to achieve our long-term strategic objectives.

We have engaged with colleagues through a series of focus groups to work together to find solutions in key
areas of workload, wellbeing and professional development. This work will directly support colleagues to be
able to focus on the fewest things that matter, through systems and process improvement.

Celebrating success: Free gym access for all students and colleagues
For the second year running, we continued to offer free gym access to all students and colleagues in 2023/24 —
at our Harrow and Regent Street gyms. This is part of our wider commitment to supporting physical and mental

wellbeing at Westminster, and complements other offers available to students and colleagues, including free
warm breakfasts at each of our campuses.

SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT

We continued our progress towards the SDGs in 2023/24, starting with a strengthened focus on Education for
Sustainable Development (ESD). Following a commitment to ESD at the first annual SDG Colleague Workshop
in June 2023, our Vice Chancellor Peter Bonfield officially committed the University to SDG 4.7: ESD and
Global Citizenship Education (GCED). This means that we will work to ensure all students graduate with a
strong understanding of sustainable development, with the SDGs to be embedded throughout learning at all
levels over the next few years, starting with Level 6 from September 2024 onwards.

In November 2023, we once again participated in the Times Higher Education (THE) annual SDG Impact
Rankings, assessing our progress towards the SDGs against other universities around the world for the
2022/23 academic year. In June 2024, the results were published and we were placed in the top 15% of
universities globally for our overall score, up from the top 20% in 2023. For the fifth year in a row, our top-
scoring SDGs in this assessment were gender equality, reduced inequalities, and responsible consumption and
production. We produced our annual SDGs report for 2022/23 to support this application and expect to publish
our 2023/24 SDG report in October 2024.

16

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Strategic report

In 2023/24, for the first time, two of our colleagues attended the THE Global Sustainable Development
Congress (GSDC), held in Bangkok. Dr. Pooja Basnett and Dr. Ro Spankie participated in a number of events,
including Dr. Basnett moderating a panel called ‘A Collective Effort on Research and Innovation Towards
Global Restoration of Biodiversity’, and Dr. Spankie presenting at a session entitled ‘Sustainable Urban
Planning: How Are We Creating Cities for the Future?’

Our second annual SDG Colleague Workshop was held in June 2024. This event saw more than 100
participants come together to discuss sustainable development as a vehicle for impacting lives. Throughout the
day, around 40 short presentations were given on research and projects related to the SDGs currently taking
place across Westminster, allowing attendees to find out more about what other colleagues are doing and to
explore collaborating with each other. One of the key announcements made at the event was the launch of an
SDG Coordinating Group at Westminster and the creation of a University-wide SDGs Network, to establish
stronger links between all of our Schools, as well as between academics, professional services colleagues, and
students.

The SDG Coordinating Group's aims are to coordinate SDG activities across priority areas, develop processes
to ensure activity across the University is underpinned by the principles of the SDGs, and to support the annual
cycle of monitoring and reporting on SDG activity. The SDG Network will be open to all students and colleagues
who wish to join and will provide a social platform for our community to connect, interact and collaborate
towards the SDGs through events, workshops, and knowledge-sharing.

This year, our Sustainability Fund, formerly known as the Green Fund, entered its third year. Eight innovative
projects took place across our Schools. The fund offers teams up to.£5,000 to carry out a project across the
academic year. Projects and initiatives are co-created, designed and implemented by students and colleagues
working in partnership.

2024/25 will be marked by: building new as well as strengthening existing partnerships throughout our
university community and with external stakeholders, with a focus on Education for Sustainable Development;
progressing with our net zero ambition; making our campuses more sustainable; and developing an ambitious
Sustainable Development Strategy. This strategy will be developed in consultation with colleagues across our
Schools and Professional Services directorates. We expect to publish the new strategy by September 2025.

Our main priority remains embedding education for sustainable development (ESD) for all. Our Sustainability
Team and CET! have been focusing on supporting academic colleagues to achieve this by ensuring that all
students taking Level 6 courses will be taught and assessed against the SDGs in at least one core module in
each course. Following this, SDGs will then be taught and assessed in at least one core module for Levels 3-7
by September 2026. Work will continue throughout 2024/25 to support the ongoing Level 6 work and to support
colleagues at other levels in introducing the SDGs in 2025/26. To support this the Sustainability Team is
working on making the SDGs more visible to students and colleagues by introducing new displays across
campuses.

We have reviewed our performance and in 2022 set an ambitious net zero target. For scope 1 and 2 emissions,
our target is net zero by 2035. For scope 3 emissions, our target is to halve emissions by 2035 and reach net
zero by 2050. Significant work has progressed towards meeting these targets. We have successfully reduced
our carbon emissions from 14,350 tonnes in 2005/06 to 5,903 tonnes in 2022/23. In 2023/24 we completed a
number of projects outlined in our comprehensive decarbonisation plans. These projects included:

e Renewable energy - We have continued an ongoing programme of solar panel installation on our
campuses.

e Energy reduction - we have made continuous improvements to our estate by ensuring that energy
efficiency and environmental improvements are considered in our capital projects and refurbishment
programmes . Specifically, we have continued to upgrade lighting, heating and building materials to
ensure that our campuses operate in the most sustainable way possible.

e Accurate carbon report - We have verified our 2022/23 emissions via PlanetMark, an external
sustainability certification scheme.

On making our campuses sustainable, our Goid EcoCampus certification for our Environmental Management
System (EMS) was reaffirmed in 2023. The EMS provides a robust framework for us to improve our
environmental performance and learn best practice from others in the sector. In 2025, we are due to be re-
assessed, and will be aiming to achieve Platinum status, which is equivalent to |S014001:2015 — an
internationally-recognised industry standard.

17

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Strategic report

In 2024/25, we will for the first time aim to achieve LEAF Labs certification in the School of Life Sciences. The
LEAF programme, developed by UCL, supports laboratories to reduce their carbon emissions and create an
environment that supports research quality. Laboratories are awarded either a Bronze, Silver or Gold level
depending on how many sustainability actions they take.

Our Sustainability team will continue to work with campus teams and our caterers, Aramark, to ensure that food
served on campuses meets high standards of sustainability. Aramark expect to apply for at least two
sustainability certifications in 2024/25, including the Soil Association's Food For Life Served Here accreditation
and the Green Kitchen Standard. Across all campuses, our drive for responsible consumption will continue with
a focus on waste management and recycling. We will begin a new campaign in 2024/25 to encourage waste
reduction and improve recycling rates across all our campuses.

18

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Strategic report
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emission Data for period 1 August 2023 to 31 July 2024 *
2021/22 2022/23 2023/24
Scope 1 (tonnes CO2e)
3,737 3,502 3,358

Direct Emissions - Gas

Direct Emissions - Diesel consumption** i¢} 0 0

Scope 2 {tonnes CO2e)

2202 2,398 2,597
Energy Indirect Emissions - Electricity
Scope 3 (tonnes CO2e) | | |
3. 3 1.82
Indirect Emissions - Waste Disposal to incineration
0.1 0.1 0
1.85
0.35
Total Emissions
. 5,955
Total Scope 1 and 2 Emissions
Total Emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) 5,942 5,903 5,959
intensity measurement- Scope 1 and 2 only (tonnes
CO2e)
0.034 0.037 0.043
Intensity ratio — tonnes Co2e per m2 Gross Internal Area
(GIA)
Intensity ratio - tonnes Co2e per capita 0.32 0.035 0.045

Energy Usage

Gas Consumption (kWh)

Electricity Consumption (kWh)

Diesel Consumption (Litres) ro | o [|  o |

Purchased Electricity Renewable Percentage (%) “400 100 —
20

Purchased Green Gas Percentage (%) 25

Notes

* We have procured 100% electricity from renewable sources since 2012 but Co2 emissions have been
included in scope 2 calculation.

.|_** Westminster does not own any fleet vehicles.

Methodology: We report on GHG emissions sources as required under the Streamlined Energy and Carbon
Reporting legislation. The methodology we used to calculate our GHG emissions and energy use is the 2019
HM Government Environmental Reporting Guidelines. We have also used the GHG Reporting Protocol —
Corporate Standard. Data has been calculated using Government emission Greenhouse gas reporting:
conversion factors 2023 for all carbon streams. The chosen intensity measurement ratios are (1) total gross
emissions in metric tonnes CO2e per capita? and (2) total gross emissions in metric tonnes CO2e per GIA.


UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Strategic report

Celebrating success: Hosting World Public Health Nutrition Congress
This year, we hosted the World Public Health Nutrition Congress, a four-day forum to discuss local, national
and global nutrition and health issues and to explore new research on potential solutions to food crises around

the world. More than 600 delegates from 66 countries attended, including academics, researchers, community
leaders, government ministers, and representatives of public bodies and non-governmental organisations.

ENABLING DELIVERY OF BEING WESTMINSTER

Our people

Our refreshed People Strategy, Being Me, Being Westminster is underpinned by our priorities of wellbeing,
inclusion and sustainable development.

The Professional Development Review (PDR) is the foundation of our People Strategy: it underpins and
enables the themes of listening, communication, fairness, consistency, excellence, recognition, togetherness,
and prudence as we move forward in developing a sustainable and motivated colleague community.

In 2023/24 we developed the PDR process to improve the colleague experience from both a reviewer and
reviewee perspective. We will continue to innovate and develop the process so that it is integrated with
workload planning and aligned with career development pathways, supporting colleagues to continue
performing at a high level, pursue their development ambitions, and focus of the fewest things that matter most.

The Westminster Professional Development Academy is our new platform which brings all training and
development opportunities for leadership, education, research and personal effectiveness together in one
place. The platform was developed throughout 2023/24 and launched in September 2024. The Academy will be
further developed over time to support talent management by setting out career pathways and promotion
processes, providing clarity to colleagues about their progression routes.

Our leadership and management development focus in 2023/24 has been to ensure our leaders and managers
have the skills, support and confidence to help create a positive and inclusive culture which enables excellence
for colleagues and students. This work has included the delivery of development programmes such as:
Management Essentials for new managers, Managing with Success for middle managers, and a tailor-made
leadership development programme for Assistant Heads of School.

Celebrating success: Go Westminster Awards

This year, we refreshed our internal colleague recognition event, launching the Go Westminster Awards.
Designed to celebrate the contributions and successes of colleagues in line with our values, priorities and
objectives, the awards format encouraged colleagues and teams to nominate each other — and culminated in an
awards ceremony in June 2024. We will continue to build on this event in 2024/25 and make time to recognise
and celebrate our successes.

Our digital and physical environment

We are committed to creating both physical and digital spaces that inspire learning, give a strong sense of
community and provide the best possible experience to our Westminster community. Our approaches to how
we invest in and develop our digital and physical environments work in concert with each other to enable the
success of our students and colleagues.

We refreshed and refocused our Digital Strategy in January 2024 demonstrating our commitment to digital
excellence. This excellence was recognised when our Information Systems and Support team were shortlisted
in the Gartner Eye On Innovation Awards for cyber security and vulnerability management.

Key advances and priorities that we expect to make in 2024/25 include:

e Further improving our cyber security and risk management and becoming accredited through the
government-sponsored Cyber Essentials scheme.
e Improving the digital capability of our students and colleagues and increasing their understanding of our
digital ecosystem and how to stay safe when using it.
e Extending and enhancing our studentfacing systems for the best possible student experience.
20

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Strategic report

« Developing our digitally enabled physical spaces to enable authentic learning and teaching.

e¢ Embracing new technologies including artificial intelligence and ensuring our students are well versed
in these technologies which will form a cornerstone of the modern workplace.

e Ensuring that our services and processes put our students, colleagues and partners at the centre of all
we do.

e Working closely with our University community to foster a digital environment that embraces and
supports equality, equity and diversity and focuses on inclusion for all.

e Progressing further our digital accessibility agenda, ensuring that all stakeholders’ needs are
considered and catered for.

e Ensuring that our systems are well integrated and that appropriate automation is harnessed wherever
possible.

¢ Adopting an agile product-centred approach in the development of new systems and platforms.

Reducing our digital carbon footprint across the hardware and software we provide — including in terms of how
they are procured, used and retired — working with our supply chain partners to ensure a positive environmental
impact.

During 2023/24, we continued to develop our physical estate and services in a way that facilitates authentic
education, supports our students and colleagues' safety, welfare and well-being, and helps us to deliver on the
ambitions of our Being Westminster strategy.

We have made steady progress in the reduction of our carbon emissions, with a steady decrease in energy use
and an increase in energy production, particularly in Harrow, supported by the investment in more solar power
generation supporting the halls of residence. As noted above, we reported steady progress in our SDG Impact
Ranking report, moving into the top 15% of universities worldwide.

2023/24 saw the delivery of unique new spaces across all campuses, including the opening of the new sports
hall at Harrow, new faith and prayer spaces at Marylebone supported by the QHT and an increase of lab space
at New Cavendish Street. We also started a major programme of investment in the roof and facade at our
Regent Street campus, which is due to be completed in June 2025.

Looking ahead, we will have several areas of focus in 2024/25, including:

Taking the proposed Student Hub project at New Cavendish Street towards planning approval in 2025.
Introducing real-time space utilisation tools to support changes in how the timetabling process works
and how our buildings can be better utilised for the benefit of our students.

Progressing the construction of our Zone29 centre for employability and enterprise.

Investing in our emerging new Nursing course at New Cavendish Street, including delivering a state-of-
the-art clinical simulation suite.

Delivering improved office spaces, particularly at Marylebone and Regent Street.

Continuing to work with Brent Council and partners in anticipation of the Greater London Authority
approving the master plan for the Northwick Park One Public Estate project.

Celebrating success: The Den — Home of the Dragons

This year we opened The Den, our new sports hall on our Harrow campus. The space includes a new gym,
facilities for court sports — including volleyball, basketball, netball and badminton — and a spectator area for up
to 180 people. The sports hall is available to all students and colleagues to use and is designed to provide

space for our Westminster Dragons sports teams to further grow and flourish. Student engagement in our
sports clubs and societies continues to be strong, with more than 10,000 active members.

PUBLIC AND PRIVATE BENEFIT
Public benefit

The University of Westminster is a public benefit entity. Our strategic objectives are stated on page 5 and our
2023/24 academic achievements are summarised on page 6.

The University's Court of Governors is the institution's governing body. It meets at least five times a year and is
ultimately responsible for the effective conduct of the activities of the University, including its strategic

21

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Strategic report
development, its educational character and mission and its financial health. The members of the Court of
Governors are the trustees of the charity and directors of the company. In setting and reviewing the University's

objectives and activities, the trustees have due regard to the Charity Commission's Public Benefit Guides;
Public benefit: the public benefit requirement (PB1), Public benefit: running a charity (PB2) and Public benefit:
reporting (PB3), published 2013 and updated 2014.

In accordance with the Charities Act 2011 the OfS is the responsible body for regulating universities as charities
on behalf of the Charity Commission.

The objects for which the University is established are:
* To establish, carry on and conduct a university.

¢ To advance learning and knowledge in all their aspects and to provide industrial, commercial,
professional, and scientific education and training.

+ To provide courses of education or technical study both full time and part time for students at all levels
of and in all branches of education.

+ To provide opportunities and facilities for research of any kind, including the publication of results,
papers, reports, treatises, theses, or other material in connection with or arising out of such research.

* To provide for the recreational, social and well-being needs of students of the University.

The objects are recorded in our Articles of Association and reproduced in our Statement of Corporate
Governance and Internal Controls.

The Charity's beneficiaries, as reflected in the objects, are the undergraduate and postgraduate students
enrolled at the University and the public at large who stand to benefit through our teaching, research and
knowledge exchange activities.

Private benefit

Commercially funded research and some types of knowledge exchange activity may generate the possibility of
private benefit. Our trustees recognise that any private benefit must be incidental. The Research Committee is
responsible through our governance structure for the development and implementation of our strategy and
policies on research and research degrees.

22

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Strategic report
TRADE UNION ACTIVITY

The Trade Union (Facility Time Publication Requirements) Regulations 2017 require the University to publish
information on trade union facility time annually.

The table of data for the reporting period 1 April 2023 to 31 March 2024 is as follows:

Table 1 - Relevant Union Officials

Number of employees who were relevant union officials during the relevant

100% FTE 24
90% FTE -
85% FTE
70% FTE
60% FTE
50% FTE

onaa

Table 2 - Percentage of time spent on facility time

Number of

Table 3 - Percentage of pay bill spent on facility time

Figures

_Total cost of facility time oon eeenn nen Leeann £76,982 _
_Totalpay bi £105,812,991
_ Percentage of the total pay bill spent on facility time 0.073%

Table 4 - Paid relevant trade union activities

Time spent on paid trade union activities* as a % of total paid facility time
Senne 84.1% |
_Time spent on paid trade union duties™* as a % of total paid facility time hours 15.9% _

* Activities encompass such things as branch meetings, elections and conference attendance
** Duties encompass such things as casework, representation of employees

23

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Strategic report
FINANCIAL REVIEW

We have delivered another strong financial performance which again has been driven by the continued
growth in student numbers, recruiting very well in the international market for our postgraduate courses.
As a result, our financial position continues to strengthen and this year a surplus before other gains and
losses of £30.7m achieves an 11.3% surplus to income return compared to the prior year 8.5%. This year
has also seen positive outcomes in terms of the net asset position for the funded pension schemes in
which we participate. The net asset position for the Local Government Pension Scheme stands at £16.5m,
compared to £17.1m in the prior year and the provision in respect of the deficit in the Universities
Superannuation Scheme of £4.3m has been fully released.

Our financial strategy is designed to generate a self-sufficient cashflow to enable investment in people,
buildings and technology that will provide the investment needed to deliver our Being Westminster 2029
strategy and to ensure continuing financial sustainability. To achieve this we focus on two key financial
indicators: an operating surplus of 6% to income and to maintain a current liquidity ratio greater than.2:1.
Salary costs, being our single largest expense, are maintained at levels in line with the sector average,
after adjusting for year-end pension scheme accounting movements.

The key results for the five years ended 31 July 2024 are summarised in the table below.

FY19/20 FY20/21 FY21/22 FY22/23 FY23/24

£m £m £m £m £m
Income 216.4 215.8 243.0 260.4 270.5
Expenditure (197.3) (207.8) (225.6) (238.2) (239.8)
Operating surplus before exceptional
items and other gains and losses 19.1 8.0 17.4 22.2 30.7
Capital expenditure 22.1 20.7 26.2 29.2 54.6
Borrowings ; 30.7 26.9 24.8 23.2 21.5
Net assets 222.0 226.0 405.5 514.3 540.7

Student numbers increased to 19,785 full time equivalents (FTEs) from 18,792 FTEs in 2022/23, and this
is reflected in the 2% year-on-year increase in tuition fee income.

Cashflow has remained strong and a net cash inflow from operating activities of £34.9m has been
achieved and our cash position was strengthened with a balance sheet total of cash deposits and short-
term investments of £150.1m. This is despite a substantial increase in investment in maintaining and
enhancing our estate and digital infrastructure, digitally enabling our learning spaces and providing the
additional capacity to accommodate the continuing increase in student numbers. Total capital expenditure
in the year was £54.6m compared to £29.6m in the prior year.

Income

Total income of £270.5m increased by 3.9% from the £260.4m achieved in 2022/23, which reflects the
increase in other income (+10%) and investment income (+70%), as well as the increased tuition fees.

A summary of where our income is derived from is set out in the charts below:

24

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Strategic report
2023/24 University Group Income 2022/23 University Group Income

Investment (Donations,
ir a , £6.00, 2%

Other income,
£22.79,9%

‘Other income,
£20.75, 8%

Research grants
and contracts,
£5.62, 2%

Research grants
and contrat
£6.1

Tuition fees and

Education Tuition fees and

Educat
Contra
£207.69, 80%

L |

Tuition Fees and Education contracts account for 78% (2022/23:80%) of tatal income. Undergraduate
students continue to account for 75% of this income (2022/23: 75%). Income received from undergraduate
students increased by £7.3m from the prior year following a successful recruitment of international
undergraduate students, which compensates for the marginal fall in home undergraduate students.

Other income increased by £2.0m over the prior year reflecting further income generated from residences,
including summer lets and other sundry sales. The sharp increase in investment income reflects the higher
interest rate environment, coupled with buoyant cash balances and careful management of our cash
deposits.

Operating Expenditure

Total expenditure increased by £1.6m (0.7%) in 2023/24 to £239.8m (2022/23: £238.2m) and a summary
breakdown is provided in the charts below:

2023/24 University Expenditure 2022/23 University Expenditure

Interest & other]

finance costs,
Z| £023,0%

interest & other
finance costs,
£3.46,1%

[Other operating
Salary costs, expenses,

£130.70, £76.69,32%
as
oem ‘Salary costs,
£139.50,59%

[Other operat

A key measure of salary spend in the sector is salary spend as a percentage of income, given this is our
largest area of spend at over 54%. Total salary spend for the year is £130.7m, as compared to £139.5m in
2022/23. The reduction is attributed to higher expenditure on severance payments in 2022/23 (£5.4m
2022/23 vs £0.8m 2023/24) and positive movements overall in respect of pension scheme liabilities that
are credited to staff costs. The salary to income ratio, a key metric used to manage this area of spend is
48.3% or approximately 50% excluding pension credits (2022/23: 53.6%), which is consistent with the
maximum target ratio of 54%.

Other operating costs have increased by £11m to £87.7m in 2023/24 (2022/23: £76.7m), reflecting

inflationary pressures on key areas of spend, particularly utilities and building maintenance, plus additional
expenditure to support students and ensure their wellbeing and success.

25

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Strategic report

We spend a significant sum each year on maintaining and improving our premises and facilities. In
2023/24, £54.6m was spent on capital improvements to the estate and our digital infrastructure, compared

to £29.6m in the prior year capital. The depreciation charge for 2023/24 is £21.2m (2022/23: £18.6m).

Interest and other finance costs for 2023/24 total £0.2m (2022/23: £3.5m), the reduction reflecting the
move into surplus of our funded pensions schemes that eliminated any interest charge. The interest cost
of our remaining bank loans continues to reduce as the balances diminish toward maturity. No new loans
were entered into in the year.

Capital Spend

A total of £54.6m was spent during the year on capital improvements to our physical and digital
infrastructure, with funding for the activity provided from internally generated cash flows supplemented by
a modest amount (£2m) of capital grant funding. Over the last five years £152.7m has been invested in our
estate as illustrated.

Five year capital spend
£60 £190

£170

£150

£130

£110

£90

Annual spend £ms.
Cumulative £ms

£70

£50

£30

£10

FY19/20 FY20/21 Fv21/22 Fy22/23 Fy23/24

ls Annual capital spend —=Cumulative capital spend

bo

Continued investment on a significant scale is planned over the next five years, upgrading the estate to
meet the needs and expectations of our students, to address areas where condition needs to be upgraded
and to ensure effective pursuit of our strategic goals. We will invest in discrete projects expanding our
residences, creating a student hub space and the development of Zone29, our new hub for enterprise and
industry at 29 Marylebone Road.

Net Assets

Our total reported comprehensive income for the year is £26.5m (2022/23: £108.8m), after recognising
gains and losses arising from investment property market value movements and actuarial gains in our
pension schemes. The University Group net asset position has increased as a result to £540.7m (2022/23:
£514.3m).

Cash flow and liquidity

The net cash inflow from operating activities was £34.9m. After accounting for net cash flows from
investing activities and for financing and borrowing costs, the end of year balance of cash deposits and
short-term investments totalled £150.1m, a decrease in cash deposits of £12.5m from the prior year.

We continue to pursue a low-risk approach to managing investments and liquidity. In balancing risk

against return, we are more concerned to avoid risk than to maximise return. Our investments have

nevertheless yielded £8.2m in investment income (2022/23: £4.8m), benefiting from a relatively high

interest rate environment and effective management of balances across our counterparties. Our Treasury

Management Policy determines the limits in terms of the credit ratings of counterparties used for

investments and on the sums placed with any one provider. The Resources Committee regularly review
26

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Strategic report
and approve the counterparty list.

The year finished with net current assets of £112.6m (2022/23: £122.3m), the reduction reflecting
investment of cash into our fixed assets, which increased from £386.1m to £419.4m in the year. A key
element of our finance strategy is to maintain a positive liquidity position and the key measure is to keep
our current liquidity ratio (a measure of current assets to current liabilities) above 2:1. At the financial year
end this was 2.9:1 (2022/23: 3:1).

No additional borrowings were required in the year and at the end of the year the outstanding loan
commitments were reduced by £1.7m to £21.5m (2022123: £23.2m).

Retirement Benefits

The University Group recognises all pension liabilities in so far as they can be reliably quantified and
attributed to the University and its subsidiaries. We participate in three multi-employer defined benefit
pension schemes. The Teachers’ Pension Scheme (TPS), to which most of our academic colleagues
belong, is an unfunded, government backed scheme. The majority of professional services colleagues are
members of the Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS), which is administered by the London
Pension Fund Authority (LPFA). There are also approximately 100 active colleagues in the Universities
Superannuation Scheme (USS).

It is not possible to identify our share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the TPS. Therefore,
contributions are accounted for as if the TPS were a defined contribution scheme and pension costs are
based on the amounts actually paid.

Our share of the LGPS scheme assets and liabilities can be determined on a reasonable basis and is
therefore reported on our Balance Sheet. Continued favourable financial market conditions, including
sustained higher gilt yields, have continued to support a healthy funding position for LPGS, with net assets
standing at £16.5m at year-end, compared to £17.1m in the prior year. The discount rate used to assess
future pension liabilities is based on financial market performance and linked to the market return on
corporate bonds, at the accounting date. LGPS funds are invested in a range of asset classes, the
performance of which may vary considerably from the value used to discount future pension liabilities, and
so the results can be highly volatile from year to year.

The provision of £4.3m previously held in respect of our obligation to fund the USS scheme deficit has
been fully released in 2023/24 as a result of the scheme moving into surplus at the last valuation.

Outlook

There continues to be much uncertainty in the external environment, and we need to be robust but agile in
responding to the opportunities and challenges that we confront now and in the future.

The policy position of the new UK government remains unclear, and the economy remains in a fragile
state of gradual recovery. The impact of a softening in international demand, particularly at postgraduate
level, is being felt across the UK sector and it remains to be seen whether this weakness in the market will
persist.

A strong financial performance in 2023/24 has provided valuable resilience with good levels of liquidity,

low borrowing and a well invested physical and digital estate. We remain well positioned to respond to the
challenges ahead.

RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

Our key risks are linked to Being Westminster and are identified in our Strategic Risk Register. There is an
opportunity to escalate risks from Operational Risk Registers maintained by Colleges, Professional Services
Directorates etc. to the Strategic Risk Register as part of the three times a year formal review process, or by
exception if warranted. We also maintain local project risk registers and thematic risk registers (e.g. Safety,
Health and Wellbeing, Prevent) and, where appropriate, these inform specific risk assessments in Operational
Risk Registers.

Our most important risks and uncertainties, and the primary controls/mitigations, are noted below:
27

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Strategic report

Student outcomes — employment

We understand that it is essential to connect students with employers for graduate career success and we aim
to ensure that all our students benefit from employability-led learning. We have a Deputy Vice-Chancellor who
focuses on employability and global engagement and have a range of programmes in place to support and
publicise employability support and training, including ongoing support for recent graduates. Crucially, our
target is to ensure that work-based and placement learning is embedded in a!l undergraduate programmes by
2025.

Education — academic experience

We aim to guarantee a high quality academic experience on all courses that enables all students to continue
and complete their studies and progress successfully. Our Teaching Committee meets frequently and receives
key performance indicator and quality reports that monitor outcomes and drive action. Our Centre for Education
and Teaching Innovation ensures that resources are in place to support high quality teaching and learning,
promote best practice, and inspire new approaches and innovations.

Education — resources and support

We aim to ensure that all students have access to the right resources and support to enable them to complete
their studies and progress successfully. Student support mechanisms include The Student Centre, counselling
and wellbeing support, and peer mentoring. Our digital and physical spaces aim to inspire learning; the relevant
information technology and estates operating plans provide for the monitoring and delivery of improvements to
the virtual and physical environment, including laptop loans, authentic classrooms and specialist resources.

Cyber security

We continue to invest in new technologies and network infrastructure to enhance our students’ learning
experience and to improve the way we work. We understand the significant impact to our operations and to the
student experience that prolonged disruption from a cyber incident — or other technology outage — could cause.
We have in place robust cyber security response arrangements and plans to mitigate those risks, but we know
that the risk cannot be eliminated entirely.

Supply chain

We understand the need to effectively manage and monitor purchasing and procurement activities to minimise
unpredictable spending patterns, supply chain risks and contracts and arrangements that are not sustainable
and/or optimised to deliver our strategy. We are taking action to improve identification and understanding of our
most critical suppliers and to develop improved processes for receiving notification of potential supply chain
issues.

Emergency response/business continuity

We are clear about the potential for disruption to our operations and to the student experience from low
likelihood, high impact unplanned events. We have emergency response and incident management capabilities
in place, including rehearsed and tested information technology disaster recovery plans. We are building on this
capability by undertaking a programme of updates to College and Professional Service business continuity
plans, with a view to further validating and rehearsing these plans in 2024/25 and beyond.

STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND COMPANIES ACT SECTION S172 STATEMENT

In accordance with section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 each of our Members of Court acts in the way that
they consider, in good faith, would most likely promote the success of the University. Our Members of Court
have regard, to the:

e likely consequences of any decisions in the long-term
« interests of our students
e interests of our colleagues

28

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Strategic report
e the public benefit of the work we do and the need to ensure that any public funds are properly managed
need to foster the University's business relationships with suppliers, customers and other key
stakeholders
« impact of the University’s operations on communities and the environment
¢ desirability of the University to maintaining a reputation for high standards of conduct.

The Court and its committees consider the potential consequences of its decisions on its key stakeholders in
the long term, considering a wide range of factors, as set out in the following pages. The Court fully appreciates
that the University can only grow sustainably through having regard to the views and needs of these
stakeholders, being its students, colleagues, partners and the wider community. Decisions made by the Court
are informed by the University’s mission, vision and values, as described in the next section of this report.

The Court agenda includes presentations and reports with regular updates on operational, performance and
people matters. The executive team attend Court meetings as do functional heads on a rotational basis, as
relevant to the agenda, to ensure that the Court is in touch with all parts of the organisation to inform its
judgments on longer term strategy. Colleague and student members sit on the Court to ensure regular
engagement of all members with experiences of these two key groups.

In 2022/23, the Court approved the new 2022-29 strategic plan as set out earlier in this report. Being
Westminster sets out our three priorities of wellbeing; our commitment to equality, equity, diversity and
inclusion; and the bringing together of collective energies to play our part in enabling a more sustainable and
socially just world. This focus on our priorities shapes the decisions and actions of the Court and underline the
aim of the University to achieve positive outcomes for all its stakeholders. In 2023/24 the Court and each of its
committees reflected on how they contributed to progressing these priorities and identified ways in which their
contributions could be enhanced.

Further information

The statement above provides a summary of how we comply with the requirements of Section 172. Further
detail is included throughout the report including:

« Likely consequences of decisions in the long term:
© Strategic report — financial review (pages 24-27)
o Strategic report — risks and uncertainties (pages 27-28)
o Corporate governance and internal controls — our approach to managing risk (pages 35-36)
« Student and colleague interests: :
o Strategic report — education (pages 7-9)
Strategic report — employability (pages 11-12)
Strategic report — global engagement (pages 12-13)
Strategic report — inclusion (pages 13-15)
Strategic report — wellbeing (page 16)
Strategic report — our people (page 20)
Corporate governance and internal controls — colleague and student participation (page 34)
e Public benefit and use of public funds:
o Strategic report — research and knowledge exchange (pages 9-10)
Strategic report — sustainable development (pages 16-20)
Strategic report — public benefit (pages 21-22)
Strategic report — financial review (pages 24-27)
Corporate governance and internal controls — public benefit (pages 31-32)
o Corporate governance and internal controls — governors’ responsibilities (pages 36-37)
« Business relationships with suppliers, customers and other key stakeholders
o Strategic report — education for all (pages 14-15)
Strategic report — research and knowledge exchange (pages 9-10)
Strategic report — global engagement (pages 12-13)
Strategic report — sustainable development (pages 16-20)
Strategic report — our digital and physical environment (pages 20-21)
« Community and environmental impact
o Strategic report — education (pages 7-9)
o Strategic report — research and knowledge exchange (pages 9-10)
o Strategic report — sustainable development (pages 16-20)
o Strategic report — our digital and physical environment (pages 20-21)

ooo0o00

ooo$°o

oooo°o

29

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Strategic report

e High standards of conduct

Strategic report — our values (page 4)

Strategic report — our strategic priorities and objectives (page 5)

Strategic report — inclusion (pages 13-15)

Strategic report — wellbeing (page 16)

Corporate governance and internal controls — governance codes (page 31)
Corporate governance and internal controls — inclusive governance (pages 34-35)

ooooo0o90

Strategic report

The strategic report has been approved by the Court of Governors.

Professor Lynne Berry
Chair of the Court of Governors
27 November 2024

30

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Corporate Governance and Internal Controls

Status and objects

The University of Westminster is incorporated under the Companies Act as a Company Limited by Guarantee
and not having a share capital.

The University is also an exempt charity in accordance with the Charities Act 2011. In accordance with the
Charities Act 2011 the Office for Students is the responsible body for regulating universities as charities on
behalf of the Charity Commission.

The Court of Governors approved the University's current Articles of Association in October 2024. The objects
for which the University is established are set out in its Articles as:

(A) To establish, carry on and conduct a university.

(B) To advance learning and knowledge in all their aspects and to provide industrial, commercial,
professional, and scientific education and training.

(C) To provide opportunities for learning and courses of education or technical study both full time and
part time for students at all levels of and in all branches of education.

(D) To provide opportunities and facilities for research of any kind including the publication of results,
papers, reports, treatises, theses, or other material in connection with or arising out of such research.

(E) To provide for the recreational, social and well-being needs of students of the University.
Governance Codes

The Court of Governors has formally adopted the HE Code of Governance (revised September 2020) and in
May 2021 formally adopted the Charity Code of Governance for Larger Charities (2020). The Court of
Governors is committed to the values expressed in the Codes and members apply the good governance
practice written into the Codes in the execution of their responsibilities as governors, directors, and trustees.
We introduce new governors and independent (non-governor) committee members to the expectations of the
Codes during the induction process? and they are reflected in the Court of Governors Code of Conduct. The
Court of Governors considers the University’s submissions under the Office for Students’ Prevent Duty
monitoring framework:and reviews annually our Code of Practice on Freedom of Speech4*. The Court of
Governors has also adopted the Committee of University Chairs’ Higher Education Senior Staff Remuneration
Code (revised November 2021) and the CUC5 HE Audit Committees Code of Practice (May 2020).

During 2022, Halpin conducted an independent assessment of the effectiveness of our governance?§ and
concluded that governance is compliant with the principles set out in the HE Code of Governance, the HE Audit
Committees Code of Practice, the HE Remuneration Cade and the Charity Code of Governance. This report
uses footnotes to highlight where the Court of Governors has applied these Codes.

Public benefit

The members of the Court of Governors are the trustees of the Charity. In setting and reviewing the University's
objectives and activities, the trustees have due regard to the Charity Commission's Public Benefit Guides;
Public benefit: the public benefit requirement (PB1), Public benefit: running a charity (PB2), and Public benefit:
reporting (PB3), published 2013 and updated 20147.

2 HE Code Primary Element 5 — effectiveness

3 HE Code Primary Element 1 - accountability

4 HE Code Primary Element 2 — sustainability

5 Committee of University Chairs

6 https:/Avww.westminster.ac.uk/about-us/our-university/corporate-information/governance-and-structure/court-

of-governors
7 HE Code Primary Element 6 - engagement

31

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Corporate Governance and Internal Controls

The Charity's beneficiaries, as reflected in the objects, are the students enrolled at the University and the public
at large who stand to benefit through the teaching and research undertaken at the University of Westminster.

The University’s charity gateway page is westminster.ac.uk/about-us/our-university/corporate-
information/charitable-status?

The Court of Governors

The Governors are also directors of the University in its status as a company and trustees of the
University in its status as a charity.

In line with the HE Code of Governance, the Court of Governors is “collectively responsible and accountable for
institutional activities, approving ail final decisions on matters of fundamental concern within its remit’? and
“provides strategic leadership in line with the charity's aims and values”®,

The Governors of the University during the year ended 31 July 2024 are listed below.

Appointed (A) or Retired or
reappointed (R) resigned
24 April 2024 (R)®

24 October 2024 (R)1°

Committee membership

Professor Lynne Berry
Chair
Lin Phillips Deputy Chair

Governance and Nominations,
Remuneration

Governance and Nominations,
Remuneration

Audit and Risk, Governance and
Nominations

31 July 2024"
31 August 2024’?

Professor Fiona Ross
Deputy Chair

Tom Toumazis Deputy
Chair
Nandini Aggarwal 30 June 2024

| Divanshu Airan 1 July 2024 (A) Academic Council
| Ayo Ajayi 1 December 2023 (A)
| Justin Bairamian Resources

Taruna Bangia 30 June 2024 Academic Council

Professor Peter Bonfield Academic Council, Governance
and Nominations, Resources

1 July 2024 (A)
Resources

Academic Council
Audit and Risk
Academic Council, Governance
and Nominations

Charlotte Morgan Audit and Risk

Jane Robson Governance and Nominations
Canon David Stanton 30 November 2023 | Audit and Risk, Remuneration
Philomine Wales 30 November 2023 | Resources

Mei Xin Wang Remuneration, Resources

1 December 2023 (A)*8

1 August 2024 (A)*4

| Chidambar Dhapatkar

| Victoria Foster
Professor Sean Griffiths
Sara Hafeez

Dr Sal Jarvis

Jameela Khan
Professor Graham Meikle

® Charity Code Principle 2 - leadership
° Date of re-appointment as a governor (governor from 24 April 2021)
10 Date of re-appointment as Chair of the Court (Chair of the Court of Governors from 24 October 2021)
41 End of term of office as Deputy Chair to the Court of Governors
12 End of term of office as a governor
‘3 Date of appointment as Deputy Chair to the Court of Governors (governor from 1 April 2019)
‘4 Date of appointment as Deputy Chair to the Court of Governors (governor from 1 August 2023)
32

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Corporate Governance and Internal Controls

The Court of Governors, which meets formally at least five times a year, comprises 12 independent (non-
executive) governors; three co-opted (colleague) governors; two co-opted (student) governors, and two ex-
officio governors (the Vice-Chancellor and the nominated Deputy or Pro Vice-Chancellor). The co-opted
(colleague) governors are nominated by the Academic Council, academic colleagues, and professional services
colleagues through an election process and the student governors are elected officers nominated by UWSU.
There is a clear separation of the roles of the non-executive Chair of the Court of Governors and the Chief
Executive (the Vice-Chancellor)’. The Governance and Nominations Committee is working with a search firm to
recruit independent governors to join the membership from April 2025.

The Court of Governors approves the University’s long-term objectives and strategies and provides overall
financial and organisational controls. It delegates responsibility for operations to the Vice-Chancellor who,
supported by the University Executive Board (UEB), implements the Court of Governors’ policy, and develops
and manages the University’s business to meet its financial objectives and standards of quality and services in
education and research’.

Further information about the Court of Governors is published on our website.
Committees of the Court*

The Academic Council* meets up to five times a year and comprises 24 colleagues (including the Vice-
Chancellor as Chair), the UWSU President and two currently registered students. The Council is the supreme
academic deliberative and decision-making body responsible for strategic oversight of all academic provision
and considers a broad range of issues that relate directly to our academic direction and focus’.

The Audit and Risk Committee* meets up to five times a year and comprises four independent governors,
including the Chair Charlotte Morgan. The Committee reviews the work of our external and internal auditors and
reviews our annual financial statements and accounting policies at a meeting attended by members of the
Resources Committee. The Audit and Risk Committee considers detailed reports on risk management, control,
governance, and value for money. The Committee meets the external and internal auditors on their own for
independent discussion and members meet privately in advance of each meeting. There is no cross-
representation between this Committee and the Resources Committee.

The Governance and Nominations Committee? usually meets three times a year and comprises four
independent governors, including the Chair Professor Lynne Berry, plus the Vice-Chancellor, the University
Secretary and Chief Operating Officer and one of the academic co-opted (colleague) governors on the Court.
The Committee advises the Court on the effectiveness of governance structures and regularly reviews the
composition and membership of the Court and its sub-committees". It is also responsible for the procedures for
nominating individuals for honorary awards of the University and, when required, leads the process of search
and appointment of the Holders of Senior Posts’ and the Chancellor.

The Remuneration Committee‘ usually meets twice a year. It comprises four independent governors,
including the Chair Lin Phillips, the Chair of the Court of Governors, and the Chair of Resources Committee,
plus an independent (non-governor) member. The Committee reviews the salaries, terms and conditions of
employment and schemes of remuneration for UEB members. The Committee also devises and implements
appropriate measures and procedures whereby the Vice-Chancellor’s performance may be assessed and
agrees with the Vice-Chancellor such measures and procedures for the other UEB members.

The Resources Committee (Chair — Mei Xin Wang) meets up to six times per year and comprises five
independent governors, the Vice-Chancellor and two independent (non-governor) members. The Committee
advises the Court of Governors on strategic matters related to the human, financial, digital, and physical
resources of the University and oversees associated strategies.

Management
The Vice-Chancellor is supported by the University Executive Board, which he chairs. UEB is our senior

management committee, and its primary focus is to consider, approve and monitor the effectiveness of our
strategic objectives and operations.

18 HE Code Primary Element 4 — inclusion and diversity
33

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Corporate Governance and Interna! Controls

The Vice-Chancellor is joined on the UEB by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Education), the Deputy Vice-
Chancellor (Employability and Global Engagement), the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Research and Knowledge
Exchange), the University Secretary and Chief Operating Officer and the three Heads of College/Pro Vice-
Chancellors.

Colleague participation’

Our committee structure ensures that colleagues participate in our decision-making processes. Senior leaders
hold regular formal and informal meetings with both recognised Trade Unions. The Vice-Chancellor
communicates to colleagues about University business and his activities through a regular email blog, news
items and on our intranet (including a bi-weekly email digest of news items — Westminster Weekly). He also
briefs and consults with colleagues on the University’s performance and plans through participation in events,
meetings, discussions with colleague networks and through his daily interactions.

Student participation’

In the execution of their responsibilities, governors are mindful that the needs and interests of students are
paramount. As such, governors ensure students’ needs and interests are adequately reflected in the strategic
plan, when considering issues of institutional sustainability and in our committee structure.

Our student representation arrangements continue to adhere to a set of principles that consider the expectation
and the core and common practices in the UK Quality Code and the OfS Regulatory Framework where it deals
with student engagement. Our Student Voice Forum, which reports to Academic Council, is jointly chaired by
the UWSU President and the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Education) and most of the membership are students or
UWSU officers.

Our Student Charter, produced jointly by the University and UWSU, sets out expectations for a successful and
effective partnership between students and colleagues, and a culture of respect and opportunity for all. The
Court of Governors receives the UWSU annual report and financial statements, approves the annual UWSU
budget and receives the Returning Officer's report on Sabbatical Officer elections. The Court of Governors
meets with the new sabbatical team at the beginning of each year to discuss their priorities for the coming year.
In 2023/24 the Court of Governors agreed minor changes to the University-UWSU Code of Practice and
Memorandum of Understanding following the periodic five-year review.

Inclusive governance’®

Equality, diversity and inclusion forms part of the terms of reference of all University, College and School level
committees. We provide inclusive practice guides for colleagues on gender-inclusive language and digital
accessibility. Halpin — the external consultants who conducted our governance review in 2022 — rated our Court
of Governors as Good to Leading Edge in the elements of their University Governance Maturity Framework
relating to inclusion. Our Effectiveness Review Working Group built on Halpin’s report to produce a set of
recommendations that the Court of Governors approved in May 2023. During 2023/24, we have implemented
several enhancements that support our aim to establish our Court of Governors as an exemplar in inclusive
governance. ,

The Court of Governors routinely reflects on its own composition and, with consideration of the expectations of
the governance codes, monitors and addresses equality and diversity of its own membership. We continue to
make progress in gender equality; on 31 July 2024 63% of the membership, including 75% of independent
governors were women's. Women are also represented well in the leadership of the Court of Governors and its
committees; on 31 July 2024, the Chair of the Court of Governors, both Deputy Chairs to the Court of
Governors, and four out of five Committee Chairs were women.

We have worked on the inclusion of other protected characteristics at this level through implementation of our
inclusion and diversity action plan; however, we recognise that we have more work to do, as reflected in the
recommendation from our 2022 governance effectiveness review that “the Court’s future recruitment gives
greater focus to diversity in its broadest sense, with particular consideration to achieving greater ethnic diversity
and a more granular focus on individual ethnicity groups instead of these being grouped together as

34

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Corporate Governance and Internal! Controls
BME/BAME"'6. This aim has been central to the selection of a search agency and the instruction we have given
for recruitment of new independent governors from 2024/25.

Risk management and systems of control'®*
Our approach to managing risk

We are committed to good governance. As part of our internal control and governance arrangements we have
robust processes in place for identifying, assessing and managing risks that could prevent us from meeting our
strategic objectives. UEB and the Audit and Risk Committee formally review strategic and operational risks
three times a year, with the Court of Governors receiving a risk report twice annually. in July 2024, the Court of
Governors approved updates to our Risk Management Policy.

UEB has responsibility for day-to-day risk management. Along with senior management, UEB encourages a
culture in which risks are routinely considered in decision making, with better decisions being supported by an
improved understanding of risk. The Audit and Risk Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk
management, culture, control and governance arrangements on behalf of the Court.

During 2023/24 we completed an in-depth review and evaluation of our key risks with risk owners to ensure that
our key risks continue to accurately reflect our changing risk environment. We also undertook joint workshops
for governors and UEB members to review and revise our risk appetites with the aim of more clearly
recognising that, for us to continue to move forward, there is a need to constantly innovate to mitigate the risk of
falling behind our peers, as well as a desire to take risks in certain areas — within agreed parameters — in order
to deliver Being Westminster. The Court approved our revised innovation and risk appetites, which were
effective from 1 August 2024 and have been communicated to decision-makers across the University to help
ensure they consider our agreed innovation and risk appetites in their decision-making processes.

During the period, the Audit and Risk Committee has continued a series of discussions with Strategic Risk
Owners exploring the level of risk relating to each strategic area and how effectively those risks are being
managed. This risk management process has been applied throughout the year under review and up to the
date of approval of the annual report and accounts.

Our approach to internal control is risk based and in line with this and the OfS Audit Code of Practice, the
programme of internal audit work during the year has focused on our most significant risk areas and designed
to evidence the achievement of value for money regarding efficiency, economy, and effectiveness. On the
recommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee, the Court extended the contract with TIAA to provide internal
audit services to the University to 31 July 2025. The Audit and Risk Committee approves the strategic internal
audit plan and receives internal audit reports from TIAA at its regular meetings during the year. Where
appropriate, individual audit reports are considered by UEB and/or referred to other committees for information.
Governors have access to all internal audit reports via an online Reading Room. The internal auditors provide
an annual report, which includes an opinion on internal control, risk and the adequacy and effectiveness of our
arrangements for economy, efficiency, and effectiveness.

In addition to the annual assurance report received from Internal Audit, the Audit and Risk Committee and
Governors receive benchmarking and sector specific reports from Internal and External Auditors to assist them
in discharging their responsibility to monitor the University's performance in delivering value for money. The
Audit and Risk Committee receive an update at each meeting on action taken by the University in response to
the issues identified in these reports.

Our policy towards fraud, malpractice and corruption is one of zero tolerance. The University’s Anti-Bribery,
Fraud and Corruption policy sets this out in detail, whilst the Financial Regulations set out the arrangements for
reporting and responding to fraud. The Anti-Bribery, Fraud and Corruption policy is reviewed periodically and
the Financial Regulations annually; both are approved by the Court of Governors. The main emphasis of the
Policy is on fraud prevention, achieved through risk assessment, process design informed by awareness of
fraud risk, and by keeping colleagues alert to risks. Reporting of any fraud and irregularities is a standing item
on the Audit and Risk Committee agenda.

16 https:/Avww.westminster.ac.uk/about-us/our-university/corporate-information/governance-and-structure/court-
of-governors
35

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Corporate Governance and Internal Controls

Governors and senior managers are required to ensure that their behaviour is demonstrably selfless and open
and that they champion the University’s policies on bribery, conflicts of interest, hospitality, travel, and gifts.
These are set out in the Financial Regulations and associated policies. The University’s External Auditors
obtain an annual statement signed by all governors and senior managers to the effect that they are personally
unaware of any fraud, conflict of interest, or other breach of legislation. The Chair of the Court of Governors
also signs a Letter of Representation on behalf of the governing body which includes such assurances. This
would include instances of bribery. These arrangements provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating,
and managing the significant risks faced by the University. The system is designed to manage, rather than
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide a reasonable and not absolute
assurance against material misstatement or loss.

The overall assurance opinion provided by the Internal Auditors for the year confirmed that, for the areas
reviewed during the year, the University has reasonable and effective risk management, control, and
governance processes in place and, based on the work carried out, there was evidence to support the
achievement of value for money with regard to economy, efficiency or effectiveness of the systems reviewed.
There were two ‘limited assurance’ and no ‘no assurance’ opinions provided during the year. Action plans have
been developed to implement the recommendations of the reviews and the Internal Auditors follow up all
recommendations and report on completion to the Audit and Risk Committee.

There were no significant internal control weaknesses identified during 2023/24.
Governors’ responsibilities

The Court of Governors are responsible for preparing the strategic report and the Statement of Corporate
Governance and Internal Controls and the financial statements in accordance with the requirements of the OfS
Terms and Conditions of Funding for Higher Education Institutions and Research England's Terms and
Conditions of Research England Grant and applicable law and regulations.

The Court of Governors are responsible for ensuring the funding received from the OfS and Research England
are expended in accordance with the terms and conditions of the grants being given and for reporting to the
OfS or Research England any irregularity, impropriety or non-compliance with the terms and conditions of the
funding received. The Court of Governors gain assurance that the funds are being used in line with the funding
terms and conditions through the governance committee structures and management representation.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law they
have elected to prepare the group and parent University financial statements in accordance with UK accounting
standards and applicable law (UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including FRS 102 The Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland. The terms and conditions of funding further
require the financial statements to be prepared in accordance with the 2019 Statement of Recommended
Practice — Accounting for Further and Higher Education, in accordance with the requirements of the Accounts
Direction dated 25 October 2019 issued by the OfS.

Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they
give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and parent University and of their income and

expenditure, gains and losses and changes in reserves, and of Group’s cash flows for that period. In preparing
each of the group and parent University financial statements, the directors are required to:

e select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
« make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

e state whether applicable UK accounting standards and the 2019 Statement of Recommended Practice—
Accounting for Further and Higher Education have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

« assess the group and parent University’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable,
matters related to going concern; and

« use the going concern basis of accounting unless they either intend to liquidate the group or the parent
University or to cease operations or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

The Court is responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
parent University's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
parent University and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.

36

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER
Corporate Governance and Internal Controls

They are responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of
financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and have general
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.

The Court of Governors are also responsible for ensuring that:

e funds from whatever source administered by the Group or the University for specific purposes have been
properly applied to those purposes and managed in accordance with relevant legislation;

« income has been applied in accordance with the University’s Statutes;

e funds provided by the OfS and UK Research and Innovation (including Research England) and the
Education and Skills Funding Agency and the Department for Education, have been applied in accordance
with the terms and conditions attached to them;

¢ ensuring that there are appropriate financial and management controls in place to safeguard public funds
and funds from other sources; and

. securing the economical, efficient, and effective management of the University’s resources and
expenditure.

The Court of Governors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial
information included on the University’s website. Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legisiation in other jurisdictions.

The governors who held office at the date of approval of the accounts confirm that, so far as they are each
aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are unaware; and each governor
has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a governor to make themselves aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that information.

None of the governors had an interest in any contract which subsisted during the period of this report, other
than those who are full-time members of staff and those associated with the transactions disclosed in note 9 to
the accounts (staff costs). The Clerk to the Court of Governors maintains a register of interests and governors
are required to declare any conflict of interests at the start of each Court of Governors and committee meeting
they attend.

The Court of Governors, in compliance with the Health and Safety at Work ete Act 1974, recognises and
accepts the responsibility as far as reasonably practicable as an employer to provide a safe and healthy
workplace for all its employees. It also accepts the responsibility as far as reasonably practicable to conduct its
undertaking in such a way as to ensure that persons not in the University's employ - that is, students, visitors,
and members of the public - are not exposed to risks to their health, safety, or welfare.

The University holds Professional Indemnity and Officers’ Liability insurance, which provide indemnity to
governors and officers of the University, in their personal capacity, against damages and legal costs and
expenses arising from claims made against them by reason of wrongful acts committed by them in the course
of their official duties.

A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP as auditors for the reporting cycle for the year ending 31 July 2025 was
approved at the Annual General Meeting in November 2024.

Approved by the Court of Governors and signed on behalf of the Court

Professor Lynne Berry

Chair of the Court of Governors
- 27 November 2024

37

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT TO THE COURT OF
GOVERNORS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of the University of Westminster (“the University”)
for the year ended 31 July 2024 which comprise the Consolidated and University Statement
of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure, Consolidated Statement of Change in

Reserves, Consolidated and University Statement of Financial Position and Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows and related notes, including the accounting policies in note 1.

In our opinion the financial statements:

. give a true and fair view of the state of the Group's and of the University’s affairs as
at 31 July 2024, and of the Group’s and of the University’s income and expenditure,
gains and losses and changes in reserves, and of the Group’s cash flows, for the
year then ended;

° have been properly prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards, including
FRS 102 The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of
lreland; and

. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act
2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (“ISAs
(UK)’) and applicable law. Our responsibilities are described below. We have fulfilled our
ethical responsibilities under, and are independent of the Group in accordance with, UK
ethical requirements including the FRC Ethical Standard. We believe that the audit
evidence we have obtained is a sufficient and appropriate basis for our opinion.

Going concern

The Court of Governors has prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis
as it does not intend to liquidate the Group or the University or to cease their operations,
and as it has concluded that the Group and the University’s financial position means that
this is realistic. It has also concluded that there are no material uncertainties that could
have cast significant doubt over their ability to continue as a going concern for at least a
year from the date of approval of the financial statements (“the going concern period”).

In our evaluation of the Court of Governor’s conclusions, we considered the inherent risks
to the Group's business model and analysed how those risks might affect the Group and
the University’s financial resources or ability to continue operations over the going concern
period.

Our conclusions based on this work:

« we consider that the Court of Governor’s use of the going concern basis of accounting
in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate; and

e« we have not identified, and concur with the Court of Governor's assessment that there
is not, a material uncertainty related to events or conditions that, individually or
collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Group or the University’s ability to
continue as a going concern for the going concern period.

However, as we cannot predict all future events or conditions and as subsequent events
may result in outcomes that are inconsistent with judgements that were reasonable at the
time they were made, the above conclusions are not a guarantee that the Group or the
University will continue in operation.

38

Fraud and breaches of laws and regulations — ability to detect

Identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement due to fraud

To identify risks of material misstatement due to fraud ("fraud risks") we assessed events
or conditions that could indicate an incentive or pressure to commit fraud or provide an
opportunity to commit fraud. Our risk assessment procedures included:

¢ Enquiring of the Audit and Risk Committee, internal audit and inspection of policy
documentation as to the Group's high-level policies and procedures to prevent
and detect fraud, including the internal audit function, and the Group's channel for
"“whistleblowing", as well as whether they have knowledge of any actual,
suspected or alleged fraud.

« Reading meetings minutes of the Court of Governors, Audit and Risk Committee,
Finance and Resources Committee, Remunerations Committee and Nominations
Committee;

e Using analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships;
and

e Reviewing fraud and whistleblowing reports provided to the Audit Committee.

We communicated identified fraud risks throughout the audit team and remained alert to
any indications of fraud throughout the audit.

As required by auditing standards and taking into account possible pressures to meet
loan covenants and to improve financial performance, we perform procedures to address
the risk of management override of controls, in particular the risk that Group's
management may be in a position to make inappropriate accounting entries. On this audit
we do not believe there is a fraud risk related to revenue recognition due to the nature of
the revenue received during the year, which for the University’s primary revenue streams
is straightforward in nature and requires little judgment in determining its recognition. We
therefore assessed that there was limited opportunity for the Group and University to
manipulate the income that was reported.

We did not identify any additional fraud risks.

We performed procedures including:

¢ — Identifying journal entries to test based on risk criteria and comparing the identified
entries to supporting documentation. These included those posted by unusual
users, material post close journals and those journals posted with unusual
accounts combinations.

e Assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are
indicative of a potential bias.

Identifying and responding to risks of material misstatement related to compliance with
laws and regulations

We identified areas of laws and regulations that could reasonably be expected to have a
material effect on the financial statements from our general commercial and sector
experience, through discussion with management (as required by auditing standards),
and from inspection of the Group's regulatory and legal correspondence and discussed
with management the policies and procedures regarding compliance with laws and
regulations.

39

As the Group is regulated, our assessment of risks involved gaining an understanding of
the control environment including the entity's procedures for complying with regulatory
requirements.

We communicated identified laws and regulations throughout our team and remained
alert to any indications of non-compliance throughout the audit.

The potential effect of these laws and regulations on the financial statements varies
considerably.

Firstly, the Group is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial
statements including financial reporting legislation (including related higher education
legislation), taxation legislation and pensions legislation and we assessed the extent of
compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our procedures on the related
financial statement items.

Secondly, the Group is subject to many other laws and regulations where the
consequences of non-compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures
in the financial statements, for instance through the imposition of fines or litigation or the
loss of the Group's license to operate. We identified the following areas as those most-
likely to have such an effect: fraud, corruption and bribery legislation, money laundering
regulations, health and safety legislation, data protection legislation, and compliance with
regulatory requirements of the Office for Students, UK Visas and Immigration, and the
Financial Conduct Authority recognising the nature of the Group's activities. Auditing
standards limit the required audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws
and regulations to enquiry of the directors and other management and inspection of
regulatory and legal correspondence, if any. Therefore, if a breach of operational
regulations is not disclosed to us or evident from relevant correspondence, an audit will
not detect that breach.

We have reported separately on the University's use of funds in the section of our audit
report dealing with other legal and regulatory requirements

Context of the ability of the audit to detect fraud or breaches of law or regulation

Owing to the inherent limitations of an audit, there is an unavoidable risk that we may not
have detected some material misstatements in the financial statements, even though we
have properly planned and performed our audit in accordance with auditing standards.
For example, the further removed non-compliance with laws and regulations is from the
events and transactions reflected in the financial statements, the less likely the inherently
limited procedures required by auditing standards would identify it.

In addition, as with any audit, there remained a higher risk of non-detection of fraud, as
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the
override of internal controls. Our audit procedures are designed to detect material
misstatement. We are not responsible for preventing non-compliance or fraud and cannot
be expected to detect noncompliance with all laws and regulations.

Other information

The Court of Governors is responsible for the other information, which comprises the
Report and Financial Statements other than the financial statements and our auditors
report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other
information and, accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion or, except as explicitly
stated below, any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether,
based on our financial statements audit work, the information therein is materially
misstated or inconsistent with the financial statements or our audit knowledge. Based
solely on that work:

40

. we have not identified material misstatements in the other information;

. in our opinion the information given in the Strategic Report and the Statement of
Corporate Governance and Internal Controls, which together constitute the
Strategic Report and the Directors’ Report for the financial year, is consistent with
the financial statements; and

° in our opinion those reports have been prepared in accordance with the
Companies Act 2006.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
Under the Companies Act 2006, we are required to report to you if, in our opinion:

« adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent University, or returns
adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or

e the parent University’s financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting
records and returns; or :

e certain disclosures of Directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

e¢ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
We have nothing to report in these respects.

Court of Governor’s responsibilities

As explained more fully in its statement set out on page 2, the Court of Governors (the
members of which are the Directors of the University for the purposes of company law) is
responsible for: the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they
give a true and fair view; such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due
to fraud or error; assessing the Group and parent University's ability to continue as a going
concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern; and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless it either intends to liquidate the Group or the parent
University or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue
our opinion in an auditor's report. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but
does not guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect
a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to
influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.

A fuller description of our responsibilities is provided on the FRC’s website at
www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities.

REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS

We are required to report on the following matters by the Accounts Direction dated 25
October 2019 issued by the Office for Students (“the Accounts Direction”).

In our opinion, in all material respects:

. funds from whatever source administered by the Group or the University for specific
purposes have been properly applied to those purposes and managed in accordance
with relevant legislation;

. income has been applied in accordance with the University's Statutes;

. funds provided by the Office for Students, UK Research and Innovation (including
Research England), the Education and Skills Funding Agency and the Department

41

for Education have been applied in accordance with the relevant terms and
conditions; and

. the financial statements meet the requirements of the Accounts Direction.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception

We are required by the Accounts Direction to report to you where the University has an
access and participation plan that has been approved by the Office for Students’ director
of fair access and participation and the results of our audit work indicate that the Group's
and the University’s expenditure on access and participation activities for the financial year
disclosed in note 12 has been materially misstated. ,

We are also required by the Accounts Direction to report to you where the results of our
audit work indicate that the Group's and the University’s grant and fee income, as disclosed
in note 5 to the financial statements, has been materially misstated.

We have nothing to report in these respects.

THE PURPOSE OF OUR AUDIT WORK AND TO WHOM WE OWE OUR
RESPONSIBILITIES

This report is made solely to the Court of Governors, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part
16 of the Companies Act 2006 and paragraph 13(2) of the University's Articles of
Government and section 124B of the Education Reform Act 1988. Our audit work has been
undertaken so that we might state to the Court of Governors those matters we are required
to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent
permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the
University and the Court of Governors for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions
we have formed.

Dean Gibbs (Senior Statutory Auditor)

for and on behalf of KPMG LLP, Statutory Auditor
Chartered Accountants

15 Canada Square

London

E14 5GL

6 December 2024

42

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Consolidated and University Statement of Comprehensive

income and Expenditure
Year Ended 31 July 2024

Notes
Income
Tuition fees and education contracts 2
Funding body grants 3
Research grants and contracts 4
Other income 6
Investment income 7
Total income before endowments and donations
Donations and endowments 8
Total income
Expenditure
Staff costs 9
Other operating expenses 1
Depreciation 14
Interest and other finance costs 10
Total expenditure
Surplus before other gains and losses
Loss on disposal of fixed assets
Gain on financial investments 15
Unrealised toss on revaluation of investment property 15
Surplus before tax
Taxation 13
Surplus for the year
Actuarial (loss)/ gain in respect of pension schemes. 27

Total comprehensive income for the year

Represented by: . :
Endowment comprehensive income/(loss) for the year
Revaluation reserve comprehensive loss for the year
Unrestricted comprehensive income for the year
Restricted comprehensive loss for the year

All items of income and expenditure relate to continuing activities.
The accompanying notes form part of these financial statements.

43

Year Ended 31 July 2024

Consolidated
£'000

211,956
15,919
5,621
22,792
8,176

264,464

5,997,

270,461

130,704
87,674
21,182

232

239,789

30,672

(308)
91

2,325

28,130

28,130
(1,668)

26,462

4111
(510)
27,010
(149)
26,462

University
£'000

211,956
15,919
4,397
20,982
8,122

261,376
6,500

267,876

129,569
86,837
20,908

232

237,546
30,330

(306)
44
2,325

27,743

27,743
(1,668)

26,075

20
(510)
26,714
(149)
26,075

Year Ended 31 July 2023

Consolidated
£000

207,690
16,186
6,150
20,746
4,797

255,569

4,851

260,420

139,495
76,693
18,561

3,456

238,205

22,215

(26)
16
(2,582)
19,623

19,623
89,141

108,764

15
(510)
109,758
(499)
108,764

University
£000

207,690
16,186
5,080
19,464
4,781

253,201
4,846

258,047

138,440
76,048
18,287

3,456

236,231
21,816

(26)
28
2,582)
19,236

19,236
89,141

108,377

18
(510)
109,368
(499)
108,377

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Reserves
Year Ended 31 July 2024

Revaluation
Consolidated Income and expenditure account reserve Total

Endowment Unrestricted Restricted

£000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Balance at 01 August 2022 1,328 287,837 993 115,344 405,499
Surplus/(deficit) from the statement of comprehensive
income and expenditure 15 20,107 (499) - 19,623
Other comprehensive gain (note 27) - 89,141 - - 89,141
Transfers between revaluation and income and expenditure
reserve - 510 - (510) -
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 15 109,758 (499) (510) 108,764
Balance at 31 July 2023 1,343 397,595 494 114,831 514,263
Surplus/(deficit) from the statement of comprehensive
income and expenditure 111 28,168 (149) - 28,130
Other comprehensive loss (note 27) - (1,668) - - (1,668)
Transfers between revaluation and income and expenditure
reserves - 510 - (510) -
Total comprehensive income! (loss) for the year 411 27,010 (149) (510) 26,462
Balance at 31 July 2024 1,454 424,605 345 114,321 540,725
Revaluation
University Income and expenditure account reserve Total
Endowment Unrestricted Restricted
£'000 £'000 £000 £'000 £'000
Balance at 01 August 2022 354 283,872 993 115,344 400,560
Surplus/(deficit) from the statement of comprehensive
income and expenditure 18 19,717 (499) -. 19,236
Other comprehensive gain (note 27) - 89,141 - - 89,141
Transfers between revaluation and income and expenditure
reserve : 510 - (510) -
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 18 109,368 (499) (510) 108,377
Balance at 31 July 2023 372 393,240 494 114,831 508,937
Surplus/(deficit) from the statement of comprehensive
income and expenditure 20 27,872 (149) - 27,743
Other comprehensive loss (note 27) - (1,668) - - (1,668)
Transfers between revaluation and income and expenditure
reserves - 510 - (510) -
Total comprehensive income/(loss) for the year 20 26,714 (149) (510) 26,075
Balance at 31 July 2024 392 345 114,321 535,012

The accompanying notes form part of these financial statements.

44

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Consolidated and University Statement of Financial Position

. Year Ended 31 July 2024

As at 31 July 2024 As at 31 July 2023
Notes Consolidated University | Consolidated University
£000 £'000 £000 £'000
Non-current assets
Fixed assets 14 419,442 416,493 386,095 382,884
Investments 15 35,942 35,274 38,176 37,555
Trade and other receivables due after one year 16 - 2,669 - 2,900
Pension asset 20.1 18,393 18,393 17,082 17,082
473,777 472,829 441,353 440,421
Current assets
Trade and other receivables due within one year 16 20,823 20,658 19,612 419,871
Investments 17 118,558 118,558 151,423 151,423
Cash and cash equivalents 22 31,576 28,711 11,160 9,148
170,957 167,927 182,195 180,442
Creditors: amounts falling
due within one year 18 (58,322) (60,057) (59,873) (62,514)
Net current assets 112,635 ; 107,870 122,322 117,928
Total assets less current liabilities 586,412 580,699 563,675 558,349
Creditors: amounts falling due after
more than one year 19 (42,126) (42,126) (43,201) (43,201)
Other pension provisions 20.2 (2,798) (2,798) (5,212) (5,212)
General provisions 20.3 (763) (763) (999) (999)
Total net assets 540,725 535,012 514,263 508,937
Restricted reserves
Endowment reserve 21 1,454 392 1,343 372
Unrestricted reserves
Income, expenditure and pension reserve 424,950 420,299 398,089 393,734
Revaluation reserve 114,321 114,321 114,831 114,831
Total reserves 540,725 535,012 514,263 508,937

The financial statements were approved by the Governing Body on 27 November 2024 and were signed on its behalf on that date

by: .

Prof. Peter Bonfield
Vice Chancellor and President

iS J C Prof. Lynne Berry

Chair and Pro Chancellor

The accompanying notes form part of these financial statements.

45

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
For period ended 31 July 2024

Year ended Year ended
Notes 34 July 2024 31 July 2023
£000 £000
Cash flow from operating activities after tax 28,130 19,623
Adjustment for non-cash items
Depreciation 14 21,182 18,561
Profit on fixed asset disposal 14 308 -
Loss on investments 15 2,234 2,566
(Increase)/decrease in debtors 16 (1,212) 41,477
(Decrease)increase in creditors 18&19 (1,737) 3,897
Difference between Pension costs and contributions yee (5,394) 7,093
Decrease in general provisions 20.3 (236) (290)
Adjustment for investing or financing activities
Investment income 7 (8,176) (4,797)
Interest payable - . 10 1,126 1,211
Deferred capital grant released to income (1,352) (1,350)
Net cash inflow from operating activities 34,873 47,991
Cash flows from investing activities
Capital grants receipts 1,995 769
Investment income 7 8,176 4,797
Payments made to acquire fixed assets 14 (54,649) (29,591)
New non-current asset investments 15 : (82)
Cash added to Fixed term deposits 17 (122,135) (260,313)
Cash removed from Fixed term deposits 17 155,000 244,000
(11,613) (40,420)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid 10 (1,126) (1,211)
Repayments of amounts borrowed 19 (1,718) (1,581)
(2,844) (2,792)
Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents in the year 20,416 ‘9
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 22 11,160 6,381
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 22 31,576 11,160

The accompanying notes form part of these financial statements.

46

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

1 Accounting Policies

a) Company information

The University of Westminster is incorporated under the Companies Act as a company limited by guarantee and not having share
capital. The University is also an exempt charity.

b) Basis of preparation

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice (SORP):
Accounting for Further and Higher Education 2019 and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102 - ‘The Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland’ (‘FRS 102’), and with the Companies Act 2006. The
financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis, modified by revaluation as disclosed in the relevant notes,
and are presented in sterling.

c) Going concern

The University Group activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are set
out in the Strategic Report which forms part of the Court of Governors Report. The Court of Governors Report also describes the
financial position of the University, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities.

The Court of Governors believe that the University is well placed to effectively manage its business risks, despite the uncertain
economic situation. The University Group financial forecasts demonstrate that the University Group has sufficient financial
resources to meet its obligations as they fall due over the period of 12 months from the date of approval of the financial
statements (the going concern assessment period). Thus, the Court of Governors consider it appropriate that the University Group
financial statements continue to be prepared on a going concem basis.

d) Basis of consolidation

The consolidated financial statements consolidate the financial statements of the University and its subsidiary undertakings for the
financial year ended 31 July 2024. Intra-group transactions are eliminated on consolidation. The consolidated financial statements
do not include the University of Westminster Students’ Union because the University does not have control over its activities.

e) Statement of principal accounting policies

Income recognition

Income from the sale of goods or services’ is credited to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure
when the goods or services are supplied to the external customers or the terms of the contract have been satisfied.

Fee income is stated gross of any expenditure which is not a discount and credited to the Consolidated Statement of
Comprehensive Income and Expenditure over the period in which students are studying. Where the amount of the tuition fee is
reduced, by a discount for prompt payment, income receivable is shown net of the discount. Bursaries and scholarships are
accounted for gross as expenditure and not deducted from income.

Investment income is credited to the statement of comprehensive income and expenditure on a receivable basis.

Funds the University receives and disburses as paying agent on behalf of a funding body are excluded from the statement of
comprehensive income and expenditure of the University where the University is exposed to minimal risk or enjoys minimal
economic benefit related to the transaction.

Grant funding

Government revenue grants and research grants are recognised in income over the periods in which the University recognises the
related costs for which the grant is intended to compensate. Where part of a government grant is deferred it is recognised as
deferred income within creditors and allocated between creditors due within one year and due after more than one year as
appropriate.

Grants (including research grants) from non-government sources are recognised in income when the University is entitled to the

income and performance related conditions have been met. Income received in advance of performance related conditions being
met is recognised as deferred income within creditors on the balance sheet and released to income as the conditions are met.

47

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

1 Accounting Policies (continued)

Donations and endowments

Non exchange transactions without performance related conditions are donations and endowments. Donations and endowments
with donor imposed restrictions are recognised in income when the University is entitled to the funds. Income is retained within
the restricted reserve until such time that it is utilised in line with such restrictions at which point the income is released to general
reserves through a reserve transfer.

Donations with no restrictions are recognised in income when the University is entitled to the funds.

Investment income and appreciation of endowments is recorded in income in the year in which it arises and as either restricted or
unrestricted income according to the terms or other restriction applied to the individual endowment fund.

The main types of endowments identified within reserves are:

4. Expendable endowments - the donor has specified a particular objective other than the purchase or construction of tangible
fixed assets, and the University has the power to use the capital.

2. Restricted permanent endowments - the donor has specified that the fund is to be permanently invested to generate an income
stream to be applied to a particular objective.

Capital grants
Government capital grants are recognised in income over the expected useful life of the asset. Other capital grants are
recognised in income when the University is entitled to the funds subject to any performance related conditions being met.

Leases

Leases in which the University assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased asset are classified as
finance leases. Leased assets acquired by way of finance lease and the corresponding lease liabilities are initially recognised at
an amount equal to the lower of their fair value and the present value of the minimum lease payments at inception of the lease.

Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance
charge is allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining
balance of the liability.

Costs in respect of operating leases are charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income and expenditure on a straight-line
basis over the lease term.

Taxation

The University is an exempt charity within the meaning of schedule 3 of the Charities Act 2011 and is considered to pass the tests
set out in Paragraph 1 Schedule 6 Finance Act 2010 and therefore it meets the definition of a charitable company for UK
corporation tax purposes. Accordingly, the University is potentially exempt from taxation in respect of income or capital gains
received within categories covered by section 287 CTA2009 and sections 471, and 478-488 CTA 2010 (formerly s505 of ICTA
1988) or section 256 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992, to the extent that such income or gains are applied to
exclusively charitable purposes.

The Institution receives no similar exemption in respect of Value Added Tax. Irrecoverable VAT on inputs is included in the costs
of such inputs. Any irrecoverable VAT allocated to tangible fixed assets is included in their cost. The University's subsidiary
companies are subject to corporation tax and VAT on the same basis as any commercial organisation.

Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences which result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, ora
right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current rates and law. Timing -
differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in taxation computations in periods different from those in
which they are included in financial statements. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent they are regarded as more likely
than not that they will be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.

48

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

1 Accounting Policies (continued)

Fixed assets
Fixed assets are stated at cost / deemed cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.

Costs incurred in relation to a tangible fixed asset, after its initial purchase or production, are capitalised to the extent that they
increase the expected future benefits to the University from the existing tangible fixed asset beyond its previously assessed
standard of performance; the cost of any such enhancements are added to the gross carrying amount of the tangible fixed asset
concerned.

On adoption of FRS102, the Group took advantage of FRS102 provision 35.10 (c) to revalue land assets to fair value as deemed
cost, for which a market value report at 31 July 2014 was commissioned from Savills LLP. No subsequent revaluation has been
carried out for any non-current fixed assets. In addition assets previously treated as Investment properties when transferred to
non current fixed assets are transferred at fair value at the date of transfer.

Computer and software costs

Significant investment is being made in introducing management information systems to support the effective management of the
University. The Group capitalises software implementation costs where future benefits will accrue. Management judgement has
been applied in quantifying the benefit expected to accrue to the Group over the useful life of the relevant assets. Where the
software does not produce the expected benefits in terms of the Group achieving its objectives, then the carrying value would
require adjustment.

Repairs and maintenance

Expenditure to ensure that a tangible fixed asset maintains its previously recognised standard of performance is recognised in the
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and expenditure in the period in which it is incurred.

Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are recognised as expenditure in the period in which they are incurred.

Equipment

Individual assets costing over £10,000 are capitalised.

Depreciation
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the date of preparation of each Balance Sheet.

Depreciation has been provided on all fixed assets on cost or revailued amounts in equal instalments over the estimated useful
economic lives of the assets:

Freehold Buildings - Fifty years

Freehold improvements post 2020 -Twenty Five years

Leasehold Buildings and Leasehold Improvements - Amortised over the remaining term of the lease
Motor Vehicles - Four years

Fixtures, Fittings and Equipment - Five years (pre 2021:10 years)

Audio Visual Equipment - Seven years

Plant and Machinery - Five years (pre 2021:10 years)

Computer Equipment - Four years

Computer Software - Three to five years

Non-current investments

Non-current investments include Investment property, investment in subsidiary companies and other unquoted companies..
Investments in subsidiaries are carried at cost less provision for any impairment. Other investments are held on the balance sheet
at fair value.

49

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

1 Accounting Policies (continued)

Investment properties

Investment property is land and buildings, or part of a building, held for rental income or capital appreciation rather than for use in
delivering services, for administrative purposes or for the sale in ordinary course of business. Investment properties are measured
initially at cost and subsequently at fair value at the end of each reporting date with movements recognised in the Statement of
Comprehensive Income and Expenditure. Properties are not depreciated but are revalued or reviewed annually according to
market conditions as at 31 July each year. Property that has mixed use is separated between investment property and tangible
fixed assets, proportionately.

Current investments
Current asset investments are carried on the balance sheet at fair value.

Cash and cash equivalents

Cash flows comprise increases or decreases in cash. Cash includes cash in hand, cash at bank and demand deposits. Cash
equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments and include deposits maturing 3 months or less from date of acquisition. The
accounting policy has been amended for deposits included in cash and cash equivalents from deposits repayable on demand
without penalty. The accounting policy change does not have a material impact on FY2023 amounts for cash and hence not been
restated. The change in accounting policy was made to provide a clearer presentation of the University's liquidity in the financial
statements.

Foreign currencies

Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded at the rates of exchange at the dates of the transactions. Monetary
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at year- end rates. Exchange differences are
recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and expenditure.

Deferred capital grants

Governmental capital grants for the purchase or construction of fixed assets are recognised as deferred capital grants within
creditors. An annual release is made to the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income and expenditure over the useful
economic life of the asset, at the same rate as the depreciation charge on the asset for which the grant was awarded,

Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent assets

Provisions are recognised when the University has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is
probable that a transfer of economic benefit will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the
amount of the obligation.

Contingent liabilities are disclosed by way of a note, when the definition of a provision is not met and includes three scenarios; a
possible rather than a present obligation, a possible rather than a probable outflow of economic benefits, the amount of the
obligation cannot be measured with sufficient reliability.

Contingent assets arise when an event has taken place that gives the University a possible asset whose existence will only be
confirmed by the occurrence or otherwise uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the University. These are
disclosed by way of a note, where there is a probable, rather than a present asset arising from a past event.

Accounting for retirement benefits

The Group operates three pension schemes: the Local Government Pension Scheme ({LGPS), the Teachers’ Pension Scheme
(TPS), and the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS). All schemes are defined benefit schemes.

The assets of TPS and USS are held in separate trustee-administered funds. Because of the mutual nature of the schemes, the
scheme's assets are not attributed to individual institutions and scheme-wide contribution rates are set. The University is therefore
exposed to actuarial risks associated with other institutions’ employees and is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets
and liabilities of these schemes on a consistent and reasonable basis and therefore as required by section 28 of FRS102
“Employee benefits", the institution accounts for these schemes as if they were defined contribution schemes.

As set out in note 27, no deficit recovery plan was required under the 2023 valuation because the scheme was in surplus on a
technical provisions basis. The university was no longer required to make deficit recovery contributions from 1 January 2024 and
accordingly released the outstanding provision to the profit and loss account.

50

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

1 Accounting Policies (continued)

Accounting for retirement benefits (continued)

For LGPS the University obligation is to provide the agreed benefits to current and former employees, and actuarial risk (that
benefits will cost more or jess than expected) and investment risk (that return on assets set aside to fund the benefits will differ
from expectations) are borne, in substance, by the university. The University recognises the liability for its obligations under
defined benefit plans net of plan assets. This net defined benefit liability is measured as the estimated amount of benefit that
employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods, discounted to determine its present value, less
the fair value (at bid price) of plan assets. The calculation is performed by a qualified actuary using the projected unit method.
When the calculation results in an asset, recognition of the asset is limited to the extent to which the university is able to recover
the surplus either through reduced contributions in the future or through refunds from the plan. The university has not committed
to exit the LGPS fund or the intention to seek a reduction in future contributions. At 31 July 2024 the surplus is £18.39 million (
FY 2023: £17.08 million) and is fully recognised in these accounts. The actuary has considered the impact of the asset ceiling on
the balance sheet and as this is calculated to exceed the surplus attributable, the restriction on the surplus is nil. The actuary has
calculated the asset ceiling based on the economic value basis. The economic value available from the surplus has been
calculated in line with the requirement of the relevant accounting standards.

Employment benefits

Short term employment benefits such as salaries and compensated absences are recognised as an expense in the year in which
the employees render service to the University. Any unused benefits are accrued and measured as the additional amount the
University expects to pay as a result of the unused entitlement.

Termination benefits

Costs associated with specific schemes which a) terminate the employment of an employee or group of employees before the
normal retirement date or b) provide termination benefits as a result of an offer made in order to encourage voluntary redundancy
are recognised in the year in which the University is demonstrably committed to a termination scheme without a realistic
possibility to withdraw. The costs recognised are the termination payments paid out during the financial year as well as any
accrued benefits for the termination payments paid post balance sheet date.

Revaluation reserve
On adoption of FRS102, the Group took advantage of FRS102 provision 35.10 (c) to revalue land assets to fair value as deemed
cost. This revaluation was credited to the revaluation reserve opening balance at 1 August 2014.

Where depreciation on the revalued amount exceeds the corresponding depreciation on the historical cost, the excess is
transferred annually from revaluation reserve to the income and expenditure reserve.

Accounting estimates and judgements

Accounting policies are supplemented by estimation techniques where judgement is required to establish the monetary amounts
of assets, liabilities, income and expenditure and the disclosures made in the financial statements and the estimates and
associated assumptions are believed to be reasonable and prudent. These judgements and estimates are continually evaluated
and are based on past experience or are prepared by qualified advisors.

Key judgments and estimates are as follows:

a. Pension provision

The Group operates three pension schemes: the Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS), the Teachers’ Pension Scheme
(TPS), and the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS). All schemes are defined benefit schemes.

TPS- The critical underlying assumptions in relation to the estimate of the pension enhancement obligation such as life
expectancy and the discount rate on corporate bonds. Variations in these assumptions have the ability to significantly influence
the value of the provision for unfunded liabilities recorded and annual expense (note 27).

USS and LGPS- FRS 102 makes the distinction between a group plan and a multi-employer scheme. A group plan consists of a
collection of entities under common control typically with a sponsoring employer. A multi-employer scheme is a scheme for
entities not under common control and represents (typically) an industry-wide scheme such as Universities Superannuation
Scheme. The accounting for a multi-employer scheme where the employer has entered into an agreement with the scheme that
determines how the employer will fund a deficit results in the recognition of a liability for the contributions payable that arise from
the agreement (to the extent that they relate to the deficit) and the resulting expense charged through profit or loss in accordance
with section 28 of FRS 102. The directors are satisfied that the Universities Superannuation Scheme meets the definition of a
multi-employer scheme and has therefore recognised the discounted fair value of the contractual contributions under the funding
plan in existence at the date of approving the financial statements.

51

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

1 Accounting Policies (continued)

Accounting estimates and judgements (continued)

At 31 July 2023, the university balance sheet included a liability of £4.3 million for future contributions payable under the deficit
recovery agreement which was concluded on 30 September 2021, following the 2020 valuation when the scheme was in deficit.
No deficit recovery plan was required from the 2023 valuation, because the scheme was in surplus. Changes to contribution rates
were implemented from 1 January 2024 and from that date the institution was no longer required to make deficit recovery
contributions. The remaining liability of £4.3 million was released to the Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure.
Further disclosures relating to the deficit recovery liability can be found in notes 20.2 and 27.

The present value of the LGPS and defined benefit asset or liability depends on a number of factors that are determined on an
actuarial basis using a variety of assumptions. The assumptions used in determining the net cost for pensions include the
discount rate, salary, pension and price increase and any changes in these assumptions, which are disclosed in note 27, will
impact the carrying amount of the pension asset or liability. The assumptions adopted therefore represent an area of significant
estimation uncertainty within the accounts. The Board of Governors is satisfied that the assumptions adopted by the Scheme
actuary are reasonable.

b) Investment property

The valuation of the University's investment property is inherently subjective due to, among other factors, the individual nature of
the property, its location and the expected future rental revenues from that property. As a result, the valuations the University
places on its investment property are subject to a degree of uncertainty and are made on the basis of assumptions which may not
prove to be accurate, particularly in periods of volatility or low transaction flow in the property market. The investment property
valuation contains a number of assumptions upon which the University's independent professional valuer has based its valuation
of the property. The assumptions on which the property valuation report has been based include, but are not limited to, matters
such as the tenure and tenancy details for the property, ground conditions at the property, the structural condition of the property,
prevailing market yields and comparable market transactions. These assumptions are market standard and accord with the Royal
Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS) Valuation — Professional Standards (‘the Red Book’) issued by RICS in force.

52

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

Year Ended 31 July 2024

Year Ended 31 July 2023

Consolidated University Consolidated University
2 Tuition fees and education contracts £'000 £'000 £000 £000
Full-time home and EU students 108,044 108,044 107,245 107,245
Full-time international students 91,994 91,994 86,828 86,828
Part-time students 10,135 10,135 11,550 11,550
210,173 210,173 205,623 205,623
Research Training Support Grant 78 78 24 24
Non credit-bearing courses 1,705 1,705 2,043 2,043
211,956 211,956 207,690
3 > Funding body grants
Recurrent funding body grants
Office for Students/Research England
Teaching grant 6,628 6,628 6,266 6,266
Research grant 6,785 6,785 7,076 7,076
Other grants 831 831 1,065 1,065
Pension liability grant 323 323 429 429
OfS capital grant 1,352 1,352 1,350 1,350
15,919 15,919 16,186 16,186
4 Research grants and contracts
Research councils 1,310 1,310 2,107 2,107
Charities 403 400 576 574
Government (UK and overseas) 2,089 2,000 1,963 1,878
Industry and commerce 318 132 346 19
Other bodies 1,501 555 1,158 505
5,621 4,397 6,150 5,080

53

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

5 Grant and fee income
The source of grant and fee income, included in notes 2 to 4 is as follows: .
Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023

Consolidated University Consolidated University

£'000 £'000 £000 £000

Grant income from the OfS/Research England 15,919 15,919 16,186 16,186
Grant income from other bodies 5,621 4,397 6,150 5,080
Fee income for research awards 1,799 1,799 1,809 1,809
Fee income from non-qualifying courses 1,783 1,783 2,067 2,067

Fee income for taught awards 208,374 208,374 203,814
Total grant and fee income

6 Other income

Residences, catering and conferences 11,260 10,624 10,594 9,988
Recreation 58 58 319 319
Rents and Lettings 3,271 2,454 3,137 2,346
Photocopier Income 84 84 79 78
Sundry sales 576 576 620 620
Other Income 7,543 7,186 5,997 6,113,

“22,792, ~—~*«“‘«‘BDSC(‘éOW:O!#*#*#*«NOW A

Other income includes income from franchises, short courses, collaborations and partnering, and other grant income.
For FY2024 grant income of £676k (2023: £141k) received under the Turing Scheme is included in other income.

7 Investment income

Note
Other investment income 21 64 20 34 18
Interest on fixed term deposits 8,112 8,102 4,763 4,763
8,176 8,122 - 4,797 4,781
8 Donations and endowments
Donations and endowments 5,997 6,500 4,851 4,846
5,997 6,500 4,854 4,846

54

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

9 Staff costs Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
Consolidated University Consolidated University
£'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Salaries 99,668 98,709 97,652 96,766
Redundancy costs 487 487 5,454 5,454
Social security costs 11,110 11,015 11,205 11,115
Other pension costs 19,436 19,358 25,184 25,105

139,495 138,440
Remuneration of higher paid staff, excluding employer's pension contributions:
2024 2023
£100,000 to £104,999 2 2
£105,000 to £109,999 - 2
£110,000 to £114,999 2 -
£115,000 to £119,999 1 -
£120,000 to £124,999 1 2
£125,000 to £129,999 1 -
£130,000 to £134,999 - 3
£135,000 to £139,999 1 -
£140,000 to £144,999 1 1
£145,000 to £149,999 2 2
£155,000 to £159,999 2 -
£165,000 to £169,999 - 1
£250,000 to £254,999 1 1
4
Average staff numbers by major category, expressed on a full time equivalent basis, during the year :
Number Number
Teaching and research 935
Visiting lecturers 131

Support staff

Key management personnel

Key management personnel are those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the
activities of the University. Staff costs includes compensation paid to key management personnel. Members of the University's
Executive Board are considered to be key personnel of the University and comprise:

Vice- Chancellor

University Secretary and Chief Operating Officer (and Finance Director as Acting University Secretary and Chief Operating Officer)
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Global Engagement and Employability) :

Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Education)

Pro Vice-Chancellors and Heads of Colleges

Key management personnel compensation is made up as follows:

341 July 2024 341 July 2023

£000 £'000
Salary 1,312 1,246
Termination payments 448 -
Employer's pension contributions . 191
Total emoluments 1,437

55

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

9

Staff costs (continued)

The above compensation includes emoluments of the Vice-Chancellor as follows:

Vice Chancellor

Total Total

31 July 2024 31 July 2023

£°000 £000

Basic salary 250 250
250 250

The Vice-Chancellor's basic salary is 5.3 times (2023: 5.5 times) the median pay of staff, where the median pay is
calculated on a full-time equivalent basis for the salaries paid by the Group and the University to its staff.

The Vice-Chancellor's total remuneration including pension is 5.2 times (2023: 4.4 times) the median total remuneration of
staff including pension costs, where the median total remuneration is calculated on a full-time equivalent basis for the total
remuneration paid by the Group and the University to its staff.

The median pay ratios have been prepared on the basis of all staff recorded on the payroll. All staff include academic and
non-academic staff including visiting lecturers that are required to be included in real time reporting to HMRC. Agency staff
are excluded.

The pay multiple has decreased from that of the prior year as staff salaries have increased whereas that of the Vice -
Chancellor's remained unchanged. The multiple for total remuneration increased due to the impact of the median reduced
that year because of the split pay award.

The total remuneration package for the Vice-Chancellor comprises a salary of £250,000. There are no additional pension
payments and no benefits in kind.

In 2023/24, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the salary benchmark group and the salary bands, which remain
competitive; noted the level of remuneration of colleagues on senior management contracts, discussed the student view of
senior pay and agreed salaries for all UEB members from 1 August 2024. The Committee considered a confidential pro
forma report from the Chair to the Court on the performance of the Vice-Chancellor during 2023/24 that assessed
performance against a set of pre-approved objectives and measures and led to a recommendation from the Chair of the
salary zone in which the Vice-Chancellor should be positioned. For the period 1 August 2023 to 31 July 2024, the Vice-
Chancellor again declined any increase to the initial salary.

56

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

9 = Staff costs (continued)

Compensation paid for loss of office

Redundancy and severance costs were incurred during the financial year as follows: x
34 July 2024 31 July 2023

£000 £'000

Compensation paid for loss of office to employees earning in excess of £100k 448 471
Compensation paid for loss of office to all employees 812 5,374
No. No.

Number of employees 20 98

Court of Governors

The University's governors are the trustees for charitable law purposes. Due to the nature of the University's operations and the
composition of the Court, being drawn from public and private sector organisations, it is inevitable that transactions will take place
with organisations in which a member of the Court may have an interest. All transactions involving organisations in which a member
of Court may have an interest, including those identified below, are conducted at arms-length and in accordance with the University's
Financial Regulations and usual procurement procedures.

The members of the Court of Governors have confirmed that they are not aware of any related party transactions between
themselves and the University other than as reported below:

The remuneration of the governors of the University is as follows: 31 July 2024 31 July 2023
£'000 £'000
Total remuneration including employer's pension contributions 555 555

During the year £Nil (2023: £Nil) was paid in respect of trustees' expenses (i.e. expenses that were incurred in respect of their
services as trustees).

During the year, the University received and paid for services to the value of £3,605 from the Human Tissue Authority (HTA) and
£32,250 from London Higher, a membership organisation for Higher Education providers in London. The Chair of the Board of
Governors and Pro Chancellor of the University is a Chair of the Board of HTA. The University Vice-Chancellor and President is a
member of the Board of Trustees of London Higher. All transactions were conducted at arm’s length and in accordance with the
University's Financial Regulations and procurement procedures.

Total governors’ remuneration includes the remuneration of all staff members who are also trustees. The independent members of
the University's Court of Governors are not remunerated for their services as trustees.

10 Interest and other finance costs

Year Ended 31 July 2024 Year Ended 31 July 2023
Notes Consolidated University Consolidated University
£'000 £°000 £000 £'000
Bank loans 1,126 1,126 4,211 4,211
Net charge on pension scheme 27 (894) (894) 2,245 2,245
232 232 3,456 3,456

57

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

11 Analysis of total expenditure by activity

Consolidated

Academic Departments

Academic Support Services
Research

Administration and Central Services
Premises

Residences and Catering

Other expenses

Other operating expenses include:

External auditors' remuneration in respect of audit services
External auditors' remuneration in respect of non-audit services

Operating lease rentals:
Land and buildings

Year ended 31 July 2024

Year ended 31 July 2023

Staff Other Total Staff Other Total
£000 £'000 £000 £000 £000 £000
82,904 15,509 98,413 83,661 15,059 98,720
21,959 15,187 37,146 21,317 12,837 34,154
2,893 3,374 6,267 3,244 3,233 6,477
9,791 24,194 33,985 20,379 16,667 37,046
4,130 28,009 32,139 3,836 27,242 31,078
988 1,401 2,389 943 1,594 2,537
8,036 : 8,036 6,115 61 6,176
130,701 87,674 218,375 139,495 76,693 216,188
Group University Group University

£'000 £'000 £000 £000

14 99 107 93

37 28 35 26

5,779 5,779 6,210 6,210

58

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

Year Ended
31 July 2024 31 July 2023
12. Access and Participation £°000 £'000

Consolidated and University

Access investment 747 801
Financial support provided to students 3,272 2,525
Support for disabled students 1,401 788
Research and evaluation of access and participation activities 592 608
6,012 4,722

The Access and Participation plan aproved by the OfS covers the period 2020-25 and is published on the University website at
https:/Awww.westminster.ac.uk/access-and-participation-plans.

During the year the OfS requested a variation to the original Access and Participation plan. This Variation plan is published on
the University website at https://www.westminster.ac.uk/sites/default/public-files/general-documents/Access-and-Participation-
Plan-Variation-for-2023-24 pdf . The Variation plan asked providers to respond to four priorities, including a refocus on the level
of detail within the plan. The variation submitted and accepted reflected detail on increased scale and shape of interventions
since the original 2020 submission. Target spend figures were not expected to be updated due to the short deadline of the
variation window.

The results above are derived from direct and indirect costs associated with Access and participation activities and differ from
that in the original Access and Participation plan approved by the OfS.

The Access and Participation plan approved by the OfS includes £888k for Access investment. Actual expenditure was £747k.
The amount spent on Financial Support in 2023-24 was £3,272k against a target of £1,309k.

The increased funding in 2023-24 was due to requests by the OfS to increase financial support to students. This was delivered
through the creation of two new bursary schemes that responded to the cost of living crisis. Additionally, to satisfy the OfS
requirements for increased support for mental health of students, counselling provision was increased. The Work Allocation
Model for academic staff was changed to account for improved personal tutoring provision. These hours are assigned to
academics for each portfolio of work and differ based on the number of students at risk of equality of opportunity as per the OfS
definition. As the number of students considered disadvantaged has increased since the original Access and Participation plan
was submitted financial support provided has increased. Financial support provided to students has increased through improved
participation and spend on travel scholarships and bursaries. QHT project funds that supported access and participation pilot
prajects which were not expended in the first two years of the plan due to Covid-19 travel restrictions were carried forward to the
financial year 2023-24. As a result expenditure was more in line with the target amounts.Projects that had a fixed project
timescale of two years were extended to three.

The increased spend reflects the notices published by OfS ahead of the implementation of a new plan covering the period 2025-
29 that was submitted and is pending approval.

The reduction in expenditure in research and evaluation is due to a number of vacant positions within the team that supports
evaluation, consolidation of roles and the end of fixed term roles included in QHT projects initially outlined in the Access and
Participation plan.

£2,552k (2023:£1,807k) of the above costs are already included in the overall staff costs figures included in the financial
statements (see note 9).

59

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

43 Taxation note

Reconciliation of current tax charge: 31 July 2024 31 July 2023
£000 £'000

Recognised in the statement of comprehensive income
Consolidated surplus on ordinary activities 28,130 19,623

Tax on surplus on ordinary activities at standard corporation tax rate in the UK of

25.00% (2023: 21.00%): 7,033 4,121
Effect of:
Non- taxable profit . (7,033) (4,121)

Current tax expense

Factors that may affect the future tax charge

There is a deferred tax asset which has not been recognised as it is not expected to crystallise in the future. The amount of
the asset in terms of the taxation not recognised, calculated at 25% (2023: 21%) of the amount of the timing differences, is
£24k asset (2023: £21k asset), and it is analysed below.

31 July 2024 31 July 2023

£°000 £'000
Capital allowances not utilised - 1
Tax losses not utilised 24 20

24 21

60

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

14 Fixed Assets

Consolidated

Cost or valuation
At 1 August 2023
Additions

Transfers

Disposal
At 31 July 2024

Consisting of:
Land at valuation:
At 31 July 2014
At 31 July 2020
Assets at cost

At 31 July 2024

Depreciation
Att August 2023
Charge for the year
Disposal
At 31 July 2024

Net book value
At 31 July 2024

At 31 July 2023

Freehold Leasehold Assets in the Plant and Fixtures, Computers and AV Total
Land and Land and Course of Machinery _ Fittings and software Equipment
Buildings Buildings Construction Equipment
£°000 £°000 £'000 £'000 £°000 £°000 £'000 £°000
435,679 28,793 16,255 12,861 7,977 28,723 12,106 542,394
5,338 305 35,796 4,514 4,344 5,826 4714 54,834
16,588 4,767 (19,041) 335 289 - -
(66) : (74) (7,208) : (8,163)
457,539 30,865 33,010 14,636 27,632 16,820 589,065
120,570 : - : - - - 120,570
4,500 : - - - - - 4,500
332,469 30,865 33,010 14,636 8,563 27,632 16,820 463,995
457,539 30,865 33,010 14,636 8,563 27,632 16,820 589,065
100,813 14,839 : 5,567 5,588 7,433 156,299
8,613 1,262 - 2,861 1,409 1,767 21,182
@) (805) (7,858)
109,418 16,101 6,192 9,200 169,623
348,121 14,766 33,010 6,282 2,371 7,274 7,620 419,442
334,866 13,954 16,255 7,204 2,389 6,664 4,673 386,095

61

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Acco

unts

for the year ended 31 July 2024

14 Fixed Assets (continued)

University

Cost or valuation
At 31 July 2023
Additions,
Transfers
Disposal
At 31 July 2024

Consisting of:

Land at valuation:
At 31 July 2014
At 31 July 2020
Assets at cost

Depreciation
At 1 August 2023
Charge for the year
Disposal
At 31 July 2024

Net book value
At 31 July 2024

At 31 July 2023

Freehold Leasehold Assets in the Plant and Fixtures, | Computers and AV Total
Land and Land and Course of Machinery —_ Fittings and software Equipment
Buildings Buildings Construction Equipment
£'000 £000 £'000 £000 £'000 £'000 £'000 £'000
435,679 23,508 16,254 12,859 7,947 28,650 12,105 537,002
5,338 301 35,788 1,514 1,341 5,826 47a 54,822
16,588 4,767 (19,041) 335 62 289 - -
(66) - : (74) (817) (7,206) 7 (8,163)
457,539 25,576 33,001 14,634 8,533 27,559 16,819 583,661
120,570 - - - - - - 120,570
4,500 - - - 7. - - 4,500
332,469 25,576 33,001 14,634 8,533 27,559 16,819 458,591
457,539 25,576 33,001 14,634 8,533 27,559 16,819 583,661
100,813, 12,734 - 5,585 5,572 22,000 7,434 184,118
8.613 1,000 it 2,861 1,403 5,264 1,767 20,908
(8) : 7 (74) (805) (6.971) : (7.858)
109,418 13,734 : 8,352 6,170 20,293 9,201 167,168
348,121 11,842
334,866 10,774

62


UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

15 Non-Current investments

Other fixed
Subsidiary Investment assets

Consolidated companies property investments Total

£'000 £'000 £'000 £°000
At 31 July 2023 . 37,000 1,176 38,176
Revaluation - (2,325) 91 (2,234)
At 31 July 2024 : 34,675 1,267 35,942
University : £°000 £000 £'000 £°000
At 1 August 2023 1 37,000 554 37,555
Revaluation - (2,325) 44 (2,281)
At 31 July 2024 1 34,675 598 35,274

Investment property includes one property held at fair value as at 31 July 2024. The valuation was performed by Cluttons at 31 July
2024 in accordance with applicable professional standards.

Other non-current investments consist of: Consolidated University
£000 £'000

Hypha Discovery Ltd 428 428
CVCP Properties pic 170 170
COIF Charity Investment Fund 669 -

~~ 4,267,—~O*”*~*«~“‘«‘“‘«‘*!

The University and Group has a holding in CVCP Properties plc which represents an investment of 37,111 fully paid Ordinary £1
shares. It is an unquoted company. This holding represents 0.8% of the issued share capital and represents a participating interest
with no significant influence exercised over the company.

At 31 July 2024, the University and Group own 2,235,803 Ordinary 0.0001 pence Shares in Hypha Discovery Ltd, an unquoted
company. This halding amounts to 18.7% of the issued share capital (2023:18.7% in the prior year) and represents a participating
interest with no significant influence exercised over the company.

An investment of £669k is held in the COIF Charity Investment Fund, which is managed by CCLA Ltd, a fund manager authorised

and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. The total return for the fund for the 12 months ended 31st July 2024 was positive
8%.

63

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

16 Trade and other receivables

Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
Consolidated University Consolidated University
£000 £'000 £000 £°000
Amounts falling due within one year: ,
Trade and sundry debtors. 4,440 4,314 5,284 5,170.
Finance lease receivable from subsidiary - 337 - 337
Other amounts due from subsidiary companies . - - 266
Other debtors 239 238 1,551 1,257
Prepayments and accrued income 16,144 15,769 12,777 12,841
20,823 20,658 19,612 19,871
Amounts falling due after more than one year:
Finance lease receivable from subsidiary - 2,669 : 2,900
- 2,669 - 2,900
20,823 23,327 19,612 22,771
17 Investments
Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
Consolidated University Consolidated University
£000 £'000 £'000 £'000
Short term deposits 118,558 118,558 151,423 151,423

118,558 118,558 151,423 151,423

Deposits are held with banks and building societies operating in the London market and licensed by the Financial Services
Authority. These short term deposits do not meet the definition of cash equivalent. The interest rate of these deposits are fixed for
the duration of the deposit and placement.

At 31 July 2024 the weighted average interest rate of these fixed rate deposits was 5.2% per annum and the remaining weighted
average period for which the interest rate is fixed on these deposits was 88 days. The fair value of these deposits was not
materially different from the book value.

64

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

18 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023

Consolidated University Consolidated University

£'000 £'000 £000 £000

Unsecured loans 1,717 1,717 1,719 4,719
Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings - 2,012 - 3,174
Trade payables 17,006 16,945 9,350 9,211
Social security and other taxation payable 3,035 3,113 352 342
Accruals and deferred income 32,087 31,805 44,200 43,824
Other creditors 4,477 4,465 4,252 4,244

58,322 60,057 59,873 62,514

Deferred income

Included with accruals and deferred income are the following items of income which have been deferred until specific
performance related conditions have been met.

Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023

Consolidated University Consolidated University

£'000 £000 £'000 £000

Grants - academic, research & other 2,822 ° 2,712 3,749 3,749
Commercial rent 416 413 233 233
Accomodation charges 365 365 1,038 1,038
Academic fees 15,442 15,442 21,064 21,064
Other income : 412 316 368 360
19,457 19,248 26,452 26,444

65

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

18 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year (continued)

Other creditors
Included with other creditors are the following short term components of the Office for Students capital grant which have been
deferred under the accruals method of accounting.

Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
Consolidated University Consolidated University
£'000 £'000 £'000 £000
OfS capital grant 1,352 1,350 1,350
1,352 350

19 Creditors : amounts falling due after more than one year

Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
Consolidated University Consolidated University
£'000 £'000 £000 £'000
Unsecured loans 19,782 19,782 21,498 21,498
Deferred OfS capital grant 22,344 22,344 21,703 21,703
42,126 42,126 01
Analysis of secured and unsecured loans:
Due within one year or on demand (Note 18) 1,717 1,717 1,719
Due between one and two years 1,720 1,720 1,719
Due between two and five years 8,901 8,901 9,347
Due in five years or more 9,161 9,161 10,432
Total due after more than one year 19,782 19,782 21,498
Total secured and unsecured loans 23,217
Analysis of total debt
Unsecured loans, repayable by 2038 21,499 21,499 23,217 23,217
21,499 21,499 23,217 23,217
Inciuded in loans are the following:
Lender Amount Termination Interest rate Borrower
£'000 %
Scottish Widows 10,258 2038 5.28 University
Lloyds Bank 11,244 2034 4.74 University
21,499
Total 21,499

There are two unsecured bank loans. The first bank loan has a term of thirty years that commenced during the year ended 31 July
2008 with a fixed interest rate of 5.28% over the remaining life of the loan. The second is a £20m foan facility carried over a twenty
year term with a fixed interest rate of 4.74%.

66

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

20.1 Pension asset

Defined benefit asseti/liability

Consolidated and University £000
Pension asset as at 1 August 2023 17,082
Adjustment funded/unfunded obligation 2,152
Released to income {841)
Pension asset as at 31 July 2024 18,393

Note 27 includes detailed commentary on the defined benefit obligation.

20.2 Pension provisions
Defined benefit Obligation to fund Pension
unfunded deficiton USS enhancements on
obligation pension termination
£000 £000 £000
Consolidated and University

At 1 August 2023 - 4,325 887
Adjustment funded/unfunded obligatior 2,152 - -
Utiliséd in the year - - (106)
Released Unutilised (213) (4,325) -
Provision in year - - 78
As at 31 July 2024 1,939 - 859

USS deficit

Total
pensions
provision

£000

5,212
2,152
(106)
(4,538)
78

2,798

The obligation to fund the past deficit on the Universities Superannuation Scheme (USS) arises from the contractual

obligation with the pension scheme for total payments relating to benefits arising from past performance.

Management have assessed future employees within the USS scheme and salary payment over the period of the

contracted obligation iri assessing the value of this provision.

A new deficit recovery plan was put in place as part of the 2020 valuation, which required payment of 6.2% of salaries
over the period 1 April 2022 to 31 March 2024 at which point the rate will increase to 6.3%. As set out in note 27, no
deficit recovery plan was required under the 2023 valuation because the scheme was in surplus on a technical
provisions basis. The University was no longer required to make deficit recovery contributions from 1 January 2024

and accordingly released the outstanding provision.

Pension enhancement

The assumptions for calculating the provision for pension enhancements on termination under FRS 102, are as follows

Discount rate 5.3%
Inflation 3.1%

20.3 General Provisions

General provisions include provision for liabilities associated with rates re-evaluations.

Consolidated and University
At 1 August 2023

Utilised in the year

As at 31 July 2024

67

£'000
999
(236)
763

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

21 Endowment Reserves

Consolidated

Balances at 01 August
Capital
Accumulated income

Investment income

Expenditure

increase/(decrease) in market value of investments
Total endowment comprehensive income/
(expenditure) for the year

At 31 July

Represented by:
Capital
Accumulated income

Analysis by asset
Current and non-current asset investments
Cash & cash equivalents

Restricted
permanent Expendable
endowments endowments 31 July 2024 31 July 2023
Total Total
£'000 £'000 £000 £'000
859 283 1,142 4,155
19 182 201 173
878 465 1,343 1,328
49 15 64 34
- : - (6)
: 47 47 (13)
49 62 114 15
927 527 1,454 1,343
859 330 1,189 1,142
68 197 265 201
927 527 1,454 1,343
669 622
785 721
1,454 1,343

68

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

21 Endowment Reserves (continued)

University
Restricted
permanent Expendable
endowments endowments — 34 July 2024 31 July 2023

Total Total
£000 £000 £'000 £'000
Balances at 01 August
Capital 85 150 235 235
Accumulated income 9 128 137 119
94 278 372 354
Investment income 5 15 20 18
At 31 July 99 293 392 372
Represented by:
Capital 85 150 235 235
Accumulated income 14 143 157 137
99 293 392 372
Analysis by asset
Cash & cash equivalents 392 : 372
“~~ (392~C*~“‘«‘*«‘TDS
22 Cash and cash equivalents ‘
Consolidated

At ist August Cash At 31st July

2023 Flows 2024

£'000 £'000 £'000

Cash and cash equivalents 11,160 20,416 31,576

141,160 20,416 31,576

Cash and cash equivalents at 31 July 2024 comprised £000

Endowment cash 785

Unrestricted cash 30,791

31,576

69

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

23 Capital commitments ry

Provision has not been made for the following capital commitments at 31 July 2024

31 July 2024 31 July 2023
Consolidated University Consolidated University
£'000 £'000 £'000 £°000
Commitments contracted for 32,649 32,649 12,304 12,304
32,649 32,649 12,304 12,304
24 Leases
Total rentals payable under operating leases:
Consolidated and University 341 July 2024 =. 34 July 2023
Land and
Buildings Total Total
£°000 £000 £'000
Payable during the year 5,779 5,779 6,210
Future minimum lease payments due:
Not later than 1 year 5,779 5,779 5,779
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 23,117 23,117 23,117
Later than 5 years 74,947 74,947 80,726
Total lease payments due 103,843 103,843 109,622

Total rentals receivable under operating leases:

Consolidated and University
31 July 2024 31 July 2023

Total Total
£'000 £'000
Receivable during the period 1,720 1,832
Future minimum lease receipts due:
Not later than 1 year 1,647 1,640
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 3,341 4,834

4

Total lease receipts due

70

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

24 Leases (continued)

25

Total rentals receivable under finance leases:

The University has a finance lease arranged with UoW Regent Street Cinema Limited for cinema equipment and leasehold
fixtures in which the University is the lessor. As of 31 July 2024, the total cost of cinema equipment and leasehold fixtures

was £5,148k and present value of minimum lease payments receivable was £2,894k.

University
31 July 2024
£'000
Receivable during the period - 337
Future minimum lease receipts due:
Not later than 1 year 337
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 1,347
Later than 5 years 1,619
Total lease receipts due 3,303

Subsidiary undertakings

341 July 2023
£'000

337

337
1,347
1,956
3,640

The subsidiary companies (all of which are registered in England & Wales), wholly-owned or effectively controlled by the

University are as follows:

Company Principal Activity

Uniwest (Finance) Ltd Dormant

Uniwest (Investments) Ltd Dormant

Uniwest (Property) Ltd Dormant

University of Westminster (Trading) Ltd Research & vacation letting of halls of residence
Westminnovation Ltd Dormant

UoW Regent Street Cinema Ltd Cinema

Status

100% owned

100% owned

100% owned

100% owned

100% owned

100% owned

The University has taken advantage of the exemption from disclosing transactions with related parties that are entities

within the group.

71

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

26 Connected charitable institutions

A number of charitable institutions are administered by or on behalf of the University and have been established for its general or
specific purposes. One of the connected institutions is the University of Westminster Prize and Scholarship Fund which is
included as a subsidiary undertaking in these consolidated financial statements. The University of Westminster Prize and
Scholarship Fund is a registered charity number 11010405. The activity of the fund is the advancement of education by the
awarding of prizes and scholarships tenable at the University of Westminster. The other charitable institutions are not included in
the consolidation since the University does not have control over their activities.

The Students’ Union is a separate entity existing for the benefit of the students of the University of Westminster. It is not
controlled by the University and has not been consolidated into the University Group financial statements. The sabbatical
President of the Students' Union was also a governor and trustee of the University during the 2024 financial year. The Students’
Union is treated as a related party of the University.

The Students' Union

2024 2023

£°000 £'000
Subvention payable to Students’ Union (2,906) {1,678)
Salaries reimbursed and invoiced by the University 2,051 1,530
Other income receivable and invoiced by the University 51 -
Other expenditure payable and invoiced by the Students’ Union (55) (66)
Amounts owed to the University, disclosed within debtors 164 129
Amounts payable to Students’ Union, disclosed within creditors (8) (4)

72

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

27 Pension Schemes

Different categories of staff were eligible to join one of three different schemes:
+ Universities’ Superannuation Scheme (USS)
+ Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS)
+ Teachers’ Pension Scheme

Two of the schemes, USS and LGP§, are both defined-benefit schemes, the assets of which are held in separate
trustee administered funds.

Amount charged/credited to Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure.

Year Ended Year Ended

31 July 2024 31 July 2023

£m £m

USS 4.33 0.66

LGPS 5.31 15.08
9.64

(i) The Universities Superannuation Scheme

The University participates in Universities Superannuation Scheme. With effect from 1 October 2016, the scheme
changed from a defined benefit only pension scheme to a hybrid pension scheme, providing defined benefits (for all
members), as well as defined contribution benefits. The assets of the scheme are held in a separate trustee-
administered fund. Because of the mutual nature of the scheme, the assets are not attributed to individual institutions
and a scheme-wide contribution rate is set. The University is therefore exposed to actuarial risks associated with other
institutions’ employees and is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the scheme on a
consistent and reasonable basis. As required by Section 28 of FRS 102 “Employee benefits”, the University therefore
accounts for the scheme as if it were a wholly defined contribution scheme. As a result, the amount charged to the
profit and loss account represents the contributions payable to the scheme. A deficit recovery plan was put in place as
part of the 2020 valuation, which required payment of 6.2% of salaries over the period 1 April 2022 until 31 March 2024,
at which point the rate would increase to 6.3%. No deficit recovery plan was required under the 2023 valuation because
the scheme was in surplus on a technical provisions basis. The University was no longer required to make deficit
recovery contributions from 4 January 2024 and accordingly released the outstanding provision to the profit and loss

account.
The total cost released to the Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure is £4,325k (2023: £661k).

Deficit recovery contributions due within one year for the University are £nil (2023: £4,325k).

Employers contributions paid and charged to the Statement of Comprehensive Income and Expenditure is £1,050k
(2023: £1,278k).

A deficit recovery plan was put in place as part of the 2020 valuation, which required payment of 6.2% of salaries over
the period 1 April 2022 and unti! 31 March 2024, at which point the rate would increase to 6.3%. As set out in note 20.2,
no deficit recovery plan was required under the 2023 valuation because the scheme was in surplus on a technical
provisions basis. The institution was no longer required to make deficit recovery contributions from 1 January 2024 and
accordingly released the outstanding provision to the profit and loss account.

The latest available complete actuarial valuation of the Retirement Income Builder is as at 31 March 2023 (the valuation
date), which was carried out using the projected unit method.

Since the University cannot identify its share of USS Retirement Income Builder (defined benefit) assets and liabilities,
the following disclosures reflect those relevant for those assets and liabilities as a whole.

The 2023 valuation was the seventh valuation for the scheme under the scheme-specific funding regime introduced by
the Pensions Act 2004, which requires schemes to have sufficient and appropriate assets to cover their technical
provisions (the statutory funding objective). At the valuation date, the value of the assets of the scheme was £73.1
billion and the value of the scheme’s technical provisions was £65.7 billion indicating a surplus of £7.4 billion and a
funding ratio of 111%.

73

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

27 Pension Schemes (continued)

The key financial assumptions used in the 2023 valuation are described below. More detailis are set out in the Statement of.
Funding Principles (uss.co.uk/about-us/valuation-and-funding(statement-of-funding-principles).

CPI adjustment Term dependent rates in line with the difference between the
Fixed Interest and Index Linked yield curves, less: 1.0% p.a to
2030, reducing linearly by 0.1% p.a from 2030

Pension increases (subject to a floor of 0%) Benefits with no cap: CPI assumption plus 3 bps.
Benefits subject to a "soft cap" of 5% (providing inflationary
increases up to 5% up to a maximum of 10%): CPI adjustment
minus 3bps

Discount rate (forward rates) Fixed interest gilt yield curve plus:
Pre-retirement: 2.5% p.a
Post-retirement: 0.9% p.a

The main demographic assumption used relates to the mortality assumptions, These assumptions are based on analysis of the
scheme's experience carried out as part of the 2023 actuarial valuation. The mortality assumptions used in these figures are as

follows:
2023 valuation

Mortality base table 101% of S2PMA “light” for males and 95% of S3PFA for
females

Future improvements to mortality CMI 2021 with a smoothing parameter of 7.5, an initial addition

of 0.4% p.a., 10% w2020 and w2021 parameters, and a long
term improvement rate of 1.8% p.a for males and 1.6% p.a for
females

The current life expectancies on retirement at age 65 are:

2024 valuation 2023 valuation
Males currently aged 65 (years) 23.7 24.0
Females currently aged 65 (years) 25.6 25.6.
Males currently aged 45 (years) 25.4 26.0
Females currently aged 45 (years) 27.2 27.4

74

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

27 Pension Schemes (continued)

(ii) Local Government Pension Scheme

The LGPS is a defined benefit statutory scheme administered in accordance with the Local Government Pension
Scheme Regulations 2013 and currently provides benefits based on career average revalued earnings. The
administering authority for the Fund is the London Pensions Fund Authority (LPFA).

LGPS is subject to a trennial valuation by independent actuaries. This scheme is for Professional Support Staff.

The last formal triennial actuarial valuation of the scheme was performed as at 31 March 2022 by a professionally
qualified actuary. The next actuarial valuation of the Fund will be carried out as at 31 March 2025 and will set
contributions for the period from 1 April 2025 to 31 March 2028. There are no minimum funding requirements in the
LGPS but the contributions are generally set to target a funding level of 100% using the actuarial valuation assumptions.

During the accounting period, the University paid contributions to the pension scheme at the rate of 14.8% of

pensionable salaries plus a monetary amount of £nil as per the schedule of contributions. The rate of employee
contributions varies depending on salary bands.

Assumptions

The financial assumptions used to calculate scheme liabilities under FRS102 are:

At 31 July 2024 = At 31 July 2023 At 31 July 2022

%pa %pa Y%pa
Pension increases (CPI) 2.90% 2.85% 2.75%
Rate of increase in salaries 3.90% 3.85% 3.75%
Discount rate 5.05% 5.15% 3.40%
RP| inflation 3.20% 3.85% 3.75%
The key assumptions used are set out below.
Post retirement mortality At 31 July 2024 = At 31 July 2023
Base table Club Vita tables Club Vita tables
Multiplier (M/F) 1 . 1
Future improvements model CMI_2023 CMI_2022
Long-term rate of improvement 1.25% p.a. 1.25% p.a.
Smoothing parameter 7 7
Initial addition 0.0% p.a. 0.0% p.a.
2020 weight parameter 0% 0%
2021 weight parameter 0% 0%
2022 weight parameter 16% 25%
2023 weight parameter 15% nla

The most significant non-financial assumption is the assumed level of longevity. The table below shows the life
expectancy assumptions used in the accounting assessments based on the life expectancy of male and female
members at 31 July 2024.

Male Male Female Female
Non-pensioner Non-pensioner
Pensioner (currently aged 45) Pensioner (currently aged 45)
At 31 July 2023 20.9 22.0 24.2 25.2
At 31 July 2024 20.9 22.0 24.2 25.2

75

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

27 Pension Schemes (continued)

Scheme assets and expected rate of return for LGPS

The expected return on assets has been derived as the weighted average of the expected returns from each

of the main asset classes (i.e. equities and bonds). The expected return for each asset class reflects a combination
of historical performance analysis, the forward looking views of the financial markets (as suggested by the yields
available) and the views of investment organisations.

The assets in the scheme were:
Fair value as at
31 July 2024 34 July 2023 34 July 2022

£m £m
Equities 163.10 147.49 134.24
Target return portfolio 44.25 44.75 51.35
Infrastructure 29.05 31.36 24.89
Property 24.20 23.75 23.23
Cash . 8.72 3.78 2.84
Total 269.32 251.13 236.55

Year Ended Year Ended
31 July 2024 31 July 2023

£m £m
Analysis of the amount shown in the balance sheet for LGPS :
Scheme assets 269.32 251.13
Scheme liabilities (250.93) (231,90)
Present value of unfunded obligation (1.94) (2.15)
Surplus in the scheme — net pension asset (note 20.1) 16.45 17.08

Total service cost 6.23 12.88
Administration expenses 0.07 0.12
Total operating charge: 6.30 13.00

Analysis of the amount charged to interest payable/credited to other finance income for LGPS
Interest cost 11.99
Expected return on assets . (12.98)
Net credit/charge to interest and other finance costs
Total profit and loss charge

Analysis of other comprehensive income for LGPS

Return on Fund assets in excess of interest 3.48 (1.02)
Experience gain/(loss) on defined benefit obligation . 1.15 (17.90)
Other actuarial gains on assets - 5.16
Change in demographic assumptions 0.53 13.11
Change in financial assumptions for defined benefit obligation (6.83) 89.79

Change in effect of asset ceiling - -
Total other comprehensive income

76

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

27 Pension Schemes (continued)

“At At
31 July 2024 31 July 2023
£m £m
Analysis of movement in (surplus)/deficit for LGPS

(Surplus)/deficit at beginning of year . (17.08) 64.01
Contributions paid by the University (6.36) (7.03)
Return on fund assets (16.45) (7.06)
Current service cost 6.17 11.88
Past service costs including curtailments 0.06 1.00
Interest cost 11.99 10.16
Other administration expenses 0.07 0.12
Experience loss / (gain) on defined benefit obligation (1.15) 17.90
Changes in financial assumptions 6.83 (89.79)
Other actuarial gains and losses - (5.16)
Change in demographic assumptions (0.53) (13.41)
Surplus at end of year (16.45) {17.08)
Year to Year to
31 July 2024 31 July 2023
£m £m

Analysis of movement in the present value of LGPS liabilities
Present value of LGPS liabilities at the start of the year 234.05 300.56
Current service cost 6.17 11.88
Past service cost including curtailments 0.06 1.00
Interest cost 11.99 10.16
Change in financial assumptions 6.83 (89.79)
Change in demographic assumptions (0.53) (13.11)
Actual member contributions and other employer contributions 2.89 2.73
Experience loss / (gain) on defined benefit obligation (1.15) 17.90
Estimated benefits paid net of transfer in (7.10) (6.93)
Unfunded pension payments (0.34) (0.35)
Present value of LGPS liabilities at the end of the year 252.87 234.05

77

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

27

Pension Schemes (continued)

Year to Year to
31 July 2024 31 July 2023
£m £m

Analysis of movement in the fair value of scheme assets
Fair value of Scheme assets at the start of the year 251.13 236.55
Interest on assets 12.98 8.08
Return on assets less interest 3.47 (1.02)
Other actuarial gains/(losses) - 5.16
Administration expenses . (0.07) (0.12)
Actual contributions paid by University 6.36 7.03
Actual member contributions 2.89 2.73
Estimated benefits paid plus unfunded net of transfers in (7.44) (7.28)
Fair value of scheme assets at the end of the year 269.32 251.13

LGPS assets do not include any of the University's own financial instruments, or any property occupied by the
University.

Year to Year to
31 July 2024 =. 31 July 2023
£m £m

Actual return on Scheme assets
Interest on assets 12.98 8.08
Return on assets less interest 3.47 (1.02)

Estimated contributions for LGPS in the Financia! Year 2024-2025 is £5.9m.

In June 2023, the High Court handed down a decision in the case of Virgin Media Limited v NTL Pension Trustees Ii
Limited and others relating to the validity of certain historical pension changes due to the lack of actuarial confirmation
required by law. In July 2024, the Court of Appeal dismissed the appeal brought by Virgin Media Ltd against aspects of
the June 2023 decision. The conclusions reached by the court in this case may have implications for other UK defined
benefit plans. The University/LPFA are monitoring developments in terms of whether there is expected to be any
impact on LGPS Funds and will consider if there are any implications for the LGPS. As a result, the University does not
consider it necessary to make any allowance for the potential impact of the Virgin Media case in its financial
statements.

(iii)Teachers' Pension Scheme (England and Wales) (TPS)

The latest actuarial valuation of the TPS was carried out as at 31 March 2020 and in accordance with the Public
Service Pensions (Valuations and Employer Cost Cap) Directions 2014 (as amended) (‘the directions’). The valuation
report was published by the Department for Education in October 2023. The key elements of the valuation and
subsequent consultation are:

* employer contribution rates set at 23.68% of pensionable pay will increase to 28.68% from 1 April 2024. This includes
the 0.08% adminstration levy.
+ due to an increase in the Consumer Price Index , salary bands used for contribution rates for members will also
increase.
* total scheme liabilities for service to the effective date of £262.0 billion, and notional assets of

£222.2 billion, giving a notional past service deficit of £39.8 billion; and
+ in line with a ministerial pronouncement in January 2019, the employer cost cap of 10.9% of pensionable pay applied
to future valuations remains
Work on the next Scheme valuation will be based on data as at 31 March 2024.

It is not possible to identify the University’s share of the underlying assets and liabilities of the TPS. Therefore
contributions are accounted for as if the TPS were a defined contribution scheme and pension costs are based on the
amounts actually paid (i.e. cash amounts). In the year ending 31 July 2024, contributions by the Group to the scheme
were £11.97 million (2023: £10.12 million).

78

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

28

29

Reconciliation of Net debt
Consolidated

Net debt 1 August 2023

Movement in cash and cash equivalents
Other non-cash changes

Net debt 31 July 2024

Change in net debt

Analysis of net debt:

Cash and cash equivalents

Borrowings: amounts falling due within one year
Unsecured loans

Borrowings: amounts falling due after more than one year
Unsecured loans

Net debt

Events after the reporting period

31 July 2024
£'000

12,057

20,416
(42,550)

(10,077)

22,134
31 July 2024

£'000
31,576

(4,717)
(1,717)

(19,782)

(19,762)

10,077

There are no events arising after the year end that require reporting in the financial statements.

79

34 July 2023
£'000
11,160

(1,749)

(1,719)

(21,498)

(21,498)

(12,057)

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

30 US Department of Education Financial Responsibility Supplemental Schedule

In satisfaction of its obligations to facilitate students’ access to US federal financial aid, the university is
required, by the US Department of Education, to present the following Supplemental Schedule in a prescribed
format.

The amounts presented within the schedules have been:

prepared under the historical cost convention, subject to the revaluation of certain fixed assets;

prepared using United Kingdom generally accepted accounting practice, in accordance with Financial
Reporting Standard 102 (FRS 102) and the Statement of Recommended Practice: Accounting for Further
and Higher Education (2019 edition);

presented in pounds sterling.

‘The schedules set out how each amount disclosed has been extracted from the financial statements. As set out
above, the accounting policies used in determining the amounts disclosed are not intended to and do not
comply with the requirements of accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

80

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

30 US Department of Education Financial Responsibility Supplemental Schedule

Supplementary schedule - Sterling £

<

‘ear ended 31 July 2024 [Year ended 31 July 2023 __|
page [tines _| Expendable Net Assets | eaoof e000] "000

Statement of Financial Net assets without 539,271 512,920
Position - Net assets without |donor restrictions
donor restrictions

Statement of Financial Secured and Unsecured

Position - Related party related party receivable

receivable and Related party

receivable and Related party Pf |
note disclosure

Statement of Financial Property, plant and 419,442 386,095
Position - Property, Plant equipment, net (includes
and equipment, net Construction in progress)

note disclosure
Note of the Financial Property, plant and 331,598 340,626

Statement of Financial Unsecured related party
Statements - Statement of [equipment - pre-
29,214

Statement of Financial Net assets with donor 1,454 1,343
Position - Net assets with restrictions

donor restrictions

Position - Related party receivable

Financial Position - Property, implementation

plant and equipment - pre-
implementation

Note of the Financial Property, plant and
Statements - Statement of [equipment - post-
Financial Position - Property, |imptementation with
plant and equipment - post- Joutstanding debt for
implementation with original purchase
outstanding debt for originat
purchase

Property, plant and
equipment - post-
implementation without
outstanding debt for
original purchase

Note of the Financial
Statements - Statement of
Financial Position - Property,
plant and equipment - post-
implementation without
outstanding debt for original
purchase

Note of the Financial Construction in progress: 16,255
Statements - Statement of
Financial Position -

Construction in progress

Statement of Financial Lease right-of-use asset,
Position - Lease right-of-use |net
assets, net

81

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

Lease right-of-use asset
Statements - Statement of |pre-implementation
Financial Position - Lease
right: -of-use asset pre-

Note of the Financial Lease right-of-use asset
Statements - Statement of | post-implementation

30 US Department of Education Financial Responsibility Supplemental Schedule
Financial Position - Lease
right-of-use asset post-

ear ended 31 July 2024 Year [Year ended 31 July 2023 _| 31 July 2023
fi Leases
implementation
Statement of Financial intangible assets
Position - Goodwill

Statement of Financial Intangible assets
Position -Other intangible
assets

note |

20.2)

Statement of Financial Post-employment and
Position - Post-employment |pension liabilities
14,20,22 | Statement of Financial
(note Position - Note Payable and
19) Line of Credit for long-term
purposes (both current and
long term) and Line of Credit
for Construction in process
I M24,20,2 | Statement of Financial Long-term debt - for

(2,798)

21,499

Long-term debt - for
long term purposes
(secured and unsecured
loans)

and pension liabilities (Note
20- Provisions for laibilities)
2, Note | Position - Note Payable and |long term purposes pre-
DebtA Line of Credit for long-term Jimplementation
purposes (both current and
long term) and Line of Credit
for Construction in process

M24,20,2 | Statement of Financial Long-term debt - for
Position - Note Payable and jlong term purposes post-|
Line of Credit for long-term {implementatian
purposes (both current and
long term) and Line of Credit
for Construction in process

M24,20,2 | Statement of Financial Line of Credit for

Position - Note Payable and j Construction in process
Line of Credit for long-term
purposes (both current and
long term) and Line of Credit
for Construction in process

82

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

30 US Department of Education Financial Responsibility Supplemental Schedule

Year ended 31 July 2024 Year ended 31 July 2023
21

Expendable Net Assets

Statement of Financial Lease right-of-use asset
Position - Lease right-of-use |liability

asset liability pre-
implementation

asset liability post-
implementation

Statement of Financial Net assets with donor
Position - Perpetual Funds _ |restrictions: restricted in
perpetuil

Total Expenses and Losses

238,205

Statement of Activites - Total expenses without 239,789
Total Operating Expenses donor restrictions -
(Total from Statement of taken directly from

Activities prior to Statement of Activities
adjustments

83

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2024

ity Supplemental Schedule

[Page [lines |TotalExpensesandLosses | Set e0n0] eon] 000
421(35),45,46 |Statement of Activites - Non-] Non-Operating and Net
,47,48,49 |Operating (Investment Investment (loss)
return appropriated for
spending), Investments, net
lof annual spending gain
(loss), Other components of
net periodic pension costs,
Pension-related changes
other than net periadic
pension, changes other than
net periodic pension,
Change in value of split-
interest agreements and
Other gains (loss) - (Total
from Statement of Activities
prior to adjustments)

30 US Department of Education Financial Responsi

Statement of Activites -
(Investment return
appropriated for spending)
and Investments, net of
annual spending, gain (loss)

Pension-related changes
other than net periodic
costs,

Statement of Activities -
Pension related changes
other than periodic pensi
Modified Net Assets

Statement of Financial Net assets with donor
Position - total Net assets —_|restrictions

with donor restrictions
Position - Goodwill
Statement of Financial Secured and Unsecured

Position - Related party related party receivable
receivable and Related party
note disclosure
Statement of Financial Unsecured related party
Position - Related party receivable

receivable and Related party

84

UNIVERSITY OF WESTMINSTER

Notes to the Accounts
for the year ended 31 July 2023

30 US Department of Education Financial Responsibility Supplemental Schedule

[page [lines _[TotalExpensesandLosses tooo e'ono.—[e'o00~—e'o0o
Excluded | Note of the Financial Lease right-of-use asset
Statements - Statement of | {pre-implementation
Financial Position - Lease

asset liability pre-

Leases implementation
10 Statement of Financial Intangible assets
ee ee
Secured and Unsecured
related party receivable

Unsecured related party
receivable

Statement of Activities - Change in Net Assets
‘Change in Net Assets Without Donor
[Without Donor Restrictions |Restrictions
Statement of Activities -

(Net assets released from

restriction), Total Operating

Revenue and Other

85

