TQ Education and Training Limited
Registered Number : 00604934

Annual Report and Financial Statements
For the Year Ended : 31 December 2023

Registered address :
80 Strand, London WC2R ORL

ET

*ADBBEHKZ*

09/09/2024 #89
COMPANIES HOUSE

MONDAY

Al

TQ Education and Training Limited.

STRATEGIC REPORT
For the year ended 31 December 2023

The directors present their Strategic Report of TQ Education and Training Limited (the 'company’') for the year ended 31
December 2023.

Principal activity and Business model
The company designs and delivers education and training services to public and private sector employers, offering
specialised training solutions tailored to the needs of their employees.

The company generated a profit for the financial year of £1,646,000 (2022: £4,017,000). Revenue generation in 2023
was adversely impacted by lower recruitment to some of our army apprenticeship contracts and a smaller cohort of
learners attending training at the Royal School of Military Engineering than we saw in 2022. However, the full impact of
these shortfalls was partially offset by growth in other apprenticeship contracts with non public sector clients.

The company has continued to expand it’s apprenticeships business through the acquisition of new customers for whom
we are delivering business related apprenticeship programmes at Levels 3 and 5. We have also begun the delivery of
Level 3 and Level 5 leadership management programmes with an embedded CMI accreditation for the NHS Leadership
Academy as part of their internal, employer funded Edward Jenner and Mary Seacole leadership & management
programmes. The Royal Engineers Apprenticeship contract was also rebid this year and the company retained the
contract and hence continue to deliver 5 of the Army’s 13 apprenticeship programmes. The company also successfully
retained the AFC Harrogate contract through to its scheduled termination in 2029 and are currently engaged with the
Army to understand the options they wish to pursue for learning delivery at the college from 2029.

Key performance indicators (KPis)

The Board monitors progress on the overall company strategy and the individual strategic elements by reference to the
following KPls: Revenue decrease 2023: 3.1% (2022: decrease 21 5%); gross profit margin 2023: 25% (2022: 25.2%)
and; cash 2023: £1,395,000 (2022: £539,000).

al

TQ Education and Training Limited

STRATEGIC REPORT continued
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Section 172 (1) Statement

Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 requires a director of a company to act in the way they consider, in good faith,
would most likely promote the success of the company for the benefit of its members as a whole. In doing this, section
172 requires a director to have regard, amongst other matters, to the:

- likely consequences of any decisions in the long-term;

- interests of the company’s employees;

- need to foster the company’s business relationships with suppliers, customers and others;

- impact of the company’s operations on the community and environment;

- desirability of the company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct; and.
- need to act fairly as between members of the company.

In discharging our section 172 duties, we have regard to the factors set out above and other factors which we consider
relevant to the decision making. We also have regard to other factors which we consider relevant to the decision being
made. Those factors, for example, include the interests and views of our stakeholders and the financial markets. We
acknowledge that every decision we make will not necessarily result in a positive outcome for all of our stakeholders. By
considering the company’s purpose together with its strategic priorities and having a process in place for decision-
making, we do, however, aim to make sure that our decisions are consistent and predictable.

While there are cases where the board itself judges that it should engage directly with certain stakeholder groups or on
certain issues, the size and spread of both our stakeholders and the Group means that generally our stakeholder
engagement best takes place at an operational or Group level. We find that as well as being a more efficient and
effective approach, this also helps us achieve a greater positive impact on environmental, social and other issues than
by working alone as an individual company. For details on the some of the engagement that takes place with the group's
stakeholders so as to encourage the directors to understand the issues to which they must have regard please see
pages 16 to 21 of the Pearson pic 2023 Annual Report.

In considering the strategic direction of the company, the Board also considers feedback from engagement with key
stakeholders, including our employees, learners and other customers, suppliers, and regulators. As a result of this
ongoing feedback, changes are introduced as and when appropriate, which we believe will result in improvements for
stakeholders, as well as promotion of the jong-term success of the company and enhancement of its reputation.

We delegate authority for day-to-day management of the company to executives and then engage management in
setting, approving and overseeing execution of the business strategy and related policies. Board meetings are held
periodically where the directors consider the company’s activities and make decisions. As a part of those meetings the
directors receive information in a range of different formats on section 172 matters when making relevant decisions. For
example, each year we make an assessment of the strength of the company’s balance sheet and future prospects
relative to market uncertainties and make decisions about the payment of dividends. There were no dividend payments
in 2023.

On behalf of the board

WL.

Leader
Director

2 September 2024

Company registered number :
00604934

TQ Education and Training Limited

DIRECTORS' REPORT
For the year ended 31 December 2023

The directors present their report and the audited financial statements of TQ Education and Training Limited (the
‘company’) for the year ended 31 December 2023:

Principal activities
The principal activity of the company was the provision of training, educational solutions and products.

Future developments

The focus for the company is to retain the quality of delivery and add further clients to our apprenticeship programmes.
The company's overriding objective remains to improve the quality of its learning delivery and achieve attractive and
sustainable rates of growth and returns through a combination of organic growth with existing clients and winning new
work with new clients. Close co-operation with other Pearson businesses to deliver full span tearning services to large
global employers and enterprises aiso forms a key element of the growth plan through to 2028.

Going concern

The directors believe that preparing the financial statements on a going concern basis is appropriate due to the
continued financial support of the ultimate parent company, Pearson pic. The directors have received confirmation that
Pearson plc intends to support the company for 12 months from the date these financial statements are signed. On the
basis of the company's assessment, including consideration of the position of the overall Group, the company believes
it will be able to continue for the foreseeable future.

The Group has also analysed a variety of downside scenarios including a severe but plausible scenario where the
Group is impacted by a combination of all principal risks in both 2024 and 2025, adjusted for probability weighting as
well as other significant risks, as well as reverse stress testing to identify the reduction in profit required before liquidity
-is exhausted. Based on these procedures and considering the strong balance sheet, the Group believes that it will be
able to continue in operation and to meet its liabilities as they fall due.

Directors

The directors who held office during the year and up to the date of signing the financial statements are given below :
M J A Leader

R MW Kearton

A Malcolm

Qualifying third party indemnity provisions and liability insurance

As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third
party indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006. The indemnity was in force
throughout the last financial year and is currently in force. Pearson Management Services Limited, a related party, also
purchased and maintained throughout the financial year directors’ and officers’ liability insurance in respect of the
company and its directors and officers. .

TQ Education and Training Limited

DIRECTORS' REPORT continued
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Principal risks and uncertainties
The company's strategy is to follow an approved risk policy, which. effectively manages exposure relation to the
achievement of business objections. The key risks which management face are detailed as follows:

Business performance risk .
Business performance risk is the risk that the company may not perform as expected either due to internal factors or
due to competitive pressures in the markets in which it operates. This risk is managed through a number of measures:
authorisation of purchases; pre-approved trading limits; ensuring the appropriate management team is in place; budget
and business planning; monthly reporting and variance analysis; financial controls and key performance indicators.

Financial instrument risks

The company has established a risk and financial management framework whose primary objectives are to protect the
company from events that hinder the achievement of the company’s performance objectives. The objectives aim to
limit undue counterparty exposure, ensure sufficient working capital exists and monitor the management of risk at a
business unit level.

The company's principal financial instruments comprise of cash, trade debtors and creditors and certain other debtors
and creditors. The main risk associated with these financial assets and liabilities are set out below.

Credit risk

Credit risk is the risk that one party to a financial transaction will cause a financial loss for that other party by failing to
discharge an obligation. Company policies are structured to mitigate such losses and require that deferred terms are
only granted to customer who demonstrate an appropriate payment history and satisfy credit worthiness procedures.
Details of the company’s debtors are shown in note 12 to the financial statements.

Liquidity risk

Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter difficulty in meeting obligation associated with financial liabitities.
The company’s liquidity risk is management at a Person Plc group level through regular monitoring and forecasting of
cash generated from operations, required cash levels and the utilisation of available bank facilitates.

Operational risk

Operational risk is the risk of losses due to inadequate or failed internal processes, or due to external events, whether
deliberate, accidental, or natural occurrences. Internal processes include human resource systems, risk management
and internal controls (including fraud prevention). Internal processes are subject to risks associated with human error,
breaches of safety and failure of error prevention and detection systems. Operational risks also include possible
failures of information technology systems. Operational risk is managed through the implementation of systems
controls and policies, in which employees receive regular training, and the establishment of a business continuity plan,
which is reviewed and tested on a regular basis under various scenarios.

Financial risk management

From the perspective of the company, financial risk management is integrated with the financial risk management of
the consolidated financial statements of Pearson plc (the “group") and is not managed separately. Accordingly, the
financial risk management of Pearson pic, which includes that of the company, is discussed in the group's annual
report which does not form part of this report.

Research and development
Significant progress continues to be made in the development of our services products which often involves their
adaptation to the requirements of our new customers and markets.

TQ Education and Training Limited

DIRECTORS' REPORT continued
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Post balance sheet events

The company continued to manage the parent company’s shareholder interest in Minerva Education & Training Limited
following the termination of that business's contract with the MOD for the delivery of education services at Welbeck
Defence Sixth Form College in 2022. Minerva Education & Training Limited's sharehoiders have plans to dissolve the
company in 2024. ,

Employee and other stakeholder engagement

The company’s key stakeholders include its employees, learners and other customers, suppliers, and regulators, as
well as its parent company and fellow subsidiaries within the Pearson Group. The views of, and the impact of the
company’s activities on, those stakeholders are an important consideration for the Board when making relevant
decisions. While there are cases where the Board itself judges that it should engage directly with certain stakeholder
groups or on certain issues, the size and spread of both our stakeholders and the Group means that generally our
stakeholder engagement best takes place at an operational or group level. We find that as well as being a more
efficient and effective approach, this also helps us achieve a greater positive impact on environmental, social and other
issues than by working alone as an individual company. For details on the some of the engagement that takes place
with the company’s employees and other stakeholders so as to encourage the directors to understand the issues to
which they must have regard, please see pages 16 to 21, 39 to 41, and 81 to 82 of the Pearson plc 2023 Annual
Report.

During the year the Board received information to help it understand the interests and views of the company’s key
stakeholders and other relevant factors when making decisions. This information was provided in a range of different
formats including in reports and presentations on non-financial KPls, risk, ESG matters and the outcomes of specific
pieces of engagement. As a result of this, we have an overview of engagement with stakeholders and other relevant
factors which allows us to understand the nature of the stakeholders’ concerns and to comply with our section 172
duties to promote success of the company. For additional information into how engagement has influenced our
decisions, please see our strategic report.

Education is evolving to meet the changing demands of today’s learners. The Group takes into account the emerging
themes that have arisen as a result of research and frequent engagement with a variety of stakeholders. As a result,
the Group strives to create long-term sustainable growth for its investors and all of its stakeholders by being a driving
force in an increasingly digital wortd.

Our employees are also integral to the sustainable success of Pearson and the company is a strong advocate of
driving employee engagement within the Group. Pearson offers a variety of thriving Employee Resource Groups which
have active UK chapters, including, amongst others, Able, Spectrum and Women's initiative Network (WIN), which
serve to cultivate and celebrate diversity and inclusion in the employee population. Our Employee Engagement
Network provided an insiaht into the various emplovee perspectives across the Group in 2023.

Employees

Employee involvement - The company systematically provides employees with information on matters of concern to
them, consulting them or their representatives regularly, so that their views can be taken: into account when making
decisions that are likely to affect their interests. Employee involvement in the company is encouraged, as achieving a
common awareness on the part of all employees of the financial and economic factors affecting the company plays a
major role in achieving the company's business goals.

Disabled empioyees - The company is committed to employment policies, which follow best practice, based on equal
opportunities for all employees, irrespective of sex, race, colour, disability or marital status. The company gives full and
fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and
abilities. Appropriate arrangements are made for the continued employment and training, career development and
promotion of disabled persons employed by the company. {f members of staff become disabled during their service
with the company, the company continues employment, either in the same or an alternative position, with appropriate
retraining being given if necessary.

TQ Education and Training Limited

DIRECTORS REPORT continued
For the year ended 31 December 2023

Overseas branches
The company has a branch in Libya which does not currently trade.

Statement of directors’ responsibilities in respect of the financial statements
The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with
applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the directors
have prepared the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice
(United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicabie law), including Financial Reporting Standard 101 Reduced
Disclosure Framework ('FRS 101’). Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of the
company for that period. .

In preparing these financial statements the directors are required to:

- select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 'Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates
and Errors' and then apply them consistently;

- make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;

- present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and
understandable information;

- provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in FRS 101 is insufficient to enable
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the company financial
position and financial performance;

- state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards, including FRS 101, have been followed, subject to any material
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and

- prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company
will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the
company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and
enable them to ensure that the company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also
responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and
detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a strategic report and a directors’
report that comply with that {aw and those regulations. The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity
of the corporate and financial information included on the company’s website.

Disclosure of information to auditors
In the case of each director in office at the date the Directors' Report is approved:

- So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the company's auditors are unaware;
and

- they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the company's auditors are aware of that information.

On behalf of the board

WY.

M Leader
Director

2 September 2024
Company registered number :
00604934

TQ Education and Training Limited

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TQ EDUCATION AND TRAINING LIMITED

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of TQ Education and Training Limited for the year ended 31 December 2023
which comprise the Profit and Loss Account, the Statement of Comprehensive income, the Balance Sheet, the
Statement of Changes in Equity, and the related notes 1 to 21, including material accounting policy information. The
financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom
Accounting Standards including FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’.

In our opinion, the financial statements:

* give a true and fair view of the company’s affairs as at 31 December 2023 and of its profit for the year then ended;
+ have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice; and
+ have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor's responsibilities for the audit of the
financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the company in accordance with the ethical
requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard,
and we have fuifilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements.

We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions retating to going concern
In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concer basis of accounting
in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or conditions
that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company’s ability to continue as a going concern fora
period 12 months from when the financial statements are authorised for issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the relevant
sections of this report. However, because not all future events or conditions can be predicted, this statement is not a
guarantee as to the company’s ability to continue as a going concem.

Other information
The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and
our auditor's report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained within the annual report.

Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise
explicitly stated in this report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit or otherwise appears to
be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required
to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the
work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we are required to
report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

* the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial
statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and
+ the strategic report and directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements.

TQ Education and Training Limited

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TQ EDUCATION AND TRAINING LIMITED
(continued)

Matters on which we are required to report by exception
In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in.the course 2 of the audit,
we have not identified material misstatements in the strategic report or directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006 requires us to
report to you if, in our opinion:

* adequate accounting records have not been kept or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from
branches not visited by us; or

+ the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

* certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

+ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 6, the directors are responsible for the
preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal
control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company's ability to continue as a
going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of
accounting unless the directors. either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative ‘but to do so.

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are
considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

TQ Education and Training Limited

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TQ EDUCATION AND TRAINING LIMITED
(continued)

Exptanation as to what extent the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud
Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design procedures in line
with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect irregularities, including fraud. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement due to fraud is higher than the risk of not detecting one resulting from error, as fraud may involve
deliberate concealment by, for example, forgery or intentional misrepresentations, or through collusion. The extent to
which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below. However, the primary
responsibility for the prevention and detection of fraud rests with both those charged with govemance of the entity and
management.

+ We obtained an understanding of the tegal and regulatory frameworks that are applicable to the company and
determined that the most significant are those that relate to the reporting framework United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure
Framework’), Companies Act 2006 and the relevant tax compliance regulation in the UK. In addition, the Company has
to comply with laws and regulations relating to its operations, including occupational health and safety, employment,
data protection, anti-bribery and corruption.

+ We understood how TQ Education and Training Limited is complying with those frameworks by making enquiries of
management and those charged with governance to understand how the company maintains and communicates its
policies and procedures in these areas. We corroborated our inquires through reading board minutes and
correspondence with relevant authorities. We have considered the potential for override of controls or other
inappropriate influence over the financial reporting process and whether a strong emphasis is placed on fraud
prevention and deterrence.

+ We assessed the susceptibility of the company’s financial statements to material misstatement, including how fraud
might occur by considering the risk of management override and by assuming revenue recognition to be a fraud risk.
We made enquiries of management to understand the company’s policies and procedures in place to detect fraud and
action any incidents accordingly. Furthermore, using the data analytics approach, we identified any unusual accounting
journal entries posted during the financial year with a focus on manual entries. We tested specific transactions back to
source documentation ensuring appropriate authorisation of transactions. In addition, we used data analytics techniques
to confirm the correlation between revenue and cash. We also evaluated and, where appropriate, challenged
assumptions and judgements made by management in making significant accounting estimates.

+ Based on this understanding we designed our audit procedures to identify noncompliance with such laws and
regulations. Our procedures involved enquiries of management, reviewing minutes of the Board of Directors, and any
relevant correspondence with local tax authorities. We verified that materia! transactions are recorded in compliance
with the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, comprising
FRS 101 ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’) and Companies Act 2006.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financiai Reporting
Council's website at https://www. frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor's report.

Use of our report
This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the
Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members those
matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted
by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a
body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

DocuSigned by:

tus & Young UP
Sara MeGreer ‘Benior statutory auditor)
for and on behalf of Emst & Young LLP, Statutory Auditor

Belfast
03 September 2024

10

TQ Education and Training Limited

PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

2023 2022
Continuing operations Note £000 £000
Turnover 3 15,888 16,400
Cost of sales (11,922) (12,272)
’ “Gross profit 3,966 4,128
Distribution costs “(389) (271)
* Administrative expenses : (1,133) (730)
Operating profit . . 4 2,444 3,127
Income from shares in subsidiaries : 2,024
Profit before interest and taxation 2,444 5,151
Interest receivable and similar income , 7 478 415
Interest payable and similar expenses 7 739) (695
Profit before taxation : . 2,183 4,571
Tax on profit 8 (537) (654)
Profit for the financial year 1,646 4,017

41

TQ Education and Training Limited
STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

For the year ended :
31 December 2023

Profit for the financial year

Total comprehensive income for the year

12

2023
£000

1,646
1,646

2022
£000

4,017
4,017

TQ Education and Training Limited

BALANCE SHEET
As at:
31 December 2023

2023 2022
Note £000 £000
Fixed assets
Intangible assets 9 48 48
Tangible assets 10 119 143
Investments 11 : -
- 167 191
Current assets
Debtors (due within one year) 12 15,834 14,837
Debtors (due after one year) 12 149 166
Cash at bank and in hand 1,395 539
Total current assets 17,378 15,542
Creditors - amounts falling due within one year 13 (4,590) (4,570)
Net current assets 12,788 10,972
Total assets less current liabilities . 12,955 11,163
Creditors - amounts falling due after more than one year 13 (28) (16)
Net assets 12,927 11,147
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 15 594 594
Share premium account 10 10
Profit and loss account 12,183 10,475
Other reserves 140 68

Total shareholders’ funds 12,927 11,147

The financial statements on pages 11 to 39 were approved by the board of directors and authorised for issue on 2
September 2024. They were signed on its behalf by :

Wt. .

M Leader
Director

TQ Education and Training Limited

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the year ended : :
31 December 2023

Called up Share Profit and
share premium Other loss
capital account reserves account Total
£°000 £'000 £000 £'000 £'000

At 1 January 2022 594 10 37 6,331 6,972
Profit for the financial year : - = 4,017 4,017
Total comprehensive income for the year - - - 4,017 4,017
Share-based payment
transactions - - 115 - 115
Current tax on share-based
payment transactions - - - 8 8
Deferred tax on share-based
payment transactions - - - 35 | 35
Shares exercised / lapsed during
year - - : (84) 84 -
At 31 December 2022 594 10 68 10,475 11,147
Profit for the financial year - - - 1,646 1,646
Total comprehensive income for the year : - : 1,646 1,646
Share-based payment
transactions - - 126 . 126
Current tax on share-based
payment transactions - - - 19 19
Deferred tax on share-based
payment transactions - - - (11) (11)
Shares exercised / lapsed during
year - - (54) 54 -
At 31 December 2023 594 10 140 12,183 12,927

Share capital represents nominal value of shares allotted and called up.

Share premium represents the premium paid in excess of nominal value.

Other reserves represents capital contributions from Pearson plc in relation to share based payment charges.
Profit and loss account reserve represents accumulated retained earnings less dividends paid.

14

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

1

Accounting policies

The material accounting policies are set out below. These policies and measurement bases have been consistently applied
to all the years presented.

~ Basis of preparation

TQ Education and Training Limited (the ‘company’) is a private company, limited by shares, incorporated in the United
Kingdom. The address of its registered office is 80 Strand, London WC2R ORL. The nature of the company's principal
activities are the provision of training, educational solutions and products.

The financial statements of the company have been prepared in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 101, ‘Reduced
Disclosure Framework’ (FRS 101). The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention and in
accordance with the Companies Act 2006.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with FRS 101 requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It
also requires management to exercise its judgement in the process of applying the company's accounting policies. For areas
involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are significant to the
financial statements, see note 2.

The following exemptions from the requirements of IFRS have been applied in the preparation of these financial statements,
in accordance with FRS 101. Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the group financial statements of Pearson
ple:
a) the requirements of paragraphs 45(b) and 46 to 52 of IFRS 2 ‘Share-based Payment’;
b) the requirement in paragraph 38 of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’ to present comparative information in
respect of:

(i) paragraph 79(a)(iv) of IAS 1;

(ii) paragraph 73(e) of IAS 16 ‘Property, Piant and Equipment’; and

(iti) paragraph 118(e) of IAS 38 ‘Intangible Assets’;
c) the requirements of paragraphs 10(d), 16, 38(a), and 111 of IAS 1 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’;
d) paragraphs 91-99 of IFRS 13 ‘Fair Value Measurement’;
e) the requirements of IAS 7 'Statement of Cash Flows’;
f} the requirements of paragraphs 30 and 31 of !AS 8 ‘Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors’;
g) the requirements of paragraph 17 of IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’;
h) the requirements of paragraphs 134(d)-134(f) and 135(c)-135(e) of IAS 36 ‘Impairment of Assets’;
i) the requirements in IAS 24 ‘Related Party Disclosures’ to disclose related party transactions entered into between two or
more members of a group, provided that any subsidiary which is a party to the transaction is wholly owned by such a member;
j) IFRS 7 ‘Financial Instruments: Disclosures’;
k) the requirements of the second sentence of paragraph 110 and paragraphs 113(a), 114, 115, 118, 119(a) to (c), 120 to 127
and 129 of IFRS 15 'Revenue from Contracts with Customers’; and
|) the requirements of paragraph 52, the second sentence of paragraph 89, and paragraphs 90, 91 and 93 of IFRS 16
‘Leases’. The requirements of paragraph 58 of IFRS 16.

Interpretations and amendments to published standards effective 2023
The company adopted IFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’ for the first time in 2023, but it has not had a material impact on the
company's financial statements. No other new standards were adopted in 2023.

There are no amendments to accounting standards, or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the year ended 31
December 2023 that have a material impact on the company's financial statements.

15

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

1
Accounting policies (continued)

Going concern

The directors believe that preparing the financial statements on a going concern basis is appropriate due to the continued
financial support of the ultimate parent company, Pearson plc. The directors have received confirmation that Pearson plc
intends to support the company for 12 months from the date these financial statements are signed. On the basis of the
company's assessment, including consideration of the position of the overall Group, the company believes it will be able to
continue for the foreseeable future.

The Group has also analysed a variety of downside scenarios including a severe but plausible scenario where the Group is
impacted by a combination of all principal risks in both 2024 and 2025, adjusted for probability weighting as well as other
significant risks, as well as reverse stress testing to identify the reduction in profit required before liquidity is exhausted. Based
on these procedures and considering the strong balance sheet, the Group believes that it will be able to continue in operation
and to meet its liabilities as they fall due.

Consolidation

The company is a wholly owned subsidiary of TQ Group Limited and is included in the consolidated financial statements of
Pearson plc which are publicly available. Consequently, the company is exempt by virtue of section 400 of the Companies
Act 2006 from the requirement to prepare consolidated financial statements.

These financial statements are separate financial statements.

Foreign currency translation
The financial statements are presented in pounds sterling (£) which is also the company’s functional currency. Amounts have
been presented in round thousands ('£'000’).

Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are recorded using the exchange rates prevailing at the date of
the transaction. Monetary assets and fiabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rate of exchange
tuling at the balance sheet date. All differences are taken to the profit and loss account. Non-monetary items that are
measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are transiated using the exchange rates as at the date of the initial
transaction and are not re-translated. Non-monetary items measured at fair value in a foreign currency are transtated using
the exchange rate at the date when the fair value was determined.

Revenue recognition

Revenue represents charges to external customers, including amounts invoiced in respect of freight and commission, in
respect of services provided. Revenue is recognised on contracts with customers when or as performance obligations are
satisfied which is the period or the point in time where control of goods or services transfers to the customer. The transaction
price determined is net of sales taxes, rebates and discounts. Variable consideration is measured using the expected value
method. Historical experience, current trends, local circumstances and customer-specific funding formulas are considered in
estimating and constraining variable consideration. To the extent that a higher degree of uncertainty exists regarding variable
consideration, these amounts are excluded from the transaction price and recognised when the uncertainty is reasonably
removed.

Customer payments are generally defined in the contract as occurring shortly after invoicing. Where there is a longer payment
term offered to a customer through a payment schedule, payment terms are within 12 months and the company has elected
to use the practical expedient available in IFRS 15 and not identify a significant financing component on these transactions.

Judgement is applied to determine first whether contro! passes over time and if not, then the point in time at which control
passes. Where revenue is recognised over time (i.e. over the period the qualification is delivered) judgement is used to
determine the method which best depicts the transfer of control. Revenue on service contracts is recognised according to the
stage reached in the contract by reference to the contract deliverables. A prudent estimate of the profit attributable to work
completed is recognised once the outcome of the contract can be assessed with reasonable certainty. The costs on service
contracts not yet taken to the profit and loss account less related foreseeable losses and payment on accounts are included in
prepayments.

Interest
Interest income is recognised based on the period in which it is earned.

16

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
34 December 2023

1 :
Accounting policies (continued)

Current and deferred income tax
Current tax is recognised on the amounts expected to be paid or recovered under the tax rates and laws that have been
enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.

Deferred income tax is provided, using the tiability method, on temporary differences arising between the tax bases of tax
assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts. Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates and laws that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the felated deferred tax asset is
teatised or the deferred tax liability is settled. |

Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the
temporary differences can be utilised.

Current and deferred tax are recognised in the income statement, except when the tax relates to items charged or credited
directly to equity or other comprehensive income, in which case the tax is also recognised in equity or other comprehensive
income. The exception under IAS 12 to recognising and disclosing information about deferred tax assets and liabilities related
to Pillar Two income taxes has been applied.

Provisions for uncertain income tax positions/treatments are measured at the most likely amount or the expected value,
whichever method is more appropriate. Generally, uncertain tax treatments are assessed on an individual basis, except where
they are expected to be settled collectively. It is assumed that taxing authorities will examine positions taken if they have the
right to do so and that they have full knowledge of the relevant information.

Intangible assets |

Product development costs are the direct costs incurred in the development of training materials prior to their use. Product
development costs are regarded as an internally generated intangible asset and as such are to be capitalised and recognised
as an asset when it is probable that future economic benefits that are attributable to the asset will flow to the operating
company, the company has demonstrated its intention to complete and use the software, and the cost of the asset can be
measured reliably. Product development costs, once in use, are amortised on a straight line basis over their useful life of 4
years.

Assets under construction are not amortised.

Tangible fixed assets

Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less depreciation. Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and
the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for intended use. Depreciation is calculated using the
straight-line method to allocate their cost less their residual values over their estimated useful lives as follows:

Motor vehicles 33%

Plant and machinery 10%-25%

Fixtures, fittings and equipment 10%-33%

The assets' residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period.

The carrying value of an asset is written down to its recoverable amount if the carrying value of the asset is greater than its
estimated recoverable amount.

Investment in subsidiaries and associated undertakings
Investments in subsidiaries and associated undertakings are held at cost less accumulated impairment losses.

Impairment of non-financial assets

Investments are tested annually for impairment. An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that the carrying value of the
investment exceeds the recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and
value in use. Assets that are subject to amortisation or depreciation are reviewed for impairment whenever events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable.

17

TQ‘Education and Training Limited’

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

1
Accounting policies (continued)

Trade and other receivables
Trade and other receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost, less
provisions for bad and doubtful debts and anticipated future sales returns. -

Trade receivables are subject to impairment using the expected credit loss model. The company applies the IFRS 9 simplified
approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected credit loss allowance for all trade receivables.
To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and
the days past due. The company reviews its bad debt provision following a detailed review of receivable balances and
historical payment profiles, and assessment of forward looking risk factors.

Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held on call with banks and other short-term investments with
maturities of three months or less. Overdrafts are included in borrowings in current liabilities in the balance sheet.

Creditors
Creditors are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost.

Pensions
The company participates in The Pearson Pension Plan. This is a hybrid plan with both defined benefit and defined
contribution sections but, predominantly, consisting of defined benefit liabilities.

The company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of The Pearson Pension Plan owing to
information regarding non-active members and changes to the group structure including acquisitions and disposals. There is
no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost. In accordance with IAS 19 ‘Employee
Benefits’ (2011), the company recognises a cost equal to its contribution payable for the period. The sponsoring entity to this
plan is Pearson Services Limited, consolidated with Pearson plc. Further details are disclosed in the financial statements of
Pearson plc on pages 192 to 197 which are available at httos://pearsonpic.com/en-GB/investors/2023-annual-report-and-
accounts.

The company also operates defined contribution schemes outside of The Pearson Pension Plan. Contributions to these
schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.

Share-based payments

Options and shares are awarded to the company's employees under Pearson share and option plans. The fair value of
options or shares granted is recognised as an employee expense after taking into account the company's best estimate of the
number of awards expected to vest. Fair value is measured at the date of grant and is spread over the vesting period of the
option or share. The fair value of the options granted is measured using an option model that is most appropriate to the
award. The fair value of the shares awarded is measured using the share price at the date of grant unless another method is
more appropriate.

Leases

As a lessee

The company assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease at the inception of the contract. A contract is, or contains a
lease, if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for
consideration. The company recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date with
respect to all lease arrangements except for short-term leases (leases with a lease term of 12 months or tess) and leases of
low value assets. For these leases, the lease payments are recognised as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over
the term of the lease.

The right of-use asset is initially measured at cost, comprising the initial amount of the lease liability plus any initial direct
costs incurred and an estimate of costs to restore the underlying asset, less any lease incentives received. The right-of-use
asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date to the earlier of the end of the
useful life of the asset or the end of the lease term. The company applies IAS 36 to determine whether a right-of-use asset is
impaired. The lease iiability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at the
commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the
incremental borrowing rate. The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is
remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a change in an index or a rate or a change in the
company's assessment of whether it will exercise an extension or termination option. When the lease liability is remeasured, a
corresponding adjustment is made to the right-of-use asset.

Share capital
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.

18

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

2

Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the company's accounting policies, which are described in note 1 above, the directors are required
to make judgements, estimates and assumptions about the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily
apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and other
factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The estimates and underlying
assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in
which the estimate is revised if the revision affects only that period, or in the period of the revision and future periods if
the revision affects both current and future periods.

Key sources of estimation uncertainty

The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date
that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the
next financial year are :

Useful economic life

The annual depreciation charge for tangible assets is sensitive to changes in the estimated useful economic lives based
on the future economic benefit of the asset. The useful economic lives are re-assessed annually. They are amended
when necessary to reflect current estimates, based on technological advancement, future investments, economic
utilisation and other sales factors. See accounting policies and tangible assets note for the carrying amount and for the
useful economic lives for each class of assets.

Expected credit loss

Trade receivables are subject to impairment using the expected credit loss model. The company applies the IFRS 9
simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected credit loss allowance for all
trade receivables. To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit
risk characteristics and the days past due.

19

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

3
Turnover
2023 2022
Continuing operations £°000 £000
Provision of services and products 15,888 16,400
Turnover 16,888 16,400
Turnover by class of business is as follows: 2023 2022
£'000 £'000
Provision of training, educational solutions and products 15,888 16,400
15,888 16,400
Turnover by geographical market is as follows: 2023 2022
£'000. £'000
United Kingdom 15,888 16,400
15,888 46,400
Assets and liabilities relating to contracts with customers: 2023 2022
£000 £'000
Contract assets - Accrued income 840 842
Contract liabilities - Deferred income {42) (39)
Revenue recognised that was included in contract liabilities in the prior year 2023 2022
£000 £'000
Provision of services and products 39 35

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

4
Operating profit

Operating profit is stated after charging/(crediting): 2023 2022

Note £000 £:000
Staff costs 5 11,017 11,365
Depreciation of tangible fixed assets 10 69 77
Net foreign exchange (gain)/loss. (5) 3
Audit fees payable to the company's auditors 25 24

Fees paid to the company’s auditors for the year, Ernst & Young LLP, and their associates for non-audit services are
not disclosed in the company's financial statements since the consolidated financial statements of the company's
ultimate parent company, Pearson plc, are required to disclose non-audit fees on a consolidated basis.

21

¥Q Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

5

Staff costs
2023
Staff costs £000
Wages and salaries 9,785
Social security costs 948
Other pension costs 158
Share-based payment costs 126
11,017
2023
Average number of persons employed by the company during the year Number
Production 249
Selling and distribution 6
Administration 5
: 260

2022

£1000
9,544
986
720
115
11,365

2022

Number
240

4

5

249

22

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

6
Directors’ remuneration :
. 20232-2022

. £'000 £000
Aggregate emoluments 147 148
Aggregate emoluments (excluding shares) receivable under long-term
incentive schemes 6 18

Company contributions to defined benefit pension:schemes : 15
153 181

2023 2022

Number Number

. directors directors

Directors accruing benefits under defined contribution scheme 1 1
Directors entitled to shares under long-term incentive schemes 1 4

One director was paid through the company during the year (2022: one).

The emoluments of the remaining directors are paid through their employing companies which are also fellow group
companies. The directors’ services to this company are chiefly of a non-executive nature and their emoluments are
deemed to be wholly attributable to their services within their employing company. As such, these financial statements
include no emoluments in respect of these directors.

23

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

7
Finance costs
2023 2022
Interest receivable and similar income £000: £'000
Interest receivable from group companies 478 415
Interest receivabte and similar income : 478 115
2023 2022
Interest payable and similar expenses 7 £000: £000
Interest on lease liabilities . (1) (1)
Interest payable to group companies (738) (694)
Interest payable and similar expenses (739) (695)

Net finance costs (261) (580)

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

8
Tax on profit

2023 2022

£000 £'000
Current tax
UK corporation tax on profits for the year 532 490
Adjustments in respect of prior years 1) (260)
Total current tax 531 230
Deferred tax .
Origination and reversal of temporary differences . 9 11.
In respect of share based payments (15) (28)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 12 341
Total deferred tax 6 324
Total tax on profit 537 554
UK standard effective rate of corporation tax (%) 23.5 19
The charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit in the profit and loss account as follows:

2023 2022

£'000 £000
Profit before tax 2,183 4,571
Tax on profit at standard UK corporation tax rate of 23.5% (2022: 19%) 513 868
Effects of: .
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 7 8
income not taxable for tax purposes - (384)
Adjustments in respect of prior years 12 80
Impact of change in UK tax rate - (4)
In respect of share based payments 5 (14)

Total tax charge for the year 537 554

The current rate of corporation tax is 23.5% for the year ended 31 December 2023 reftecting an increase in the corporation tax rate
to 25% from 19% with effect from 1 April 2023.

In addition to the amount charged in the profit and loss account, the following amounts relating to tax have been recognised directly
in equity: —

2023 2022
£'000- £'000
Current tax
Current tax on share based payment transactions 19 8
Deferred tax
Deferred tax on share based payment transactions (11) 35

Total tax recognised directly in equity 8 43

25

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

9
Intangible assets

Cost

At 1 January 2023
Disposals

At 31 December 2023
Accumulated Amortisation
At 1 January 2023 ,
Disposals

At 31 December 2023
Net book value

At 31 December 2022
At 31 December 2023

Product Development

Costs relating to the development of course materiat and content.

Product
development Total
£'000 £'000
152 152
(104) (104)
48 48
104 4104
104) (104
48 48
48 48

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

10
Tangible assets
Right of Use Asset
Fixtures:
and fittings
Motor Plant and and Motor
vehicles machinery equipment Buildings Vehicles Total
£'000 £'000: £'000 £000: £'000 £'000

Cost
At 1 January 2023 186 46 - 29 50 105 416
Additions . - - " - 45 45
Disposals (29) 9) 7 : (34) 76)
At 31 December 2023 157 37 22 50 119 385
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2023 113 28 8 25 99 273
Charge for the year 38 4 1 10 16 69
Disposals + (29) (9) (7) - (31) (76)
At 31 December 2023 122 23 2 35 84 266
Net book value
At 31 December 2022 73 18 21 25 6 143
At 31 December 2023 35 14 20 16 35 119

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

4
Investments

2023 2022

Note “ e'000 £'000

Subsidiary undertakings tla - -

28

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended:
31 December 2023

ta
investments - subsidiary undertakings

2023

£'000
Cost
At. 1 January 2023 1,603
At 31 December 2023 1,603
Provision
At 1 January 2023 1,603
At 31 December 2023 1,603
Net book value at At 31 December 2022 -
Net book value at 31 December 2023 >
Details of subsidiary undertakings:

2023 2022
Registered Class of shares Place of

Direct subsidiary undertakings Address held incorp “%hetd  %held
TQ Catalis Limited* 1 Ordinary £4 UK 100% 100%
TQ Clapham Limited* 1 Ordinary £1 UK 100% 100%
Major123 Limited* 1 Ordinary £1 UK 100% 100%
TQ Education and Training Limited (Saudi) 2 Ordinary SAR 1,000 KSA 90% 90%

No. Registered address

1. Kroll Advisory Ltd., The Shard, 32 London Bridge Street, London, SE1 9SG, England
2 King Fayad Road, Olaya, Riyadh, 58774, 11515, Saudi Arabia

Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less provision for impairment.

* in liquidation

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

12
Debtors
2023 2022
Note £'000 £000
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade debtors 1,411 4,633
Amounts owed by group undertakings 13,583 12,229
Other debtors - 133
Accrued income 840 842
. 15,834 14,837
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Deferred taxation 14 149 166
149 166

Total debtors 15,983 15,003

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended : .
31 December 2023

13
Creditors
2023 2022
£000 £000
Amounts falling due within one year
Trade creditors (281) (398)
Amounts owed to group undertakings (2,888) (2,968)
Corporation tax (512) (480)
Other taxation and social security (14) (30)
Other creditors (239) (10)
Accruals (585) (630)
Deferred income (42) (39)
Lease liability (29) (15)
(4,590) (4,570)
Amounts falling due after more than one year
Lease liabili 28) (16)
(28) (16)

31

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended:
31 December 2023

14
Deferred taxation
Accelerated
capital Share based Pension
allowances payments asset Total
Asset £000 £000 £'000 £'000
At 1 January 2023 91 73 2 166
Credited/(charged) to profit and toss (8) 3 (1) (6)
Charged to equi - 11 : (11)
At 31 December 2023 83 65 14 149
2023 2022
£'000 £'000
Deferred tax assets due after more than 12 months 149 166
Total asset 149 166
2023 2022
£000 £000

Total asset 149 166


TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended:
31 December 2023

15

Cailed up share capital .
2023 2022
£'000 £000

Total share capital 594 594

Allotted, called up and fully paid 2023 2022 2023 2022

Ordinary shares £1 each No ‘000s No ‘000s £'000 £'000

Allotted, called up and fully paid 594 594 594 594

33

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

16
Share-based payments

The company’s employees are entitled to shares and options under the following equity-settled employee option and
share plans:

Save-for-Shares Plans :
The Group has a Worldwide Save for Shares Plan. Under this plan, employees can save a portion of their monthly
salary over periods of three years. At the end of this period, the employee has the option to purchase ordinary shares
with the accumulated funds at a purchase price equivalent to 80% of the market price prevailing at the time of the
commencement of the employee's participation in the plan. Options that are not exercised within six months of the end
of the savings period lapse unconditionally.

Long-Term Incentive Plan

The plan was first introduced in 2001 and from time to time the plan rules are renewed. The plan consists of restricted
shares. The vesting of restricted shares is normally dependent on continuing service over a three to five-year period,
and in the case of executive directors and senior management upon the satisfaction of corporate performance targets
over a three-year period. These targets may be based on market and/or non-market performance criteria. Restricted
shares awarded to executive directors in May 2022 and May 2021 vest dependent on relative total shareholder return,
net return on invested capital and adjusted earnings per share, and the May 2023 awards vest based on relative total
shareholder return, return on capital, adjusted earnings per share and an ESG measure. Other restricted shares
awarded in 2023, 2022 and 2021 generally vest depending on continuing service over periods of up to five years.

TQ Education and Training Limited

-NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended =
31 December 2023

17
Retirement benefit schemes

Pearson Group Pension Plan
The company participates in The Pearson Pension Plan. This is a hybrid plan with both defined benefit and defined
contribution sections but, predominantly, consisting of defined benefit liabilities.

The company is unable to identify its share of the underlying assets and liabilities of The Pearson Pension Plan owing
to information regarding non-active members and changes to the group structure including acquisitions and disposals.
There is no contractual agreement or stated policy for charging the net defined benefit cost. In accordance with IAS 19
(Revised 2011), the company recognises a cost equal to its contribution payable for the year. The sponsoring entity to
this plan is Pearson Services Limited, consolidated with Pearson plc. Further details are disclosed in the financial
statements of Pearson pic on pages 192 to 197 which are available at https://pearsonplc.com/en-GB/investors/2023-
annual-report-and-accounts.

Defined Contribution Pension Schemes

In addition to the contributions to The Pearson Pension Plan, the company also operated two additional defined
contribution schemes during the year (2022: two) and contributed to the Teachers’ Pension Scheme. Contributions to
these schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.

Employers’ contributions to all pension schemes during the year totalled £158,000 (2022: £720,000). As at 31
December 2023, contributions totalling £4,427 (2022: £1,234) representing unpaid contributions that were outstanding.

35

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

18
Contingent liabilities

Bank guarantees

The company participates in an arrangement with HSBC Bank pic whereby the accounts of Pearson plc and 16 of its
subsidiaries, ‘the guarantors', are combined, with cleared debit and credit balances being offset for interest calculation
purposes. In order to comply with banking regulations, each guarantor to this arrangement has provided a multilateral
guarantee in respect of the overdraft obligations (but no other debts due to the bank) of each of the other participants.
Under this arrangement, the net cash position at 31 December 2023 was £18,506,710 (2022: net cash position
£6,049,575). The maximum amount of this guarantee is limited to a net overdraft of £50,000,000 (2022: £50,000,000).

36

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

20

Related party transactions

The company has taken advantage of the exemption under paragraph 8(k) of FRS 101 not to disclose transactions with
fellow wholly owned subsidiaries.

38

TQ Education.and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :
31 December 2023

19
Post balance sheet events

The company continued to manage the parent company's shareholder interest in Minerva Education & Training Limited
foitowing the termination of that business's contract with the MOD for the delivery of education services at Welbeck
Defence Sixth Form College in 2022. Minerva Education & Training Limited’s shareholders have plans to dissolve the
company in 2024. :

37

TQ Education and Training Limited

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued
For the year ended :

31 December 2023

21
Ultimate parent undertaking

The immediate parent undertaking is TQ Group Limited:
The ultimate parent undertaking and controlling party is Pearson plc, which.is the parent undertaking of the smailest

and largest group to consolidate these financial statements. Copies of Pearson plc's consolidated financial statements
can be obtained from the Company Secretary at Pearson plc, 80 Strand, London WC2R ORL.

39

