Company Registration No. 04057456 (England and Wales)

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

*ADUIHSWO*

A14 11/01/2025 #230
COMPANIES HOUSE

SATURDAY

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

COMPANY INFORMATION

Directors

Business Address

Registered Office

Company Number

Independent Auditor

Mrs J Richards OBE
Mr B Kaczmarczyk

15-21 Royal Scot Road
Pride Park

Derby

DE24 8AJ

Infirmary Road
Chesterfield
Derbyshire
S41 7NG

04057456

Forvis Mazars LLP

Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor
Park View House

58 The Ropewalk

Nottingham

NG1 5DW

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

CONTENTS
1-2 Directors’ report
3-6 Independent auditor's report
7 Statement of Income and Retained Earnings
8 Balance Sheet

9-14

Notes to the Financial Statements

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

DIRECTORS REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

The directors present their annual report and financial statements for the year to 31 July 2024.
Principal Activity

The company’s principal activity during the year was the provision of work-based learning programmes and
other educational training programmes.

Directors
The directors who held office during the year were as follows:

Mrs J Richards OBE
Mr B Kaczmarczyk

Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities

The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors’ Report, and the financial statements in accordance
with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law
the directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally
Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 “The Financial
Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland” and applicable law). Under company law
the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit, or loss, of the company for that period. In
preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:

° select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently;
. make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
. prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that

the company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and
explain the company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position
of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act
2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Auditors

Forvis Mazars LLP were appointed as auditor to the company and in accordance with section 485 of the
Companies Act 2006, a resolution proposing that they be re-appointed will be put to a general meeting.

Going Concern

The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis which the directors believe to be
appropriate. The directors have taken into account reports presented to it such as monthly management
accounts, budgets, forecasts, ESFA returns, cash flow forecasts as well as correspondence from its Bankers
as well as reports prepared by its Internal and External auditors.

The directors have prepared cash flow forecast for a 12-month period from the date of approval of these
financial statements and such forecasts have indicated that sufficient funds should be available to enable the
Company to continue in operation existence for a period of no less that 12 months from the date of approval
of these financial statements by meeting its liabilities as they fall due for payment. This is on the basis that
the directors have assumed Chesterfield College will continue to provide financial and operational support for
a period of no less that 12 months from the date of approval of these financial statements. The directors
acknowledge that there can be no certainty that this support with continue although, at the date of approval

1

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

of these financial statements, they have no reason to believe that it will not do so.

The College has prepared these financial statements on the assumption that it is a going concern and will be
able to trade into the foreseeable future. Informing this opinion, the Corporation Board have taken into
account reports presented to it such as monthly management accounts, budgets, forecasts, ESFA returns,
cash flow forecasts, as well as reports prepared by its Internal and External auditors. The going concern
assessment considered the Group financial operating forecasts and cash flow forecasts to July 2026.

The Group has set a reasonable Educational EBITDA target for FY24/25 including a healthy contingency.
The budget planning process is robust and involves key internal and external stakeholders ensuring it
remains achievable, and risk assessed.

Cashflow forecasts up to the end of July 2026 demonstrate the group will had significant cash headroom
which have been bolstered by the proceeds from the Lockoford Lane sale. The Group has sufficient
headroom to withstand financial disruption and would still have sufficient cash reserves in an extreme
scenario (i.e. a material drop income combined with increasing inflation and utility costs). The Group
regularly reviews and updates the risk register assessing the impact and likelihood of risks with mitigations in
place to reduce the impact of these risks and ensuring controls are in place and effective.

Post balance sheet events

None

Statement as to Disclosure of Information to Auditor

So far as each person who was a director at the date of approving this report is aware, there is no relevant
audit information of which the company’s auditor is unaware. Additionally, the directors individually have
taken all the necessary steps that ought to have been taken as directors in order to be aware of any relevant
audit information and to establish that the company’s auditor is aware of that information.

Small Companies Note

This report has been prepared in accordance with the small companies’ regime of the Companies Act 2006.

This report was approved by the board on 18 December 2024 and signed on its behalf by:

J Richards OBE B Kaczmarczyk
Director Director

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Training Services 2000 Limited (the ‘company’) for the year ended
31 July 2024 which comprise the Statement of Income and Retained Earnings, the Balance Sheet and notes
to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies.

The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United
Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK
and Republic of Ireland” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion, the financial statements:

¢ give a true and fair view of the state of the company’s affairs as at 31 July 2024 and of its profit for the
year then ended;

e have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and

« have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and
applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “Auditor's
responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements” section of our report. We are independent of the
company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements
in the UK, including the FRC’s Ethical Standard, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors’ use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate. .

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the company's ability to continue as
a going concern for a period of at least twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for
issue.

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial
statements and our auditor’s report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained
within the annual report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and,

3

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance
conclusion thereon.

Our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is
materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course of the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material
misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material misstatement in the financial
statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material
misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.

Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

e the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

e the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In light of the knowledge and understanding of the company and its environment obtained in the course of the
audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006
requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

e adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or

e the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns; or

e certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration specified by law are not made; or

¢ we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit. '

e the directors were not entitled to prepare the financial statements in accordance with the small companies
regime and take advantage of the small companies’ exemption in preparing the directors’ report and from
the requirement to prepare a strategic report.

Responsibilities of Directors

As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 1, the directors are
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair
view, and for such internal contro! as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the company’s ability to
continue as a gaing concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the company or to cease operations,
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor's report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the financial statements.

The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud is detailed below.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of
irregularities, including fraud.

Based on our understanding of the company and its industry, we considered that non-compliance with the
following laws and regulations might have a material effect on the financial statements: ESFA funding
arrangements, safeguarding, employment regulation, health and safety regulation, anti-money laundering
regulation.

To help us identify instances of non-compliance with these laws and regulations, and in identifying and
assessing the risks of material misstatement in respect to non-compliance, our procedures included, but were
not limited to:

e Inquiring of management and, where appropriate, those charged with governance, as to whether the
company is in compliance with laws and regulations, and discussing their policies and procedures
regarding compliance with laws and regulations;

e Inspecting correspondence, if any, with relevant licensing or regulatory authorities;

e¢ Communicating identified laws and regulations to the engagement team and remaining alert to any
indications of non-compliance throughout our audit; and

e Considering the risk of acts by the company which were contrary to applicable laws and regulations,
including fraud.

We also considered those laws and regulations that have a direct effect on the preparation of the financial
statements, such as tax legislation, pension legislation, the Companies Act 2006.

In addition, we evaluated the directors’ and management's incentives and opportunities for fraudulent
manipulation of the financial statements, including the risk of management override of controls, and determined
that the principal risks related to posting manual journal entries to manipulate financial performance,
management bias through judgements and assumptions in significant accounting estimates, in particular in
relation to revenue recognition (which we pinpointed to the cut off assertion), and significant one-off or unusual
transactions.

Our audit procedures in relation to fraud included but were not limited to:

e Making enquiries of the directors and management on whether they had knowledge of any actual,
suspected or alleged fraud;

e Gaining an understanding of the internal controls established to mitigate risks related to fraud;
e Discussing amongst the engagement team the risks of fraud; and
5

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED
INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

e Addressing the risks of fraud through management override of controls by performing journal entry testing.

There are inherent limitations in the audit procedures described above and the primary responsibility for the
prevention and detection of irregularities including fraud rests with management. As with any audit, there
remained a risk of non-detection of irregularities, as these may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations or the override of internal controls.

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial
Reporting Council's website at www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our
auditor's report.

Use of the audit report

This report is made solely to the company’s members as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of
the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s
members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor's report and for no other purpose. To
the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company
and the company’s members as a body for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

David Hoose (Dec 20, 2024 10:06 GMT}

David Hoose (Senior Statutory Auditor) for and on behalf of Forvis Mazars LLP
Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor

Park View House

58 The Ropewalk

Nottingham

NG1 5DW

Date: Dec 20, 2024

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

STATEMENT OF INCOME AND RETAINED EARNINGS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

Turnover

Cost of sales

Gross profit
Other income

Administrative expenses

Operating profit

Interest receivable

Profit on ordinary activities before taxation

Tax on profit on ordinary activities

Profit on ordinary activities after taxation

Retained profit at 1 August

Gift aid distribution

Retained profit at 31 July

2024
£

2,247,613
(192,820)

2,054,793

(1,497,960)

556,833

556,833

556,833

139,111

(521,601)

174,343

2023
£

2,157,484
(234,508)

1,922,976

(1,409,202)

513,774

513,774

513,774

151,627

(526,290)
139,111

The statement of income and retained earnings has been prepared on the basis that all operations are

continuing operations.

The notes on pages 9 to 14 form part of these financial statements.

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 31 JULY 2024

Fixed Assets
Tangible assets

Current assets
Debtors
Cash at bank and in hand

Creditors

Amounts falling due within one year
Net current assets

Net assets

Reserves
Called-up share capital
Profit and loss account

Shareholders’ equity

Note 2024
£
3 40,370
4 298,396
319,907
618,303
5 (484,326)
133,977
174,347
6 4
174,343
174,347

2023
£

32,732

233,276
538,737

772,013

(665,630)

106,383

439,115

4
139,111

139,115

The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the provisions applicable to companies
subject to the small companies’ regime and in accordance with the provisions of FRS102 Section 1A — small

entities.

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the board and signed on its behalf on 18

December 2024.

J Richards OBE
Director

Company Registration No. 04057456

B Kaczmarezyk
Director

The notes on pages 9 to 14 form part of these financial statements.

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

1

1.

=

1.2

Accounting Policies
Company information

Training Services 2000 Limited (‘the Company’) is a private limited company (limited by shares)
incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales. The address of its registered
office is:

Infirmary Road, Chesterfield, Derbyshire, S41 7NG
Accounting convention

These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 102 “The Financial Reporting
Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland (“FRS 102") and the requirements of the
Companies Act 2006 as applicable to the companies subject to the small companies’ regime. The
disclosure requirements of section 1A of FRS 102 have been applied other than where additional
disclosure is required to show a true and fair view.

The financial statements are prepared in sterling, which is the functional currency of the company.
Monetary accounts in these financial statements are rounded to the nearest £.

These financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention. The principal
accounting policies adopted are set out below.

Going Concern

The financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis which the directors believe to
be appropriate. The directors have taken into account reports presented to it such as monthly
management accounts, budgets, forecasts, ESFA returns, cash flow forecasts as well as
correspondence from its Bankers as well as reports prepared by its Internal and External auditors.

The directors have prepared cash flow forecast for a 12-month period from the date of approval of these
financial statements and such forecasts have indicated that sufficient funds should be available to
enable the Company to continue in operation existence for a period of no less that 12 months from the
date of approval of these financial statements by meeting its liabilities as they fall due for payment. This
is on the basis that the directors have assumed Chesterfield College will continue to provide financial
and operational support for a period of no less that 12 months from the date of approval of these
financial statements. The directors acknowledge that there can be no certainty that this support with
continue although, at the date of approval of these financial statements, they have no reason to believe
that it will not do so.

The College has prepared these financial statements on the assumption that it is a going concern and
will be able to trade into the foreseeable future. Informing this opinion, the Corporation Board have
taken into account reports presented to it such as monthly management accounts, budgets, forecasts,
ESFA returns, cash flow forecasts, as well as reports prepared by its Internal and External auditors. The
going concern assessment considered the Group financial operating forecasts and cash flow forecasts
to July 2026.

The Group has set a reasonable Educational EBITDA target for FY24/25 including a healthy
contingency. The budget planning process is robust and involves key internal and external stakeholders
ensuring it remains achievable and risk assessed.

Cashflow forecasts up to the end of July 2026 demonstrate the group will had significant cash
headroom which have been bolstered by the proceeds from the Lockoford Lane sale itn FY22/23. The
Group has sufficient headroom to withstand financial disruption and would still have sufficient cash
reserves in an extreme scenario (i.e. a material drop income combined with increasing inflation and
utility costs). The Group regularly reviews and updates the risk register assessing the impact and
likelihood of risks with mitigations in place to reduce the impact of these risks and ensuring controls are

9

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

1.3

1.4

1.5

1.6

1.7

in place and effective.

Turnover

Turnover is recognised at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable for goods and
services provided in the normal course of business, and is shown net of VAT. Sales are recognised at
the point at which the company has fulfilled its contractual obligations to the customer.

Tangible Fixed Assets

Tangible fixed assets are initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost or valuation, net
of depreciation and any impairment losses.

Depreciation is recognised so as to write off the cost or valuation of assets less their residual values
over their useful lives on the following bases:

Property improvements — 10% straight line
Plant & machinery etc. — 20% straight line

Assets in the course of construction are stated at cost. These assets are not depreciated until they are
available for use and reviewed for impairment at each reporting date.

impairment of fixed assets

At each reporting period end date, the company reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and
intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those assets have suffered an
impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the net asset is estimated in
order to determine the extent of the impairment loss (if any). Where it is not possible to estimate the
recoverable amount of an individual asset, the company estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-
generating unit to which the asset belongs.

Cash at bank and in hand

Cash at bank and in hand are basic financial assets and include cash in hand, deposits held at call with
banks, other short-term liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank
overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities.

Financial Instruments

The company has elected to apply the provisions of Section 11 ‘Basic Financial Instruments’ and
Section 12 ‘Other Financial Instruments Issues’ of FRS 102 to all of its financial instruments.

Financial instruments are recognised in the company’s balance sheet when the company becomes
party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.

Financial assets and liabilities are offset, with the net amounts presented in the financial statements,
when there is a legally enforceable right to set off the recognised amounts and there is an intention to
settle on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.

Basic financial assets

Basic financial assets, which include debtors and cash and bank balances, are initially measured at
transaction price including transaction costs and are subsequently carried at amortised cost using the
effective interest method unless the arrangement constitutes a financing transaction, where the
transaction is measured at the present value of the future receipts discounted at a market rate of

10

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

1.8

interest. Financial assets classified as receivable within one year are not amortised.
Classification of financial liabilities

Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual
arrangements entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the
assets of the company after deducting all of its liabilities.

Basic financial liabilities

Basic financial liabilities, including creditors and loans from fellow group companies that are classified
as debt, are initially recognised at transaction price unless the arrangement constitutes a financing
transaction, where the debt instrument is measured at the present value of the future payments
discounted at a market rate of interest. Financial liabilities are classified as payable within one year and
are not amortised.

Debt instruments are subsequently carried at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate method.

Trade creditors are obligations to pay for goods and services that have been acquired in the ordinary
course of business from suppliers. Amounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due
within one year or less. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. Trade creditors are
recognised initially at transaction price and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest method.

Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified according to the substance of the contractual
arrangements entered into. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the
assets of the company after deducting all of its liabilities.

Taxation
The tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable.
Current tax

The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period. Taxable profit differs from net profit
as reported in the profit and loss account because it excludes items of income or expense that are
taxable or deductible in other periods and it further excludes items that are never taxable or deductible.
The company’s liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the reporting end date.

Deferred tax

Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all timing differences and deferred tax assets are
recognised to the extent that it is probable that they will be recovered against the reversal of deferred
tax liabilities or other future taxable profits. Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the timing
differences arise from goodwill or from the initial recognition of other assets and liabilities in a
transaction that affects neither the tax profit nor the accounting profit.

The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each reporting end date and reduced to the
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the
asset to be recovered. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the
period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised. Deferred tax is charged or credited in the
profit and loss account, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to equity, in which
case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when the
company has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets and liabilities and the deferred tax
assets and liabilities relate to taxes levied by the same tax authority.

11

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

1.9 Pension Costs
The company operates a defined contribution pension scheme and the pension charge represents the
amounts payable by the company to the fund in respect of the year. The assets of the scheme are held
separately from those of the company in an independently administered fund.

1.10 Employee benefits

The cost of short-term employee benefits are recognised as a liability and an expense, unless those
costs are required to be recognised as part of the cost of stock or fixed assets.

The amount of any unused holiday entitlement is recognised in the period in which the employee's
services are received.

Termination benefits are recognised immediately as an expense when the company is demonstrably
committed to terminate the employment of an employee or to provide termination benefits.

1.11 Retirement benefits
Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes are charged as an expense as they fall
due.

2 Employees
The average number of persons (including directors) employed by the company during the year was 26
(2023 — 31).

3. Tangible Fixed Assets

Assets in Property Plant & Total

course of improvement machinery
construction

Cost £ £ £ £
At 1 August 2023 - 149,272 499,239 648,511
Additions 20,903 - - 20,903
Cost Transfer (20,645) 13,945 6,700 -
Disposals - - - -
At 31 July 2024 258 163,217 505,939 669,414
Depreciation and ;
impairment
At 1 August 2023 - 129,059 486,720 615,779
Depreciation charged in the - 7,977 5,288 13,265
year
At 31 July 2023 : 137,036 492,008 629,044
Carrying amount

258 26,180 13,932 40,370
At 31 July 2024
At 31 July 2023 - 20,213 12,519 32,732

12

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

4

Debtors
2024
Amounts falling due within one year: £
Trade debtors 37,245
Prepayments and accrued income 261,151
298,396

All amounts shown under debtors fall due for payment within one year.

Creditors: amounts falling due within one year

2024
Amounts falling due within one year: £
Trade creditors 64,101
Amounts owed to group undertakings : 263,542
Other taxation and social security 17,990
Accruals and deferred income 89,074
Other creditors 49,619

484,326

Amounts owed to group undertakings are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.

Called-up share capital

2024
Ordinary share capital
Allotted, called up and fully paid
4 Ordinary shares of £1 each 4
4

13

2023
£

14,774
218,502

233,276

2023
£

61,482
501,629
21,227
50,930
30,362

665,630

2023

TRAINING SERVICES 2000 LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 JULY 2024

10

11

Operating lease commitments

Lessee
At the reporting end date the company had outstanding commitments for future minimum lease
payments under non-cancellable operating leases, as follows:

2024 2023
£ £
Within one year 127,200 286,636
127,200 286,636

Donations

A distribution was announced after the Balance Sheet date and will be included in the 2025 financial
statements. This relates to a gift aid transfer to Chesterfield College of £250,036 (2023: £521,290).

Pension

The company operates a defined contributions pension scheme. The assets of the scheme are held
separately from those of the company in an independently administered fund. The pension cost charge
represents contributions payable by the company to the fund and amounted to £22,926 (2023:
£25,606). Contributions totalling £5,208 (2023: £6,362) were payable to the fund at the balance sheet
date.

Related party transactions

The company has taken advantage of the exemption conferred by FRS102 section 33 “Related Party
Disclosure” not to disclose transactions with members of Chesterfield College Group, on the grounds
that 100% of the voting rights in the company are controlled within the group and the company is
included in the consolidated financial statements of the group.

Ultimate Parent Undertaking

Chesterfield College is considered to be the immediate parent company and ultimate controlling party.

Copies of the College’s group accounts for the year ended 31 July 2024 are available from Chesterfield
College, Infirmary Road, Chesterfield, S41 7NG.

14

