Registered number: 01004502

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

*AD76EQ2X*

A13 12/07/2024 #
COMPANIES HOUSE

FRIDAY

18

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

COMPANY INFORMATION

Directors

Company secretary

Registered number

Reglstered office

independent auditors

Sir M D W Gooley, C.B.E. (Chairman)
lL D Comber

N Davies

Lady F K Gooley
T P Gooley

TM Kelly

JC Latimer
ERLee

R McHardy
DANess

JC O'Dowd

M C Raymond

J Sheffer

R Simpson

M W West

S J Wheeler

S P Woodward

L D Comber

01004502

48 Earls Court Road
London
W8 6FT

Xeinadin Audit Limited

Chartered Accountants & Statutory Auditors
8th Floor

Becket House

36 Old Jewry

London

EC2R 80D

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

CONTENTS

Page
Strategic report 1-4
Directors’ report 5-14
Independent auditors’ report 15-18
Statement of comprehensive income 19
Balance sheet 20
Statement of changes in equity 21-22

Notes to the financial statements

23-44


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

STRATEGIC REPORT
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

Introduction

During the year the company operated 41 travel centres in the United Kingdom, 5 in London, and one each in
the following cities and towns: Aberdeen, Bath, Belfast, Birmingham, Bournemouth, Brighton, Bristol,
Cambridge, Canterbury, Cardiff, Carlisle, Chelmsford, Cheltenham, Chester, Edinburgh, Exeter, Glasgow,
Guildford, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Milton Keynes, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Norwich, Nottingham, Oxford,
Reading, Richmond, Sheffield, Solihull, Southampton, St Albans, Tunbridge Wells, Winchester, Worcester and
York.

Business review

Turnover increased by 13% from £859 million to £968 million, which is a new high. Sales were strong across all
core markets as travel was fully open throughout this year.

Administrative expenses increased by 2.4% from £91.6 million to £93.8 million.
Net assets improved from £302.7 million in 2022/23 to £364.5 million in 2023/24.

Trailfinders posted a record profit before tax of £82 million over the year as a result of high demand, favourable
tail winds and a strong performance by our team.

Thanks to the favourable opinion of our Clients Trailfinders is the No.1 rated Travel company on Trustpilot.
During the year, the company made charitable donations of £7.5 million (2023: £5.7 million).

Trailfinders safeguards all payments from clients in a CAA approved Trust Account until the client has
completed their travels. This rare and voluntary undertaking enables Trailfinders to refund clients well inside the
14 days required by law.

The overall increase in the movement in fair value of listed investments is in line with the requirements of
FRS102.

In line with the company’s policy of acquiring freehold rather than leasehold for its travel centres, 2 freehold
properties were purchased during the year — in Carlisle and Windsor.

Page 1

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

Key Performance Indicators

The key financial and performance indicators are as follows:

Financial indicators:

Turnover

Gross profit margin

Profit/(Loss) before tax and fair value adjustments
Net current assets

Net assets/Shareholders funds

Non-financial indicators:
Average number of employees - 2024: 954 2023: 892

Trustpilot rating - 2024: 5/5 2023: 4.9/5,
Glassdoor rating - 2024: 3.8 2023: 3.3

29 February
2024
£000

967,665

15.5%
82,017
259,944
364,551

28 February

208,007
302,794


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

$172 Statement
It is the Directors belief, that they have acted, at ail times, in the best interests of the company.

The Board considers the impact that their decisions have on the interested stakeholders. These decisions have
specific acknowledgement of:

1) The impact of their decisions in the longer term;

2) The impact on employees;

3) The impact on relationships with the people we do business with;

4) The impact of the business on the local community near an office;

5) The impact of our business conduct on the reputation of Trailfinders as an organisation;
6) The impact of acting equitably between employees within the business

7) The impact of their decisions on the shareholder

The stakeholders we consider in making our decisions are:
Shareholder

The Directors must ensure operational and financial efficiency when implementing strategy. Directors engage in
discussions to enhance our reputation, deliver growth and improve profits. The Directors consider the
shareholder's attitude towards risk in making decisions.

The Customers of Trailfinders

Good customer service is the lifeblood of any business and providing an experience that encourages happy
customers and positive feedback to others ensures both repeat custom and new business.

This statement is not just lip service, it is our ideology. It is borne out by our Trustpilot rating of 4.9 out of 5.0.
Focusing on providing a great experience isn't just the right thing to do, it makes financial sense for our
business.

Trailfinders protects the Interests of clients by safeguarding all customers money in a CAA approved trust
account with independent trustees until their travel is complete. This ensures a Customer's money can only be
spent on their holidays and where a refund is required it can be rendered immediately.

The-Employees of Tralifinders

We value our staff and treat them accordingly. We invite their ideas about the business through a suggestion
box system. Each suggestion is discussed and assimilated into the developed company policies.

Trailfinders provide a budget to hald staff parties wherever the "teams" within the company choose to go, twice
per annum. We also hold regular “team” and “office” meetings. Employees have the opportunity to go on
educational trips to destinations throughout the world. There are regular visits to Travel Centres by Senior
Management and Directors, who engage with all employees on both a formal and an informal basis.

There is a regular flow of information about the company on our internal intranet system. We also produce an
internal company news circular, available to all. These last two mechanisms raise employee awareness of the
financial and economic factors affecting the company’s performance.

Trailfinders offer generous pay, benefits and leave as well as investing in employee development. On average
staff have been with Trailfinders for 8 years (2023: 9 years).

The: People Trailfinders do business with

Trailfinders strives to have strong, ethical partnerships with our suppliers. We have a collaborative approach to
partnerships and encourage fair payment terms.

Page 3


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED ~

STRATEGIC REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

Continuity is key to our business success and we have regular conversations with our suppliers with full and
frank discussions regarding our opinions.

We produce our accounts on time, fully audited so our partners can rely on our financial strength. We have
robust policies on health & safety, bribery, corruption and modern slavery. We hold our partners to the same
high bar. ,

We are focused on minimising the environmental impact of Trailfinders. Our emissions and energy consumption
statement on the previous pages of this report describes the way that the company is trying to achieve this.

We consider employment opportunities for local workers when opening new travel centres and offices.

During the year, the company donated £7.5 million to charity, supporting medical research, community projects
which encourage young people in outdoor activities and Armed Forces veteran organisations.

The Government

Trailfinders consider all the branches of government in making policy. We engage with Government bodies and
regulators on what we believe is for the benefit of the Consumer. Trailfinders is focused on ensuring compliance
with:

i) The Financial Conduct Authority

ii) The Information Commissioner's Office

it) The Advertising Standards Authority

iv) The Civil Aviation Authority

The Competition and Markets Authority

This report was approved by the board on of ont (zu and signed on its behalf.

Te

Sir M D W Gooley, €:B,
Director

(Chairman)

Page 4

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

DIRECTORS' REPORT __
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FESRUARY 2024

The directors present their report and the financial statements for the year ended 29 February 2024.
Directors’ responsibilities statement

The directors are responsible for preparing the Strategic report, the Directors’ report and the financial
statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.

Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that jaw the
directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United
Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice), including Financial
Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and Republic of Ireland’. Under
company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that periad.

In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to:

. select suitable accounting policies for the Company's financial statements and then apply them
consistently;

. make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
° state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any materia!
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements;

. prepare the financial statements on the going concer basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the
Company will continue in business.

The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain
the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the
Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.

Principal activity

The principal activities of the company continue to be those of travel organisers and suppliers of related
services. ’

Results and dividends

The profit for the year, after taxation, amounted to £61.757 million (2023 - £16.128 million.)
During the year a dividend of ENil was paid (2023: £Nil).

Directors

The directors who served during the year were:

Sir MD W Gooley, C.B.€. (Chairman)

tL D Comber

N Davies

Lady F K Gooley

T P Gooley

TM Kelly
JC Latimer

Page 5


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

DIRECTORS' REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

DANess

S J Wheeler
S P Woodward

No directors had any interest in the shares of the company.

Sir Michael Gooley CBE and E R Lee are directors of the parent company, Trailfinders Group Limited. Sir
Michael Gooley CBE owns 100% of the share capital of the parent company.

Charitable donations

During the year the company made charitable donations of £7,500,200 (2023: £5,700,000).

Page 6


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

Principal risks and uncertainties

The company’s operations are subject to numerous risks such as currency movements, terrorism, civil
disruption, industrial action, disease, adverse weather conditions and other natural phenomena.

We hold an Air Travel Organisers License, granted by the Civil Aviation Authority which ensures that in the very
unlikely event of our insolvency our clients would be able to continue with their holiday as planned (if already
abroad) or refunded in full if travel has not already commenced. As a double indemnity all client funds are held
by a separate jegal entity on behalf of our clients, with independent trustees.

The Directors consider cautious management of our cash reserves to be of paramount importance and this
continues to be reflected in the balance sheet. This allows the company to manage all the aforementioned risks
and weather any prolonged downtum in business.

Financial risk

The company is exposed to financial risk including liquidity and cash flow risk.

Cash-flow and liquidity

All client funds are held securely by a separate legal entity on behalf of our clients, with independent trustees,
until they have finished their travel and Trailfinders has fulfilled its contractual obligation to them. Only then are
the funds transferred to Trailfinders working capital. :
All payments to travel suppliers before the clients’ retum date are met from Trailfinders own funds.

The company maintains a cashflow forecast for a rolling 12 months, to ensure that any liquidity issues that may
arise are foreseen in good time.

Funds placed on deposit with financial institutions are laddered so that there is a steady flow of maturing
deposits allowing the company to maximise the interest rate return whilst maintaining liquidity.

Currency risk

Foreign currency risk is not mitigated by financial instruments. The company has sufficient resources to weather
fluctuations in foreign currency rates. .

Credit risk

The company does not extend credit to its clients or to its suppliers for travel related services.

Trust account
Trailfinders safeguard all client money in CAA approved trust account until their travel is complete.

This method of safeguarding clients’ funds is all too rare in the travel industry but, in the opinion of the directors,
is by far the soundest and our action puts down a benchmark for others to follow.

Page 7

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

DIRECTORS' REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

Land and buildings

The 40 freehold properties have been included in the balance sheet at cost without revaluation since purchase
and at the year-end have a net book value of £57,593,0G0 (2023: £54,881,000).

The directors have reviewed the value of the investment properties as at 29 February 2024 and consider there
to be no material difference to the external valuation carried out in the year to 29 February 2016, which were
valued at £9,280,000. Since 2016, a number of investment properties that were classified as investment
property have been transferred to freehold property as they were used for the trade of the Company. No
investment property was acquired In the year. The value of the investment property is now £5,220,000 (2023:
£5,330,000)

Future developments

The future developments for the company have been discussed in the Strategic Report.
Engagement with employees

The company engages with its employees in the following ways:

Communicates information on matters of concern to employees through the company’s private internal intranet,
via regular team meetings and via a regular staff newspaper.

Invites employees to engage with their managers and to raise any issues with them. We have a suggestion box
and reward consultants for any suggestions which are acted upon.

Operates incentive schemes for sales as well as team incentive competitions.

Informs employees of the financial performance and development of the business through a confidential internal
newsletter being published monthly as well as updates to managers.

The directors engage with employees through regular contact including visits to the company’s travel centres,
as well as through articles in the company’s internal newsletter.

The company seeks to work with each individual employee, enabling them to reach and maximise their potential
in the context of their own personal circumstances. We do this by investing heavily in training and coaching as
well as paying for external training courses. We listen to feedback from staff and regularly review and Improve
the benefits that we offer to staff. Our mission statement requires us to exceed the expectations of three
stakeholders, one of which are our staff, this ensures they are a consideration in decision making.

Engagement with suppliers, customers and others

Engagement with customers, suppliers and others have been discussed in the Strategic Report.

Disabled employees ,

The directors endeavour to ensure that as far as possible the training, career development and promotion of
disabled persons is the same as other employees. Should employees become disabled, every effort is made to

ensure that their employment continues and appropriate training is received. There was no registered disabled
person employed by the company during the year.

Page 8


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

Emisstons and energy consumption
Climate

The Companies Act 2006 (Strategic Report and Directors’ Report) Regulation 2018 requires the Company to
disclose annual UK energy consumption and greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions from Streamlined Energy and
Carbon Reporting (“SECR") regulated sources.

We have calculated our Scope 1 Refrigerant Gas, Scope 1 Company Vehicles and Scope 3 Grey Fleet
emissions using the screening method. Similarly, we have calculated the energy use from Company Vehicles
and Business Travel based on recorded usage. Nextgen Air Conditioning Services Limited have calculated our
Scope 1 Refrigerant Gas from Air Conditioning using the Simplified Material Balance Method. All other
emissions have been calculated by collating readings fram meters and bills for the 12-month period ending 28
February 2024 that are sent to us by Doctor Cost Limited.

Reported energy and GHG emissions data is compliant with SECR requirements and has been calculated in
accordance with the GHG Protocol and SECR guidelines. Energy and GHG emissions are reported from
buildings and transport where the company have operational control — this Includes electricity, gaseous fuels
such as natural gas and business travel in Company-owned vehicles and Grey Fleet.

The table below detalls our reporting year:

Energy (kWh)

Natural Gas 115,296 (2023: 114,115)

Company Vehicles 8,771 (2023: 9,561)

Electricity 3,117,416 (2023: 3,202,571)

Business Travel 13,674 (2023: 10,686)

Total Energy Consumption — 3,255, 157 (2023: 3,336,933)

Emissions (kgC02e)

Scope 1 - Natural Gas 21,050 (2023: 20,287)

Scope 1 — Refrigerant Gases 206,259 (2023: 200,663)
Scope 1 —- Company Vehicles 2,049 (2023: 2,443)
Scope 2 — Electricity 638,950 (2023: 619,313)

Scope 3 - Grey Fleet 3,504 (2023: 2,780)

Total Emissions — 871,099 (2023: 848,501)

Trailfinders commitment to reducing our energy consumption and carbon emissions

Trailfinders is committed to minimising our energy consumption and emissions whilst investing in renewable
energy.

For this reporting period, we have 44 travel centres and 11 support and administration offices. We also have 10
residential units within Trallfinders’ business use. These aid our central training program supporting staff
development. These are counted in our carbon footprint.

The company is aware of the effect of climate change on its financial performance. The Directors remain
focused on reducing the Company's carbon footprint through careful management.

We undertake Company-wide assessments of our energy efficiency and make improvements wherever and
whenever we can. Initiatives taken to achieve have included:

1) Installation of LED lighting with Passive Infrared Sensors to detect motion and reduce energy consumption.
2) Modern efficient HVAC systems.

3) Installation of air-to-water systems where planning restriction allows.

4) Further Removal of gas supplies. We only have 8 gas boilers in operation across our organisation.

Page 9

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

5) Replacement of Refrigeration units that produce a disproportionate large amount of Greenhouse Gas.

6) Removal of single use plastics from our supply chain.

7) All paper stock used by Trailfinders is Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or Programme for the Endorsement
of Forest Certification (PEFC) accredited.

8) Changing some of the recycled plastic envelopes Trallfinders produce (where durability will allow) to FSC
Carbon balanced stock.

9) For Corporate gifts, all of our travel wallets are produced from 100% recycled plastic bottles and the new
Bamboo Luggage Tags currently in production are made from sustainably sourced bamboo.

10) Both our paper and print suppliers are accredited with the 14001 Certification for Environmental
Management.

11) The distribution agent for the Trailfinder magazine uses advanced telematics and route-planning to
minimise fuel usage, plus innovation in vehicle and trailer design to improve aerodynamics, increasing fuel
efficiency by at least 10%. They pioneer the use of longer semi-trailers to significantly reduce road miles, They
have adopted Euro 6 standard vehicles and introduce recyclable and non-PVC livery. They are engaged In long
term trials of alternative fuels including HVO and CNG biomethane for their HGVS.

We have also begun investigating installation of solar panels on our freehold Travel Centres. We will shortly
install these on our first Travel Centres.

We are currently engaging with Enistic to provide further advice to drive energy saving efficiencies.
Staff are encouraged to take up cycle-to-work and electric vehicle schemes. .
27 staff have participated in our electric vehicle scheme during the 2023-24 period.

92 staff cycle bikes to work that they have purchased through our cycle to work scheme.
We also offer staff interest-free loans for public transport season tickets. 22 staff have taken up season ticket
loans, encouraging the use of public transport over driving, within our workforce for 2023-24.

In 2023-24, Trailfinders has enabled the Woodland Trust to plant 1 tree for every booking made with us. The
scheme has been in operation since 1 January 2019. 680,000 have now been planted in this manner. Our latest
planting projects with the Woodland Trust have allowed us to plant trees across the UK as part of community
projects, with many of the trees planted in Northem Ireland in Lisoum and Castlereagh which, has very few
wooded areas. In this area, the council is creating a new forest, in conjunction with the Woodland Trust
supported by Trailfinders.

Our catering company In Kensington, W8 Catering use re-usable plastic containers to provide hot food for our
workforce. These are collected, washed, and re-used daily.

We engaged with sustainability specialists Eunomia to identify further opportunities to improve our energy
efficiency and are stil! using their initial guidance as a framework for policy.

Trailfinders Group Limited and its subsidiary companies support initiatives that contribute to the deployment of
Sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) and are actively engaging with this developing industry. Recently we have made
a sizeable investment in Avioxx, a pioneering SAF developer. Avioxx believe their patented process will produce
SAF for the same price as regular aviation fuel. It reflects our commitment to supporting sustainable aviation
fuel production. It signals our desire to propel this technology forward and reduce carbon emissions in aviation.

Trailfinders' infusion of capital will fuel Avioxx's research and development initiatives, enhancing market
expansion and accelerating the design and regulatory approval process for thelr first 5,000-tonne-per-year
sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) production facility. By 2027, Avioxx aims to establish a full-scale plant capable of
producing 32,000 tonnes of SAF annually.

The Directors are committed to the Company's strategy on climate change and have put several measures in
place as outlined above to reduce its carbon footprint over the coming financial years and to track this

Page 10


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

performance to evidence such plans:
Non-Financial and Sustainability Information statement

The Directors accept that risks and opportunities under the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosure
(TCFD) guidance need to be considered.

Trailfinders recognises the need to understand and manage risks and opportunities that could occur due to
climate-related factors. During the year we analysed what we needed to do to meet our TCFD) obligations and
held a series of meetings across the business.

As mentioned in our Streamlined Energy and Carbon Reporting statement, we have engaged with sustainability
specialists Eunomia and through our new Trailfinders Environment Analysis Team, we have begun to monitor
emissions and implement energy minimisation initiatives in a proactive manner.

The following disclosures are consistent with the TCFD. We will explain our policy in the light of the four pillars
of the TCFD:

a) Governance.

b) = Strategy.

c) Risk Management.

d) Metrics and Targets

In governance, Trailfinders must:
1) describe the board's oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities
2) describe management's role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities

In strategy:

3) describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short,
medium, and long term

4) describe the Impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s businesses, strategy,
and financial planning

5) describe the resilience of the organisation's strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related
scenarios, including a 2°C or lower scenario.

In risk management:

6) describe the organisation's processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks

7) describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks

8) describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into
the organisation's overall risk management.

In metrics and targets:

9) disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in tine with
its strategy and risk management process

10) disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the
related risks

11) describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and
performance against targets.

The TCFD framework is new and whilst we are making strides towards our goals, there are still improvements
that can be achieved. Additionally, we will continue to refine and develop the quality of our reporting.

Governance
Trailfinders Environment Analysis Team

The Policy Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s actions in deciding our actions relating to climate
change. Our other Teams report to and from them.

Page 1

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

The Implementation Team are responsible for making sure that the practical decisions of the board happen in
the real world.

The Audit Team monitor and review the effectiveness of our action as well as approve our reporting statements.
The Tailormade Product Impact Team advise on regional climate change impacts and their short-, medium- and
long-term impacts on specific geographical regions.

Executive Assistance Team provide a monitoring service for information published both in paper form and
online that pertains to climatic risk and opportunities.

We have further engagement feeding into our Policy Board in the form of a Suggestions Box from where
employees can send in things to consider in an either named or anonymous manner. Employees are rewarded
for suggestions that are then Implemented.

To ensure that the Policy Board can provide educated direction to ensure that we take our obligations seriously,
information is fed to both to them and our other teams on climate-related risks and opportunities.

This enables the Policy Board to set targets and measure our progress against them.

John O'Dowd is the Board member with overall responsibility for our energy and emission reduction initiatives.
He co-ordinates the teams to work together in an efficient and collaborative manner.

Strategy

‘In the below table we analyse key climate-related risks that could have a significant impact on Trailfinders
operations, strategy and financial planning if not managed in a considered manner.

Risks have been characterised over the short (under 3 years), medium (3 to 10 years) and long (10 years plus)
term. These risks and opportunities have been determined In line with our usual business strategy initiative
programs by the Trailfinders Environment Analysis Team. We consider how customer demand for lower impact,
lower carbon, more sustainable holidays will impact strategy:

Impacts on Travel (Immediate Events) — Long term effect — Disruption due to tropical storms, wildfires, volcanic
activity, water damage — Likelihood: Medium — Cost Implications: Medium

impacts on Travel (Sustained Events) —- Long term effect - Sustained increase in temperature could result in
certain destinations being less attractive to tourists — Likelihood: Medium — Cost Implications: Medium

Carbon Pricing ~ Long term effect ~ There is already a green tax on aviation. We are not aware of any plans to
intraduce any green or carbon taxes in the short to medium term — Likelihood: Medium — Cost Implications:
Medium

Customer Opinion — Long term effect - Some consumer's attitudes to travel could change if aviation is seen as
damaging, hitting profits. We have dramatically expanded our European programme. This diversification means
we are less reliant on but still open to the opportunities of long-haul travel ~ Likelihood: Medium — Cost
Implications: Medium

Employee Retention — Long term effect — Perception of some employees to global travel could impact
Trailfinders’ ability to employ and retain staff — Likelihood: Low — Cost Implications: Low

Our assessment of these risks will inevitably evolve over time and so focus may well shift to different
considerations. Trailfinders will remain alert to these opportunities and react dynamically to them.

There are several climate scenarios that could emerge as we move towards 2050 and the Government's

Page 12

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

regulatory aspirations for net zero::
a) Net Zero 2050

b) Divergent Net Zero

c) Current Policies

Dependent on which scenario plays out, there are differing impacts on our business. With the “Current Policies”
scenario physical risk to Travel is heightened whilst with the "Net Zero” scenarios transition risk is much greater.

Environmental risks are more difficult to quantify as they as divergent, dependent on scenario and intangibles.
Consideration of the different scenarios has prompted a consideration within Trailfinders of a longer-term view
and internal analysis of how the travel industry will develop. Regardless of which scenario plays out we believe
Trailfinders will continue to evolve in the positive way it has always done.

Risk management

We have continuing discussions about the impact of climate change on Trailfinders but believe that climate
change risks are of a long-term nature and therefore is not an immediate risk to our business albeit we are
already making changes both In how we operate to reduce energy use and emissions and also investing in
mitigations such as SAF.

Metrics and targets

We now report annually on Greenhouse Gas Emissions and Carbon Intensity Ratios. Our reporting will continue
to evolve In line with the key metrics.

The main risk surrounding the travel industry is potential exposure to increased carbon pricing. Carbon taxes
will have an impact throughout society, not just Trailfinders as a business.

We have initial controls and mitigations in place to reduce our climate risk and now we have a fuller, granular
awareness of our impact, we are putting in place further measures to reduce our overall carbon and energy
footprint.

Whilst UK electricity consumption as whole is 40.8% renewable, Trailfiinders electricity use was 50% renewable
over this year. 30% of our offices use 100% renewable electricity. As energy contracts expire, we will look to
create a substantially lower carbon footprint by using renewable energy suppliers. Renewable energy must be a
key part of a national initiative to reduce carbon consumption.

Emissions intensity ratios:

tkgCO2e / year end employee numbers = 871,099 / 989 = 880.79 (2023: 848,501 / 921 = 921.28)
kgCO2e / year end square metres of office space = 871,099 / 15,037 = 57.93 (2023: 848,501 / 15,188 = 55.87)

Statement of corporate governance arrangements

Details on the Company's corporate governance arrangements, can be found in the strategic report.
Disclosure of information to auditors

Each of the persons who are directors at the time when this Directors’ report is approved has confirmed that:

° so far as the director Is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's auditors are
unaware, and

. the director has taken ail the steps that ought to have been taken as a director in order to be aware of any
relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditors are aware of that information.

Page 13

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

DIRECTORS’ REPORT (CONTINUED)
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

Post balance sheet events
There have been no significant events affecting the Company since the year end.

Auditors

The auditors, Xeinadin Audit Limited, will be proposed for reappointment in accordance with section 485 of the
Companies Act 2006.

This report was approved by the board on Ot (o\ Ze and signed on its behalf.

Sir M D W Gooley, C.B.E. (Chairman)
Director

Page 14


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

Opinion

We have audited the financial statements of Trailfinders Limited (the 'Company) for the year ended 29 February
2024, which comprise the Statement of comprehensive income, the Balance sheet, the Statement of changes in
equity and the related notes, including a summary of significant accounting policies. The financial reporting
framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting
Standards, including Financial Reporting Standard 102 ‘The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK
and Republic of Ireland’ (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice).

In our opinion the financial statements:

. give a true and fair view of the state of the Company's affairs as at 29 February 2024 and of its profit for
the year then ended;

. have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting
Practice; and
. have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.

Basis for opinion

We conducted our audit in accordance with Intemational Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable
law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors' responsibilities for the audit
of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the Company In accordance with the
ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements In the United Kingdom, including
the Financial Reporting Council's Ethical Standard and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with these requirements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.

Conclusions relating to going concern

In auditing the financial statements, we have concluded that the directors' use of the going concern basis of
accounting in the preparation of the financial statements is appropriate.

Based on the work we have performed, we have not identified any material uncertainties relating to events or
conditions that, individually or collectively, may cast significant doubt on the Company's ability to continue as a
going concern for a period of at least-twelve months from when the financial statements are authorised for
issue. :

Our responsibilities and the responsibilities of the directors with respect to going concern are described in the
relevant sections of this report.


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TRAILFINDERS LIMITED (CONTINUED)

Other information

The other information comprises the information included in the Annual Report other than the financial
statements and our Auditors' report thereon. The directors are responsible for the other information contained
within the Annual Report. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and,
except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance
conclusion thereon. Our responsibllity is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the
other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the course
of the audit, or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or
apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether this gives rise to a material
misstatement in the financial statements themselves. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude
that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact.

We have nothing to report in this regard.
Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006
In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit:

. the information given in the Strategic report and the Directors’ report for the financial year for which the
financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and

. the Strategic report and the Directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal
requirements.

Matters on which we are required to report by exception

In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the Company and its environment obtained in the course of
the audit, we have not identified material misstatements in the Strategic report or the Directors’ report.

We have nothing to report in respect of the following matters in relation to which the Companies Act 2006
requires us to report to you if, in our opinion:

. adequate accounting records have not been kept, or returns adequate for our audit have not been
received from branches not visited by us; or

. the financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and retums; or
certain disclosures of directors' remuneration specified by law are not made; or
we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.

Responsibilities of directors

As explained more fully in the Directors’ responsibilities statement set out on page 5, the directors are
responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair
view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.

In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the Company's ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concem basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations,
or have no realistic alternative but to do so.

Page 16


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TRAILFINDERS LIMITED (CONTINUED)

Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements

Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an Auditors’ report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in
accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.

Irregularities, including fraud, are instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations. We design
procedures in line with our responsibilities, outlined above, to detect material misstatements in respect of
irregularities, including fraud. The extent to which our procedures are capable of detecting irregularities,
including fraud is detailed below:

Enquiry of management and those charged with governance around actual and potential litigation and
claims to identify any instances of non-compliance with laws and regulations;

Reviewing financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance
with applicable laws and regulations

Performing audit work over the risk of management override of controls, including testing of journal
entries and other adjustments for appropriateness, evaluating the business rationale of significant
transactions outside the normal course of business and reviewing accounting estimates for bias.

Firstly, the Company is subject to laws and regulations that directly affect the financial statements including
financial reporting legislation (including related companies legislation), distributable profits legislation and
taxation legislation and we assessed the extent of compliance with these laws and regulations as part of our
procedures on the related financial statement items.

Secondly, the Company is subject to many other laws and regulations where the consequence of non-
compliance could have a material effect on amounts or disclosures in the financial statements, for instance the
imposition of fines or litigation or the loss of the Company's license to operate. We identified the following areas
as those most likely to have such an effect: data protection law, employment law, ATOL, IATA and Client Trust
Account compliance recognising the nature of the Company's activities. Auditing standards limit the required
audit procedures to identify non-compliance with these laws and regulations to enquiry of the directors and other
management and inspection of regulatory and legal correspondence, if any. Therefore, if a breach of
operational regulations is not disclosed to us or evident from relevant correspondence, an audit will not detect
that-breach.

Because of the inherent limitations of an audit, there is a risk that we will not detect all irregularities, including
those leading to a materia! misstatement in the financial statements or non-compliance with regulation. This risk
increases the more that compliance with a law or regulation is removed from the events and transactions
reflected in the financial statements, as we will be less likely to become aware of instances of non-compliance.
The risk is also greater regarding irregularities occurring due to fraud rather than error, as fraud involves
Intentional concealment, forgery, collusion, omission or misrepresentation.

We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and
timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we
identify during our audit. .

A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the Financial
Reporting Council's website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our
Auditors' Report.


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF TRAILFINDERS LIMITED (CONTINUED)

Use of our report

This report is made solely to the Company's members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of
the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Company's
members those matters we are required to state to them in an Auditors’ report and for no other purpose. To the
fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company
and the Company's members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.

Kecnadear Auda Ltinttad

Yasin Khandwalla FCCA (Senior statutory auditor)

for and on behalf of
Xeinadin Audit Limited

Chartered Accountants
Statutory Auditors

8th Floor

Becket House

36 Old Jewry

London
EC2R 8DD

Date! Of O7. 24

Page 18


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

Turnover
Cost of sales

Gross profit

Administrative expenses
Other operating income

Operating profit

Income from shares in group undertakings and unlisted investments
Income from fixed assets investments

(Loss) on listed investments

Interest receivable and similar income

Profit before tax

Movement in fair value of listed investments
Profit/(Loss) before tax after fair value adjustments
Tax on profit/(loss)

Profit for the financial year

There was no other comprehensive income for 2024 (2023:£000NIL).

The notes on pages 23 to 44 form part of these financial statements.

Note

12

2024
£000

967,665

_ (817,695)

149,970

(93,805)
540

56,705

2,614
126
(22)

22,594

82,017

2
82,019

(20,262)

61,757

2023
£000

858,718

(754,358)

104,360
(91,645)

794

13,509

49

691
(5,994)

7,761

16,016

2,094

18,110
(1,982)

16,128

Page 19

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED
REGISTERED NUMBER: 01004502

BALANCE SHEET
AS AT 29 FEBRUARY 2024
29 February 28 February
2024 2023
Note £000 £000
Fixed assets
Tangible assets 13 77,740 72,215
Investments . 14 24,453 19,665
Investment property 15 5,220 5,330
107,413 97,210
Current assets
Stocks 16 55 68
Debtors: amounts falling due within one year = 17 “88,320 91,248
Current asset investments 18 292,557 190,527
Cash at bank and in hand 19 245,259 248,913
626,191 530,756
Creditors: amounts falling due within one
year 20 (366,247) (322,749)
Net current assets , 259,944 208,007
Total assets less current liabilities 367,357 , 305,217
Creditors: amounts falling due after more
than one year - 21 (2,806) (2,423)
Net assets 364,551 , 302,794
Capital and reserves
Called up share capital 23 94 94
Share premium account 24 27 27
Revaluation reserve 24 999 999
Capital redemption reserve 24 12 12
Other reserves 24 4 4
Profit and loss account 24 363,415 301,658

364,551 302,794

The financial statements were approved and authorised for issue by the board and were signed on its behalf on
ertlor(24

. (Chairman)

Sir M D W Gooley, C.B.!
Director

The notes on pages 23 to 44 form part of these financial statements.

Page 20

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

Share Capital
Called up premium redemption Revaluation Other Profit and
share capital account reserve reserve reserves loss account Total equity
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000

At 1 March 2023 94 27 12 999 4 301,658 302,794
Comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the year - : - = - 61,757 61,757
Total comprehensive Income for the year - = - - = 61,757 61,757
Total transactions with owners - a - a : -
At 29 February 2024 94 27 12 999 4 363,415 364,551

The notes on pages 23 to 44 form part of these financial statements.

Page 21

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 28 FEBRUARY 2023

Share Capital
* Called up premium redemption Revaluation Other Profit and
share capital account reserve reserve reserves loss account Total equity
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
At 1 March 2022 94 27 12 999 4 285,530 286,666
Comprehensive income for the year
Profit for the year 7 cf = - - 16,128 16,128
Total comprehensive Income for the year - : - - - 16,128 16,128
Total transactions with owners - - - = = s
At 28 February 2023 94 27 12 999 4 302,794

301,658

The notes on pages 23 to 44 form part of these financial statements.

Page 22

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

1. General information

Trailfinders Limited is a private company limited by shares incorporated in England and Wales. The
address of the registered office is given in the company information page of these financial statements.
The nature of the company's operations and principal activities recorded in the Strategic Report and the
Directors Report.

2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
2.1 Basis of preparation of financial statements

The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention unless otherwise
specified within these accounting policies and in accordance with Financial Reporting Standard 102,
the Financial Reporting Standard applicable in the UK and the Republic of Ireland and the
Companies Act 2006.

The preparation of financial statements in compliance with FRS 102 requires the use of certain
critical accounting estimates. It also requires management to exercise judgment in applying the
Company's accounting policies (see note 3).

2.2. Financial Reporting Standard 102 - reduced disclosure exemptions

The Company has taken advantage of the following disclosure exemptions in preparing these
financial statements, as permitted by the FRS 102 "The Financial Reporting Standard applicable in
the UK and Republic of Ireland":

. the requirements of Section 7 Statement of Cash Flows;

. the requirements of Section 3 Financial Statement Presentation paragraph 3.17(d);

° the requirements of Section 11 Financial Instruments paragraphs 11.42, 11.44 to 11.45,
11.47, 11.48(a)(iii), 11.48(a)(iv), 11.48(b) and 11.48(c);

° the requirements of Section 12 Other Financial Instruments paragraphs 12.26 to 12.27,
12.29(a), 12.29(b) and 12.29A;

. the requirements of Section 33 Related Party Disclosures paragraph 33.7.

This information is included in the consolidated financial statements of Trailfinders Group Limited as
at 29 February 2024 and these financial statements may be obtained from Companies House,
Crown Way, Cardiff, CF14 3UZ.

2.3 Exemption from preparing consolidated financial statements

The Company is a parent company that is also a subsidiary included in the consolidated financial
statements of a larger group by a parent undertaking established under the law of any part of the
United Kingdom and is therefore exempt from the requirement to prepare consolidated financial
statements under section 400 of the Companies Act 2006.


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

2.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

24

2.5

2.6

27

Foreign currency translation

Functional and presentation currency

The Company's functional and presentational currency is GBP.
Transactions and balances

Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the spot exchange
rates at the dates of the transactions.

At each period end foreign currency monetary items are translated using the closing rate. Non-
monetary items measured at historical cost are translated using the exchange rate at the date of the
transaction and non-monetary items measured at fair value are measured using the exchange rate
when fair value was determined.

Foreign exchange gains and losses that relate to borrowings and cash and cash equivalents are
presented in the Statement of comprehensive income within ‘finance income or costs’. All other
foreign exchange gains and losses are presented in profit or loss within ‘other operating income’.

Revenue

Tumover represents gross sales value to customers of air tickets, travel insurance, hotel bookings
and other related services.

Turnover comprises of revenue recognised by the company in respect of package holidays and
other services supplied to customers in the ordinary course of business. Revenue is taken to the
profit and loss account based on the date of departure. Cancellation income is recognised at the
date of cancellation.

Revenue is recognised to the extent that It is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the
Company and the revenue can be reliably measured. Revenue is measured as the fair value of the
consideration received or receivable, excluding discounts, rebates, value added tax and other sales
taxes.

Operating leases: the Company as lessee

Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the Statement of comprehensive income on a
straight line basis over the lease term.

Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are recognised on a
straight line basis over the lease term.

Leased assets: the Company as lessee

Assets obtained under hire purchase contracts and finance leases are capitalised as tangible fixed
assets. Assets acquired by finance lease are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and their
useful lives. Assets acquired by hire purchase are depreciated over their useful lives. Finance leases
are those where substantially all of the benefits and risks of ownership are assumed by the
company. Obligations under such agreements are included in creditors net of the finance charge
allocated to future perlods. The finance element of the rental payment is charged to profit or loss so
as to produce a constant periodic rate of charge on the net obligation outstanding in each period.


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

2.8 Government grants

Grants are accounted under the accruals model as permitted by FRS 102. Grants of a revenue
nature are recognised in the profit and loss account in the same period as the related expenditure.

2.9 Interest income

Interest income is recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
2.10 Pensions

Defined contribution pension plan

The Company operates a defined contribution plan for its employees. A defined contribution plan is a
pension pian under which the Company pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. Once the
contributions have been paid the Company has no further payment obligations.

The contributions are recognised as an expense in profit or loss when they fall due. Amounts not
paid are shown in accruals as a liability in the Balance sheet. The assets of the plan are held
separately from the Company in independently administered funds.

2.11 Current and deferred taxation

The tax expense for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognised in profit or loss
except that a charge attributable to an item of income and expense recognised as other
comprehensive income or to an item recognised directly in equity is also recognised in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.

The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of tax rates and laws that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date in the countries where the Company
operates and generates income.

Deferred tax balances are recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not

reversed by the balance sheet date, except that: :

° The recognition of deferred tax assets is limited to the extent that it is probable that they will
be recovered against the reversal of deferred tax liabilities or other future taxable profits; and

° Any deferred tax balances are reversed if and when all conditions for retaining associated tax
allowances have been met.

Deferred tax balances are not recognised in respect of permanent differences except in respect of
business combinations, when deferred tax is recognised on the differences between the fair values
of assets acquired and the future tax deductions available for them and the differences between the
fair values of liabilities acquired and the amount that will be assessed for tax. Deferred tax is
determined using tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance
sheet date.

Page 25

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

2.12 Tangible fixed assets

Tangible fixed assets under the cost model are stated at historical cost less accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses. Historical cost includes expenditure that is
directly attrioutable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable
of operating in the manner intended by management.

Assets held in the course of construction are stated at cost less any provision for impairment and
transferred to completed assets when substantially all of the activities necessary for the asset to be
ready for use have occurred. Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and costs
attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use. They are not
depreciated until the accounting period in which they are brought into use.

Depreciation is charged so as to allocate the cost of assets less their residual value over their
estimated useful lives, using the straight-line method.

Depreciation is provided on the following basis:

Freehold property - 2% straight line

Leasehold buildings - Over period of lease

Plant and machinery - 10% straight line

Motor vehicles - 20% straight line

Fixtures, fittings & equipment - 10% straight line

Computer equipment - 20% straight line

Shops under construction - not depreciated until the accounting period in

which they are brought into use

The assets' residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods are reviewed, and adjusted
prospectively if appropriate, or if there is an indication of a significant change since the last reporting
date.

Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount
and are recognised in profit or loss.

2.13 Investment property

Investment property is carried at fair value. This was determined in May 2016 by external valuers
and since then has been reviewed by directors on an annual basis. The value is derived from the
current market rents and investment property yields for comparable real estate, adjusted if
necessary for any difference in the nature, location or condition of the specific asset. No depreciation
is provided. Changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss for the period.

Page 26

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

2.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

2.14 Valuation of investments
Investments in subsidiaries are measured at cost less accumulated impairment.
Investments in unlisted Company shares, whose fair value value can be reliably determined, are
remeasured to fair value at each balance sheet date. Gains and losses on remeasurement are

recognised in the Profit and loss account for the period. Where market value cannot be reliably
determined, such investments are stated at historic cost less impairment.

Investments in listed company shares are remeasured to fair value at each Balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss for the period.

2.15 Stocks
Stock is valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.

2.16 Advanced recelpts and payments
All revenue relating to tours with departure dates after the year end are treated as advance receipts
at the balance sheet date and are separately disclosed under accruals. Payments made to suppliers
in respect of these tours are included in prepayments.

2.17 Debtors
Short-term debtors are measured at transaction price, less any impairment. Loans receivable are
measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are measured subsequently at
amortised cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment.

2.18 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash is represented by cash In hand and deposits with financial institutions repayable without
penalty on notice of not more than 24 hours. Cash equivalents are highly liquid investments that
mature in no more than three months from the date of acquisition and that are readily convertible to
known amounts of cash with insignificant risk of change in value.

2.19 Creditors
Short-term creditors are measured at the transaction price. Other financial liabilities, including bank
loans, are measured initially at fair value, net of transaction costs, and are measured subsequently
at amortised cost using the effective interest method.

2.20 Holiday pay accrual
A liability is recognised to the extent of any unused holiday pay entitlement which is accrued at the

balance. sheet date and carried forward to future periods. This is measured at the undiscounted
salary cost of the future holiday entitlement so accrued at the balance sheet date.

Page 27

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

2.

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued)

2.21 Provisions for liabilities

’ Provisions are made where an event has taken place that gives the Company a legal or constructive
obligation that probably requires settlement by a transfer of economic benefit, and a reliable estimate
can be made of the amount of the obligation.

Provisions are charged as an expense to profit or loss in the year that the Company becomes aware
of the obligation, and are measured at the best estimate at the balance sheet date of the
expenditure required to settle the obligation, taking into account relevant risks and uncertainties.

When payments are eventually made, they are charged to the provision carried in the Balance
sheet.

2.22 Financial instruments

The Company only enters into basic financial instruments transactions that result in the recognition
of financial assets and liabilities like trade and other accounts debtors and creditors, loans from
banks and other third parties, loans to related parties and investments in non-puttable ordinary
shares

Judgments in applying accounting policies and key sources of estimation uncertainty

In the application of the company's accounting policies, the directors are required to make judgements,
estimates and assumptions about the carrying amount of assets and liabilities that are not readily
apparent from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based historical experience
and other factors that are recognised to be relevant. Actual results may differ from these estimates.

The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised where the revision affects only
that period, or in the period of revision and future periods where the revision affects both current and
future periods.

Page 28

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

Critical judgements
(i) Useful economic lives of tangible assets

The annual depreciation charge for tangible assets is sensitive to due the material nature of the value of
fixed assets. The depreciation rates are reviewed annually to ensure they are appropriate for the type of
asset. Assets are reviewed for impairment on an annual basis.

(ii) Valuation of investment properties

The company holds a large residential and commercial investment property portfolio. Investment property
is carried at fair value. This was determined in May 2016 by external valuers and since then has been
reviewed by directors on an annual basis. In order to provide an accurate valuation the directors review
movements in the markets of the property values in the areas where property is held with use of
publications issued by established Chartered Surveryors.

(iii) Revenue and direct costs

The company recognises revenue based on the date of departure of the booking which, in the directors’
judgement, is the most appropriate revenue base as this matches the point at which the service is
performed.

(iv) Valuation of investments in subsidiaries

Determining whether the Company's investments in its subsidiaries have been impaired requires
estimations of the value in use of the investments. The value in use calculation requires the entity to
estimate the future cash flows expected to arise from the investments and a suitable discount rate in
order to calculate the present value (see note 14 for details of the carrying amount of investments).

Key sources of estimation uncertainty

The directors are of the view that there are no estimates or assumptions that have a significant risk of
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amount of assets and liabilities

4. Turnover

2024 2023
£000 £000
Travel related sales 967,665 858,718

967,665 858,718

All turnover arose within the United Kingdom.

Page 29

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

N

Other operating Income

2024 2023
£000 £000
Other operating income 147 500
Net rents receivable 393 275
Government grants receivable + 19
540 794
Government grants represent amounts recieved from local councils.
Operating profit/(loss)
The operating profit/(loss) is stated after charging:
2024 2023
£000 £000
Exchange differences (19,836) 2,998
Other operating lease rentals 2,217 2,069

Auditors’ remuneration

During the year, the Company obtained the following services from the Company's auditors and their
associates:

2024 2023
£000 £000

Fees payable to the Company's auditors and their associates for the audit
of the Company's financial statements 80 60

The Company has taken advantage of the exemption not to disclose amounts paid for non-audit services
as these are disclosed in the consolidated accounts of the parent Company.


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

8. Employees

Staff costs, including directors' remuneration, were as follows:

2024 2023
£000 £000
Wages and salaries 60,839 45,248
Cost of defined contribution scheme 1,172 1,054

62,011 46,302

The average monthly number of employees, including the directors, during the year was as follows:

2024 2023

No. No.

Travel consultants . 626 587
Management and administration 328 305

954 892

9. Directors’ remuneration

2024 2023

£000 £000

Directors’ emoluments 10,104 2,961
Company contributions to defined contribution pension schemes 137 97

10,241 3,058

During the year retirement benefits were accruing to 13 directors (2023 - 13) in respect of defined
contribution pension schemes.

The highest paid director received remuneration of £5,524,394 (2023 - £491,585).

The value of the Company's contributions paid to a defined contribution pension scheme in respect of the
highest paid director amounted to £NIL (2023 - £NIL).


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

10.

11.

12,

Income from investments

Dividends recieved from listed investments

Interest receivable

Other interest receivable

Taxation

Corporation tax

Current tax on profits for the year
Adjustments in respect of previous periods

Total current tax
Deferred tax

Movement in valuation of assets
Losses and other deductions
Non permanent differences

Total deferred tax

Taxation on profit on ordinary activities

2024
£000

126
126

2024
£000

22,594

22,594

2024
£000

9,107

9,107

9,107

_ 60
10,585
510

11,155

20,262

2023
£000

691

2023
£000

7,761
7,761

2023
£000

2,071
(14)

2,057

2,057

(2,434)
1,964
395

(75)

1,982

Page 32

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

12.

Taxation (continued)

Factors affecting tax charge for the year

The tax assessed for the year is the same as (2023 - the same as) the standard rate of corporation tax in

the UK of 24.49% (2023 - 19.00%) as set out below:

Profit on ordinary activities before tax

Profit on ordinary activities multiplied by standard rate of corporation tax in
the UK of 24.49% (2023 - 19.00%)

Effects of:

Expenses not deductible for tax purposes, other than goodwill amortisation
and impairment

Capita! allowances for year in excess of depreciation
Income not taxable for tax purposes

Dividends from UK companies

Chargeable gains/(losses)

Group relief surrendered/(claimed)

Adjustments to tax charge in relation to deferred tax
Adjustments to tax charge in respect of previous periods

Total tax charge for the year

Factors that may affect future tax charges

There were no factors that may affect future tax charges.

2024
£000

82,063

20,086

16
428
(10)
(662)
27
26
358
(6)

20,262

2023
£000

48,110

3,441

1,190
20
(415)
(175)
(647)

(1,418)
(14)

1,982

The Company has £11m of unutilised losses carried forward (£54m brought forward). It is expected that

such losses will be utilised within the next 12 months.

Page 33

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

13.

Tangible fixed assets

Cost or valuation

At 1 March 2023

Additions

Disposals

Transfers between classes

At 29 February 2024
Depreciation

At 1 March 2023
Charge for the year

At 29 February 2024

Net book vaiue

At 29 February 2024

At 28 February 2023

Long-term Short-term

Freehold leasehold leasehold Plant and Motor Fixtures and Computer Shops under
property property property machinery vehicles fittings equipment construction Total
£000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000
65,268 423 4,472 7,168 48 20,925 21,391 1,842 121,537
4,016 = - - = 4,490 2,647 1,046 12,199
- 7 - - + "3 - (1,391) (1,391)
110 - - - s - - 7 110
69,394 423 4,472 7,168 48 25,415 24,038 1,497 132,455
10,387 124 3,804 6,470 32 9,868 18,635, : 49,320
1,414 6 376 256 13 1,797 1,533 , 5,395
41,801 130 4,180 6,726 45 41,665, 20,168 - 54,715
57,593, 293 292 442 3 13,750 3,870 1,497 77,740
54,881 299 668 698 16 2,756 1,842 72,217
= =——— =—

Page 34

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

Transfers between classes have been made above due to needing to more accurately reflect the nature
of the assets included in that amount.

Cost or valuation at 29 February 2024 includes £548,000 derived from professional valuations made in
1987 on the basis of open market value for continuing use in accordance with the Statement of Assets
Valuation Practice No.4 and the Guidance Notes of The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors and
£836,000 derived from professional valuations made on 26 February 1999. Valuations were made on the
basis of open market value for continuing use by two firms of chartered surveyors, Lewis Craig and
Harpers. These valuations have been frozen, as the company took advantage of the transitional
provisions on the adoption of FRS 15 and the subsequent FRS 102 transitional provisions to permit
previous valuations to be ‘deemed cost’ on transition date.

At the year end the cost and depreciation carried forward for long leasehold properties was £423,195
(2023: £423,195) and £129,959 (2023: £124,631) respectively.

\f the land and buildings had not been included at valuation. they would have been included under the
historical cost convention as follows:

29 February 28 February

024 2023
£000 £000
Cost 74,289 70,163
Accumulated depreciation (16,112) (14,316)
Net book value 58,177 55,847

Page 35


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

14.

Fixed asset investments

Investments
in subsidiary
companies
£000
Cost or valuation
At 1 March 2023 - 9,861
Additions 4,657
Disposals
Revaluations -
At 29 February 2024 14,518

Listed
investments
£000

9,610
1,786
(1,658)

2

9,740

Unlisted
investments
£000

195

195

The fair value of listed Investments at 29 February 2024 was £10m (2023: £10m).

The historical cost of listed Investments at 29 February 2024 was £9m (2023: £5m).

Total
£000

19,666
6,443
(1,658)

2

24,453

Page 36

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

14.

Fixed asset investments (continued)
Subsidiary undertakings

The following were subsidiary undertakings of the Company:

Class of

Name Registered office Principal activity shares Holding

Trailfinders Ireland Limited = Republic of Ireland Travel organiser Ordinary 100%

Trailfinders Pty. Limited Australia Investment holding Ordinary 100%

Bloomfield Wilderness Lodge Australia Rental property Ordinary 100%
Pty. Limited *

Mount Louis Grazing Pty. Australia Farmland Ordinary 100%
Limited*

Trailfinders (Australia) Pty. Australia Dormant Ordinary 100%
Limited *

Hinterland Aero Engineering Australia Dormant Ordinary 100%
Pty.Limited*

* subsidiary of Trailfinders Pty. Limited

Listed investments are long term investments and have therefore been classified under fixed asset
investments.

Unlisted investments include £195,000 ordinary £1 shares in Britannic Group (Holdings) Limited, which
represents 48.75% of the share capital of that company. As the company does not exercise significant
influence over the financial and operating policy of Britannic Group (Holdings) Limited, the results of that
company are not incorporated into these financial statements. Britannic Technologies Limited is a wholly
owned subsidiary of Britannic Group (Holdings) Limited.

Britannic Group (Holdings) Limited is incorporated in Great Britain and registered in England and Wales.
The consolidated capital and reserves of Britannic Group (Holdings) Limited at 31 March 2023, being the
latest available audited accounts, amounted to £7,693,036 (2022: £7,772,148) and the profit after
taxation for the year ended 31 March 2023 amounted to £20,888 (2022: loss of £119,962).

The company owns 100% of the equity share capital of Trailfinders Ireland Limited (2023: 100%). During
the year the company received dividends of £2,564,760 from Trallfinders Ireland Limited (2023: £nil).

Page 37

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

15. Investment property

Freehold
investment
property
- £000
Valuation
At 1 March 2023 5,330
Transfers between classes (110)
At 29 February 2024 5,220

The 2016 valuations were made by Fifield Glyn Chartered Surveyors, on an open market value for
existing use basis. The directors have reviewed the value of the properties as at 29 February 2024 and
consider there to be no material difference to the external valuation carried out in the year to 29 February

2016.

\f the Investment properties had been accounted for under the historic cost accounting rules, the
properties would have been measured as follows:

29 February 28 February

2024 2023
£000 £000
Historic cost 1,888 1,998

1,888 1,998

Page 38


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

16. Stocks
29 February 28 February
2024 2023
£000 £000
immunisation and travel accessories 55 : 68
55 68

17. Debtors

29 February 28 February
2024 2023
£000 £000
Trade debtors 2,989 1,982
Amounts owed by group undertakings 1,000 480
Other debtors 2,494 2,040
Prepayments and accrued income 81,207 74,947
Tax recoverable - 14
Deferred taxation . : 630 11,785

88,320 91,248

Included within "prepayments and accrued income” above are amounts relating to payments in advance
to suppliers for holidays departing after the year end, the total of which amounts to £66,776,502 (2023:
£63,961 ,504).

18. Current asset investments

29 February 28 February

2024 2023

£000 £000

Unlisted investments 292,557 . 190,527
292,557 190,527

————S

Unlisted investments relate to monies held on deposit that mature in more than 3 months from the
balance sheet date. . .

Page 39

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

19.

Cash and cash equivalents

29 February 28 February

024 2023
£000 £000
Cash at bank and In hand 245,259 _ 248,913

; 245,259 248,913

The Company continues to use a Trust model to hold and safeguard monies received from customers.
The amounts held on trust are represented by bank balances. Amounts held on trust are only available to
settle liabilities arising from the customers' travel arrangements and related services. Interest arising from
the funds held on trust belongs to the Company. The balance held in the trust account at the balance
sheet date is £432,959,573 (2023: £261,811 ,800) of which, £170,425,302 (2023: £84,379,989) is within

. cash at bank and £262,534,271 (2023: £177,431,811) is within current asset investments In bank deposit

accounts.

Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year

29 February 28 February

2024 2023

£000 £000
Trade creditors 56,246 39,042
Amounts owed to group undertakings 37,957 25,557
Corporation tax 849 406
Other taxation and social security 1,559 1,543
Other creditors 9,842 19,467
Accruals and deferred income ; 259,794 236,734

366,247 322,749

Included within “Accruals and deferred income” above and "Deferred income” below are amounts relating
to customer monies held on account for holidays departing after the year end, the total of which amount
to £256,141,059 (2023: £238,483,416).

Barclays Bank PLC has a legal fixed and floating charge over accounts of the company, containing a
negative pledge.

Page 40

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

21. Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year

Deferred income

8

Deferred taxation

At beginning of year
Charged to profit or loss

At end of year

The deferred tax asset is made up as follows:

Revaluation of listed investments
Losses and other deductions
Non permanent differences

29 February
2024
£000

2,806
2,806

2024
£000

11,785

(11,155)

630

29 February
2024
£000

(807)
2,972

(1,535)

630

2023
£000

11,710
75

11,785

28 February
2023
£000

(780)
13,547
(982)

11,785

itis anticipated that the deferred taxation on losses and other deductions will be realised over the next 12

months.

Page 41

TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

23. Share capital

29 28
February February
2024 2023
£000 £000
Allotted, cailed up and fully paid

940,800 (2023 - 940,800) Ordinary shares of £0.10 each 94 94

24, Reserves
Share premium account

Share premium includes any premiums received on issue of share capital. Any transaction costs
associated with the issuing of shares are deducted from share premium.

Revaluation reserve

Revaluation reserve records the surplus arising on the vauation of property held for own use of the
company in prior years.

Capital redemption reserve
Capital redemption reserve records the nominal value of shares repurchased by the company
Other reserves
Capital reserves are funds that are for capital expenditure projects only.
Profit and loss account
Profit and loss includes all current and prior periods retained profit.
Included within the reserve is £3,947,000 (2023: £8,016,000) of unrealised gains which are non
distributable.

25. Contingent liabilities
The company has given guarantees and indemnities at 29 February 2024 amounting to £869,547 (2023:
£906,304) to travel suppliers and in respect of travel agency bonds. Barclays Bank plc holds a charge
over £1.125 million (2023: £1.105 million) of cash deposits in relation to these indemnities and bonds.
Barclays Bank plc also hold a charge over £nil (2023: £1.478 million) in relation to indemnities and

guarantees provided on behalf of Trailfinders Ireland Limited In respect of travel suppliers and agency
bonds within Ireland.

- ; Page 42


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

26. Pension commitments

The company operates a defined contributions pension scheme. The assets of the scheme are heid
separately from those of the company in an independently administered fund. The pension cost charge
represents contributions payable by the company to the fund and amounted to £1,035,324 (2023:
£956,354). Contributions totalling £310,250 (2023: £280,199) were payable to the fund at the balance
sheet date were included in creditors.

27. Commitments under operating leases

At 29 February 2024 the Company had future minimum ‘ease payments due under non-cancellable ;
operating leases for each of the following periods:

29 February 28 February

2024 2023
£000 £000
Not later than 1 year 1,977 1,977
Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 3,910 5,126
Later than 5 years 2,944 3,563

8,831 10,666


TRAILFINDERS LIMITED

NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED 29 FEBRUARY 2024

28.

29.

30.

Related party transactions

A director of the company, is a partner with William Heath & Co. solicitors, whose firm is one of those
instructed by the company in the ordinary course of business on legal matters. During the year the
company has been charged £32,097 (2023: £35,147) by William Heath & Co for legal services.

During the year the company purchased goods and services to the value of £1,982,113 (2023:
£1,738,846) from a company with common directors. The balance owed to the company at the year end
was Enil (2023: Enil).

During the year the company was charged £108,750 (2023: £90,000) by a company with common
directors, for sponsorship and various other services. At the year end there were no outstanding amounts
(2023: Enil).

During the year the company provided sponsorship to a company with common directors, which
amounted to £5,302,108 (2023: £4,010,144). At the balance sheet date there was Enil (2023: Enil)
balance due to the related company.

During the year, the company made donations of £7,500,000 (2023: £4,250,000) to the Mike Gooley
Trailfinders Charity, a registered charity. The directors, Sir Michael Gooley CBE , Lady Fiona Gooley, T P
Gooley and John O'Dowd of the company, are also trustees of the charity.

At the year end, an amount was owed to a director of the Company amounting to £1,492,299 (2023:
£9,973,42).

At the year end, an amount was owed to a director of the Company amounting to £54,949 (2023:
£92,065). .

The company has taken advantage of the FRS 102 exemption not to disclose related party transactions
In the year with companies that are wholly owned within the group.
Post balance sheet events

The directors confirm there have been no significant events affecting the Company since the year end.

Ultimate Parent Company and Controlling Party
The ultimate parent is Trailfinders Group Limited, a company registered in England and Wales.

The ultimate controlling party is Sir MD W Gooley, C.B.E. (Chairman) by virtue of his 100% shareholding
of the parent company Trailfinders Group Limited.

The company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Trailfinders Group Limited. It is included in the consolidated
financial statements of Trailfinders Group Limited, which is a UK entity. Therefore the company is exempt
by virtue of section 400 of the Companies Act 2006 from the requirement to prepare consolidated
financial statements.

The consolidated financial statements of Trailfinders Group Limited as at 29 February 2024 may be
obtained from 48 Earls Court Road, London, W8 6FT.

These financial statements are the company's separate financial statements.

Page 44

